Full text of "Artha Shastra Part 2 R. P. Kangle"














Ser ee 
. ae * 
Cl ORL ALA 





- Y ' , 4 ‘ 
| 3 








Se ae 


a Rey ge 
be eee br es 


oe 





ee 
KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


PART II 
Translation with Critical and Explanatory Notes 


R.P. KANGLE 


MOTILAL BANARSIDASS PUBLISHERS 
PRIVATE LIMITED ¢ DELHI 


7th Reprint : Dethi, 2010 
Second Edition : Bombay University, 1972 


© MOTILAL BANARSIDASS PUBLISHERS PVT. LTD. 
All Rights Reserved 


ISBN : 978-81-208-0039-7 (Part I) 
ISBN : 978-81-208-0040-3 (Part IT) 
ISBN : 978-81-208-0041-9 (Part III) 
ISBN : 978-81-208-0042-7 (Set) 


MOTILAL BANARSIDASS 


41 U.A. Bungalow Road, Jawahar Nagar, Delhi 110 007 
8 Mahalaxmi Chamber, 22 Bhulabhai Desai Road, Mumbai 400 026 
203 Royapettah High Road, Mylapore, Chennai 600 004 
236, 9th Main III Block, Jayanagar, Bangalore 560 011 
Sanas Plaza, 1302 Baji Rao Road, Pune 411 002 
8 Camac Street, Kolkata 700 017 
Ashok Rajpath, Patna 800 004 
Chowk, Varanasi 221 001 


Printed In India 
By Jainendra Prakash Jain at Shri Jainendra Press, 
A45 Naraina, Phase-I, New Delhi 110 028 
and Published by Narendra Prakash Jain for 
Motilal Banarsidass Publishers Private Limited, 
Bungalow Road, Delhi 110 007 


PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION 


Some slight modifications and a few corrections have been necessitated in the 
Notes. In particular, references to explanations found in the commentaries 
Cj and Cp have been further checked. This opportunity has also been availed 
of to incorporate in the appropriate places the Notes based on the Russian 
translation, which had been added in an Appendix in the First Edition. 


Further studies of the Arthasdstra have appeared since the publication of 
the First Edition. I regret that it has not been possible for me to take full 
note of all this work, owing mainly to the rather long time that has elapsed 
since the submission of the Press copy. 


I am thankful for the welcome generally accorded to this work by the 
world of scholars. 


September, 1972. R. P. KANGLE 


PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION 


Dr. Shamasastry’s translation of the Kautiliya Arthasdsira was first 
published nearly five decades ago. In subsequent editions he, no doubt, 
added notes derived from Bhattasvamin’s Commentary as well as the 
Malayalam Commentary. However, in view of the discovery of fragments of 
other Commentaries, and particularly in view of the many important contribu- 
tions made to the study of this text by a large number of scholars since then, 
it has long been felt that a new English translation of the text is a necessity. 
The present is an attempt to supply this need. 


This translation is prepared after consulting the available ancient 
Commentaries—unfortunately none of them complete—as well as the works 
of many modern scholars. Among the latter I must make special mention of 
R. Shamasastry himself, the pioneer of studies in this field, T. Ganapati Sastri, 
editor of the text and author of a complete Sanskrit Commentary on it, J. J. 
Meyer, author of the German translation with voluminous notes, and 
B. Breloer, the author of three volumes of penetrating studies of this text. 
My debt to these and numerous other scholars is incalculable. The Russian 
translation of this work which was published a few years ago, came to my hands 
. only after most of the present translation was already printed ; it was, 
therefore, not possible to make use of it in the body of the notes. Some of the 
noteworthy renderings found in that translation are added at the end. 


This translation aims at providing as accurate a rendering of the text as 
is possible. The Arthaégastra is admittedly a difficult work, and very often it 
is not possible to be quite sure of the exact meaning of the author. Hence, 
in the notes a reference is made to the different interpretations found in the 
ancient commentaries as well as to those offered by modern scholars. In 
most important cases, the source of the interpretation adopted in the 
translation is mentioned, while brief comments are made on interpretations 
not found acceptable. An endeavour is also made in the notes to bring out 
the meaning of passages where the literal translation does not seem to make 
it quite clear. All important variant readings are, of course, referred to and 
discussed in the notes, though the discussion could not be very detailed in 
every case for obvious reasons. 


During the course of the printing of the translation it was found that the 
text as printed in Part I needs revision ina few places. Inabouta dozen cases 
the translation presupposes readings different from those adopted in the text. 
These are listed separately at the end of this volume, along with misprints in 
the text that had escaped notice. 


( vii ) 


A few points referred to in the Introduction to Part I require further 
elaboration :— 


(1) In connection with the transcript in the Government Library at 
Munich, viz., G,, it was suggested there that the transcript was made from the 
Malayalam ms. M, rather than from any Grantha ms., as stated in the Punjab 
Edition. Subsequently I had occasion to visit the Staatsbibliothek in Munich 
and to go through the transcript myself. That ieft no room for any doubt 
that the ultimate source of that transcript is M,. It seems that the transcript 
was made in 1907 by one Venkayya in Madras. And it is not unlikely that 
use was made by him of M,, an earlier transcript of M,, that was in Madras at 
that time. G, thus loses much of its independent value. Of Grantha mss. 
of the Arthasdstra, therefore, we have only one, viz., G,. 


(2) Before this translation could go through the Press, the rest of Cb, 
the Malayalam Commentary, became available in print: Bhdasadkaufaliyam, 
4-7, edited by K. N. Ezhuthachan (University of Madras, 1960). Fortunately, 
it was posssible for me to make use of this Commentary in the notes on Books 
4 to 7 as well. In a learned Introduction, Ezhuthachan has analysed in 
detail the structure of the language of this Commentary and has argued that 
though it shows some Tamil forms and words, the language is different from 
Tamil. It represents, according to him, the earliest form of Malayalam, as 
it evolved from West Coast Tamil about the 12th Century A.D. Itis, 
therefore, not correct to say that the language of the Commentary is Tamil 
or that it is a hotch-potch of Tamil and Malayalam. 


(3) As regards the Commentary referred to as Cj, it transpires that it 
really contains fragments of two different Commentaries. The Commentary 
on Book 1 alone is a fragment of the Jayamazgald, the rest being a fragment 
of another Commentary called Canakyattka. It is only the latter which is the 
work of Bhiksu Prabhamati. The author of the Jayamangald fragment is 
probably the same as the author of the Commentaries on Vatsyayana’s 
Kdmasiira, Kamandaka’s Niitsdra and other works, which also bear the name 
Jayamangalaé. This is shown by G. Harihara Sastri in the Introduction to his 
edition of the Jayamangald on Book 1 (published by the Kuppuswami Sastri 
Research Institute, Madras, 1958). The fragment of the Canakyafika by 
Bhiksu Prabhamati is also being edited by G. Harihara Sastri and published 
in the pages of the Journal of Oriental Research, Madras. I regret that when 
I went through the transcript in the Government Oriental Manuscripts 


Library in Madras, I failed to realise that it really contained fragments of two 
separate Commentaries. 


(4) The fragment of the Devanagari ms. from Patan, D, is now published 
along with the fragment of Yogghama’s Commentary, Cnn, by the Bharatiya 
Vidya Bhavan, Bombay: A Fragment of the Koutalya’s Arthasastra alias 
Rajasiddhanta, edited by Muni Jina Vijay (Bombay, 1959). 


( viii ) 


In an article in the Schubring Commemoration Volume, Prof. L. Alsdorf 
refers to the existence of Folios 12-88 of a Commentary on the Arthasdstra 
found in the Bada Bhandara at Jaisalmer. My attention to this reference 
was kindly drawn by Sir Harold Bailey at Cambridge. I made inquiries 
about this fragment, especially of Muni Punya Vijayaji of Ahmedabad and 
Muni Jina Vijayaji now in Jaipur. Neither of them is aware of the existence 
of any such Commentary on the Arthasdsira from the Jaisalmer Bhandar. 
Muni Jina Vijayaji tells me that he has ransacked all Jain Bhandars for 
anything that may concern the Arthasastra, and that if there really had been 
in existence such a fragment in the Jaisalmer Bhandar, he would have certainly 
obtained it and published it along with the other fragments from Patan. In 
any case, I have not succeeded in getting any fresh help as a result of the 
reference by L. Alsdorf. 


This new translation of the Arthasdstra is offered not without diffidence. 
I am keenly aware of the possibility that I may have very often misunderstood 
the text, and that such a misunderstanding may sometimes well be due to my 
own shortcomings rather than to the difficult nature of the text. Nevertheless, 
Iam hopeful that scholars wil find the translation generally acceptable. They 
wil], no doubt, set me right where I may have gone astray. 


I must repeat my feelings of gratefulness to the authorities of the 
University of Bombay for uiaking the publication of this entire work possible. 


Finally, I must record my sincere thanks to Shri B. A. Olkar, 
Superintendent of the Publications Section of the Bombay University, whose 
unstinted help in seeing this work through the Press has been of inestimable 
value to me. And to Shri VY. G. Moghe, Superintendent of the Bombay 
University Press and his staff my best thanks are due for the great patience 
and diligence with which they carried out this rather exacting job. 


The Errata at the end will, it is hoped, not be found inordinately long in 
a work of this nature. 


October, 1963. R. P. KANGLE 


TABLE OF GONTENTS 


Book 1 Concerning the Topic of Training 


Chapter 1 


ean mm Oe &O NW 


4 _ 
— Oo 


p— 
bo 


13 


14 


15 
16 
17 
18 


19 
20 
21 


Enumeration of Sections and Books 


Sec. 
Sec. 
sec. 
sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 


Sec. 


Sec. 


Sec. 


Sec. 
Sec. 


Sec. 


sec. 


Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 


Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 


Sec. 


1 


Oo €& C © NO = wm 


10 


11 

12 

13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 


Enumeration of the Sciences 
(Continued) 

(Continued) 

Association with Elders 

Control over the Senses 

(Continued) 

Appointment of Ministers 
Appointment of Councillors and 
Chaplain 

Ascertainment of the Integrity of 
Ministers by Means of Secret Tests 


Appointment of Persons in Secret 
Service 


(Continued) 
Rules for Secret Servants 


Keeping a Watch over One’s Seducible 
and Non-seducible Parties 


Winning Over the Enemy’s Seducible 
and Non-seducible Parties 


The Topic of Counsel 

Rules for the Envoy 

Guarding against Princes 

Conduct of the Prince in Disfayour 
Behaviour towards a Prince in Disfavour 
Rules for the King 

Regulations for the Royal Residence 
Protection of the King’s Person 


Book 2 The Activity of the Heads of Departments 


Chapter 1 Sec. 19 Settlement of the Countryside 
2 Sec. 20 Disposal of Non-agricultural Land 


30 
32 
36 
39 


43 
45 
48 
ol 


55-189 


535 
959 


ao oO » & 


10 
11 


12 
18 


14 


15 
16 
17 
18 
19 


Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 


Sec. 


Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 


Sec. 
Sec. 


Sec. 


Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 


Sec. 


Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
See. 


Sec. 


21 
22 
23 
24 


. 25 


82 


33 
34 


36 
37 


38 
39 
39 
40 
41 
42 
43 
44 
45 
46 


48 
48 


Construction of Forts 
Lay-out of the Fortified City 
Duties of the Director of Stores 


The Setting up of Revenue by the 
Administrator 


Records and Accounts and Audit 
Office 


Misappropriation of Revenue by 
Officers and Its Recovery 


Inspection of Officers’ Work 
The Topic of Edicts 


Examination of Precious Articles 
Received in the Treasury 


Starting of Mines and Factories 


The Superintendent of Gold in the 
Workshop 

The Royal Goldsmith in the Market 
Highway 

The Superintendent of the Magazine 
The Director of Trade 

The Director of Forests 

The Superintendent of the Armoury 


Standardisation of Weights and 
Measures 


Measures of Space and Time 

The Collector of Customs 
(Continucd) 

The Superintendent of Yarns 

The Director of Agriculture 

The Controller of Spirituous Liquors 
The Supervisor of Animal Slaughter 
The Superintendent of Courtesans 
The Controller of Shipping 

The Superintendent of Cattle 

The Superintendent of Horses 

The Superintendent of Elephants 
(Continued) 


61 
67 
72 


85 
89 
92 


97 
105 


110 


116 
122 
127 
129 
131 


184 
138 
141 
144 
146 
148 
158 
157 
158 
162 
165 
170 
174 
177 


33 


34 


35 


36 


Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 


Sec. 


49 
50 
51 
52 
53 
54 
55 
56 


Book 3 Concerning 


Chapter 1 


Coo nt ODO oO fF WS WNW 


_ 
oS 


11 
12 
13 
14 


15 
16 


17 
18 
19 
20 


Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 


Sec. 


Sec. 


Sec. 
Sec. 


Sec. 
sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 


Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 


57 
58 
59 
59 
59 
60 
60 
60 
61 
61 
61 
62 
63 
64 
65 
65 
66 
67 
68 
69 
70 
71 
72 
73 
74 
75 


( xi ) 


The Superintendent of Chariots 
The Superintendent of Foot Soldiers 
The Commandant of the Army 

The Superintendent of Passports 
The Superintendent of Pastures 

The Administrator’s Activity 
Activity of Secret Agents 

The City Superintendent 


Judges 


Valid-and Invalid Transactions 
Filing of Law-suits 

Concerning Marriage 
(Continued) 

(Continued) 

Partition of Inheritance 
(Continued) 

(Continued) 

Concerning Immovable Property 
(Continued) 

(Continued) 

Non-observance of Conventions 
Non-payment of Debts 
Concerning Deposits 

Law Concerning Slaves and Labourers 
(Continued) 

Undertakings in Partnership 
Rescission of Sale and Purchase 
Non-conveyance of Gifts 
Sale without Ownership 

The Relation of Ownership 
Forcible Seizure 

Verbal Injury 

Physical Injury 

Gambling and Betting 
Miscellaneous Offences 


179 


181 


182 
185 


190-253 


190 
196 
201 
205 
208 
211 
213 
216 
219 


222 
226 
2380 
235 


289 
242 


243 
245 
246 
247 


250 


( xii) 


Book 4 The Suppression of Criminals 


Chapter 1 
2 
3 
4 


9 
10 


11 
12 
13 


Sec. 76 
Sec. 77 
Sec. 78 
Sec. 79 


Sec. 80 


Sec. 8l 


Sec. 82 
Sec. 838 


Sec. 84 
Sec. 85 


Sec. 86 
Sec. 87 
Sec. 88 


Keeping a Watch over Artisans 
Keeping a Watch over Traders 
Remedies during Calamities 


Guarding against Persons with Secret 
Income 


Detection of Criminals through Secret 
Agents 

Arrest On Suspicion, with the Article 
and by the Act 


Inquest on Sudden Deaths 


Investigation through Interrogation 
and through Torture 


Keeping a Watch over Departments 


Redemption from Corporal Punish- 
ment 


Capital Punishment 
Violation of Maidens 
Punishment for Transgressions 


Book 5 Secret Conduct 


Chapter 1 
2 


On & & 


Sec. 89 
Sec. 90 
Sec. 91 
Sec. 92 
Sec. 93 
Sec. 94 
Sec. 95 


Infliction of Secret Punishment 
Replenishment of the Treasury 
The Salaries of State Servants 
Conduct Proper for a Dependent 
Proper Behaviour of a Courtier 
Continuance of the Kingdom 
Continuous Sovereignty 


Book 6 The Circle of Kings as the Basis 


Chapter 1 Sec. 96 Excellences of Constituents 
2 Sec. 97 Concerning Peace and Activity 


Book 7 The Six Measures of Foreign Policy 


Chapter 1 Sec. 98 Enumeration of the Six Measures 


Sec. 99 


Use of Measures in Decline, Stable 
Condition and Advancement 


254-291 


254 
259 
262 


268 
272 


274 
277 


281 
283 
285 
288 


292-313 


292 
296 
302 
805 
307 


309 


314-320 


314 
317 


321-384 


321 


oe 


10 
11 
12 
13 


14 
15 


16 


17 


Sec. 


Sec. 


Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 


Sec. 


Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 


Sec. 


Sec. 


Sec. 


Sec. 


Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 


Sec. 


Sec. 


Sec. 


Sec. 


Sec. 


Sec. 


100 
101 


102 
108 
104 
105 
106 
107 
108 


109 


110 
lil 
112 


113 


114 


115 
116 


116 
116 
116 
117 


118 
119 


120 


121 


122 - 
. 128 


(xii) 


Conduct when Seeking Shelter 


Policies for the Equal, the Weaker 
and the Stronger Kings. 


Peace-Treaties by the Weaker King 
Staying Quiet after Making War 
Staying Quiet after Making Peace 
Marching after Making War 
Marching after Making Peace. 
Marching with Other Kings 


Considerations about Attack on a 
Vulnerable King and the Enemy 


Causes Leading to Decline, Greed and 
Disaffection among Subjects 


Confederated Allies 
March of two Allied Kings 


Treaties with Stipulations, without 
Stipulations and with Deserters 


Peace and War Connected with Dual 
Policy 


Conduct of the King about to be 
Attacked 


Allies Fit to be Helped 


Pacts for Securing an Ally, Money, 
Land and an Undertaking 


(Continued) 

(Continued) 

(Continued) 

Considerations about the King Attack- 
ing in the Rear 

Recoupment of Powers Become Weak 


Entrenching Oneself in a Fort in War 
with a Stronger King 

Conduct of the King Surrendering 
with Troops 

Conduct of the King Subjugating by 
Force 

The Making of Peace 

Liberation of the Hostage 


825 


327 


831 


884 


888 


842 


346 


349 
358 
$55 
359 


861 
8366 


869 


872 


875 


18 Sec. 124 
Sec. 125 
Sec. 126 


( xiv ) 


Conduct towards the Middle King 
Conduct towards the Neutral King 


Conduct towards the Circle of Kings 


Book 8 Concerning the Topic of Calamities 


Chapter 1 
2 
3 
+ 


5 


Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 


127 
128 
129 
130 
131 
132 
133 
134 


Calamities of the Constituent Elements 
Calamities of the King and Kingship 
Vices of Man 

Afflictions 

Hindrances 

Stoppages of Payment to the Treasury 
Calamities of the Army 

Calamities of the Ally 


Book 9 The Activity of the King About to March 


Chapter 1 


Sec. 


Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 


Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 


Sec. 
Sec. 
Sec. 


Sec. 


135 


136 
137 
138 
139 


140 
141 
142 


143 
144 
145 


146 


Relative Strength of Powers, Place and 
Time 

Seasons for Marching on an Expedition 
Employment of Different Troops 
Enquipping Troops for war 
Employing Suitable Troops against 
Enemy Troops 

Revolts in the Rear 

Measures against Risings by Constituents 
Consideration of Losses, Expenses and 
Gains 

Dangers from Officers 

Dangers from Traitors and Enemies 
Dangers with Advantage, Disadvan- 
tage and Uncertainty 

Overcoming Dangers by Different 
Means 


Book 10 Concerning War 


Chapter 1 Sec. 147 
2 Sec. 148 
Sec. 149 


Setting up of the Camp 
March from the Camp 


Guarding Troops during Calamities 
and at the Time of Attack 


880 


385-405 


385 
390 
393 


397 


401 


406-432 


406 


409 


413 


417 
420 
422 


427 


433-453 


433 


485 


( xv ) 


3 Sec.150 Covert Fighting 

See. 151 Encouraging the Troops 

Sec. 152 Disposition of Troops 438 
4 Sec.153 Grounds Suitable for Fighting 


See. 154 Functions of Infantry, _ Cavalry, 
Chariots and Elephants 442 


5 Sec.155 Arrangement of Battle-arrays 


Sec. 156 Distribution of Strong and Weak 


Troops 
Sec. 157 Modes of Fighting of Infantry, 
Cavalry, Chariots and Elephants 445 
G6 Sec.158 Staff, Snake, Circle and Diffuse 
Arrays 
Sec. 159 Counter-arrays against Them 450 
Book 11 Policy towards Oligarchies 454-459 
Chapter 1 Sec.160 The Policy of Sowing Dissensions 
Sec. 161 Forms of Silent Punishment 454 
Book 12 Concerning the Weaker King 460-473 


Chapter 1 Scc.162 The Mission of the Envoy 460 


2 Sec.163 Fight with the Weapon of Diplomacy 
Sec. 164 Assassination of Army Chiefs 462 
3 Sec. 164 (Continued) 


Sec. 165 Stirring up the Circle of Kings 465 
4 See.166 Secret Use of Weapons, Fire and 
Poison 


Sec. 167. Destruction of Supplies, Reinforce- 
ments and Raids 467 


Sec. 168 Overreaching the Enemy by Trickery 
Sec. 169 Overrcaching by Force 


or 


Sec. 170 Victory of the Single King 470 
Book 13 Means of Taking a Fort 474-493 
Chapter 1 Sec. 171 Instigation to Sedition 474 


2 Scc.172 Drawing the Enemy out by Means of 
Stratagems 477 


( xvi) 


Sec. 178 Employment of Secret Agents 481 
4 Sec. 174 Laying Siege to a Fort 
Sec. 175 Storming a Fort 485 
5 Sec.176 Pacification of the Conquered Territory 491 
Book 14 Concerning Secret Practices 494-511 
Chapter 1 Sec.177 Secret Practices for the Destruction 
of Enemy Troops 494 
2 Sec.178 Deceiving through Occult Practices 499 
8 Sec.178 (Continued) 508 
4 Sec.179 Counter-measures against Injuries 
to One’s Own Troops 510 
Book 15 The Method of the Science 512-516 
Chapter 1 Sec. 180 Devices Used in the Science 512 


INDEX OF PrincIPpAL Topics 517 


Book ONE 

CONCERNING THE TOPIC OF TRAINING 
CHAPTER ONE 

ENUMERATION OF SECTIONS AND BOOKS 


Om. Salutation to Sukra and Brhaspati. 


1 This single (treatise on the) Science of Politics has been prepared 
mostly by bringing together (the teaching of) as many treatises on the Science 
of Politics as have been composed by ancient teachers for the acquisition and 
protection of the earth. 


2 Ofthat (treatise), this is an enumeration of Sections and Books :— 


8 Enumeration of the Sciences, Association with Elders, Control over 
the Senses, Appointment of Ministers, Appointment of Councillors and 
Chaplain, Ascertainment of the Integrity or the Absence of Integrity of 
Ministers by means of Secret Tests, Appointment of Persons in Secret 
Service, Rules for Secret Servants, Keeping a Watch over the Seducible and 
Non-seducible Parties in One’s Own Territory, Winning over the Seducible 
and Non-seducible Parties in the Enemy’s Territory, The Topic of Counsel, 


The first of the fifteen Books in this work deals mainly with the training of the prince 
for the arduous duties of rulership. It also discusses the question of the appointment of 
ministers and other officers necessary for the administration of a state. This prepares the 
ground for the establishment of a benevolent monarchy. 


1.1 


The First Chapter of this Book is called prakaranddhikaranasamuddesgah in the colophon 
in D. The other mss. do not give this name. But that is the only appropriate name 
for this chapter which gives a table of contents of the work. 


The work begins, as usual, with a mangala. The sacred syllable om is auspicious for pur- 
poses of all study. The homage to Sukra and Brhaspati, the preceptors of the demons and 
the gods respectively and the supposed promulgators of the science of politics, is quite appro- 
priate in a work dealing with that science. : 


1 Prthivyd labhe palane ca: the aim of the Arthasdastra is thus to teach the ruler how to 
acquire and protect a kingdom. 15.1.1-2 below state that artha refers to. prthivt and that 
Arthasdasira is the science dealing with its acquisition and protection. The plu. in Artha- 
Sastrdni refers to the numerous earlier works on the science. — piurvdcadryaih : many of these 
earlier teachers and the schools founded by some of them are mentioned in the present work. 
— prasthdpitani : ‘established’, i.e., composed. The reading prastavitant has the sense of 
‘set going, promulgated.’ — prdyasas tani samhrtya : this implies that the work is in the main 
based On earlier works, though in a few places the author expresses different views. The 
idea in samhrtya is that of bringing together rather than that of abridgment. 

2 prakaranddhikaranasamuddesah : A prakarana is a ‘section’ dealing with a particular 
topic of the sa@sira, An adhikaranu is a ‘book’ dealing with one of the fifteen principal 
topics into which the entire sdstra is divided. There is no reference here to the division 
of the work into chapters. 


1.1.3 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 2 


Rules for the Envoy, Guarding against Princes, The Conduct of a Prince 
in Disfavour, Behaviour towards a Prince in Disfavour, Rules for the 
King, Regulations for the Royal Residence, Concerning the Protection of the 
King’s Own Person,—these constitute the First Book ‘Concerning the Topic 


of Training’. 


4 Settlement of the Countryside, Disposal of Non-agricultural Land, 
Construction of Forts, Lay-out of the Fortified City, The Work of Store- 
keeping by the Director of Stores, The Setting up of Revenue by the Adminis- 
trator, The Topic cf Accounts in the Records and Audit Office, Recovery of 
Revenue Misappropriated by State Employees, Inspection of (the work of) 
Officers, The Topic of Edicts, Examination of the Precious Articles to be Re- 
ceived into the Tre: sury, The Starting of Mines and Factories, The Superin- 
tendent of Gold in the Workshop, The Activity of the Goldsmith in the Market- 
highway, The Superintendent of the Magazine, The Director of Trade, The 
Director of Forest-produce, The Superintendent of the Armoury, Standardisa- 
tion of Weights and Measures, Measures of Space and Time, The Collector 
of Customs and Tolls, The Superintendent of Yarns (and Textiles), The 
Director of Agriculture, The Controller of Spirituous Liquors, The Supervisor 
of (Animal-) Slaughter, The Superintendent of Courtesans, The Controller 
of Shipping, The Superintendent of Cattle, The Superintendent of Horses, 
The Superintendent of Elephants, The Superintendent of Chariots, The 
Superintendent of Foot-soldiers, The Activity of the Commandant of the 
Army, The Superintendent of Passports, The Superintendent of Pasture-lands, 
The Activity of the Administrator, Secret Agents in the Disguise of House- 
holders, Traders and Ascetics, Rules for the City Superintendent,—these 
constitute the Second Book ‘ The Activity of the Heads of Departments ’. 


5 Determination of (Valid and Invalid) Transactions, Filing of Law- 
suits, Concerning Marriage, Partition of Inheritance, Concerning Immovable 
Property, Non-observance of Conventions, Non-payment of Debts, Concerning 
Deposits, Law concerning Slaves and Labourers, Undertakings in Partnership, 
. Rescission of Sale and Purchase, Non-conveyance of Gifts, Sale without Owner- 
ship, The Relation of Ownership, Forcible Seizure, Verbal Injury, Physical 
Injury, Gambling and Betting, Miscellaneous—these constitute the Third 
Book ‘Concerning Judges ’. 


4 -cchidradpidhanam is from D as in 2.2 below. ‘There is little doubt that this is the 
original reading. -cchidravidhadnam of M is an obvious corruption, which G has tried 
to correct to -cchidravidhadnam. chidra presupposes apidhdna ‘covering’. —-G2 M read 
durgavinivegah here but even they show durganivesah in the colophon of the actual chapter 
2.4, — Gl reads -ceyakarma for nicayakarma: that is faulty. — Cb reads koSapravesya- 
both here and in 2.11. — D G read grhapati- here, but the form grhapatika- is found even in 
them in other places. 

5 GMread prakirnakani for prakirnakam of D. The actual passage, 3.20.14, supports 

the latter and there seems little doubt that the sing. is to be preferred as the name 


of a title of law. 


3 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [1.1.9 


6 Keeping a Watch over Artisans, Keeping a Watch over Traders, Reme- 
dial Measures during Calamities, Guarding against Persons with Secret (Means 
of) Income, Detection of Criminals through Secret Agents in the Disguise of 
Holy Men, Arrest on Suspicion, with the (Stolen) Article and by (Indications of) 
the Act, Inqucst on Sudden Deaths, Investigation through Interrogation and 
through Torture, Keeping a Watch over (Officers of) All Departments, Rede- 
mption from the Cutting of Individual Limbs, The Law of (Capital) Punish- 
ment, Simple and with Torture, Violation of Maidens, Punishment for Trans- 
gression,—these constitute the Fourth Book “The Suppression of Criminals’. 


7 Concerning the Infliction of (secret) Punishment, Replenishment of 
the Treasury, Concerning the Salaries of (State) Servants, Conduct (proper) 
for a Dependent, Concerning Proper Behaviour (for a Courtier), Continuance 


of the Kingdom, Continuous Sovereignty,—these constitute the Fifth Book 
* Secret Conduct ’. 


8 Excellences of the Constituent Elements, Concerning Peace and 
Activity,—these constitute the Sixth Book ‘The Circle (of Kings) as the Basis’. 


9 Enumeration of the Six Measures of Foreign Policy, Determination of 
(Measures in) Decline, Stable Condition and Advancement, Conduct when 
Seeking Shelter, Adherence to Policies by the Equal, the Weaker and the 
Stronger (King), Peace-treaties by the Weaker King, Staying Quiet after 
Making War, Staying Quiet after Making Peace, Marching after Making War, 
Marching after Making Peace, Marching together (with other Kings), Consider- 
ations regarding an Attack on a Vulnerable King and the (Natural) Enemy, 
Causes leading to Decline, Greed and Disaffection among the Subjects, Reflec- 
tion on Confederated Allies, Concerning the March of Two (Kings) who have 
entered into a Treaty of Alliance, Treaties with Stipulations, without Stipula- 
tions and with Deserters, Peace and War connected with the Dual Policy, 
Conduct (proper) for the King about to be Attacked, The Different Kinds of 
Allies Fit to be Helped, Pacts for (securing) an Ally, Money, Land and an 
Undertaking, Considerations regarding the King Attacking in the Rear, 
Recoupment of Powers that have become Weak, Reasons for Entrenching 
Oneself (in a Fort) after Making War with a Powerful King, Conduct (proper) 
for the King Surrendering with his Troops, Conduct (proper) for the King 
Subjugating (other Kings) by Force, The Making of Peace, Liberation of the 
Hostage, Conduct towards the Middle King, Conduct towards the Neutral 
King, Conduct towards the Circle of Kings,—these constitute the Seventh 
Book ‘The Six Measures of Foreign Policy’. 


6 G M read aticdradandah in the sing. The plu., however, though not quite nece- 
ssary, seems more appropriate. The word aticdra is found with a short @ as in 3.3.32 
or along ti as in the colophon after 3.3.29. The reading adopted here as well as in 
4.13 is supported by Cb. 


9 sdmavdyita- in G1 is due to the usual confusion between ka and ta in Grantha 


mss. — G and Cb read samdhimoksah, but the actual passage at 7.17.82 supports samadhi- 
moksah of the other mss. 


1.1. 10 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 4. 


10 The Group of Calamities of the Constituent Elements, Considerations 
regarding Calamities of the King and Kingship, The Group of the Vices 
of Man, The Group of Afflictions, The Group of Hindrances, The Group of 
Stoppages of Payment to the Treasury, The Group of Calamities of the 
Army, The Group of Calamities of the Ally, —these constitute the Kighth 
Book ‘Concerning the Topic of Calamities’. 


11 Ascertainment of the (relative) Strength or Weakness of Power, Place 
and Time, Seasons for Marching on an Expedition, Occasions for the Employ- 
ment of (the different kinds of) Troops, Merits of Equipping (the different 
kinds of Troops) for War, The Work of (employing suitable) Troops against 
Enemy Troops, Consideration of Revolts in the Rear, Counter-measures against 
Risings of Constituents in the Outer Regions and in the Interior, Consideration 
of Losses, Expenses and Gains, Dangers from (Officers in) the Outer Regions 
and the Interior, (Dangers) Connected with Traitors and Enemies, (Dangers) 
Associated with Advantage, Disadvantage and Uncertainty (as to either), 
Overcoming These (Dangers) by the Use of the Different Means,—these con- 
stitute the Ninth Book ‘ The Activity of the King about to March’. 


12 Setting up of the Camp, March from the Camp, Guarding (Troops) 
during the Calamities of the Army and at the Time of Attack, Various Types 
of Covert Fighting, Encouraging One’s Own Troops, Disposition of One’s 
Troops to Counter-act Enemy Troops, Ground Suitable for Fighting, Func- 
tions of the Infantry, the Cavalry, the Chariots and the Elephants, Arrange- 
ment of Battle-arrays in Wings, Flanks and Front in accordance with the 
Strength of Troops, Distribution of Strong and Weak Troops, Modes of Fight- 
ing of the Infantry, the Cavalry, the Chariots and the Elephants, Arrangement 
of the Staff, the Snake, the Circle and the Diffuse Arrays, Arranging Counter- 
arrays against Them,-—these constitute the Tenth Book ‘“‘ Concerning War’. 


18 (Ways of) Resorting to the Policy of (sowing) Dissensions, Forms of 
Secret Punishment, —these constitute the Eleventh Book ‘ Policy towards 
Oligarchies ’. 


14 The Mission of the Envoy, Fight with (the weapon of) Diplomacy, 
Assassination of (the enemy’s) Army Chiefs, Stirring up the Circle of Kings, 
Secret Use of Weapons, Fire and Poison, Destruction of (the enemy’s) Supplies, 
Reinforcements and Foraging Raids, Over-reaching (the enemy) by Trickery, 
Over-reaching (the enemy) by Force, Victory of the Single King, — these 
constitute the Twelfth Book ‘Concerning the Weaker King’. 


12 Gl has -samhatavyitihanam, which is clearly faulty for -samhatavyithacyihanam ; 
cf. 10.6. 

18 Ml has praémsudandah which is an obvious corruption. 

14 Cb reads vivadha for vivadha; the latter form is, however, preferred in the text ; 
cf. 7.6.8; 7.7.2; ete. 


Cr 


THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [i221 


15 Instigation to Sedition, Drawing Out (the enemy) by means of 
Stratagems, Employment of Secret Agents, The Work of Laying Siege (to 
a Fort), Storming (a Fort), Pacification of the Conquered Territory, —these 
constitute the Thirteenth Book ‘ Means of Securing a Fort’. 


16 Secret Practices for the Destruction of Enemy Troops, Deceiving (by 
means of Occult Practices), Counter-measures against Injuries to One’s Own 
Troops, —these constitute the Fourteenth Book ‘Concerning Secret Practices’. 


17 Devices used in the (treatment of the) Science, —this constitutes the 
Fifteenth Book ‘The Methods of the Science’. 


18 The enumeration of the (contents of the) Science amounts to fifteen 
Books, one hundred and fifty Chapters, one hundred and eighty Sections and 
six thousand Slokas. 


19 Easy to learn and nndemtand! precise in doctrine, sense and 
word, free from prolixity of text, thus has this (work on the) Science 
i been composed by Kautilya. 


CHAPTER TWO 
SECTION 1 ENUMERATION OF THE SCIENCES 


(i) Establishing (the necessity of) Philosophy 


1 Philosophy, the three Vedas, economics and the science of politics— 
these are the sciences. 


18 sapancdsad adhydyasatam: it is to be noted that the 150 chapters include this 
First Chapter, though it does not contain any prakarana, but gives only a table of con- 
tents. The 180 prakaranas are distributed over the other 149 chapters. — sasitih of M1 
is clearly faulty. — sat slokasahasrdni: it is a bit strange that a work which is mainly in 
prose but which has about 380 actual slokas should he described as containing slokas only. 
Moreover, on the usual basis of 32 prose syllables constituting a gloka, we get not 6,000, 
but less than 5,000 slokas in the present text. It does not also appear very likely that 
6,000 refers to the number of siiiras, of which there are about 5,370 in the present edition. 


19 sukhagrahanavijneyam: despite the rather unusual form of the compound, ‘easy 
to learn and understand’ seems better than ‘easy to understand even for those with 
a weak, ease-loving intellect’ (Cs). grahana in the sense of buddhi would be unusual. fativa 
‘doctrine, teaching’. — Kautilyena: many mss. show Kautalya as the form of the name, 
though a few of them, e.g., D and Ml sometimes show the form with #, with an attempt 
made to correct it to a. The question is considered in a separate Study. — Cb does not 
read these two ss. which state the extent of the work and refer to its author. It is quite 
possible that they do not stem from the author himself, but are due to some later hand. 

G reads rdjaurttih ‘the king’s life’ in the colophon, apparently as the title of this 
chapter. But the word is more appropriate asa description of the entire work than as 
the title of a chapter. D M and Cj include the word at the beginning of the next chapter, 
There it seems out of place. It can hardly be construed with the other words in sutra 
1.2.1. For the word, cf. 1.9.4. 

1.2 
The first prakarana is spread over three chapters 1.2-4. 


1 This is clearly the traditional enumeration of the vidyds, though some schools 
held different views. 


1.2.2 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 6 


2 ‘The three Vedas, economics and the science of politics (are the only 
sciences),’ say the followers of Manu. 8 ‘For, philosophy is only a special 
branch of the Vedic lore.’ 


4 ‘Economics and the science of politics (are the only sciences),’ say 
the followers of Brhaspati. 5 ‘or, the Vedic lore is only a cloak for one 


conversant with the ways of the world.’ 


G6 ‘The science of politics is the only science,’ say the followers of 
Uganas. 7 ‘For, with it are bound up undertakings connected with all the 


sciences.’ 


8 ‘Four, indeed, is the number of the sciences,’ says Kautilya. 


9 Since with their help one can learn (what is) spiritual good and material 
well-being, therefore the sciences (vidyds) are so called. 


10 Samkhya, Yoga and Lokayaia—these constitute philosophy. 11 In- 
vestigating, by means of reasoning, (what is) spiritual good and evil in the 
Vedic lore, material gain and loss in economics, good policy and bad policy 
in the science of politics, as well as the relative strength and weakness of 


2 Médnavah: this refers to a school of Arthasastra and not to the Manusmrit. The 
latter, in 7.48, recommends all the four vidyds and not three only. All other references 
to Manavah in this work are also unconnected with the Manusmrti. 3 Trayiviseso hydan- 
viksikt : Anviksiki as described below can hardly be regarded as a branch of the Vedic 


lore, though Samkhya and Yoga claim to hold the Veda as authoritative. 


4 Barhaspatyah: the Bdarhaspaiya Arthasdsira published in the Punjab Sanskrit 
Series is a very late work and doesnot represent the views of this school as referred to in 
this work. 5 samvarana ‘a covering, acloak.’ As Cb says, it only serves the purpose of 
preventing people from calling him a ndastika. 

6 Auéganasah: the Sukranitisdra is an extremely late work and is not to be under- 
stood as representing the views of the school of Usanas referred to here. 


8 The four vidyds, on the study of all of which Kautilya himself insists, practically 
cover all branches of learning known at the time. 


9 tdabhir etc.: the etymology of vidyd is given in the manner of the Brahmana 
works. Only dharma and ariha are mentioned, not kama also, as objects of study ; appar- 
ently a work on Adma would not constitute a vidyd, at any rate for a ruler, according to 
the author. 

10 Sdmkhyam Yogo Lokayatam ca: this enumeration of the phjlosophical systems 
is interesting. Samkhya and Yoga, it is admitted, are the oldest 4mong the philoso- 
phical systems of India. The Lokayata, it appears from this passage, once held an equally 
honourable place. It is the system said to have been founded by Brhaspati and later 
asrociated with the name of Carvika. Cj says ‘Lokdyatam Barhaspatyam. lokdya buddhim 
tanoti iti natrukiam’, i.e., it gives knowledge about worldly affairs. Similarly, Somadeva 
in the Nitiodkyamrta (sec. 6) says ‘ aihikavyavahara-prasddhana-param Lokdyatikam ; 
Lokdyatato hi raja rdstra-kantakdn ucchedayati.’ According io Cb, however, Lokayata is the 
Nyéyaésastra as taught by Brahman, Gargya and others. But if by Nydyaédstra is meant 
the science of reasoning, this cannot be a correct explanation. — Anviksiki, as the present 
passage shows, is so called because of the use of reasoning for arriving at conclusions (hetubhir 
anviksaman4). This led to its identification with Tarkavidya (cf. Mahdbhdrata, 12.1'78.45 
etc.) and the Nyéyaéastra, even with the Nydyasitras of Gautama (cf. Vatsyayana in his 
Bhasya on 1.1.1). But in this text Anviksiki is not the science of reasoning or logic, but 


7 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [1.3.7 


these (three sciences), (philosophy) confers benefit on the people, keeps the 
mind steady in adversity and in prosperity and brings about proficiency 
in thought, speech and action. 


12 Philosophy is ever thought of as the lamp of all sciences, as the 
means of all actions (and) as the support of all laws (and duties). 


CHAPTER THREE 


SECTION 1 (Continued) 
(ii) Establishing (the necessity of) the Vedic Lore 


1 The Saémaveda, the Rgveda and the Yajurveda, — these three are 
the three Vedas. 2 (These three), the Atharvaveda and the Itihasaveda are 
the Vedas. 


3 Phonetics, Ritual, Grammar, Etymology, Prosody and Astronomy,— 
these are auxiliary sciences. 


4 The law laid down in this Vedic lore is beneficial, as it prescribes the 
respective duties of the four varnas and the four stages of life. 


5 The special duties of the Brahmin are : studying, teaching, performing 
sacrifices for self, officiating at other people’s sacrifices, making gifts and 
receiving gifts. 


6 Those of the Ksatriya are: studying, performing sacrifices for self, 
making gifts, living by (the profession of) arms and protecting beings. 


7 Those of the Vaisya are: studying, performing sacrifices for self, 
making gifts, agriculture, cattle-rearing and trade. 


certain philosophical systems based on reasoning. 11 mnaydpanayau: sec 6.2.6-1] for these 
terms. — Cs (following in the main Cb) reads a stop after Dandanitya@m and supplies — 
pradhanyena pratipddyau as. the predicate for the clauses. It seems better, however, to 
construe dharmddharmau etc. also with hetubhia anviksamadnd. That is shown by the ca 
after balabale and supported by pradipah sarvavidydnam in s. 12 below. 


12 Every chapter in this text closes with one or more stanzas. This stanza is found 
in Vatsyaéyana’s Bhasya on the Nydyasitras 1.1.1, where the last line appears as vidyoddese 
prakirlita. This clearly shows that Vatsyaéyana had the present text before him; for, the 
present section dees bear the naine vidydsamuddesa. 


1.3 


1-2 Cs does not read the stop after Trayi, so that a single s. is understood to enumerate 
the five Vedas. An explanation of Trayi by itself would, however, seem to be necessary as 
in the other cases. It is not unlikely that the text originally read Sdmargyajurvedds Trayt. 
Trayi Atharvavedetihdsavedau ca Veddh. — The Chdndogya Upanisad. (7.1.2) refers to 
Stihdsa-Purdna as the fifth Veda. 


4 Trayidharmah : actually it is only in the Dharmasitras, a branch of the Vedanga 
Kalpa, that the duties of the varnas and dsgramas are laid down in detail. 


1.8.8 } KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 8 


8 Those of the Sidra are: service of the twice-born, engaging in an 
economic calling (viz., agriculture, cattle-rearing and trade) and the profession 


of the artisan and the actor. 


9 Those of the householder are: earning his living in accordance with 
his own special duty, marrying into families of the same caste but not of the 
some gofra, approaching the wife during the period, worship of the gods, 
manes and guests, making gifts to dependents and eating what is left over 


(after the others have eaten). 


10 Those of the student of the Veda are: studying the Veda, tending 
the (sacred) fires and (ceremonial) bathing, keeping the vow of living on alms 
only, residing till the end of his life with the preceptor or, in his absence, 
with the preceptor’s son or with a fellow-student. 


11 Those of the forest-anchorite are: observing celibacy, sleeping 
on bare ground, wearing matted locks and an antelope-skin, worship of the 
(sacred) fires and (ceremonial) bathing, worshipping the gods, manes and 
guests and living on forest produce (only). 


12 Those of the wandering ascetic are: having full control over the 
senses, refraining from all active life, being without any possessions, giving up 
all attachment to worldly ties, kceping the vow of begging alms, residing not 
in one place and in the forest, and observing external and internal cleanliness. 


18 (Duties) common to all are: abstaining from injury (to living 
creatures), truthfulness, uprightness, freedom from malice, compassionateness 


and forbearance. 


14 (The observance of) one’s own special duty leads to heaven and to 
endless bliss. 15 In case of its transgression, people would be exterminated 
through (the) mixture (of duties and castes). 


8 The Smrtis generally allow to the Sudra only service of the twice-born as his duty 
(cf. Manu, 9.884 ; Giid, 18.44). Gautama (10.60) and Yajfiavalkya (1.120) allow him trade 
or an artisan’s profession only if service of the twice-born is not possible. The present text 
probably represents the actual state of things more accurately. 

9 svadharmdajivoah from D seems preferable to suakarmdjivah. — tulyaih, i.e., those be- 
longing to the same varna. — asamanarsibhih, i.e., not belonging to the same goira, 
marriages between sagotras being prohibited. — D’s -tithipijd bhriyesu tr:dgah is distinctly 
better as shown by s. 11 below. — esa ‘ remnants of the sacrifice ’ (Russ.). 

10 bhaiksavratitoam from D seems better. Cb explains the other reading (with -vrata- 
toam) * begging alms and observing vratas ending with goddna.’ Two ideas do not appear 
to be intended. 

12 bhaiksavratam anekaira aranye ca vdsah is again from D; others read bhaiksam 
and omitca. In view of s. 10, bhaifksavratam seems preferable and as anekaira is to be con- 
strued with vdsah, ca seems better. — The stop after ca saucam is necessary ; what follows 
forms a new sentence, laying down duties for all varnas and dsramas, as in Manusmrii, 6.91- 
93, Apastamba, 1.8.28.6, Mahdbhdrata, 12.60.7-8, etc. 

14 dnantydya: this is mentioned over and above svarga ‘ heaven,’ and hence obviously 
indicates the ‘ endless” bliss of moksa. 15 samkara: this refers to karmasamkara doing 

the duties of a different varna ; it also refers to varnasamkara, ‘ mixing ’ of the varnas through 


inter-marriages. 


9 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [1.4.6 


16 Therefore, the king should not allow the special duties of the 
(different) beings to be transgressed (by them) ; for, ensuring adherence 
to (each one’s) special duty, he finds joy after death as well as in 
this life. 


17 For, people, among whom the bounds of the Aryan rule of life 
are fixed, among whom the varnas and the stages of life are securely 
established and who are guarded by the three Vedas, prosper, do not 
perish. 


CHAPTER FOUR 


SECTION 1 (Continued) 


(iii) Establishing (the necessity of) Economics, and 
(iv) the Science of Politics 


1 Agriculture, cattle-rearing and trade,—these constitute economics, 
(which are) beneficial, as they yield grains, cattle, money, forest produce 
and labour. 2 Through them, the (king) brings under his sway his own 
party as well as the party of the enemies, by the (use of the) treasury and 
the army. 


8 The means of ensuring the pursuit of philosophy, the three Vedas 
and econcmics is the Rod (wielded. by the king) ; its administration constitutes 
the science of politics, having for its purpose the acquisition of (things) not 
possessed, the preservation of (things) possessed, the augmentation of (things) 
preserved and the bestowal of (things) augmented on a worthy recipient. 
4 Onitis dependent the orderly maintenance of worldly life. 


5 ‘Therefore, the (king), seeking the orderly maintenance of worldly 
life, should ever hold the Rod lifted up (to strike). 6 For, there is no such 
means for the subjugation of beings as the Rod,’ say the (ancient) teachers. 


16 na vyabhicdrayet is causal and hence ‘should not allow the people to transgress.’ 
— samdadhdanah: the substantive is clearly rdjd, ‘ ensuring adherence to.’ 


1% Trayydbhiraksito is from D ; the hi in the other reading has little significance. 


1.4 


1 The word vérttd is clearly derived from vriti ‘livelihood.’ — visti ‘labour,’ i.e., 
labourers. The root in the word is vis ‘ to be active.’ 


3 yogaksema-: yoga is the acquistion of things and xsema is their secure possession ; 
the two together convey the idea of security and well-being or prosperity. 4 lokaydird 
‘the going of the world’, i.e., worldly intercourse. — Meyer would include this s. in the 
opinion of the dcedrydh, stated in the following sutras ; but it seems that Kautilya does not 
object to the statement in this s. ; his objection is to nityam udyatadandaiva only, 


6 vasopanayanam ‘a means of bringing under subjugation. ’ 


1. 4, 7 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 10 


7 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 8 For, the (king), severe with the Rod, be- 
comes a source of terror to beings. 9 The (king), mild with the Rod,.is 
despised. 10 The (king), just with the Rod, is honoured. 


11 For, the Rod, used after full consideration, endows the subjects with 
spiritual good, material well-being and pleasures of the senses. 12 Used 
unjustly, whether in passion or anger, or in contempt, it enrages even forest- 
anchorites and wandering ascetics, how much more then the householders ? 
18 If not used at all, it gives rise to the law of the fishes. 14 For, the 

stronger swallows the weak in the absence of the wielder of the Rod. 
15 Protected by him, he prevails. 


16 The people, of the four varnas and in the four stages of life, 
protected by the king with the Rod, (and) deeply attached to occupations 
prescribed as their special duties, keep to their respective paths. 


CHAPTER FIVE 
SECTION 2 ASSOCIATION WITH ELDERS 


1 Therefore, the three sciences have their root in the (just admini- 
stration of) the Rod. 2 (Administration of) the Rod, (when) rooted in 
self-discipline, brings security and well-being to living beings. 


8 Discipline is (twofold), acquired and inborn. 4 For, training dis- 
ciplines suitable stuff, not one unsuited. 5 A science in:parts discipline to 
one, whose intellect has (the qualities of) the desire to learn, listening (to the 
teacher), learning, retention, thorough understanding, reflection, rejection 
(of false views) and intentness on truth, (and, not to any other person. 


8 udvejaniyah ‘ one who is to be feared,’ i.e., a source of terror or fright. 
janiy g 


12 avajndndd is from D for ajridndd. The former is more likely to lead to rage than 
the latter. It is proposed to read a vd after avajndandd, asit is necessary. It seems to have 
dropped out because of the vd- with which the next word begins. 18 mdtsyanydya ‘ the 
law of the fishes,’ according to which the bigger fish swallow the smaller ones. Cf. 1.13.5 
below. 15 sa tena gupiah prabhavati : tena seems to refer to the dandadhara rather than 
to danda. GM omit sa, but it seems necessary as referring to the abala. After sa D adds 
ca, which is not necessary. It is impossible to see in gupiah any reference to a patron of the 


author. 


16 varlmasu: M reads vesmasu which yields a very colourless idea. Cb text shows 
karmasu, but the actual comment has mdrga, which presupposes vartmasu. Moreover, kar- 
masu is little likely, as the people are already karmdbhirata. 


1.5 


1 dandamillds tisro vidyah : this is so because unless there is a just administration, 
no pursuit of learning Or avocations would be possible. 2 vinayamilo etc: the idea is, 
administration by a disciplined ruler alone can lead to prosperity and security of the people. 


4 kriyd hi dravyam etc. : cf. Raghuvamga, 3.29, where Mallinitha quotes the present 
passage as from Kautilya. Cf. also Mudrdrdksasa,7.14. 5 $uériisd- etc.: these nre called 
prajndgunah ‘qualities of the intellect’ in 6.1.4 below. — abhinivista may be understood 
_ jn the sense of abhinivegéa or as standing for abhinivesayukta. 


ll THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [ 1. 5. 17 


6 But training and discipline in the sciences (are acquired) by (accept- 
ing) the authoritativeness of the teachers in the respective sciences. 


7 When the ceremony of tonsure is performed, the (prince) should learn 
the use of the alphabet and arithmetic. 8 When the initiation with the 
preceptor is performed, he should learn the three Vedas and philosophy from 
the learned, economics from the heads of departments (and) the science of 
politics from theoretical and practical exponents. 


9 And (he should observe) celibacy till the sixteenth year. 10 There- 
after (should follow) the cutting of the hair ard marriage for him. 


11 And (he should have) constant association with elders in learning for 
the sake of improving his training, since training has its root in that. 


12 During the first part of the day, he should undergo training in the arts 
of (using) elephants, horses, chariots and weapons. 18 In the latter part, 
(he should engage) in listening to Itihadsa. 14 The Puranas, Itivrtta, Akhya- 
yika, Udaharana, Dharmagastra and Arthasastra, —these constitute Itihasa. 
15 During the remaining parts of the day and the night, he should learn new 
things and familiarise himself with those already learnt, and listen repeatedly 
to things not learnt. 16 For, from (continuous) study ensues a (trained) 
intellect, from intellect (comes) practical application, (and) from practical 
application (results) self-possession ; such is the efficacy of sciences. 


17 For, the king, trained in the sciences, intent on the discipline 
of the subjects, enjoys the earth (alone) without sharing it with any 
other (ruler), being devoted to the welfare of all beings. 


6 vidydndm is to be construed with vinayo niyamag ca, thoughit has also to be under- 
stood with yathdsvam. Whereas vinaya refers to actual instruction, niyama seems to refer 
to the life of discipline that is to accompany the period of study. 


7% vrltacaulakarmad: the tonsure ceremony is to be performed in the first year or the 
third after birth. — upayurijiia, i.e., should learn to make use of. 8 fistebhyah ‘those 
who are trained,’ i.e., the learned teachers. — vakirprayokirbhyah ‘those who teach the 
theory and those actually engaged in practising it.’ 


9 4d sodagdd vargdd: as 8.8.1 shows, a man is supposed to have attained majority 
when he has completed his sixteenth year. 10 goddnam, also known as keédnia, is the 
second tonsure, done at puberty. Cf. Raghuvama 8.28-33 which are clearly based on the 
present passage. For the samskdras mentioned here, see works on Dharmaédstra. — Gl 
reads a stop after ca and includes asya in the next s. That makes an odd beginning for 
that s. 

14 Itivritam ‘such as the Ramayana, Bharata etc.’ (Cj). — dkhydyikd is ‘divoyamanu- 
syddicaritam’ (Cb). — udaharanam ‘e.g., Tanirakhydyikd, etc.’ (Cj). — G1 and M omit 4rtha- 
sasiram. — It is not unlikely thats. 14 is a marginal gloss (in explanation of Itihasa occu- 
rring in s. 18) which later got into the text. 16 prajrdyd: G M and Cj read prajitayd; 
D has the original jvid changed to jvia. A ms. collated in M2 shows the former reading, 
which is supported by Cb. The ablative would appear preferable as in the other clauses. 
— G2 reads étmavidydsdmarthyam and Jolly-Schmidt prefer it ; however, a reference to the 
scionce of the supreme spirit is out of place here. dimavattd ‘self-possession’ is what is 
intended for the ruler, 


1.6.1] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 12 


CHAPTER SIX 
SECTION 3 CONTROL OVER THE SENSES 


(i) Casting out the Group of Six Enemies 


1 Control over the senses, which is motivated by training in the sciences, 
should be secured by giving up lust, anger, greed, pride, arrogance and fool- 
hardiness. 2 Absence of improper indulgence in (the pleasures of) sound, 
touch, colour, taste and smell by the senses of hearing, touch and sight, the 
tongue and the sense of smell, means control over the senses ;_ or, the practice 
of (this) science (gives such control). 8 For, the whole of this science means 


control over the senses. 


4 A king, behaving in a manner contrary to that, (and hence) having 
no control over his senses, quickly perishes, though he be ruler right up to 
the four ends of the earth. 5 For example, the Bhoja king, Daindakya by 
name, entertaining a sinful desire for a Brahmin maiden, perished along 
with his kinsmen and kingdom; and (so did) Karala, King of the Videhas. 
6 Janamejaya, using violence against Brahmins, out of anger, (likewise 
perished); and (so did) Talajangha, (using violence) against the Bhrgus. 
7 Aila, extorting money from the four varnas out of greed, (perished) ; 
and (so did) Ajabindu of the Sauviras. 8 Ravana, not restoring the wife of 
another through pride, (perished); and (so did) Duryodhana (not returning) 
@ portion of the kingdom. 9 Dambhodbhava, treating creatures with 
contempt out of arrogance, (perished) ; and (so did) Arjuna of the Haihayas. 


1.6 

The third prakaiana is spread over two chapters, 1.6-7. 

1 vidyavinayahetuh : this is a Bahuvrihi compound (Cj Meyer) rather than a Tatpu- 
rusa (Cb Cs). — mdna appears to be the fecling of great conceit owing to an exaggerated 
opinion about oneself; mada is arrogance resulting from the possession of great power ; 
hargsa appears to be the feeling of great exhilaration resulting in playful pranks and 
fool hardy behaviour (alikridanonmatih or kriddsukham —Ci). 2 avipratipattih: this is 
the absence of vipratipatti (viruddhd pravriti or improper behaviour, i.e., over-indulgence). 
3 krisnam hi sastram etc.: apparently a study ofa work on the political science like the 
present text is expected to give the ruler control over the senses. 


5 Déandakya Bhoja: the Ramdyana, 7.80-81, narrates how King Danda who had 
violated Araja, the daughter of his chaplain Usanas, was destroyed together with his 
whole kingdom by the latter’s curse; thus was the Dandakaéranya made. Cnn in D 
gives Brhadasva as the name of this king. — Karala Vaideha: hé seems to have been 
known also as Karaéla Janaka, King of the Videhas. The Buddhacarita 11.81 refers to 
him as Maithila and mentione him along with Dandaka. 6 Janamejaya: he is said 
to have whipped the Brahmin priests, whom he suspected of having violated his queen 
when it was really Indra, who had done that (Cj). — Talajangha was a descendant 
of Sarat according to the Afahdbhdrata. The Saundarananda 7.39, 44 refers to these 
two gs in the same connection. Aévaghosa had clearly the present passage before 
him. 7 Aijla is Pururavas, the son of Ila and Budha. He is said to have scized the 
golden vessels in the sacrifice he was called upon to protect. — atydhr ‘to extort moncy 
from.’ — Sauvira Ajabindu: little is known about him. 9 Dambhodbhava: the Mahd- 
bharata, 5.94.5ff. narrates how Dambhodbhava wanted to fight with Nara and Narayana, 
but was rendered peloless by them with a handful of grass and was asked to give up 
his haughtiness. — Haihaya Arjuna is well-known; he is credited with the possession 
of a thousand arms. His over-bearing attitude towards Jamadagni cost him his life, 


13 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING {1.7.1 


10 Vatapi, trying to assail Agastya, out of foolhardiness, (perished) ; and 
(so did) the clan of the Vrsnis (trying to assail) Dvaipayana. 


11 These and many other kings, giving themselsves up to the group 
of six enemies, perished with their kinsmen and kingdoms, being without 
contro] over their senses. 


12 Casting out the group of six enemies, Jamadagnya, who had full 
control over his senses, as well as Ambarisa, the son of Nabhaga, enjoyed 
the earth fcr a long time. 


CHAPTER SEVEN 
SECTION 3 (Continued) 
(ii) The life of a Sage-like King 


1 Therefore, by casting out the group of six enemies he should acquire 
control over the senses, cultivate his intellect by association with elders, 
keep a watchful eye by means of spies, bring about security and well-being 
by (energetic) activity, maintain the observance of their special duties (by 
the subjects) by carrying out (his own) duties, acquire discipline by (recei- 
ving) instruction in the sciences, attain popularity by association with what 
is of material advantage and maintain (proper) behaviour by (doing) what 
is beneficial. 


10 Vatapi: the Mahabharata 3.94-97 and the Ramdyana 3.11.55-66 narrate the story of 
the demon Vatapi and his brother Ilvala. The latter by his magic powers used to change 
his brother into a goat and offer him to Brahmins at a $rdddha. After they had taken their 
meals, Ilvala used to call his brother, who came out tearing open the bellies of those 
Brahmins and causing their death. Vataépi met his doom when the same trick was tried on 
Agastya, who managed to digest Vatapi. — atydsddayan : ‘encountering, going very near;’ 
the idea of an actual assault is probably not intended. — Vrsnisamgha: N. C. Banerjee states 
that the account of the downfall of the Vrsnis by Dvaip&yana does not tally with the 
account in the Mahdbhdrata, but agrees with the tradition in the Ghata Jataka (IHQ, I, 
p. 97 and n.). According to the Mahdbhdarata, it was Narada of whom the Vysnis 
made fun. 


12 Jamadagnya: this is clearly the celebrated Parasurama. But he is not elsewhere 
_ known to have ‘enjoyed the earth for a long time,’ though he had repeatedly cleared it of 
Ksatriyas. He is said to have made a gift of the earth to Brahmins, especially to KaSyapa. 
Cf. Ramayana, 1.75.25 etc. — For Ambarisa, see Mahabharata, 12.29. 


1.7 
rajarsivrtiam, i.e., the kind of life that would be appropriate to a sage-like king. 


1 kurvita is to be understood with all the following clauses as well. — vinayam 
vidyopadegena : this seems to refer to the ruler’s own training rather than to that of the 
subjects. — Cj reads lokapriyam, explaining it by lokasuxkham ‘happiness of the people.’ 
— arthasamyogena: this seems to refer to doing beneficial things rather than only to 
acceptance and proper disposal of money (as in Ch Cs). — hitena critim: this may refer 
to the ruler himself Jeading a life that is beneficial or to his securing for the subjects 
a livelihood by doing beneficial things. The former seems meant. 


1.7.2] KAUT:LIYA ARTHASASTRA 14 


2 With his senses thus under control he should avoid another man’s 
wife or property as well as doing injury to others, also (avoid) sleepiness, 
capriciousness, falsehood, wearing an extravagant dress, association with 
harmful persons and any transaction associated with unrighteousness 


or harm. 


8 He should enjoy sensual pleasures without contravening his spiritual 
good and material well-being ; he should not deprive himself of pleasures. 
4 Or, (he should devote himself) equally to the three goals of life which are 
bound up with one another. 5 For, any one of (the three, viz.,) spiritual good, 
material well-being and sensual pleasures, (if) excessively indulged in, does 
harm to itself as well as to the other two. 


--- 6 ‘Material well-being alone is supreme,’ says Kautilya. 7 For, 
spiritual good and sensual pleasures depend on material well-being. 


8 He should set the preceptors or ministers as the bounds of proper 
conduct (for himself), who should restrain him from occasions of harm, or, 
when he’is erring in private, should prick him with the goad in the form of 
(the indication of time for the performance of his regular duties by means of) 
the shadow (of the gnomon) or the nalika (water-clock). 


9 Rulership can be successfully carried out (only) with the help 
of associates. One wheel alone does not turn. Therefore, he should 


appoint ministers and listen to their opinion. 


2 svapnalaulyam of G1 is obviously faulty. — Cj seems to support D’s uddhatavesam 
for -vesatvuam. — anarthya- is a common word in the sense of ‘a harmful person’ such as 
a dancer, actor, singer, etc. (Cj). anartha- for it (as in G2) is unlikely, as anarthasamyukta 


is separately mentioned. 

4 After anyonydnubaddham, D adds paraspardnupaghdtakam, which seems to be 
a marginal gloss on the former expression, which has got into the text. 5 The reading 
kamdadndimanam is due to the dropping of the letter ma@ between nd and tmd through 
a scribalerror. The genitive is obviously necessary. 

6-7 D omits s. 6; also, it seems, Cj. Buts. 7? definitely presupposes it. The hi in it 
would otherwise have no significance. It appears that Kautilya was the first to assign 
a high place to aria as against dharma and kama. 

8 maryddam, i.e., the boundary beyond which he must not go; in other words, he 
must not transgress their advice. — chdydndlikdpratodena: the dcdryas are to use the 
goad in the form of either chayd or nalikd, which are the two ways of ascertaining time. 
For ndlikd see 2.20.84-35 and for chayd 2.20.89 belaw. The idea is that the teachers are 
to remind the prince of the time and the specific duties fixed for him at that time. 
This reminder serves like a goad to the erring prince. pratoda can hardly refer to the 
‘striking’ of a drum or gong to in¢licate time, as F. E. Pargiter, JRAS, 1915, pp. 701-702, 
says. As abhitudeyuh shows, the idea of pricking an elephant with a goad, when he 
strays from the right path, is at the basis of the metaphor. As Cj has ‘pasum iva; 
zyam anusthandntaravela vartate iti.’ pratoda has the same root tud and must mean 
@ goad. — rahasi is to be construed with pramddyantam (Cb Cj) rather than with 
abhitudeyuh (Meyer). 

@ sacivdn is a general term for all who help in the work of administration, mantrin, 
adhyaksa, diita etc. — Cb includes ss. 8-9 in the next chapter at the beginning; but 
though they appear more appropriate there, the gloka is s.9 indicates rather the end of 


a chapter. 


15 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [1.8.16 


CHAPTER EIGHT 


SECTION 4 APPOINTMENT OF MINISTERS 


1 ‘He should make his fellow-students his ministers, their integrity 
and capability being known (to him),’ says Bharadvaja. 2 ‘For, they enjoy 
his confidence.’ 


3 ‘No,’ says Visalaksa. 4 ‘ Having been his play-mates, they treat 
him with disrespect. 5 He should make those his ministers who are of a like 
nature to him in secret matters, since chey have the same character and vices. 
6 For, through fear that he is conversant with their secrets they do not 
offend him.’ 

7 ‘This defect is common (to both),’ say the followers of ParaSara. 
8 ‘For, through fear that they too are conversant with his secrets, he would 
acquiesce in what they do and what they omit to do. 


9 ‘To as many persons the lord of men communicates a secret, to 
so many does he become subservient, being helpless by that act (of his). 


10 ‘He should make those his ministers who may have helped him in 
calamities involving danger to life, since their loyalty is (thus) proved.’ 


11 ‘No,’ says Pisuna. 12 ‘This is devotion, not a trait of intellect. 
13 He should make those his ministers who, when appointed to tasks, the 
income from which is calculated (beforhand), would bring in the income 
as directed or more, since (thus) their qualities are proved.’ 


14 ‘No,’ says Kaunapadanta. 15 ‘For, these are not endowed with 
other qualities necessary in a minister. 16 He should make those his 


1.8 


1 Bhdradvdjah: he is generally identified with Drona, the celebrated teacher of the 
Kuru princes. But unlike Bhisma he is not known to have been a teacher of politics. 
Jolly-Schmidt identify him with Kaninka Bharadvaja mentioned in 5.5.11 as a minister who 
ran away in time On noticing certain signs of his master’s displeasure. The Mahdthdrata 
12.58.38 mentions Bharadvaja as a teacher of rdjadharmas, and contains a discourse on 
politics by Kaninka Bharadvaja in 12.138. 


3 Visdlaksah: this is the name of Siva. In the Mahdbhdrata 12.59.80ff. he is said to 
have abridged the Dandaniti composed by Svayambhu, his work being known as the Vai- 
Salaksa Sdstra. 5 guhyasadharmanah, lit. ‘those who possess the same characteristics 
in respect of secret affairs ’, i.e., his associates in secret affairs. 6 Here as well as in s. 8, 
marmajna seems to stand for marmajnatua. Cj shows marmajrativa in s. 8. 


% Pardsarah: GM read Pardsarah here ; but in 1.15.23 and 1.17.9 even they show the 
former. Cj has Pardgarah. 9 The sloka makes it highly probable that we have here a 
regular quctation from a work of thus school. 


11 Pisunah: he is usually identified with the sage Narada. It is possible, however, 
that he is the same as the minister Piguna mentioned in 5.5.11, who rap away on seeing 
signs of his master’s displeasure. 13 samthydlarthesu : in view of samkhydta ‘ calculated,’ 
artha should mean ‘ income, revenue,’ accruing from the undertaking. 

14 Kaunapadaniah ‘ with goblin’s teeth ’ is said to be a nickname of Bhisma ; piii- 


hlanorayam putra itt, says Cj. Cnn remarks that Sartanu had ‘stinking teeth’ 
danlawyaL Sue es a of Ganga. 16 drstdvaddnatvat: this is from D. We have to distinguish 


1.8.17 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 16 


ministers who have come (as hereditary servants) from his father and grand- 
father, since their pure conduct is known. 17 They do not desert him even 
when he misbehaves, being of the same kin. 18 This is observed even 
among animals. 19 For, cattle, passing by a herd of cattle not their kin, 
abide only with those that are their kin.’ 


20 *No,’ says Vatavyadhi. 21 ‘For, bringing under their control 
everything belonging to him, they behave like masters (themselves). 22 
Therefore, he should make new men well-versed in politics his ministers. 
23 New men, indeed, looking upon the wielder of the Rod as occupying the 
position of Yama, do not give offence.’ . 


24 ‘No,’ says Bahudantiputra. 25 ‘One, conversant with the science, 
(but) not experienced in practical affairs, would come to grief in (carrying 
out) undertakings. 26 He should appoint as ministers such (persons) as 
are endowed with nobility of birth, intellect, integrity, bravery and loyalty, 
because of the supreme importance of qualities (in this matter).’ 


27 ‘ Everything (stated above) is justifiable,’ says Kautilya. 28 For, 
from the capacity for doing work is the ability of a person judged. 29 And 
in accordance with their ability, 


by (suitably) distributing rank among ministers and assigning place, 
time and work (to them), he should appoint all these as ministers, not, 
however, as councillors. 


avadana ‘good or pure conduct’ from apaddna ‘ offence, crime.’ Jor the latter, cf. 2.36.36 ; 
3.12.85 etc. Con paraphrases avadana by upadhasuddhi integrity proved by a secret test. 
Cb renders it by pardkrama, which unnecessarily restricts the sense. 17 sagandha: Cnn 
paraphrases gandha by ‘ paricayajanitasneha affection produced by close acquaintance.’ 
sagandha, however, seems rather to convey the idea of kinship. 19 sagandhcsu etc. : Sadkun- 
taia 5.21.27 seems influenced by the present passage. 


20 Vdlavyddhih: this is said to be the name of Uddhava, a minister of Krsna. Little 
is known about this teacher of politics. 21 avagrhya: the root ava-grah is ccmmon in this 
text in the sense of ‘ to check, to bring undercontrol.’ —itiat the end ofs. 21 found in some 
mss. ig clearly out of place. 


24 Bdahundantiputrah ‘ the son of one whose teeth are her arms’ is said to be Indra. 
According to Cnn, Bahudanti is the name of Indra’s mother. The Muhdbhdrata, 12.59.82- 
88, refers to a further abridgment of Svayarmmbhu’s work by Indra ; it was called Bahudan- 
taka. 


27 sarvam upapannam : this evidently mear:s that all considerations for and against 
the various views can be justified according to circumstances. Meyer thinks that Kautilya 
agrees with Bahudantiputra, though he does not discard altogether the opinions of others. 
Cj also seems to understand that a perscn endowed with abhijana etc. (mentioned by Bahu- 
dantiputra) is able to accomplish anything. 28 Cb Cs read the stop not after kalpyate 
but after sdmarthyatag ca and explain ‘ the capability of a person (such as visvdsyativa etc.) 
for different kinds of duties is established by the power (sdmarthya) of such actions as 
fellow-studentship, etc. (arya), and by the possession in a greater cr less degree of wisdom, 
study of science and other qualities (samarthyatah).’ This appears hardly possible ; samar- 
thyatag ca quite obviously belongs to the stanza that follows. Russ. follows Cs. 

29 sdmarthyatah amdtyavibhavam vibhajya, i.e., assigning the position or rank of amatya 
according to the capacity of the persons. — sarva eva ete, i.c., sahadhydyin etc. mentioned. 

above. Cnn remarks that each of the 18 principal officers in a state has three subordinates, 
go that 72 posts have to be filled in all. That ullows room for choice from among 


sahadhydadyins and others. 


17 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [1.9.8 


CHAPTER NINE 
SECTION 5 APPOINTMENT OF COUNCILLORS AND CHAPLAIN 


1 A native of the country, of noble birth, easy to hold in check, trained 
in the arts, possessed of the eye (of science), intelligent, persevering, dexterous, 
eloquent, bold, possessed of a ready wit, endowed with energy and power, able 
to bear troubles, upright, friendly, firmly devoted, endowed with character, 
strength, health and spirit, devoid of stiffness and fickleness, amiable (and) 
not given to creating animosities,—these are the excellences of a minister. 
2 One, lacking in a quarter and a half of these qualities is the middling and 
the lowest (type, respectively). 


8 Of these (qualities), he should make inquiries about nationality, 
nobility of birth and tractability from (his) kinsmen, test his (training in) 
arts and possession of the eye of science through those learned in the same 
sciences, learn about his intelligence, perseverence and dexterity from his 
handling of undertakings, test his eloquence, boldness and presence of mind 
on occasions of conversaticn, his energy and power as well as ability to bear 
troubles during a calamity, his uprightness, friendliness and firmness of 
devotion from his dealings with others, learn about his character, strength, 
health and spirit as well as about freedom from stiffness and fickleness from 
those living with him, (and) about his amiability and absence of a disposition 
to animosity by personal observation. 


4 For, the affairs of a king are (of three kinds, viz.,) directly perceived, 
unperceived and inferred. 5 What is seen by (the king) himself is directly 
perceived. 6 What is communicated by others is unperceived (by him). 
7 Forming an idea of what has not been done from what is done in respect of 
undertakings isinferred. 8 But, because of the simultaneity of undertakings, 
their manifoldness and their having to be carried out in many different places, 
he should cause them to be carried out by ministers, unperceived (by him), 
so that there may be no loss of place and time. | 


1.9 


1 svavagrakah: Cb explains ‘ having good relations ’ ; Cj has ‘ possessed of benevolent 
friends, ’ or ‘ who is able to restrain (the king) gently.’ The word, however, rather means 
‘easy to control,’ as contrasted with anavagraha ‘ unrestrained,’ also used of a minister in 
1.15.36 below ; cf. also 6.1.6. — dhdrayisnuh ‘ with a good memory ’ (Cj Cs) ; but prajnia 
includes memory as its guna. — stambha ‘rigidity’ seems to refer to haughtiness. Cnn 
explans ‘ mithyabhimdndd avinayah, insolence due to false pride.” — -cdépalahinah from D 
is supported by Cb. 


8 abhijanam is missing in G M, evidently through a scribalerror. — M Cj read dpyatah 
and the latter explains it by ‘ suajanatah’; that is also Cb’s explanation of aptatah. The 
word dpia may also mean ‘a reliable person.’ — Gpadyutsdhaprabhavau klegasahatvam ca 
1S missing in D, clearly through a scribal error. 


4 rdjavritih seems to refer tc the carrying out of all kinds of state work. This is pratyak- 
$4, Or paroksa or anumeya from the king’s point of view. The discussion brings cut the 
necessity of appointing ministers. 8 ayaugapadyat of Gl is clearly corrupt. The idea is, 
because a number of state works have to be carried Out simultaneously, some works must be 
done when the king is not present and hence ministers become necessary. 


1.9.9] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 18 


So Far the Work of (Appointing) Ministers. 


9 He should appoint a chaplain, who is very exalted in family and 
character, thoroughly trained in the Veda with its auxiliary sciences, in divine 
signs, in omens and in the science of politics and capable of counteracting 
divine and human calamities by means of Atharvan remedies. 10 And he 
should follow him as a pupil (does) his teacher, a son his father (or) a servant 
his master. 


11 Ksatriya power, made to prosper by the Brahmin (chaplain), 
sanctified by spells in the form of the counsel of ministers, (and) possessed 
of arms in the form of compliance with the science (of politics), triumphs, 
remaining €ver unconquered. 3 


CHAPTER TEN 


SECTION 6 ASCERTAINMENT OF THE {INTEGRITY OR THE ABSENCE OF 
INTEGRITY OF MINISTERS BY MEANS OF SECRET TESTS 


1 After appointing ministers to ordinary offices in consultation with 
the councillors and the chaplaiz, he should test their integrity by means of 
secret tests. 


2 The king should (seemingly) discard the chaplain on the ground 
that he showed resentment when appointed to officiate at the sacrifice of a 
person not entitled to the privilege of a sacrifice or to teach (such a person). 


9 wuditoditakulasilam : the repetition of udita seems only to emphasize the exalted 
character of the Aula and gila. Ch has ‘ when there is nothing blameworthy for four genera- 
tions *; Cj ‘ when the ancestors and descendants upto four or seven generations are pure in 
birth and conduct.’ Cs however has ‘ whose family and character are such as belong to those 
richly endowed (udita) with qualities prescribed (udifa) in the sdstra.’ ‘This is too involved 
and seems due to theinfluence of the Mitdksard on Ydjnavalkya 1.818, where, however, 
the word is Only uditoditam (curtailed apparently for metrical reasons). — sdrge vede of D 
is clearly a better expression than sadanige vede of the other mss. — Cb reads sdmudre dai- 
vanimitte for daive nimitte and explains ‘ signs connected with palmistry etc., and omens due 
to divine agencies such as earthquakes ctc. ’ sdmudre is not found in any ms. ; and Daiva and 
Nimitta would appear to be two distinct sciences, that of divine portents and that of omens 
such as the flight of birds etc., respectively. 


11 edhitam and mantrimantrabhimantritam contain a punning reference to the kindling 
of fire and its sanctification by mantras. Cb renders abhimantrita by ‘ protected.’ — sdsird- 
nugamasasiritam ‘ possessed of weapcns in the form of obedience to the $astra,’ ot ‘ possessed 
of weapons On account of obedience to the $dstra’ (Cb). Cj however explains ‘ following the 
sdstra ($astranugam), though not making uso of weapons (aSasiritam).’ Jolly-Schmidt refer 
to a pun, apparently in the word Sastrita ‘ possessed of a weapon ’ and * accompanied by a 
hymn of praise or litany (Sastra).? The reading -nugamo- is obviously better than -nugata-. 


1.10 


upadha ‘ a secret test’ is a term peculiar to this science. 


_ 1 -sakhah ‘in the company of’,i.e., in consultation with. — sdmdnyesu: ‘common’, 
1.€., not Carrying any responsiblity. — godhayel from ID Cj is preferable to gaucayet; the 
latter is unusual and has to be understood in the sense of ‘ faucam pariksayet.’ 


2 Cbshows aydjyqydjane for aydjyaydjanddhydapane. That wculd appear better, for 
adhyapana can with difficulty be construed with aydjya. —- avaksipet: the root ava-ksi 
*to throw out, discard, dismiss’ is common in this text; cf. 5.4.10; 11.1.20; 13.3.8. 


19 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [1. 10. 10 


3 He should (then) get each minister individually instigated, through secret 
agents, under oath, (in this manner): ‘ This king is impious ; well, let us set 
up another pious (king), either a claimant from his own family or a prince in 
disfavour or a member of the (royal) family or a person who is the one support 
of the kingdom or a neighbouring prince or a forest chieftain or a person 
suddenly risen to power ; this is approved by all; what about you?’ 4 If he 
repulses (the suggestion), he is loyal. 


This is the test of piety. 


5 The commander of the army, (seemingly) dismissed by reason of 
support given to evil men, should get each minister individually instigated, 
through secret agents, to (bring about) the king’s destruction, with (the offer 
of) a tempting material gain, (saying) : ‘ This is approved by all; what about 
you?’ 6 Ifherepulses (the suggestion), he is upright. 


This is the test of material gain. 


oo 


7 A wandering nun, who has won the confidence (of the different mini- — 
sters) and is treated with honour in the palace, should secretly suggest to each 
minister individually : ‘ The chief queen is in love with you and has made 
arrangements for a meeting (with you) ; besides, you will obtain much wealth.’ 
8 If he repulses (the proposal), he is pure. 


This is the test of lust. 


9 On the occasion of a festive party, one minister should invite all 
the (other) ministers. 10 Through (seeming) fright at this (conspiracy), the 


3 sapathapirvem, i.e., the amdtyas are first made to swear that they will not desclose what 
is being suggested to them. —- latkulina : this word is used to refer to a claimant or pretender 
to the throne from the ruler’s family. — aparuddha : Sec Chapter 1.18 below. — kulyaisany ~ 
other member of the royel family. —ekapragraha: in view of 5.6.28, this can only 
refer to the chief minister who is the ‘ one support ’ of the dynasty. Cj Cnn explain ‘hon- 
oured equally with the king (rdjiid sahaikapiijam —Cj).’ —aupapddikam: Cj, reading 
upapddakam, explains ‘a person suddenly risen to power, i.e., not of royal descent * and 
adds the illustration of Candragupta. Similarly Cnn. ‘One belonging to a region at the 
foot of a mountain or one who is to be considered or determined by us’ (Cs) appears little 
likely. Cf. 5.2.89. — dharmopadhd: this name is given to the test apparently because 
the dhdrmikaiva of the king is supposcdly denied in it or because the Officer’s devotion to 
dharma (represented by the purohita) is put to test. 

5 asatpragrahena: accorcing to Cb Cs, the sendpati is ordered by the king to honour 
evil men, which he refuses to do; that is then made the ground for his dismissal. This is 
hardly possible in view of the use of the expression elsewhere, specially in 7.5.19. It is the 
support given to worthless persons by the sendpati (may be at the king’s secret instance as 
in Cj) that is made the ostensible ground for his seeming dismissal. 6 arthopadhd: the 
name is due to the offer of money involved in it. 


7% pariurdjikd, also called bhiksuki, is a secret agent. See 1.12.4 below. —te after 
ca is from Cj and seems necessary ; cf. Samkararya on Kamandaka, 4.26. — Cj offers an 
alternative explanation of mahdnarthah ‘a great calamity will befall you etc.’ That is 
hardly likely. : 

9 prahavana is from D G2 Gj ; pravahana of the other mss. means practically the same 
thing. prahavana is a festive party (prahiiyante’smin svajanamiiranitt prahavanam udodha- 
dir utsuvali—C}j) or a picnic (pritibhojana—Cb). 10 tena udvegena: the fright is due to an 


1, 10.11 | IKAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 20 


king should put them in prison. 11 A sharp pupil, imprisoned there earlier, 
should secretly suggest to each of those ministers individually, when they are 
deprived of property and honour, (in this manner): ‘ This king is behaving 
wickedly ; well, let us kill him and install another ; this is approved by all ; 
what about you?’12 If herepulses (the suggestion), he is loyal. 


This is the test of fear. 


13 From among them, he should appoint those proved loyal by the test 
of piety to posts in the judiciary and for suppression of criminals, those 
proved upright by the test of material gain to offices of the Administrator 
and in the stores of the Director of Stores, those proved pure by the test of lust 
to guardianship of (places of) recreation inside (the palacé) as well as outside, 
those proved loyal by the test of fear to duties near the (person of the) king. 
14 Those proved honest by all tests, he should make (his) councillors. 
15, Those (found) dishonest by every test, he should employ in mines, in 
forests for material produce, in elephant-forests and in factories. 


16 ‘He should appoint ministers, who have been cleared by the 
(tests of the) group of three (goals of life) and fear, to duties appropriate 
to them in accordance with their integrity ;’ thus have the (ancient) 
teachers laid down. 


17 ‘ However, under no circumstances must the king make himself 
or the queen the target for the sake of ascertaining the probity of mini- 
sters ;’ this is the opinion of Kautilya. 


18 He should not effect the corruption of the uncorrupted as of 
water by poison ; for, it may well happen that a cure may not be found 
for one corrupted. 


19 And the mind, perverted by the fourfold secret tests, may not 
turn back without going to the end, remaining fixed in the will of spirited 
persons. ' 


apparently suspected conspiracy of the ministers. 11 kdpatikas cdira is from D. It is easy to 
see how the other readings kdpatikas chdtrah and kdpatikacchatrah arose successively out of 
this, under the influence of 1.11.2. Cj reads kdpatikag ca tatra. — Jolly-Schmidt read 
sahasainam fcr sadhu enam on the authority of Samkararya on Kamandaka, 4.26. But the 
reading of the mss. seems quite all right. Cj seems to have read ata enam. 12 bhayopadha : 
the name has reference to the fear in which the arrested ministers live. 
18 dharmasthiya: cf: Book 3. — kantakagodhana: c{. Book 4. —samdhartr: cf. 2.6 
below. —samnidhdirnicayakarma: cf. 2.5 below. — babhydbhyantaravihdraraksdsu : Cnn 
rightly explains ‘bahyam -udydnddi, abhyantaram antahpurdadi’ understanding vihdra in 
the sense Of vihdrasthadna. The explanation of Cb Cs ‘vihdra, objects of pleasure, i.e., 
women, and bdhya, i.e., mistresses (bhogini) and abhyantara, i.e., queens (devi)’ is hardly 
‘acceptable. 15 sarvatradsucin: cn the analogy of Manu 7.62, Meyer suggests that sar- 
vaira $ucin should be read. - That is hardly right, since it would place the councillor practi- 
cally on the same footing as miners and factory workers. The Manusmytt has evidently 
misunderstcod the present passage. 
16. From these stanzas it is clear that Kautilya dces 10t agree with the traditional 
view regarding the tests in its entirety. 17 Kautilyadarsanam : darsana here is no philoso- 
phical or other ‘systerm ’, only ‘ opinion, view.’ 19 ndgatvantar (m p) is clearly faulty. 


21 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [1.11.7 


20 Therefore, the king should make an outsider the object of 
reference in the fourfold work (of testing) and (thus) investigate through 
secret agents the integrity or otherwise of ministers. 


CHAPTER ELEVEN 
SECTION 7 APPOINTMENT OF PERSONS IN SECRET SERVICE 


(i) Creation of Establishments of Spies 


1 With the body of ministers proved upright by means of secret tests, 
the (king) should appoint persons in secret service, (viz.), the sharp pupil, 
the ‘apostate monk, the seeming householder, the seeming trader and the 
seeming ascetic, as well as the secret agent, the bravo, the poison-giver and 
the begging nun. 


2 A pupil, knowing the secrets of others, (and) bold, is the sharp pupil. 
3 Encouraging him with money and honour, the minister should say, 
‘ Regarding the king and me as your authority, report to us at once any evil 
of any person which. you may notice.’ 


4 One, who has relinquished the life of a wandering monk, (and) is 
endowed with intelligence and honesty, is the apostate monk. 5 Equipped 
with plenty of money and assistants, he should get work done in a place 
assigned (to him), for the practice of some occupation. 6 And from the 
profits of (this) work, he should provide all wandering monks with food, 
clothing and residence. 7 And to those (among them), who seek a (per- 


— dhrti is ‘ firm will’ rather than ‘intellect.’ 20 adhisthdnam : Cnn suggests that a traitor- 
ous Officer should be substituted for the king and the wife of such an officer in place of the 
queen for purposes of the tests. Itis not easy to see how the tests can retain their efficacy 
in such a case. —fdrye: M reads cdrye and Cs explains ‘for the employment of a test.’ 
karye, however, seems better. 


1.11 


1 suddhdmdtyavargah: this is » Bahuvrihi, describing the king, and not a Karma- 


dharaya, as Meyer thinks. A group of ministers could hardly be concerned with the 
appointment Of spies. 


2 kdpatikah: derived from kapata ‘ deccit,’ (kapatena carati iti—Cj Cnn). — chdtrah 
‘a pupil’ or ‘an apprentice.’ Cb explains *‘ who has only his own person to care for (Sari- 
ramatraparicchadah).’ Cnn has ‘ kapaélikamatraparicchadah ’ implying the idea of a beggar. 
It is net unlikely that the word is derived from chad ‘ to conceal, to cover * and implies the 
idea of one concealing his movements, intentions etc. 3 maniri: it is the samdhartr, who 
may have been meant. In the case of grhapatikavyanjana and others, the samdhartr is in 
charge, as is shown by 2.85.8-18. — pratyddiga ‘ report, intimate,’ a rather unusual sense. 


4 pravrajydpratyavasitah, i.e., one who wants to give up the monk's life and return 
to the householder’s life. 5 vdrltakarma-: according to Meyer, vdrtid is here the profession 
of spying, karma is the work of spying and phala the remuneration for this work. This is 
hardly likely. vdrttd in the usual sense is quite all right.— antevdsin is used in the sense 
of an assistant in general, not merely an apprentice. 6 karmaphalat, i.e., from the 
income derived from agriculture or trade or cattle-rearing. 7 urttikaman : those who are 
anxious to find a secure livelihood and not depend on a life of mendicancy. — elenaiva 


1, 11. 8] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 22 


manent) livelihood, he should secretly propose, ‘In this very garb, you 
should work in the interest of the king and present yourself here at the time 
of meals and payment.’ 8 And all wandering monks should make similar 
secret proposals to (monks in) their respective orders. 


9 A farmer, the means of whose livelihood are depleted, (and) who is 
endowed with intelligence and honesty, is the seeming householder. 10 In 
a place assigned (to him) for agricultural work, he should etce.— exactly 


as before. 


11 A trader, the means of whose livelihood are depleted, (and) who is 
endowed with intelligence and honesty, is the seeming trader. 12 In a 
place assigned (to him) for his trade, he should etc.— exactly as before. 


18 A hermit with shaven head or with matted hair, who seeks a (per- 
manent) livelihood, is the seeming ascetic. 14 (Living) in the vicinity of 
a city with plenty of disciples with shaven heads or with matted hair, he 
should eat, openly, a vegetable or a handful of barley at intervals of a month 
or two, secretly, (however), meals as desired. 15 And assistants of traders 
(who are secret agents) should adore him with occult practices for becoming 
prosperous. 16 And his disciples should announce, ‘That holy man is able 
to secure prosperity (for any one).’ 17 And to those who have approached 
him with hopes of (securing) prosperity, he should specify events happening 
in their family, which are ascertained by means of the science of (interpreting 
the touch of) the body and with the help of signs made by his disciples, (events) 
such as a small gain, burning by fire, danger from thieves, the killing of a 
traitorous person, a gift of gratification, news about happenings in a foreign 
land, saying, ‘this will happen today or tomorrow,’ or ‘ the king will do this.’ 


vegena, i.c., the peculiar outward garb of the particular ascetic sect is not to be given up. 
8 svam svam vargam: the different orders of wandering monks are to be under a member 
of the same order. 

10 samdanam piirvena, i.e., Other indigent farmers are to accept secret service under him. 


13 mundajatila-: Cnn has ‘munda such as Sakya, Ajivaka and others, jatila such as 
PaSupata and others.’ 14 wyavasamustim of G M is obviously corrupt ; ‘grass’ could not 
have been intended. 15 vaidehakdntevdsinah: these are assistants of the trader-spy. 
— samiddhayogair ‘practices which are intended to secure prosperity.” Cb paraphrases by 
*‘ purnamanorathayoga’. Meyer suggests that samiddha is a Prakritism for samrddha; that 
seems likely in view of samedhd and sadmedhika presently used in the same sense, the root 
edh being synonymous with rdh, not with idh. 16 asau siddhah samedhikah : Cb Cs Meyer 
regard siddhah also as predicate. It is better to understand samedhtkah alone as the predicate. 
samedhika is ‘ one who grants prosperity.’ 17 samedhdsdsti * hope or expectation of pros- 
perity.’ — angavidya: according to Cnn, it is the science by which one touches the body 
of the person putting the question and finds the answer to it in that touch (yayd prastuh 
prasnasamaye angasparsam drstud ddesah kriyate). Cf. 1.12.1.— abhijanepsitani of D is not 
likely, as agnidaha, corabhaya can hardly be regarded as ipsita ‘desired.’ avasita in the read- 
ing adopted means ‘what has happened,’ implying also the idea of ‘what is going to happen’. 
— ddiget with the implied sense of ‘to foretell’ is preferable to pratyddiget of D. — tustida- 
- nam ‘a giftin consequence of gratification’ is preferable to tustaddnam, though the latter 
can mean ‘ a gift to one who is contented (with the ruler).’ —idam vd rdjd etc. ; G2 M do not 
read vd; but it is necessary to show the option between the two kinds of prophecies. Cb 
seems to have read a-single prophecy—idam adya svo vd raja karisyati. For alpaldbha, 


28 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [1.12.1 


18 Secret servants and agents should cause that (prophecy) of his to be 
fulfilled. 19 To those (among the visitors) who are richly endowed with 
spirit, intelligence and eloquence, he should predict good fortune at the hands 
of the king and speak of (their imminent) association with the minister. 
20 And the minister should arrange for their livelihood and work. 


21 And he should pacify with money and honour those who are resentful 
for good reason, those resentful without reason, by silent punishment, also 
those who do what is inimical to the king. 


22. And favoured by the king with money and honour, they should 
ascertain the integrity of the king’s servants. Thus these five establish- 
ments (of spies) have been described. 


CHAPTER TWELVE 
SECTION 7 (Continued) 

(ii) Appointment of Roving Spies 
SECTION 8 RULES FOR SECRET SERVANTS 


1 And those who are without relations and have to be necessarily main- 
tained, when they study the (science of the interpretation of) marks, the science 
of (the touch of) the body, the science of magic, that pertaining to (the creation 


agnidaha and corabhaya, however, idam bhavisyali seems necessary. 18 giidhah sattrinas 
ca: gidha would refer to agents other than satirin. D omitsca; in that case guidha merely 
emphasizes the secret character of the satirin. 19 vdkyasakti- ‘speech and power’ (Cb) ; 
rather ‘ power of speech, i.e., eloquence ’; cf. 1.14.9 below.— rdjabhagyam is from Cb Cj. 
D has rdjyabhdgyam, the others rdjabhdvyam. bhagya is distinctly preferable to the colour- 
less bhdvya ‘what is going to happen, future.’ What is meant is ‘good fortune at the hands 
of the king (asya rdjriah sakd$at tava bhagyam laksmir bhavisyati—Cnn).’ Cj seems to have 
some kind of honourin mind (pattasambandhdadi). D’s rdjya- does not yield a very happy 
sense. —-Meyer would interchange ss. 19 and 20, making mantri the subject for anuvy- 
Gharet. There is no doubt, however, that ‘@pasah is to be understood as the subject for 
this verb; with mantrisamyogam also as the object in the same s., manirt cannot possibly be 
the subject. And sativaprajid- etc. describes visitors to the tdpasa, not the spies as Meyer 
thinks. briiydt isn’t quite necessary. G M do not show it. 20 esdm refers to saiivaprajiia- 
etc.; they are to be given employment in state service, may be in secret service. — viyatela 
‘should arrange for’ ; cf. 1.17.25. Cj has ‘vigesena yateta.’ 


21 ye caetc. : this clearly refers to kdpatika and other agents described in this chapter. 
That is shown by the next s. — rdjiah kdranakruddhah is found in D; karanakruddhah 
in it goes better with akdranakruddhan that follows. — tiisnimdandena, i.e., by assassina- 
tion, poisoning etc. 


22 samsthah are so called because they are stationed in one place (samyag ekasmin 
sthdne sthitah. — Cnn). 


1.12 


pranidhi seems to mean ‘what is laid down, what is prescribed, duties, rules for con- 
duct, etc.’ Cf. rdjapranidhih 1.19, nisdntapranidhih 1.20. It can also mean in some Cases 
‘employment, appointment.’ 

1 ye caépyasambandhino’vasyabhartavyah : we have to understand ca apt asambandhinah, 
the last word meaning ‘without relatives, orphans’; these are to be maintained by the state 
as we read in 2.1.26 (andthams ca raja bibhryat). Cb Cj read ye cdsya etc. and explain ‘the 
relatives of the king who have necessarily to be maintained by him.’ It is doubtful if spies 
were to be recruited only from the ranks of the king’s relations. Cj mentions the former 
reading, but explains dpya by ‘related’; that is little likely, when sambandhinah isthere. Cnn 
explains ‘apyanadm mantripurohitopadhyayadinam sambandhinah, relations of ministers, 


1.12.2] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 24 


of) illusions, the duties of the dsramas, (the science of) omens, the ‘wheel with 
the spaces’ and so on, are the secret agents; or, (when they study) the art of 
association (with men). 


2 Those in the land who are brave, have given up all (thought of) 
personal safety (and) would fight, for the sake of money, an elephant or a wild 
animal, are the bravoes. 


8 Those who are without affection for their kinsmen and are cruel 
and indolent are the poison-givers. 


4 A wandering nun, seeking a (secure) livelihood, poor, widowed, 
bold, Brahmin (by caste) and treated with honour in the palace, should 
(frequently) go to the houses of high officers. 5 By her (office) are explained 
(similar offices for) the shaven nuns of heretical sects. 


These are the roving spies. 


6 The king should employ these with a credible disguise as regards 
country, dress, profession, language and birth, to spy, in conformity with 
their loyalty and capability, on the councillor, the chaplain, the commander- 
in-chief, the crown-prince, the chief palace usher, the chief of the palace 
guards, the director, the administrator, the director of stores, the magistrate, 


chaplain etc.’ These could hardly be referred to as avasyabhariavyah for the king. — laksa- 
nam, i.e., the science of interpretation of the marks on the body. — arigavidyd: see 1.11.17 
above. —jambhakavidyda is the ‘magical lore by which one brings others under control, becomes 
invisible and so On’ (Cb). — a@ntaracakram is, according to Cb Cs, the science of the omens of 
birds, according to Cj, the cries of jackals and other animals. According to Meyer, it may 
indicate the magic circle of Tantric or other mystic sciences. In the Brhatsamhitd, Ch. 87, 
antaracakra refers to the interpretation of omens from the dikcakra which is divided into 32 
parts in a building. — satirin is apparently derived from satira frequently used in the sense 
of ‘an ambush’ from sad ‘to sit in ambush or to lie in wait unseen’; cf. 7.17.56; 10.2.15; 8.5.11 
etc. The satirin’s work is akin to an ambuscade without the element of an actual attack. 
Cnn explains ‘(sat) vidyamdnam api irdyati gopdayati iti sattram chadma, tad vidyate yesdm 
te’. — samsargavidya ‘the art of association,’ i.e., the science of love and allied arts, such as 
singing, dancing etc. (Cb). So Cnn ‘samsrjyante jand yasyam sd samsargavidyd gitanrtyddikd.’ 


2 D adds purusam agnyddikam vd after vydlam vd; the words do not appear to be 
original.— The point of janapade, according to Cb,is that people from the countryside 
tend to be so foolhardy. 


4 vidhava : Cj states that some read avidhavd and explain it by pumskdmd ‘longing 
foraman’. That is not at all likely. — Brahmani: apparently women of the Brahmana varna 
alone could become pariurajikds. — abhigacchet from D is necessary forsense. 5 mundd 
vrsalyah : Cb Cs explain ‘Buddhist nuns and Sidra females’; the ‘and’ seems hardly justified. 
Meyer too has ‘shaven nuns and dissolute women’ which accords with Cj as to the explanation 
of vrsali, ‘parityaktacadritradharmd’. Cnn’s explanation of vrsali, ‘vesydmataro devatdlin- 
gadharinyah, old prostitutes showing themselves as devotees’ is also doubtful. It seems 
that ursala in this text refers to the follower of a heretical sect and mundd describes the custom 
of shaving the head prevalent among nuns of such sects. — samcardh: these are not settled 
in one place and do not belong to a samsthd. They also work individually. Cb adds that 
the samsthah are appointed by the minister, the samcdrdah by the king himself. 


6 mantripurohita- etc. : we have here obviously a list of the 18 ?tirthas referred to in 

8. 20 below. — pragdstr so high in the list can hardly be the same as the Officer who looks after 

the camp and its supplies according to 10.1.17. Like the dauvdrika and the dntarvaméika 

he seems to be a palace official in charge of its administration. — pauravydvahdrika : such 

an Officer is not mentioned elsewhere in the text except in the salary lists in 5.8. Perhaps 
he is the same as the ndgarika of 2.36. Cj understands the dharmastha of Book 8. — karma- 
ntika ‘the officer in charge of factories’ is also mentioned again only in 5.8.7. — mantriparisad- 
adhyaksa : this is usually understood as ‘the president of the council of ministers.’ However, 


25 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [1.12.18 


the commandant, the city-judge, the director of factories, the council of 
ministers, the superintendents, the chief of the army staff, the commandant 
of the fort, the commandant of the frontier-fort and the forest chieftain, in 
his own territory. 


7 Bravoes, (serving as) bearers of umbrella, water-vessel, fan, shoes, 
seat, carriage and riding animal, should (spy on and) ascertain the out-of-door 
activity of those (officers). 8 Secret agents should communicate that (in- 
formation) to the (spy-) establishments. 


9 Poison-givers, serving as cooks, waiters, bath-attendants, shampooers, 
bed-preparers, barbers, valets and water-servers, those appearing as hump- 
backs, dwarfs, Kiratas, dumb, deaf, idiotic or blind persons, (and) actors, 
dancers, singers, musicians, professional story-tellers and minstrels as well 
as women should (spy on and) ascertain the indoor activity (of those 
officers). 10 Nuns should communicate that (information) to the (spy-) 
establishments. 


11 Assistants of the establishments should carry out the transmission 
of spied out news by means of sign-alphabets. 12 And neither the establish- 
ments nor these (assistants) should know one another. 


13 In case of prohibition (of entry into the house) for nuns, (secret 
agents) appearing at the door one after another (or) appearing as the mother 
or father (of servants in the house), or posing as female artists, singers or 
female slaves, should get the secret information that is spied out conveyed 
outside by means of songs, recitations, writings concealed in musical instru- 


such a president is unlikely, when the king is there to preside. Moreover, adhyaksa in the 
sense of ‘president’ is doubtful for this text. Clearly, two categories, council of minis- 
ters (i.e., each of its members) and superintendents (i.e., heads of departments) are to be 
understood. Cf. 5.3 below, where we have maniriparisad in s.7 and adhyaksa separately 
in s.18. — pdla is to be construed with each of danda-, durga- and anta-. Of these dandapdla 
seems to be a sort of chief of staff. — dtavika ‘the forest chieftain’ is strictly not a tirtha or 
high state officer. We get the number 18 by excluding him. — bhaktitah : Cb Cs explain 
‘making him appear as the devotee of that god whose devotee the officer (spied on) happens 
to be.’ The expression, however, seems to mean Only ‘in conformity with the devotion 
(of the spy) to the king.’ — sdmarthyayogat : Meyer understands samarthya and yoga as two 
ideas. A single idea, however, appears better. 

% cara lit. ‘movement, activity’ which is spied upon, hence, also ‘information 
spied out. ’ 

9 stdardlika: according to Cb, sida is the cook, drdlika is one who serves food.— 
‘vdgjivanah kathakddayah’ (Cj). — kusilava, though often used to include actors, dancers 
etc., seems here restricted to minstrels or rhapsodes. 

1l samjridlipibhih: ‘a secret alphabet previously agreed upon’ (Cb) is better than 
‘signals and writing’ (Meyer). 

18 dvdhsthaparampard : this refers to spies disguised as acrobats, beggars, jugglers 
etc. who appear at the door at intervals and beg or do their acts. Spies in the house take 
advantage of their appearance to communicate information to them. — matdpitroyatijandh : 
these claim to be the parent of some servant in the house, whom they wish to visit and from 
whom they got the secret information. — gliapdthya- etc.: it seems best to understand four 
items, viz., glta, pdthya, vddyabhdndagiidhalekhya and samjnid. Apparently, the vd shows 


1,12. 14] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 26 


ments or signs. 14 Or, a secret get-away (from the house should be made 
by the spies) by (taking advantage of a pretended) long illness or madness 
or by setting (something) on fire or administering poison (to someone). 


15 When there is agreement in the reports of three (spies), credence 
(should be given). 16 In case of continuous mistakes on their part, ‘silent’ 
- punishment is (the means of) their removal. 


17 And spies mentioned in ‘The Suppression of Criminals’ should live 
with enemies receiving wages from them, in order to find out secret infor- 
mation, without associating with one another. 18 They’are ‘persons in the 
pay of both.’ 


- 


19 And he should appoint ‘ persons in the pay of both,’ after taking 
charge of their sons and wives. And he should know such agents when 
they are employed by the enemies. And (he should ascertain) their 
loyalty through (spies of) their type. 


20 Thus he should sow spies among the enemy, the ally, the 
middle king, the neutral king, as well as among the eighteen high 
officers of (each of) those (kings). 


21 Humpbacks, dwarfs, eunuchs, women skilled in arts, dumb 
persons and different types of Mleccha races (should be employed as 
spies) living inside their houses. 


the option between these alternatives in the compound. 14 agnirasavisargena, i.e., setting 
something on fire or poisoning someone and then escaping in the commotion that would 
follow. Meyer, however, has ‘by pretending a fire (in his own house) ora case of poisoning 
(at his place) or for evacuation of the body (visarga, i.e., clearing of the bowels).’ This is 
hardly possible. 

15 sampratyayah ‘belief, credence.’ 16 vinipdta ‘falling away’, i.e., bringing in false 
information. — pratisedha ‘removal from office, dismissal from the job.’ In the present 
case, it is brought about by death. 


17 kantakasodhanokiah : spies mentioned in 4.4.3 are to be thought of. -——- D alternates 
between avasarpa and apasarpa, but has mostly the former. However, apas7rpa is usual 
later. Cf. Raghuvamsa, 17.54 etc. —It is proposed to read asampdtinas cdrdrtham, ‘not 
associating together, for the sake of spying out information secretly.” The idea is, the 
ubhayavetanas are to operate independently in the enemy’s territory, each being unaware of 
the other ubhayavetanas though from the same country. sampdia, in this text, has the sense 
of ‘coming together, crowding etc.’; cf. 4.6.2; 9.2.2; 2.25.3 etc. For asampatin cf. 2.36.21. 
Meyer proposes sampdlinas cdardrtham ‘going out there for the work of spying.’ Most mss. 
read sampdlaniscarartham; it is possible that nigcdra means ‘sending out (spied out in- 
formation from the enemy’s territory)’; in that case, sampdta would have to mean ‘infor- 
mation spied out,’ which seems hardly possible. Cb renders sampdia by ‘spy’ and explains 
‘in order that his own spies may be able to work easily and the enemy spies may be unable 
to operate.’ This is equally unsatisfactory. 

19 grhitapuiradadrams ca: i.e., the sons and wives of the ubhayavelanas are held as 
hostages. — ariprahitan, i.e., when ubhayavetanas are used by the enemies against him. — 
tadvidhath : if the ubhayavetana is disguised as a kugilava, the spy to watch over him should 
also appear as a kusilava and so on. 

21 -pandakah of most mss. means the same as -sandakah of Ch. — citrag ca mlecchajat- 
ayah, such as Kirata, Sabara etc. 


27 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [ 1.12. 25 


22 In fortified towns traders (should constitute) the spy esta- 
blishments, on the outskirts of fortified towns ascetics, farmers and 
apostate monks in the countryside (and) herdsmen on the borders of 
the country. 


23 In the forest should be placed forest-dwellers (such as) monks, 
foresters and others,—a series of spies, quick in their work.—in order 
to find out news of (the activity of) the enemy. 


24 And such (spies) of the enemy should be found out, those of 
the different types by (his own spies) of the same types, (whether) roving 
spies or spy-establishments, secret servants not bearing the marks of a 
secret servant. 


25 In order to discover espionage by enemies, he should station 
at frontiers principal officers, who are non-seducible, but are shown 
to be impelled by motives for action that are associated with 
seducible parties. 


22 rdstra is the same as janapada, distinguished from durga or pura. 


23 It is to be noted that Sramanas, i.e., Buddhist or Jain monks (Cnn) are 
here included among vanacaras. — Cj} shows -jiidndartham (for -jiidnarthah). That seems 
also Medhatithi’s reading on Manu, 7.154. That would appear a more usual ex- 
pression. D. Schlingloff (‘ Arthasaéstra-Studien, I. Kautilya und Medhatithi,’ WZKSO, 
IX, 1965, 1-38) has made a critical comparison of ArthaSastra quotations in Metha- 
tithi with passages in the present text. J. Duncan M. Derrett (‘A Newly-dis- 
covered Contact between ArthaSsastra and Dharmasastra,’ ZDMG, 115, 1965, 184-152) 
has, in addition, aiso compared quotations in Bharuci, an earlicr commentator on the 
Manusmrii. ; 


24 giidhds cdgiidhkasamjnitah : in spite of the ca being placed after instead of before 
giidhah, the latter does not form a third category as Meyer thinks. agudhasamjnita seems 
to mean ‘who do not hear signs of being secret agents.’ Cj reads agidhasamjriitath ; that 
would describe his own spices. Medhatithion Manu 7.154 reads gidhasamjnitah ‘who are 
equipped with, i.e., make use of secret signs.’ 


25 The translation follows in the main the explanation in Cnn ‘krodhalobhabhayamdnath 
kadranabhitaih pratiripitan mantrisendpatyddin krtakakriyan krivud manddhikarabhrastan 
rdstran nirvdsayet.’ The idea is, some important officers about whose loyalty there is 
no doubt are stationed at the frontier; it is made out (dargita) that they have a motive 
(hetu) such as krodha, lobha etc. for turning traitor (kriyapaksiya). The enemy’s spies 
feel tempted to try to seduce these Officers; if they do so, the enemy’s intentions become 
known to these Officers and through them to the king. Cb seems to agree though it 
does not show a clear explanation of some expressions. Meyer has ‘whose loyalty is 
unshakably demonstrated (akriydn darsgita@n) through men of the seceders’ party (kriya- 
paksiyaih) who approach them for work of their own (karyahetubhih).’ In the foot-note, 
he prefers kriyapaksiyaih as an adjective to karyahetubhih ‘by those means of accom- 
plishing an object which are useful in the case of kriyas, i.e., such means as test 
the likely seceders.’ Cs explains ‘such principal men as are difficult to win over 
(akrtyan, i.e., asddhyan) and may even be hostile, should be first enlightened with 
reasons which are sufficient to win over a person, i.e., they should be won over with 
reasoning and then stationed etc.’ This is hardly satisfactory. Russ. has ‘should station 
his own chief spies (mukhydn), meriting trust (akrtydn) revealed (darsitdn) on the ground 
of their actions in the matter of traitors (kriyapaksiyaih heiubhth).’ 


1.13.1] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 28 


CHAPTER THIRTEEN 


SECTION 9 KEEPING A WATCH OVER THE SEDUCIBLE AND NON- 
SEDUCIBLE PARTIES IN ONE’S OWN TERRITORY 


1 When he has set spies on the high officials, he should set spies on the 
citizens and the country people. 


2 Secret agents, opposing one another, should carry on a disputation 


_ 


at holy places, in assemblies, in communal gatherings and (other) congrega- 
tions of people. 3 (One of them should say,) “This king is said to be endowed 
with all virtues and yet no virtue is to be seen in him, as he oppresses citizens 
and country people with fines and taxes.’ 4 The other should contradict 


him as well as those who may commend his views there. 5 (He should 
say,) ‘People, overwhelmed by the law of the fishes, made Manu, the son of 
Vivasvat, their king. 6 And they assigned one-sixth of the grains, one- 
tenth of the commodities and money as his share. 7 Maintained by that, 
kings bring about the well-being and security of the subjects. 8 Those who 
do not pay fines and taxes take on themselves the sins of those (kings) and 
(kings) who do not bring about well-being and security (take on themselves 
the sins) of the subjects. 9 Therefore, even forest-dwellers offer a sixth part 
of their gleaned grains, saying “This is the share for him who protects us.”’ 
10 This is the office of Indra and Yama, viz., (that of) the kings, whose wrath 


1.13 

kriyas are defined in s. 22 below. —raksanam conveys the idea of being vigilant in 
the matter of these persons, protection of oneself from these persons, not protection of 
these persons. 

2 dvandvinah ‘contending amung themselves (dvandvam vairari yesdrr te—Cj)’ is 
more likely than ‘moving in. pairs’ (Cb). —tirthasabhd- etc.: $ala- added after -sabhd- in G 
M does not appear to be original. Four things scem meant, tirtha, sabhd, piga and janasama- 
vaya, as in Cnn Cs. piiga is a sort of guild or communal group (piigdh Srenigands tantuvayda- 
dindm—Cnn). janasamavdaya refers to congregations of people for dramatic shows, festivals 
etc. (preksotsavddisu yatra jandh samavayanti—Cnn). Meyer construes samavaya with piga 
as well as jana. —It is not possible to agree with K. P. Jayaswal (Hindu Polity, II, p. 84) 
that tirthasabhasalasamavdya refers to the sectional sub-assembly of the Paura Assembly 
in charge of sacred places and public buildings, that pagasamavadya is the sub-assembly in 
charge of trade and manufactures and that janasamavdya is the Popular Assembly. 3 
ayam raja etc.: according to Ghoshal (HPT, pp. 133-184 and n.) ayam raja means ‘this class 
of kings,’ yah refers to gunah and pidayati is causal, ‘which makes him harass the subjects.’ 
This is very doubtful. yah can easily refer to asya. 4 ye’nuprasamseyuh: these are possi- 
ble kriyas. 5 Manum rajanam ctc.: the Mahabharata 12.67.20-32 narrates how Manv 
was induced to undertake the task of rulership. 6 This theory of an original contract 
between the subjects and the ruler is merely a device used by agents for securing the alle- 
giance of subjects. 8 tesdm /cilbigam etc. : the translation follows in the main Cnn which 
explains ‘subjects not paying fines and taxes (adandakardah prajah) take on themselves the 
sins of the kings, and kings not securing the subjects’ welfare take on themselves the sins 
of the subjects.’ It would have been better if we had prajah after adandakarah and Tajdnah 
after -kgemdoahd$ ca. Cj, reading adandadharo harati, seems to explain, ‘ a king who fails 
to wield the danda takes on himself the sins of those kings who do it, and kings failing to 
secure yogakscma take on themselves the subjects’ sins.’ If thes. is looked upon as con- 
taining a single clause, we may understand ‘kings who do not take fines and taxes take on 
themselves the sins of those other dutiful kings, and they also fail to secure the welfare of 


29 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [ 1.138. 26 


and favour are visibly manifest. 11 Even divine punishment strikes those 
who slight them. 12 Therefore, kings must not be slighted.’ 13 Thus 
he should restrain the common people. 14 And they should also find out 
rumours (spreading among the subjects). 


15 And spics appearing as ascetics with shaven heads or with matted 
hair should ascertain the contentedness or discontentedness of those, who live 
on his grains, cattle or money, who help him with these in calamity or pros- 
perity, who restrain a rebellious kinsman or region, (or) who repel an enemy 
or a forest chieftain. 16 He should favour those who are contented, with 
additional wealth and honour. 17 He should propitiate with gifts and conci- 
liation those, who are discontented, in order to make them contented. 18 
Or, he should divide them from each other as well as from neighbouring princes, 
forest-chieftains, pretenders from his family and princes in disfavyour. 19 
If they are even then discontented, he should make them incur the odium of 
the country by (appointing them to) the office of collecting fines and taxes. 
20 When they have incurred the odium, he should bring about their end 
by ‘silent’ punishment or by an insurrection in the country. 21 Or, he should 
post them in mines or factories, after taking their sons and wives under his 
protection, for fear that they might be the object of designs by enemies. 


22 Those, however, who are enraged or greedy or frightened or proud, 
are likely to be seduced by enemies. 23 Spies appearing as fortune-tellers, 
soothsayers and astrologers should ascertain their mutual relations as well 
as their contacts with enemies or forest chieftains. 24 He should favour 
those, who are contented, with wealth and honour. 25 He should manage 
those who are discontented by means of conciliation, gifts, dissension or force. 


26 In this way, the wise (king) should guard from the secret instiga- 
tions of enemies those likely to be seduced and those not likely to be 
seduced in his own territory, whether prominent persons or common 
people. 


the subjects.’ Meyer suggests tésam for tesdm ‘kings who do not receive fines or taxes and 
are therefore unable to secure welfare take on themselves the sins of those subjects.’ Cs 
reads dandakardh and yoga- (for ayoga-) ‘punishments and taxes imposed by those kings 
(tesam dandakarah) remove distress (kilbisa evil) {rom the people and secure their welfare.’ 
This seems very unlikely. Russ. follows Cs. 11 daivo dandah, i.e., some divine calamity. 
13 ksudrakdn ‘the common people, the masses’ as distinguished from pradhdndah described 
in s. 15. — pratisedhayet, i.e., controvert their views and dissuade them from entertaining 
seditious thoughts. 


15 djivanti ‘live on,’ i.e., receive as wages or salary. — Aupita ‘rebellious’ from a root 
commonly used in this sense in this text. — vydvartayanti ‘turn back,’i.e., dissuade them from 
taking any rash steps. — pratisedhayanti ‘repel,’ may be, even by fighting. 17 tyaga is the 
sume as dana. 19 dandakarasddhana- ‘securing or recovering of fines and taxes.’ danda- 
sddhana does not seem to mean ‘raising an army.’ The vd read in G M after -dhikarena 
is not necessary and D omits it. We need not suppose, as Meyer does, that some word before 
vd has dropped out. vd, if read, can show the option between dandasddhana and karasd- 
dhana. 20 sddhayet ‘should manage, secure,’ i.e., get rid of him. 

22 According to Cb Cs the 9th prakarana really begins only with this s., the earlier 
ss. forming part of the 8th. Even those ss., however, also refer to possible kriyas and 
akrlyas. —mdninah from D is supported by 1.14.5 below. 


1. 14. 1] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 80 


CHAPTER FOURTEEN 


SECTION 10 WINNING OVER THE SEDUCIBLE AND NON-SEDUCIBLE 
PARTIES IN THE ENEMY’S TERRITORY 


1 The winning over! of the seducible and non-seducible parties in 
one’s own territory has been explained; that in the enemy’s territory is to 


be described. 


2 One who is cheated after being promised certain things, of two persons 
equally skilled in some art or useful service the one who is humiliated, one who 
is in disfavour because of a favourite (of the king), one who is defeated after 
being challenged (to a contest), one who is distressed by banishment, one who 
has not achieved his object after incurring expenditure, one who is hindered 
from doing his duty or receiving his inheritance, one deprived of honour or 
office, one held back by members of the family, one whose womenfolk are 
molested by force, one who is put in prison, one who is fined after losing his 
suit (in court), one prevented from indulging in wrong conduct, one whose 
entire property is confiscated, one tormented in confinement, one whose kins- 
men are exiled (or, killed),—this is the group of the enraged. 


8 One who has himself thwarted (someone), one who has committed 
a serious wrong, one who has become known for asinful act, one frightened by 
punishment meted out to another with a like offence, one who has seized (some 


1.14 

upagraha is ‘winning Over to one’s side, seducing.’ ‘upagrahah anukilanam’—Medini. 

2 tulyakdrinoh: ‘of two persons who can do a thing equally efficiently.’ Cj reads 
tulyakdrinch which may be understood as ablative, ‘one humiliated as compared with his 
equal.’ D reads tafiulyakdrinah which may be similarly understood. —vallabhdvaru- 
ddhah : following D, -paruddhah should rather be read; for, the idea is ‘one in disfavour 
because of some favourite of the king,’ hardly ‘put in restraint by a favourite of the king.’ 
— pravdsa- ‘banishment,’ rather than ‘constant journeying on king’s account.’ — kulyaih 
seems to refer to the king’s kinsmen rather than to his own. — kdrabhinyastah ‘put in 
prison’ (Cb), though, as Meyer points out, kdrd ‘prison’ is not found elsewhere in the text 
and bandhanapariklisfah appears to render this expression superfluous. Cj explains ‘one 
who is urged to recover fines quickly (karo dandah, tatra abhinivegena toayedam dsiipaneyam 
tli niyuktah),’ which is hardly convincing. Meyer would read kdrdbhiyastah or kardabhi- 
yastah ‘over-oppressed by taxes’ ; kardbhitrastah might be better in this sense. — parok- 
tadanditah : 3.1.19-20 show paroktia in the sense of the person who has lost his suit and is 
fined in consequence. Therefore, ‘who isvfined without proper consideration on:the testi- 
mony of another’ (Cb Cj) does not seem to he right. — mithydcdravdritah : Cb Cs explain 
‘who has been wrongly (mithyda) prevented from some practice such as the performance 
of the Agnistoma sacrifice.’ This case seems to be covered by svadharmdad uparuddhah. 
‘Prevented from indulging in some wrong conduct’ is better. — pravdsita- may be ‘exiled’ 
or ‘executed.’ Cnn has ‘yamapuram presitabandhavah.’ 

8 svayam upahatah viprakriah: both participles appear used in the active sense ‘who 
has hindered or thwarted (some highly placed individual), and who has committed some 
serious wrong (to such an individual).’ If understood as ‘who is thwarted’ and ‘who is 
wronged,’ that would hardly suit. The consequence would be anger, rather than fear. 
Cnn explains upahata ‘who has failed to carry out the task after spending a lot of money 
and troops (kogam dandam ca vindsya akrtakaryo), i.e. frustrated by his own actions’ and 
viprakria ‘who has done an act of treason like black magic etc. (viruddham prakargena 
krtam rajadvistam abhicGradi).’ Cj has ‘who has been thwarted by his own evil deed 


31 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [1.14.7 


one’s) land, one who is subdued by force, one in any (state) department who 
has suddenly amassed wealth, one hoping for a pretender from the (king’s) 
family (coming to the throne), one disliked by the king, and one who enter- 
tains hostility towards the king,—this is the group of the frightened. 


4 One who is impoverished, one whose property is taken by another, 
a miser, one in a calamity (or, indulging in a vice) and one indulging in rash 
transactions,—this is the group of the greedy. 


5 One who is filled with self-conccit, one desirous of honour, one resentful 
of the honour done to his enemy, one placed in a low position, one fiery in 
temper, one given to violence, and one dissatisfied with his emoluments,— 
this is the group of the proud. 


6 Among them, he should cause instigation through spies appearing as 
holy men with shaven heads or matted hair,—of each person of the seducible 
party by that (spy) to whom he may be devoted. 


7. ‘°Just as an elephant, blinded by intoxication and mounted by an 
intoxicated driver, crushes whatever it finds (on the way), so this king, not 
possessed of the eye of science, and (hence) blind, has risen to destory the citi- 
zens and the country people; it is possible to do harm to him by inciting a rival 
elephant against him; show (your) resentment;’—in this way he should cause 
the group of the enraged to be instigated. 


(atmaduscaritena upahatah rdjasaryavindsdd sa bibheti)’ and ‘accused (viprakrto abhisastah).’ 
— paryaltabhtimih ‘whose lands are taken away from him’ (Cb Meyer) is hardly likely to 
be afraid; ‘ who has seized the land of another (Cs) would appear better. Cj thinks of 
king’s land being seized by him. — dandenopanatah: usually this refers to a prince who 
has surrendered with his troops ; cf. 7.15 below. As state officers are primarily thought 
of, ‘subdued by force’ is clearly meant. ‘Impoverished by fines’ (Cs) is hardly likely. 
— tatkulinopdsamsuh : Cb explains ‘who has sought shelter with or is dependent cn a 
pretender to the throne.’ Cj, reading talkulino vdg$amsuh, explains ‘a member of the 
king’s family who is eagerly looking forward -to becoming the king.’ The reading with va 
does not appear very likely. 

4 anydltasvah from D appears preferable to atydttasuah ‘whose property has been taken 
away by way o{taxes or fines’ (Cs) or ‘who has taken to himself excessive property’ (Meyer). 


— atydhitavyavaharah ; the rashness of the undertaking apparently involves a financial loss 
or expectation of great gain. 


5 nicair upahitah ‘one who is placed in a low position (nicath as adverbial)’ appears 
better than ‘placed along with low persons (either in rank or for some work)’ (Cj Cs Meyer) 
or ‘ involved in the same matter along with low persons’ (Cb). — bhogena, i.e., with what he 
receives in return for service rendered. 


6 yoyadbhaktis tar tena: the idea is that the instigation is to be made by that spy (tena) 
disguised as a holy man, to whom the kriya may be devoted. Thus Cj. It is possible to refer 
yad and tena to krodha, bhaya etc. to which the kriya may be attached (yadbhaktth) ; but this 
is less likely. Meyer proposes yadabhaktih tena ‘through that (krodha etc.) by which he has 
become disaffected (abhaktih) towards his master.’ This is hardly satisfactory. Cb has 
‘by the offer of whatever he may be desirous of.’ What follows does not contain any refer- 
ence to the desires of the kritya. 

7 After andho raja, Cb Cs add andhena mantrind dhisthitah. Though it corresponds to 
mattena adhisthitah in the upamana, it isn’t necessary. In fact, it may well have been a 
marginal gloss. Cf. Samkararya on Kamandaka, 18.39. — amargah: the resentment is 
apparently to be shown by going over to the enemy. 


1.14. 8 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 82 


8 ‘Just as a serpent, lying in hiding, emits poison at the place from 
which it expects danger, so this king, having become apprehensive of harm 
(from you), will cre long emit the poison of anger at you; go elsewhere;’—in 
this way he should cause the group of the frightened to be instigated. 


9 ‘Just as the cow of the hunters is milked for hounds, not for Brahmins, 
-so this king is milked for those devoid of spirit, intelligence and eloquence, 
not for those endowed with qualities of the self; that (other) king knows 
(how to appreciate) persons of distinction; go to him;’—in this way he should 
cause the group of the greedy to be instigated. 


10 ‘Just as the well of the Candalas is of use only to the Candalas, not 
to others, so this king, being low, is of benefit only to low persons, not to 
Aryas such as you; that (other) king knows (how to appreciate) persons of dis- 
tinction; go to him;’—in this way he should cause the group of the proud to be 
instigated. 


11 When they have agreed with the words ‘So (we shall do)’ and 
have become allied (to him) by the making of terms, he should employ 
them according to their capacity in his own works, with spies (to watch 
over them). 


12 And he should win over the seducible in the enemy’s terri- 
tories by means of conciliation and gifts and those not seducible by 
means of dissension and force, pointing out (to them) the defects of 
the enemy. 


CHAPTER FIFTEEN 
SECTION 11 THE TOPIC OF COUNSEL 


1 When he has secured the allegiance of his own party and the party 
of the enemy, he should think of the undertaking of works. 


2 All undertakings should be preceded by consultation. 8 The place 
for that should be secluded, not allowing talks to be heard outside, incapable 


8 purdutsrjait: as usual the sense of the immediate future is to be understood. Meyer 
has ‘ before he emits, you should go.’ Though possible, this doesn’t appear intended. 

9 duhyateis asin D Cj. dugdhe is equally good. — -vdkyasgakti- cf. 1.11.19 above. 
— asau raja is the king on whose behalf the secret agent is working. — In the reading 
sevyatam of .G1 M (for taira gamyatam), a sa would appear to be necessary before it ; Cj seems 
to have read it here as well as in s.10. 

10 This clearly implies the existence of separate arrangements for water for the untou- 
chables. 

ll samhitan panakarmand : a treaty (samdhi) with terms (pana) laid down is meant. 


1.15 
8 kathanadm anihsravi is:from D, also implied in Cb. That is better than anisravi 
(anihsravi necessary as in Cs) * not allowing (talk) to flow out.’ Cj, with anisrdvi, has ‘ free 


33 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING { 1.15. 21 


of being peeped in even by birds. 4 For, it is known that deliberations are 
divulged by parrots and starlings, even by dogs and other animals. 5 There- 
fore, an unauthorised person must not approach the place of counsel. 6 One 
who divulges secret counsel should be extirpated. 


7 Secret counsel is indeed betrayed by the gestures and the expressions 
of the envoy, the minister and the monarch. 8 Gesture is behaviour other 
than normal. 9 The putting on of an expression (on the face) is expression. 
10 Concealment of that (and) vigilance over officers appointed (should be 
maintained) till the time of (completion of) the undertaking. 11 For, their 
prattle through negligence or in intoxication or during sleep, their immodera- 
tion such as amorousness and the like, or, a person concealed or despised, 
betrays secret counsel. 12 Therefore, he should guard counsel. 


13 ‘The divulgence of secret counsel is fatal to the security and 
well-being of the king and the officers appointed by him. 14 Therefore, 
he should deliberate alone over a confidential matter,’ says Bharadvaja. 
15 ‘For, even councillors have (other) councillors, and these have others 
still. 16 Thus this series of councillors leads to the divulgence of secret 
counsel. 


17 ‘Therefore, others should not know about any work sought 
to be done by him. Only those who undertake it should know (about 
it) when it is begun or even when it is actually completed.’ 


18 ‘There is no attainment of deliberation by a single person,’ says 
Viséliksa. 19 ‘For, the affairs of a king are (threefold,) directly perceived, 
unperceived and inferred. 20 Coming to know what is not known, definite 
strengthening of what has become known, removal of doubt in case of two 
possible alternatives in a matter, finding out the rest in a matter that is partly 
known,—this can be achieved (only) with the help of ministers. 21 There- 
fore, he should sit in counsel with those who are mature in intellect. 


from echoes.’ 4 sukasdrikabhir : Jolly-Schmidt refer to the Harsacarita p. 268 (BSS edi- 
tion) for ijlustrations. & Cj reads ayukto for andyukto. 


8 ingita derived from ing ‘to move,’ refers to movements or gestures indicative of 
the thoughts ofa person. 9 dkrligrahanam ‘ putting on an expression other than natural, 
such as paleness of the face, etc.’ (Cb). 10 A ca would seem necessary after -raksanam. 
— iti has no significance ; a verb like kurydt or karayet would have been better. 11 -pra- 
lapahisfromD. Since kama etc. constitutes ufseka as shown by 9.7.1 and pramdda etc. are 
unconnected with it, this reading is clearly necessary. Perhaps praldpah in the sing. which 
seems to be the reading of Cj, would be better, in view of the verb bhinattt. — utsekah * im- 
moderation, excess’ rather than ‘ haughtiness ’ (Cs) or ‘ self-forgetfulness ’ (Meyer). 

18 D’s hyayoga- is supported by Cb. — ayogaksemakaro rajiiah : Cnn gives the illustra- 
tion of Ramagupta betrayed by Dhruvadevi (yatha Dhruvadevyd krto Ramaguplasarirasya). 
17 Dhasaslightly different form of the first line, which is found in s. 60. — An tivat the 
end of the stanza would be better to mark the end of the quotation from Bharadvaja’s work. 
That this is a quotation can hardly be doubted. 

19 Cf. 1.9.4 above. It is possible that even there the s. is derived from 
Vigalaksa’s work. 20 niscitabalddhdnam: Jolly-Schmidt have adopted niscayo nisci- 
lasya balddhanam from Somadeva’s Nitivakydmria, where the passage 1s quoted. 


1. 15. 22 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 34 


22 ‘He should despise none, (but) should listen to the opinion 
of every one. A wise man should make use of the sensible words of 
even a child.’ 


23 ‘This is ascertainment of counsel, not guarding of counsel,’ say the 
followers of Pardsara. 24 ‘He should ask the councillors concerning a matter 
exactly similar to the undertaking he has in mind, “this work was iike this, 
or, if it were to happen like this, how then should it be done?” 25 As they 
might advise, so should he do that (work). 26 In this way is counsel ascer- 
tained and secrecy maintained at the same time.’ 


27 ‘No, saysPisuna. 28 ‘For, councillors, questioned about a remote 
affair, whether it has taken place or not, give their opinion with indifference 
or disclose it. 29 ‘That is a defect. 30 Therefore, he should deliberate 
with those who are approved for the particular undertakings. 31 Holding 
counsel with these (only), he achieves success in consultation as well as 
its secrecy.’ 


82 ‘No’, says Kautilya, 33 For, this is a condition without fixity. 
84 He should hold consultations with three or four councillors. 385 For, 
holding a consultation with one (only), he may not (be able to) reach a deci- 
sion in difficult matters. 36 And a single councillor behaves as he pleases 
without restraint. 387 Holding consultations with two, he is controlled by 
the two if united and ruined by them if at war (with each other). 38 With 
three or four, that becomes possible (only) with difficulty. 39 However, if it 
does become possible, it involves great danger. 40 With more (councillors) 
than that, it is with difficulty that decisions on matters are reached or counsel 


22 After this, too, an iii seems necessary. 
28 Pdrdgardh: see 1.8.7. above. 2-4 pratiriipakam ‘an exact counterpart.’ 


28 vyavahitam ‘ distant, ’i.e., not the matter which the king has in view at the time. 
30 abhipretah ‘ approved,’ i.e., considered by the king as experts in the particular matter. 
81 mantrasiddhim of D is distinctly better than -buddhim (in the sense of upalabdhim) 
or -urddhim. Cf. s. 18 above. 


33 anavastha: because every time the king would be consulting new men and there 
would be no stable group of councillors to advise the king. 88 {at trisu catursu vd: this 
reading of D is found in Cj and supported by falrisu of M; the omission of naikdntam 
(after vd) is supported by Cb. fat refers to the possibility of avegraha or vindsa which 
is there, when there are two ministers. Cnn includes the possibility of maniranigcayd- 
nadhigama and yathestdcarana also which are there when there is a single minister. 
39 mahddosam etc. : the idea seems to be: if, however, the possibility of avagraha ete. 
does arise, it would spell disaster. It is not unlikely that this s. is a marginal gloss that 
has got into the text. Cj seems to explain ‘that in which there is the great disadvantage 
(dosa) of absence of security (ayogaksema), is thus counteracted (upapanna i.e. prativi- 
hita).’ Without tat and with the addition of naikdntam in s.88 Meyer explains the 
two ss. ‘absence of conclusion or uncertainty (naikdntam) is reached (upapadyate) with 
difficulty. When it is reached, however, it becomes highly dangerous.’ Cs includes mahd- 
dosam in s. 38 and explains ‘a thing resulting in a great calamity (mahddosam as subiect) 
such as avagraha etc. does not necessarily follow (na ekdnitam upapadyale) ; if at all it 
follows, it does so with difficulty. (The matter under consideration cintyamdnam kdryam) 
becomes properly dealt with (upapannam bhavati).’ This explanation is very doubtful. 


85 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [ 1.15. 54 


guarded. 41 However, in conformity with the place, time and work to be 
done, he should deliberate with one or two, or alone by himself, according 
to (their and his own) competence. 


42 The means of starting undertakings, the excellence of men and 
materials, (suitable) apportionment of place and time, provision against 
failure (and) accomplishment of the work—this is deliberation in its five 
aspects. | 


48 He should ask them individually as well as jointly. 44 And he 
should ascertain their different opinions along with (their) reasons (for holding 
them). 45 Having found a matter (for deliberation) he should not allow 
time to pass. 46 He should not deliberate for a long time, nor with the par- 
tisans of those to whom he would (like to) do harm. 


47 ‘He should appoint a council consisting of twelve ministers,’ say 
the followers of Manu. 48 ‘Sixteen,’ say the followers of Brhaspati. 
49 ‘Twenty,’ say the followers of USanas. 50 ‘According to capacity,’ 
says Kautilya. aE 


| 51 They should think over the (king’s) own party and the enemy’s 
party. 52 And (they) should bring about the commencement of what is 
not done, the carrying out of what is commenced, the improvement of what 


has been carried out and the excellence of (the execution of) orders, in the 
case of works. | 


58. He should look into the affairs with those who are present. 
54 - With those who are not present he should hold consultations by sending 
out letters. 


41 yathdsdmarthyam, i.e., according tc his own and the councillors’ capability. Cnn 
remarks that capability implies profleiency in politics, brilliant intellect and skill in 
practical affairs ‘mantre sdmarthyam Ssdstracaksusmatta niraligayd prajid lokavyavahara- 
kaugalam ca.’ 


44 matipravivekdn: distinctions of opinion, i.c., individual opinions. The reading 
of Jolly-Schmidt is derived from a commentary on Kimandaka’s Nitisdra and is in no way 
preferable. —heiu ‘the motive’ which apparently led the councillor to hold the opinion 
offered by him. Reading matiprevekan, Cj paraphrases it by ‘ buddhiprakarsanvitan (posses: 
secl of outstanding intellect) ?, and supplies ‘ sahasaivdnutisthet (should carry out at once).’ 
It is difficult to see how the former could be the object of this predicate. 45 avdptarthah : 
this may mean ‘ when there is a matter on which the holding of a consultation is necessary ” 
or ‘ when he has come to a decision after consultation.’ The former is slightly better, since 
the next s. still refers to the consultation stage. 46 ‘There can he no doubt that na tesam 
paksiyair of D is the original reading. paraksyer in M1 is a scribal error for paksyatr which 
means the same as paksiuair. The idea is, the king should not hold consultations with the 
relatives or partisans of those whom he wishes to harm. Cnn gives the illustration of Dur- 
yodhana consulting Vidura, a partisan of the Pandavas. ~ 

47 The opinion here attributed to the Manavas is not found in the Manusmrti (cf. 7.54). 
49 Cbhas ekavirhsatim for vimsatim. 50 yathdsdmarthyam : the samarthya may refer to the 
capacity of the minisicrs or the strength of the kingdom. 

52 akrtarambham ete. : these functions of the mantriparisad, as distinguished from those 
of the mantrins in s. 42 ahove, suggest that the parisad is a body of executive officers, though 


1. 15. 55 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 36 


55 Indra indeed has a council of ministers consisting of a thousand 
sages. 56 He has that as his eye. 57 Therefore, they call him ‘the 
thousand-eyed one,’ though he is two-eyed. 


58 In an urgent matter, he should call together the councillors as well 
as the council of ministers and ask them. 59 What the majority among them 
declare or what is conducive to the success of the work, that he should do. 


60 And while he is doing that, 


the enemies should not come to know of his secret; he should, however, 
find out the weaknesses of the enemy. He should conceal, as a tortoise 
does his limbs, any (limb) of his own that may have become exposed. 


61 Just as a person not learned in the Veda does not deserve to 
eat the Sriddha-meal of good persons, so a (king) who has not learnt the 
teaching of the science (of politics) is unfit to listen to counsel. 


CHAPTER SIXTEEN 
SECTION 12 RULES FOR THE ENVOY 


1 When consultation has led to a choice of decision, the employment 
‘of the envoy (should follow). 


2 One endowed with the exce lences of a minister is the plenipotentiary. 
3 One lacking in a quarter of the qualities is (the envoy) with a limited 
mission. 4 One lacking in half the qualities is the bearer of a message. 


= 


5 He should start after making proper arrangements for vchicles, 
draught-animals and retinue of servants. 6 ‘The message is thus to be 
delivered to the enemy; he will (probably) say this (in reply); for that this 
will be the suitable reply; thus is (the enemy) to be outwitted;’—reflecting 


consultation with it is also recommended (ss. 54, 58-59). The mantriparisad can hardly be 


regarded as a cabinet. — niyogasampadam refers to the excellence of the way in which 
commands or instructions have becn carried out. 
59 briiyuh after bhiiyisthadh asin 1) is better than after vd ; cf. 1.16.28 below. --—-Thiss. 


shows that the majority opinion is not intended to be followed as a rule. Cf. Kamandaka, 
12.40: dhrie pi manire mantrajiiaih svayayr bhiiyo vicdrayet. 


60 yatmay refer to chidra oranga ; either yields a good sense, though the latter appears 
slightly better. — Cf. Manu, 7.105. 


61 After thisstanza D has two stanzas quoted as from Brhaspati. They are clearly not 
original and seem to be marginal notes that have got into the text. 


1.16 
For pranidhi see 1.12 above. 
1 wudvurtamanirah is from WD for uddhrta-. As an adjective to ditapranidhih, it means 
‘in which the counsel has been selected or accepted,’ i.e., when a decision has been taken after 
deliberation. 


2 uamdlyasampad: cf. 1.9.1 ubove. -— nisrstdriha lit. * to whom the matter has been 
entrusted (with full powers of negotiation).’ 


37 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [ 1.16. 23 


in this manner, he should proceed. 7 And he should establish contacts 
with forest chieftains, frontier-chiefs and chief officials in the cities and the 
countryside (on the way). 8 He should observe terrains suitable for the 
stationing of an army, for fighting, for reserves and for retreat, for his own 
(state) and for the enemy. 9 And he should find out the size of the forts 
and the country as well as the strong points, sources of livelihood, defences 
and weak points (in the enemy’s territory). 


10 We should enter the enemy’s residence with permission. 11 And 
he should deliver the message as given to him, even when danger to his life 
is seen (in so doing)). 


12 He should notice graciousness in speech, expression and eyes of the 
enemy, esteem of the (envoy’s) words, inquiries about (his) wishes, keen in- 
terest in talk about the qualities (of the envoy’s master), offer of a seat close 
by, respectful welcome, remembering (the envoy) on pleasant occasions, and 
putting trust in him, as the signs of one pleased; the opposite of these as the 
signs of one displeased. 18 ‘To sucha one he should say, ‘ Kings indeed have 
envoys as their mouthpieces, you no less than others. 14 Therefore, 
envoys speak out as they are told even when weapons are raised (against 
them). 15 Of them even the lowest born are immune from killing; what 
to speak then of Brahmins? 16 These are the words of another. 17 This 
is the duty of an envoy.’ 


18 If not permitted to depart, he should stay on, not feeling elated by 
honour (shown). 19 Among the enemies he should not think of (himself) 
being possessed of strength. 20 He should put up with disagreeable words. 
21 He should avoid women and drink. 22 He should sleep alone. 238 For, 
it is (often) seen that the intentions of a person are revealed in sleep or 
intoxication. 


5 parivapa, when used by itself, refers to personal belongings as in 3.6.6, 8; when 
used with purusa- as here, it conveys the idca of a retinue or train of servants ; cf. 2.24.28 ; 
3.3.8. 8 pratigrahabhiimi ‘the place where reserves are held in readiness’; cf. 10.5.58 ; 
10.2.20 ; 10.6.1. yuddhapratigraha as a single idea ‘ acceptance of a fight’ (Cs Meyer) 
seems little likely. — cpasdra ‘ retreat;’ cf. 10.2.8 ; 7.18.25 etc. 9 chidra can be const- 
rued with the preceding gupti, hardly with sdra and oriti as well, as Meyer seems to do. It is 
best to understand it independently. 


10 adhisthana refers to the palace and the assembly-hall where the envoy would be 
reccived. 


12 guna- scems to refer to the good points of the envoy’s master, though the envoy’s 
own merits may also be considered as possible. — igtesu smaranam : cf. bhaksyesu smarati 
5.5.7 below. 13 ditamukhd hi: Cb has vai for hi; that is equally good. 15 Cj reads 
antevasinah ‘ attendants, ’ though it mentions the other reading. 


18 In the reading prapijayd, pra has little significance. 19 paresu balituam na 
manyela : the idea seems to be, he should not commit any rash act at the enemy’s court 
thinking that his own king is quite powerful. Cnn has ‘he should not use harsh words 
(vakpdrusyam na brilyat) because of his master’s or his own strength (sodmibalad atmabalad 
vd).? Meyer’s ‘he should consider for nought the strength of the enemies’ is hardly likely in 
the context ; it contradicts the next clause. ‘ He should not disclose to the enemies that he 
is strong ’ (Cb Cs) seems also less likely. 


1. 16. 24 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 38 


24 He should find out (about) the instigation of seducible parties, the 
employment of secret agents against non-seducible parties, the loyalty or 
disaffection (of the enemy’s subjects) towards their master and the weak points 
in the constituent elements (of the enemy’s realm), through spies appearing 
as ascetics or traders, or through their disciples or assistants or through 
agents in the pay of both appearing as physicians or heretics. 25 In case 
conversation with them is not possible, he should find out secret information 
from the utterances of beggars, drunken persons, insane persons or persons in 
sleep, or, from pictures, writings or signs in holy places or temples of gods. 
26 When (such information is) found out, he should make use of instigation. 


27 And when asked by the enemy, he should not declare.the size (and 
strength) of his own constituents. 28 He should say, ‘ Your Majesty knows 
every thing,’ or (should say) what is conducive to the success of his mission. 


29 When he is being detained although his mission has not suczeeded, 
he should thus reflect—‘Is he detaining me because he sees an imminent 
calamity befalling my master, or because he wants to take remedial steps 
against his own calamity, or because he wants to rouse (against my master) 
the enemy in the rear or his ally or (to stir up) an internal revolt or a forest 
chieftain, or because he wishes to obstruct my master’s ally in front or ally in 
the rear, or because he wants to take remedial steps in a war of his own with 
another enemy or against an internal revolt or a forest chieftain (of his own), 
or because he wants to spoil the season for expedition for which my master 
has thoroughly prepared, or because he wants to collect stores of grains, 
commodities and forest produce or carry out fortifications or raise troops, or 
because he is awaiting time and place suitable for the operations of his own 
forces, or because of (a feeling of) contempt or through negligence, or because 
he seeks a continuation of (close) association (with my master)?’ 30 Having 
found out (the enemy’s motive), he should stay on or escape. 31 Or, he 
should take into consideration some purpose (regarded as) desirable. 


24 bhartari, i.e., towards their own king, not towards the envoy’s master. 25. cit- 
ralekhyasamjnad : Cb has ‘the drawing (Ickhya) of pictures and signs,’ Cs ‘signs in the pictures 
and writings,’ Meyer ‘ paintings, writings and signs.’ The last seems best. 26 upajapam 
upeyat, i.e., resort to instigation of the party found amenable to it. 

29 pasyan: D’s pagyati is clearly not right. — pdrsnigradham dsdram of*]) is to be 

' preferred, as each of these kings could be individually rouscd against his master. — dkran- 
dam va from Cb Cj (for akrandabhyam) is quite necessary. — vydghdtayitukdmah: the idea 
is of hindering, foiling, and that is preferable to the idea of killing in the reading vydpddayi- 
tukamah. — It is proposed to add vd after samsiddham, since it is quite necessary as in the 
other clauses. Perhaps Cj reads the vd. —The reading ydirdkdram, though perhaps 
possible in the sense of ‘the undertaking of « campaign,’ seems hardly original. ydtrakdla 
is definitely intended. — pramddabhyam: Cb Cs read -pramaddbhydm ‘out of affection ;’ 
that is unlikely. pramdda is commonly used along with paribhava. — samsargdnubandh- 
Grtht : Meyer has ‘ wishing to have an-association with or a following with.’ But a single 
idea ‘ wishing to have a continuous association ’ seems better. Cnn has ‘seeking rela- 
tionship between the progeny of both through marriage (samsargo yaunah sambandhah, tena 
anubandhah ubhayasambandhah, tadarthi).’ anubandha is explained as dosotpadda in Cs, 
which is little likely. 31 1D’s upekseta is unlikely, though its omission of yg may appear 
to be an improvement, 


39 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [1.17.6 


32 After delivering an unpleasant message, he should, for fear of impri- 
sonment or death, go away even when not permitted; else he might be put 
under restraint. 


83 Sending communications, guarding the terms of a treaty, 
(upholding his king’s) majesty, acquisition of allies, instigation, dividing 
(the enemy’s) friends, conveying secret agents and troops (into the 
enemy’s territory), 


34 kidnapping (the enemy’s) kinsmen and treasures, ascertainment 
of secret information, showing valour, (helping in) the escape of hostages, 
and resort to secret practices,—these are the functions of an envoy. 


35 He should cause all this to be carried out by his envoys, and 
should cause a watch to be kept over the envoys of the enemy by means 
of counter-envoys and spies as well-as through open and secret guards. 


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN 
SECTION 13 GUARDING AGAINST PRINCES 


1 A king protects the kingdom (only) when (he is himself) protected 
from persons near him and from enemies, first from his wives and sons. 
2 Protection from wives we shall explain in ‘Regulations for the Royal 
Residence.’ 


3 As to protection from sons, however : 


4 ‘He should guard against princes right from their birth. 5 For, 
princes devour their begetters, being of the same nature as crabs. 6 Before 
love (for them) is produced in the father, silent punishment for them is best;’ 
says Bharadvaja. 


33 presanam ‘sending communications’; cf. 2.21.27. — pratdpah : since pardkrama is 
also used, ‘valour’ can hardly be understood by pratapa. Mcyer understands ‘majesty, 
dignity,’ i.e., the maintenance of his master’s prestige at the foreign court. Cb refers to 
Hantmat showing pratdpa in the ASokavanika, implying a pun ‘causing trouble’ and 
‘burning.’ — giidhadanddalisadranam : cf. 7.14.24. 

34 Meyer thinks that raina, like ratnin in the Brahmana texts, refers to big persona- 
lities in the state. That seems hardly possible in this text. — samddhimoksah : cf. '7.17.32ff. 
— yogasya : yoga refers to the secret methods used to do away with undesirables, particu- 
larly the use of weapons, poison etc. (yogasya saslragnirasapranidhanasya—(C)). 


1.17 


lor raksana in the sense of ‘ keeping a watch over, guarding oneself against,’ see 1.13 
above. 


2 nisdntapranidhau, i.e., in Chapter 1.20 below. 


4 janmaprabhrti etc..: Cb Cs do not include ss. 4-5 in Bharadvaja’s opinion. It seems, 
however, that they contain the opinion ofthis cynical teacher alone and not the general 
view of the science. — Cj reads rdjd puirdn. 6 ajdtasnche pitari :. this is 4 locative abso- 
lute ‘ before the father begins to feel affection.’ pitari ajdtasnehe (putre) updmsudandah 
‘secretly doing away with a son who feels no affection for the father’ is possible, but does 
not seem intended. 


1.17.7] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 40 


~ 


7 ‘This is cruel, (as it involves) the killing of innocent persons and the 
destruction of the Ksatriya race,’ says Visaéliksa. 8 ‘Therefore, confine- 
ment in one place is best.’ : 


9 ‘This is danger as from a snake,’ say the followers of Parasara. 10 
‘For, the prince, realising “through fear of my valour my father has confined 
me,” might get the father himself in his power. 11 Therefore, making him 
stay in a frontier fortress is best.’ 


12 ‘This is danger as from a (fighting) ram,’ says Pisuna. 18 ‘For, 
realising that alone to be the means of his return, he might become the ally 
of the frontier chief. 14 Therefore, making him stay in the fortress of a 
neighbouring (vassal) prince,far removed from his own territory, is best.’ 


15 ‘This ‘s the position of a calf (for the prince),’ says Kaunapadanta. 
16 ‘For, the neighbouring prince might milk his father as (one milks) a 
eow with the help of the calf. 17 Therefore, making him stay with the 
kinsmen of his mother is best.’ 


18 ‘This is the position of a flag (for the prince),’ says Vatavyadhi. 
19 ‘For, with him as the flag, his mother’s kinsmen would be making demands 


7 There can be no doubt that adrsta- of G M is faulty, being corrupted. from adusta- 
(D). 8 ekasthdna- ‘one place,’ i.e., the place where the king himself is; ‘yatra pitd tatrai- 
vavarodhah’ as in Cnn; similarly Cj. 

9 ahibhayam : a simile is implied in this expression. 10 tameva anke kurydt : D reads 
tadeva; the neuter tad cannot easily be made to refer to any preceding word. Cnn refers it 
to ahibhayam and explains ‘he may bring about the same danger of a snake, as he is stationed 
near (tadeva ahtbhayam vindsalaksanam anke samipe sthitah kurydt).’ This is far from 
convincing. Cj, with tadeva, refers tad to vikramabhaya or avarodhana, explaining anke by 
samipe variamdnah. tam in the other reading may refer to the father, ‘might kill the father 
himself’ asin Cb. In 7.19.40 ankam upasthita seems to mean ‘who is in One’s power,’ so 
that here ‘he may bring the father himself in his power’ may be the sense intended. (Cf. 
ankdgatasattoaorttt —Raghuvamsa, 2.88). tam may also refer to vikramam ‘might resort to 
valour.’ Cs refers tam to vikramam, but explains ‘might show valour in a nearby place, 
i.e., in his own house.’ This is less satisfactory. 

12 aurabhram : the idea, as Cs explains, is, just as a ram taken to the ends of the 
fighting ring returns to the centre with greater vehemence to meet his rival, so the prince 
might return to attack the king with the help of the antapdla. Meyer’s ‘this is the fear of 
sheep’ is hardly possible. 13 pratydpatteh kdranam : Cb has ‘reason for keeping him away’, 
Cnn ‘the cause of his going away from the father (pituh sakadsdd anyatra gamanam)’, Meyer 
‘the cause of the father holding aloof from the son,’ Russ. ‘the cause of the father’s 
disgust withhim.’ Itseems rather that kdranam is ‘means,’ not ‘cause,’ and that tat refers to 
antapalasakhatoa, not vikramabhaya (as in Cnn), so that we have to understand ‘the means 
of his return’ to the capital. Cj has ‘the means of ending his loss of liberty,’ and refers 
tad to vikrama or to antapdlopagrahana ‘ winning the antapdla over.’ The explanation of 
pratyapatteh (understood as ablative) in Cs ‘because his nature of being hostile to the king 
cannot be changed’ is little likely. 

19 aditikausikavad ; according to commentators ‘mendicants earning their livelihood 
by showing images of gods (aditi) and snake-charmers (kaugika).’ Cnn : ‘aditivad devadh- 
vajam dargayitod; aditigrahanam aditiputrdndm kdladidevdndm parigrahartham. kausikas 
todhitundikah kosena sarpagrahena caratiti.’ It may be that aditikaugika conveys a single 

_idea, that of a sect of mendicants who make demands (which cannot be refused) in the 
name of some god whose flag, along with the image, they carry. Snake-charmers do not 
carry flags. Meyer suggests that as Kausika is a name of Indra, we have to understand 
@ mendicant woman in the garb of Aditi and a boy in the garb of Indra, the begging 


41 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [1.17.39 


like Aditikausikas. 20 Therefore, he should let him free to indulge in 
vulgar pleasures. 21 For, sons kept engrossed in pleasures do not become 
hostile to the father.’ 


22 ‘This is living death,’ says Kautilya. 28 For, like a piece of wood 
eaten by worms, the royal family, with its princes undisciplined, would 
break the moment it is attacked. 24 Therefore, when the chief queen is 
in her rtu (-period), priests should offer a caru-oblation to Indra and Brhaspati. 
25 When she is pregnant, a childern’s specialist should arrange for the 
nourishment of the foetus and for delivery. 26 When she has given birth, 
the chaplain should perform the sacraments for the son. 27 When he is 
ready for it, experts should train him. 


28 ‘And one of the secret agents should tempt him with hunting, 
gambling, wine and women, (suggesting to him,) ‘“‘Attack your father and 
seize the kingdom.” 29 Another secret agent should dissuade him from 
that;’ say the followers of Ambhi. 


80 ‘This awakening of one not awake is highly dangerous,’ says Kautilya. 
81 For, a fresh object absorbs whatever it is smeared with. 382 Similarly, 
this prince, immature in intellect, understands as the teaching of the science 
whatever he is told. 83 Therefore, he should instruct him in what conduces 
to spiritual and material good, not in what is spiritually and materially 
harmful. 


84 On the contrary, secret agents, declaring “We belong to you,’ should 
guard him. 35 If in the exuberance of youth he were to entertain a longing 
for the wives of others, they should produce abhorrence in him through unclean 
women posing as noble ladies in lonely houses at night time. 386 If he were. 
to long for wine, they should frighten him with drugged liquor. 87 Ifhe were 
to long for gambling, they should create aversion in him through deceitful 
players. 388 If he were to long for hunting, they should frighten him through 
agents disguised as highway robbers. 89 If he were to entertain the idea 


being done for the sake of the boy. A boy is unlikely, as there is the dhvaja, to which the 
prince corresponds. 

25 kaumdrabhriyah : ‘a physician who has specialised in bringing up childern,’ was 
also experienced in midwifery, as the present passage shows. Jolly-Schmidt point out that 
kumdrabhriya ‘treatment of infants’ diseases’ is the subject of a part of one of the ancient 
Buddhist medical treatises in the Bower Ms. and that Jivaka, a famous contemporary of 
Buddha, was called komdrabhacca. 

28 Thisisa sort of upadhd or secret test. 29 Ambhitydh : the teacher’sname appears 
to be Ambhi. Panini 4.1.96 (bdhoddi gana) derives Ambhi as a patronymic from Ambhas. 
Nothing is known about this teacher or his school. Ganapati Sastri understands Bhisma 
by Ambhi (Intro. to Vol. III of the Trivandrum edition). 

81 upadihyate...dcilsati : the figure, as Cs says, is that of an earthen vessel or a mud 
wall. 

85 udvejayeyuh : the root may mean ‘create disgust or aversion’ or ‘frighten, inspire 
terror’ according to context. 36 yogapdna is a drink to which some substance is added 


1.17. 40] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 42 


of attacking his father, they should enter into his confidence (by pretending 
to agree) and then dissuade him (saying), “The king should not be attacked; 
if the attack fails, (there will be) death; if it succeeds, (there will be) a fall in 
hell (for you), an uproar and (your) annihilation by the subjects as of a single 


clod of earth.’ 


40 They should inform (the king) if the prince is disaffected. 41 . He 
should put an only, favourite son (if disaffected) in prison. 42 If he has 
many sons, he should send (the disaffected son) to the frontier or some other 
region where he may not hecome as a child in the womb (for the people there) 
or a commodity for sale (for those people) or a (source of) disturbance. 
48 If he is possessed of the excellences of self, he should install him in the 


position of the commander-in-chief or the crown prince. 


44 One possessed of sagacity, one with intellect requiring to be goaded 
and one of evil intellect—these are the different kinds of sons. 45 He who, 
when taught, understands spiritual and material good and practises the same 
is one possessed of sagacity. 46 He who understands but does not practise 
(them) is one with intellect requiring to be goaded. 47 He who is ever full 
of harm»and hates spiritual and material good is one of evil intellect. 


that creates a nausea for drink. 39 Gnupravisya : this means ‘entering into and winning 
the confidence of’; cf. 2.9.26 etc. — aprdarthaniyo ‘not fit to be attacked.’ For prarth ‘to 
attack,’ cf. 3.10.34; 6.2.38. Cb’s ‘not to be killed’ scems less likely. — samkrosah ‘an outcry, 
an uproar’ rather than ‘censure among the people’ (Cs). — ekalostavadhah ‘destruction as of 
a single clod of earth’ (Mcycr) is to be preferred to ‘death by people throwing one clod of earth 
each’ (Cs). For the latter, ckaika- would seem necessary. ‘Killing by a single throw with 
a stone’ (Jolly) seems out of the question. — Meyer includes virdgam from the nexts. at the 
end of s. 39 after iti and supplics kuryuh after it, ‘with these words (iti) they should make 
him give up (vi-) his desire (rdga) (to attack his father).’ This is very unlikely. 

40 virdgam vedayeyuh : i.e., they should inform the king about the prince who cannot 
be made to give up his disloyal intentions. With vedayeyuh (from D) continuity with the 
preceding is maintained. 42 praiyuntam is a noun in the sense of ‘the frontier’ rather 
than an adjective to visayain the next word. — yatra garbhah panyam dimbo vd na bhavet : 
Cj explains ‘where the prince is not likely to be as a son or son-in-law to the people there 
(making thern take his side against the father) or where he would not be treated as a com- 
modity for disposal (the people there increasing their own power at his expense) or where 
no trouble would be caused hy people there by finding support in him and trying to win 
over Others on his behalf (garbha iva garbhah; yatrainam putrataya jamadlrlayd garbhikriya 
snehat...na vikurvate. panyaval panyam; yatrainam prasdrya bhiksayad na saktim a&lmanah 
purayanti. dimbakdranatudt dimbah; yatra tadasrayat krtyan upagrhya nopadravam kuryuh).’ 
Cnn is more or less similar. Cb seems to have read garvah and explains ‘where there 
is no pride, where the prince is not treated as a commodity and where no injury may be 
done tohim.’ This is less satisfactory. Cs has ‘where there is no food fit for the prince 
(garbha, i.e., food) orno commodity fit for him or no commotion among the people because 
of him.’ This also is unsatisfactory. Meyer has made a number of suggestions, the final 
one being to read garbhah sando dimbo vano va bhavet ‘where there is a foetus (in the queen’s 
womb) or an impotent prince or a silly prince (dimba) or an exhausted prince (vdna from 
vat) as the only heir to the throne,’ the idea being that the exiled prince wouldin sucha 
case stand a chance of succeeding to the throne in that foreignland. This is very doubtful. 
anyavisaya hardly means ‘foreign land’. 

46 The definition shows that the dhdaryabuddhi is unable or unwilling to put into 
practice what he knows tobe right. Ministers and others are however able to induce him to 
do what is right, ‘acdryddibhih pratiksanam ahdryad buddhir yasya’ (Cnn). dharya ‘which 
can be brought near’; cf. ahdryodaka setu 2.1.20, 


43 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [1.18.38 


48 Ifsuch be the only son, he should endeavour to get a son born of him. 
49° Or, he should get sons begotten on an appointed daughter. 


50 <An old or a diseased king, however, should get a child begotten 
on his wife by one of the following, (viz.), his mother’s kinsman, a member of 
his own family, and a virtuous neighbouring prince. 51 But he should not 
install on the throne an only son, if undisciplined. 


52 Of many (sons, who are undisciplined) confinement in one 
place (is best); (however), the father should be beneficently disposed 
towards the sons. Except in case of a calamity, sovercignty passing on 
to the eldest son is praised. 


53 Or, the kingdom should belong to the (royal) family; for, a family 
oligarchy is difficult to conquer, and remains on the earth for ever without 
(having to face) the danger of a calamity befalling the king. 


CHAPTER EIGHTEEN 


SECTION 14 THIt CONDUCT OF A PRINCE IN DISFAVOUR 
SECTION 15 BEHAVIOUR TOWARDS A PRINCE IN DISFAVOUR 


1 The disciplined prince, who finds living difficult, shou'd obey his 
father when appointed to an unworthy. task, except when it is dangerous to 
life or rouses the subjects (against him) or involves a heinous sin. 


2 If he is assigned some agreeable task, he should ask for an officer to 
supervise his work. 3 And under supervision of the officer, he should carry 


48 sa refers to the durbuddhi ; ekaputrah is a Karmadhiaraya; Cj’s ckah putrak makes 
this clear. asyareferstothisonlyson. The idea is, the king should try to securea grand- 
son. Hillebrandt’s suggestion that we should read yadyaputrah (ZDMG, 70, p. 41 n. 1) makes 
no improvement. -— pulrikd-: cf. Manu, 9.127ff. 


50 For niyoga, referred to here, the kinsmen On the mother’s side are shown a pre- 
ference, which is rather strange. Cf. also 3.6.24 below. 


52 Cj has ‘if there are many disaffected princes they should be confined in one place;’ 
Cb ‘of many sons each one should be put in confinement;’ Cs ‘from among many sons, he 
should confine one son, who may be durbuddhi, in pratyanta etc.’ Meyer understands the 
first half as a single clause ‘the father of many sons (bahiindm pita) who keeps out of succes- 
sion one (ekasamrodhah as adj. to pild) cares only for the good of thesons’. Cj’s explanation 
seems best. 53 kulasya: this is the group of all sons (Cb Cs). All male members of the 
royal family forming a sext of ruling council may appear better. Cj seems to understand 
a division of the kingdom forming a sort of confederation (sarocsdm vd vibhakiam bhaved 
rajyam anyonyasamsrayam). <A council formed by a number of noble families is possible as 
the meaning of kulasamgha, but does not seem intended here. For samgha cf. 11.1 below. — 
ardjavyasanabadhah: this is an adj. to kulasamghah. The idea is, even if one member is in 
vyasana, the others are there to carry on. For rdjavyasana see 8.2 below. 


1.18 

D reads aparuddha throughout and that form is adopted in this edition. It is found. 
in Atharvaveda 3.3.5 (anyaksetre aparuddham carantam), Tailtirtya Samhita 2.2.8.4, Kausi- 
kasiitra 16.30 and the Aihole Inscription, stanza 14. 

1 GM omit vinito; but it is better to read it, as the prince discussed here is assumed 
to be well-behaved and unjustly treated by his father. — &rcchravritih shows that he is 
made to work for his living and that he finds it difficult 


1.18, 4] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 4 


out the task assigned with special zest. 4 And he should get despatched to 
his father the normal produce of the work as well as any (extra) gain received 


as a present. 


5 If (the father is) even then not pleased and shows affection for another 
son or wife (other than his mother), he should ask for leave to repair to the 
forest. 6 Or, in case of fear of imprisonment or death, he should seek 
refuge with a neighbour ng prince who is justly behaved, pious, truthful in 
speech, not given to breach of faith and welcomes and honours those who have 
approached him (for help). 7 Staying there and becoming enriched with 
treasure and troops, he should enter into marriage relations with heroic men, 
make contacts with forest chieftains and win over seducible parties (from 
his father’s kingdom). 


8 If he has to act alone, he should maintain himself by working mines 
and factories for gold-smelting, colouring gems and manufacturing gold and 
silver articles. 9 Or, he should secretly rob the wealth of heretical corpora- 
tions or the wealth of temples except that to be used by Brahmins learned in 
the Vedas or the wealth of rich widows after entering into their confidence, 
and plunder caravans and sailing vessels after cheating (the men) by adminis- 
tering a stupefying drink. 10 Or, he should practise ‘the stratagems for the 
conquest of an enemy town.’ 11 Or, he should act after securring the support 
of persons from the side of his mother. 12 Or, with his appearance changed 
by disguising himself as an artisan, an artist, a minstrel, a physician, a pro- 
fessional story-teller or a heretical monk, (and) accompanied by associates 
in the same disguise, he should enter by taking advantage of some vulnerable 
point, and, striking the king with weapon or poison, announce, ‘I am that 
prince; this kingdom is to be enjoyed jointly; a single person does not deserve 
to enjoy it; those who desire to serve me, them will I reward with double food 


and wages.’ 


Thus ends (the topic of) the conduct of a prince in disfavour. 


4 abhiriipam ‘appropriate’, i.e., what would normally accrue from that work. 


5 D adds tadanurodhdd vd dvesena; the words do not appear to be original; at least 
dvisantam would be necessary in place of dvesena. 7 kriyapaksa are those in the father’s 
kingdom who can be won over to his side. 

8 ekacarah, i.e., when he has not sought refuge with any neighbouring prince. Cb 
understands the idea of his being without koga and danda. — suvarnapdka seems to refer to 
the smelting of gold ore ; Cj says ‘suvarnasya varnotkarsartham pakah.’ — manirdga ‘colour- 
ing of crystals, in order to impart new qualities to them, sphatikasya jatyantaragunddhanar- 
tham ranjanam’ (Cj). 9 ddhyavidhavddravyam is from Cb and seems necessary to make it con- 
form to the preceding expressions. —- For anupravisya, see 1.17.89 above. —- It would have 
been better if we had anupravisya gidham apaharet in this order before sdrthaydna- etc. — 
madanarasa is a drink prepared from some narcotic drug that brings on stupefaction. 10 
paragraémikam yogam, i.e., tricks recommended for capturing an enemy’s town in 18.1 below. 
12 kdrugilpi- etc. : the compound should be understood as a Tatpurusa construed with 
nastaripak and not as a Bahuyrihi as in Cs, where tadvyanjanasakhah is then rendered by 
‘appearing like the men dressed as craftsmen ctc.’ This latter is clearly unlikely. — briyat : 
the announcement is made in the presence of officers and other servants of the assassinated 

father. — ye kamayante etc. : the reading adopted is with mam from D and bhartum from G 


45 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [1.19.5 


13 But sons of principal officers acting as secret agents should bring 
the prince in disfavour (to the king) after securing his consent; or, tlie 
mother, if she enjoys favour, (should bring him). 14 If he is given up (as 
incorrigible), secret agents should kil him with weapon or poison. 15 If 
not given up, they should make him addicted to women of the same chara- 


cter or to drinking or hunting, and seizing him at night, should bring him 
(to the king). 


16 And when he has come, he should conciliate him by the (offer 
of the) kingdom, saying ‘ After me, (this is yours).’ Then he should 


confine him in one place (if stil recalcitrant); but if he has (other) sons, 
he should kill him. 


CHAPTER NINETEEN 
SECTION 16 RULES FOR THE KING 


1 When the king is active, the servants become active following his ex- 
ample. 2 If he is remiss, they too become remiss along with him. 3 And 
they consume his works. + Moreover, he is over-reachcd by cnemies. 


5 Therefore, he should himself be (energetically) active. 


M; the idea obviously is that the prince offers to share the kingdom with these officers, 
promising to double their salary so that they may have no qualms about serving the 
parricide. The reading proposed is mdm bharlum tan aham, with bhr understood in the 
sense of ‘to support,’ hence also ‘to serve.’ Cj reading bkokium (for bharium) explains 
‘who desire me (as their king) I shall give them double the salary for their maintenance 
(bhoklum, i.c., posayilum).’ Itis not certain that bhoklum could be so understood. We 
can get this sense with mdm (dn bhartum aham. D reads bhariuh which is not easy to 
construe; ‘those who prefer me to the (late) master’ seems hardly possible. If bhartéram 
were read, we could understand ‘those who desire me as their master.’ Meyer, rejecting 
bhartum and reading mertiun (an ndham, translates ‘such of you as cesire to die (by refus- 


ing to accept me), them I shall not serve even for double food and wages.’ This is highly 
problematical. 


138 mukhyaputradpasarpah : the sons of principal officers are to serve as agents to 
fetch the prince. They are likely to succeed, as Cj says, because they had been his play- 


mates. ---pratipddya : Cb understands the idea of promising him yauvardjy:. So Cnn 
has ‘rdjyan pratipaddya.’ That is possible, though ‘making him agree, persuading him’ 
would appear sufficient. — pratigrhitd, i.e., enjoying the king’s favour ‘rajrid upacdrair 


dvarjita@’ (Cun). ‘Acceptable’ to the prince, i.c., enjoying his confidence is also not 
unlikely. 14 tyaklam, i.c., given up as incorrigible. 15 tulyastlabhih of the same 
character as the prince and enjoying his confidence. — prasanjayiiud is presupposed in 
D. This is more in keeping with tlie usual causal form of this participle in this text. 
prasajya isn’t a happy reading. 

16 ckastham : Cb Cs Meyer understand this in the sense of ‘the only son.’ “Stationed 
in One place’ seems however all right. —pravasayet ‘should kill’ rather than ‘should exile.’ — 
Cnn remarks that sdntvayct applies to the buddhimdan, samrundhyat to the aha@ryabuddhi 
and praydsayel to the durbuddhi. 


1.19 
Vor pranidhi see 1.12 above. 


1-5 uithdna ‘being (energetically) active’ is the opposite of pramada ‘being remiss in 
doing work.’ 


1.19.6] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 46 


6 He should divide the day into eight parts as also the night by means 
of nalikds, or by the measure of the shadow (of the gnomon). 


7 (A shadow) measuring three paurusas, one paurusa, (and) four angulas, 
and the midday when the shadow disappears, these are the four earlier eighth 
parts of the day. § By them are explained the later (four). 9 Outof them, 
during the first eighth part of the day, he should listen to measures taken for 
defence and (accounts of) income and expenditure. 10 During the second, 
he should look into the affairs of the citizens and the country pcople. 
11 During the third, he should take his bath and meals and devote 
himself to study. 12 During the fourth, he should receive revenue in cash and 
assign tasks to heads of departments. 13 During the fifth, he should consult 
the council of ministers by sending letters, and acquaint himself with secret 
information brought in by spies. 14 During the sixth, he should engage 
in recreation at his pleasure or hold consultations. 15 During the seventh, 
he should review elephants, horses, chariots and troops. 16 During the 
eighth, he should deliberate on military plans with the commander-in-chief. 
17 When the day is ended, he should worship the evening twilight. 


18 During the first (eighth) part of the night, he should interview secret 
‘agents. 19 During the second, he should take a bath and meals and engage 
in study. 20 During the third, he should go to bed to the strains of musical 
instruments and sleep during the fourth and the fifth (parts). 21 During 
the sixth, he should awaken to the sound of musical instruments and ponder 
over the teaching of the science (of politics) as well as over the work to be done. 
22 During the seventh, he should sit in consultation (with councillors) and 
despatch secret agents. 23 During the eighth, he -hould receive blessings 
from priests, preccptors and chaplain, and see his physician, chief cook and 
astrologer. 24 And after going round a cow with her calf and a bull, he 
should proceed to the assembly hall. 


6 ndlikabhir: cf. 2.20.84-35. A ndlikad measures 24 minutes. Because the eighth 
part of a day comes to 3} ndlikds, Flect (in a footnote to Shama Sastzi’s translation, p. 37) 
thinks that this ndlikd is different from the nalikd of 2.20.85. How, he asks, are three-fourths 
of a naélikd to be marked by the water-bowl? This nalikd, therefore, is one of 90 minutes 
according to him, its real name being chdydnalikd mentioned in 1.7.8 above. It is, however, 
very unlikely that two different kinds of na@likds would be referred to in the same work, 
particularly because a definition of chdydndlikad would also be then uxpected. It seems, 
moreover, that chaydnalikd in 1.7.8 refers to two separate methods of marking measures of 
time. Besides, it is not unlikely that the nalikd was graduated so that divisions of a nalika 
could be easily read oft it. — chdadydpramdnena vd: this alternative is{available only in day- 
time when it is clear. 

7 tripaurust : paurusa, 2 measure uscd for measuring the length of the shadow of the 
gnomon On the sun-dial, is 12 arigulas (about 9 inches). See 2.20.10. — Afters. 7 a long 
passage from a commentary has crept into the text inD. 9 raksdadvidhdnam : in view of 
9.4.8 and 12.5.32 this refers to arrangements for defence, not to ‘protection afforded (to 
citizens) during the night’ (Cs).12 adhyaksan kurvita refers to assigning tasks to these 
Officers as well making new appointments when necessary. 13 patrasampresanena: see 
1.15.53-54 above. Letters become necessary only when some members are absent. 

20 samvistah : * Sayyam Griidhah. samvistasabdaprayogah kdmam siicayati surataprakd- 
raénam samvesandbhidhanat’ (Cnn). 23 -purohitasoastyayandni is necessary as in D, because 
the blessings are to be received from the purohita and others, not from anyone else. It is 


47 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [1.19.35 


25 Or, he should divide the day and night into (different) parts in con- 
formity with his capacity and carry out his tasks. 


26 Arriving in the assembly hall, he should allow unrestricted entrance 
to thore wishing to see him in connection with their affairs. 27 For, a king 
difficult of access is made to do the reverse of what ought to be done and what 
ought not to be done, by those near him. 28 In consequence of that, he may . 
have to face an insurrection of the subjects or subjugation by the enemy. 
29 Therefore, he should look into the affairs of temple deities, hermitages, 
heretics, Brahmins learned in the Vedas, cattle and holy places, of minors, 
the aged, the sick, the distressed and the helpless and of womcn, in (this) 
order, or, in accordance with the importance of the matter or its urgency. 


30 He should hear (at once) every urgent matter, (and) not put it 


off. An (affair) postponed becomes difficult to settle or even impos- 
sible to settle. 


31 He should look into the affairs of persons learned in the Vedas 
and of ascetics after going to the fire sanctuary (and) in the company 


of his chaplain and preceptor, after getting up from his seat and saluting 
(those suitors). 


32 But he should decide the affairs of ascetics and of persons versed 
in the practice of magic, (in consultation) with persons learned in the three 


Vedas, not by himself (alone), for the reason that they might be roused to 
anger. 


33 For the king, the (sacrificial) vow is activity, sacrifice the 
administration of affairs ; the sacrificial fee, however, is impartiality of 
behaviour, (and) sacrificial initiation for him is the coronation. 


84 In the happiness of the subjects lies the happiness of the king 
and in what is beneficial to the subjects his own benefit. What is dear 
to himself is not beneficial to the king, but what is dear to the subjects is 
beneficial (to him). 


35 Therefore, being ever active, the king should carry cut the 
management of material well-being. ‘The root of material well-being is | 
activity, of matcrial disaster its reverse. 


not likely that the king would be seeing other Brahmins just yet. Cj reads -purohitebhyah 
svastya-, but mentions the reading of D. 


26 udvadrdsangam ‘not being held up at the door,’ i.e., freeentry. Cj reads dugram 
Gsangam ‘the dcor open.” 


29 devatd, i.e., temple affairs. dtyayika-: dlyayikatva- would seem to be necessary. 
30 atikrdniam ‘ what has been passed over’, i.e., postponed. 


31 agnyagdragatah: cf. Sdkuntala, Act 5, where this procedure is strictly followed by 
Dusyanta when looking into the hermits’ affair. 


32 mdydyoga ‘ practice of magic’ as a single idea seems intended. 


33 There can be no doubt about diksd tasyabhisecanam from D Cj being the original 
reading ; it completes the elaborate metaphor in the stanza, the comparison of rulership 


1, 19. 36 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 48 


86 In the absence of activity, there is certain destruction of what 
is obtained and of what is not yet received. By activity reward is 
obtained, and one also secures abundance of riches. 


CHAPTER TWENTY 


SECTION 17 REGULATIONS FOR THE ROYAL RESIDENCE 


1 On a site recommended by experts in building, he should cause the 
royal residence to be built, with a rampart, a moat and gates and provided 


with many halls. 


2 He should cause to be constructed a living chamber in the centre in 
accordance with the procedure laid down for the treasury, or a maze-house 
with concealed passages in walls and in its centre a living chamber, or an 
underground room with its opening covered by the wooden image of a deity 
in a nearby sanctuary and having many subterranean passages (and) above 
it a palace with a stair-case concealed in a wall or having an entrance and 
an exit through a hollow pillar as a living chamber with the floor fixed to 
a mechanism (and thus) capable of sinking below, in order to counteract 
a calamity or when a calamity is apprehended. 3 Or he should vary the 
construction in ways other than these, because of the fear of fellow-students. 


with a sacrifice. — Afters. 33 D introduces another stanza with the words tathd coklam. It 
couldn’t be original. That is not how quotations are introduced in this text. The stanza 
seems to be derived from some commentary. 


1.20 

nigdnia from ni-gam is primarily a place of retirement, a residence. In particularit refers 
to the royal palace. For pranidhi, see 1.12 above. 

1 vdstuka ‘ an expert in the science of building ’ (Cb Cj Cnn). — D has kaksd for kak- 
syd throughout ; both forms are possible. —antahpuram: this clearly is the same as nisdan- 
ta, the royal residence ; as Cj has, ‘ antahpuram rdjavdsakam.’ It is not merely the harem ; 
it includes the council hall and the assembly hall as well (s.12 below). The Rdmdydna (2.14. 
29-31 ; 2.16.1) shows the use of aniahpura in this wider sense. 


2 koéagrhavidhdnena : i.e., as laid down in 2.£.2-8 below. — madhye, i.e., in the centre of 
the area constituting the anfahpura ; the word is not read in G M, but seems necessary. — 
giidha- etc. is an option to the method of the kosagrha ; mohanagrha is a maze or labyrinth 
where a stranger would get lost. It is to have ‘* passages concealed in walls’; the vdsagrha 
is to be in its centre. mohanagrha in the sense of ‘a love-chamber’ (Meyer) is unlikely. 
— bhiimigrham ctc. states another alternative arrangement for the vdsagrha. The idea is that 
an underground chamber is to be built with an emergency exit through y subterranean pass- 
age, leading to an opening covered by the wooden image of the deity in 9 nearby sanctuary. 
A person escaping from the bhumigrha would arrive at the opening under the image, which, 
being made of wood, can be easily pushed aside; thus he would make good his escape 
- without being noticed by those besieging or searching the vdsagrha. This is the explanation 

of Cj Cnn and the only right one. Cb reads -caitydstadevatd- and explains ‘ covered by the 
abodes of caityadevatds and astadevatds nearby.’ This isn’t very happy. Cs, understanding 
kastha * direction ’, explains ‘ with the door stamped with the image of a deity ina temple 
which is in a nearby quarter.’ What purpose the stamping of the door with the image of a 
deity is expected to serve it is difficult tosee. — tasyopari from D is necessary, because the 
bhiimigrha by itself could not constitute the vdsagrha ; there is to be a prdsdda aboveit; the 
vd after prasadam needs also to be omitted asin D. prdsdda seems primarily to convey the 
idea of an elevated chamber to be reached (pra-d-sad) by steps. — gidhabhittisopanam 


49 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [ 1.20. 10 


4 When fire churned from human bones is taken round the royal 
residence three times (from right) towards the left, no other fire burns it nor 
does another fire blaze up there; -also when it is smeared with ashes caused 
by lightning and hailwater mixed with earth. 


5 Serpents or poisons do not have ( their ) power in a ( residence ) 
protected by (a string of) shoots of the Asvattha growing on wet land together 
with (shoots of ) J?vanti, Sveta, Muskaka and Puspavandaka (plants). 


6 Letting loose peacocks, ichneumons and spotted deer (on the premises) 
destroys serpents. 7 The parrot, the starling or the fork-tailed shrike shrieks 
when there is fear of serpents or poison. 8 The heron becomes frantic in the 
proximity of poison, the pheasant becomes faint, the intoxicated cuckoo dies, 
the eyes of the Cakora-partridge become discoloured. 


9 Thus he should take precautions against fire, poison and serpents. 


10 In a part of the apartments at the back (should be) ladies’ rooms, 
establishments for maternity and sickness and places for trees and water. 


* with stuir-cases concealed in walls’ is better than ‘ with concealed walls and stair-cases,’ 
though bhitligiidha- would have been better for the former ; cf. 2.3.22. — susira- etc. is an 
option to giidhabhitti- etc. — yantrabaddha- etc. also goes with prdsaddam. ‘The floor of the 
prasdda is so constructed that with the release of a mechanism it can fall down into the cellar 
below. Its use is illustrated in 12.5.45. Meyer seems to understand prasddam...sopanam 
as one alternative and susira...-talavapdtam as another. Cs has prdsadam...-pasdram vd and 
vasagrham... -talavapdiam as independent alternatives. — dpatpratikdrdritham dpadi v4: 
the former refers to the case where the clamaity is already there and steps have to be taken 
against it, while dpadi means when a calamity is feared (dpadi vd bhavisyantyam — Cnn). 
It doesn’t seems necessary to read kdrayet again after dpadivd ; it is proposed to omit it. 
3 sahddhydyi- ‘ persons who have studied the same Sasira (of politics) and its rules, viz., 
the enemy kings’ (Cb Cj). Meyer proposes sahasddhydyi- or sadhasddhyayi- ‘ who contem- 
plate acts of dating against the king.’ That is hardly plausible. ‘ Fellow-students’ of 
the king who know him intimately and are likely to be conversant with the secrets of his 
chamber is, however, a possible idea. 


4 mdnusendgnind, i.e., fire churned out of human bones; see 14.2.388 below. — apa- 
savyam is the opposite of pradaksinam (Cb Cs), though Cj seems to understand it in thesense 
of ‘ pradaksinyena’ and Cnn has ‘ pradaksinena parigatam, nirdjitam.’ For the former 
meaning, cf. Caraka, 8.9 ‘na pijyamangalani apasavyam gacchet,’ also Utpala on Brhat- 
samhitd, 33.13. 

5 Jivanit- etc.: cf. 14.4.12 below. Meyer understands the flowers (puspa) of the first 
three plants and the plant Vandakd, instead of understanding Puspavandakd as the name of 
a, plant ; that appears also to be the explanation in Cj. — aksive : Cj has aksibe, which appears 
to be explained by ‘in a place that is not dry.’ That seems to be the meaning ‘intended. 
aksiva can here hardly be understood as the name of a tree such as Sigru (Cs). —pratanena: 
‘a string of shoots ’ hung at the entrance, a vandanamald as°Cnn paraphrases it. The 0d 
read after this word in GM is not original. A single string of Ascaitha shoots alongwith 
Jivanti etc. is to be hung at the door-way and no option is intended, as is clear from 14.4.12. 
6 The omission of mdrjara- as in D Cj seems necessary, as cats are not known to be snake- 
Killers. 7% Bhrigardja ‘the Dhimydta (fork-tailed shrike) or the ali (bee)’ (Cs). The bee is 
clearly unlikely. 8 Jtvarnjivaka is a kind of pheasant usually identified with Cakora, but is 
here distinguished from it. — virajyete, i.e., their naturally red eyes become white (sua- 
bhavato rakle suklaivam pratipadyete—C}). = 

10 garbhavyddhisamsthadh, i.e., rooms for maternity and for sickness, the latter not 
necessarily restricted to women alone (as in Cj). G M add -vaidyaprakhydta- after -vyadht 
in the compound, Cb Cs -vaidyapratyakhydta-. Cb Cs explain the latter “ rooms for queens 


1, 20.11] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 50 


11 Outside (that) should be quarters for princesses and princes. 12 In 
front (should be) the dressing room, the council chamber, the assembly hall 
and a place for the ministers in charge of princes. 18 In the (open) spaces 
between the apartments, the palace guards should be stationed. 


14 In the inner aprtments he should visit the queen after she is cleared 
(of suspicion) by old women. 15 For, concealing himself in the queen’s 
chamber, his brother killed Bhadrasena, and lying (concealed) in his mother’s 
bed his son killed Karisa. 16 The queen killed the king of Kasi by mixing 
fried grain with poison under the guise of honey; (the queen killed) Vairantya 
with an anklet smeared with poison, the king of the Sauviras with a (poison- 
smeared) girdle-jewel, Jalitha with a (poison-smeared) mirror; the quecn 
killed Vidiratha by keeping a weapon concealed in the braid of her hair. 
17 Therefore, he should avoid these occasions. 


18 He should forbid (the queens’) contact with ascetics with shaven 
heads or matted hair and with jugglers as well as with female slaves from 
outside. 19 Nor should members of their families visit these (queens) 
except in establishments for maternity and sickness. 20 Courtesans should 
see them after their bodies are cleansed by a bath and rubbing and after 


given up as incurable by physicians.’ This is extremely doubtful. The additions do not 
appear genuine, asshown bys.19below. 12 alamkdrabhiimih is the king’s dressing room. 
— kumarddhyaksa ‘the minister in charge of princes’ as a single idea is to be preferred; all 
adhyaksas as such wouldn’t have quarters in the palace grounds. Cf.O Stein, AOr, X, p. 164 
andn. 5. 13 antarvamsika from antarcamsa (apparently the same as antahpura). Cf. 1.21.3. 


14 antargrha refers evidently to the sleeping chambers of the queens, obviously different 
from his own chamber. — na kdmcid abhigacchet (found in G M) seems 2 marginal gloss 
which has got into the text. Cj, however, distinguishes between pasyel (see in his room) and 
abhigacchet (goto herroom). 15 The addition of sriyate hi at the beginning asin D might 
appzar better. ‘The Harsacarita gives more details of these tales (pp. 199-200) ; the Brhat- 
samhitd, 78.1-2 refers to some of these and Samkararya on Kamandaka,7.51ff. mentions some 
details. -— Bhadrasena was a King of the Kalingas and his brother’s name was Virasena. 
After scyydnlargatas ca, D adds details which are obviously derived from some commen- 
tary. According to this comment, the name of the King was Vajra ; according to the Harsa- 
carita it was Dadhra, the reason for murder being the father’s intention to crown another 
prince as yuvardja. 16 The names of the King of Kaéi and his queen were Mahasena and — 
Suprabha, according to the Harsacarita, where the Vairantya king is named Rantideva. 
According to Cj Cnn the queen of KaSi was unwilling (because her son was in disfavour — Cj) 
and the King approached her forcibly (anicchanti baldd abhigacchantam). The Br. Sar. 
makes Kasiraja (and not Vairantya) the victim of a poisoned niipura. — Sauviram : Cj Cnn 
give Paramtapa as the name, but it was Virasena and his queen’s name Harhsavati, 
according to the Harsacarita. — Jdlitham: the Harsacarita has Jarutha, the king of Ayc- 
dhya, also called Paramtapa, the queen’s name being Ratnavati. Cj Cnn also have Ayodhya- 
pati and add that she was not approached even in riu, or the king was attached to other 
queens, and hence the trouble. — Viduratha was a Vrsni and his queen was Bindumati 
(Harsacarita). Cnn adds that she was enraged because her wealth was taken away by the 
king (dravydpahdrdad vidvista) ; her wealth was spent on prostitutes (Cj). — Cf. S. k. 
Dikshit, Indian Culture, Vol. VI, p. 43. 

18 kuhaka ‘a magician, a juggler’ (maydyogavid—Cnn) is 2 puppet-player in the Bhaga- 
vata purdna, 10.54.12 (yatha darumayi yosin nrtyate kuhakecchayd) 19 -samsthdbhyah : cf. 
s. 10 above. Neither ‘at the time of following the husband in death’ (Cs) nor ‘medica] 
treatment’ (Meyer) seems possible for samsthd. 20 ripdjivdh : this word is usually explai- 
ned as ‘who lives by her beauty,’ hence a courtesan, a prostitute. A connection with ring 

(as riipaka) ‘a drama’ is not unlikely, implying that the rupdajiva was primarily an actress. 


5] as THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [1.21.2 


changing their garments and ornaments. 21 Men eighty years of age or 
women fifty years of age, appearing as a father or a mother, and aged and 
eunuch domestic servants should ascertain the purity or impurity of the 


inmates of the harem and should make them firmly devoted to what is bene- 
ficial to the master. 


22 And every one (in the palace) should live in his own quarters 
and should not move to the quarters of another. And no one staying 
inside should establish contacts with an outsider. 


23 And every object should go out of or come into (the palace) 
after it is examined and its arrival or departure recorded, its transport 
to its destination being under a seal. 


CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE 
SECTION 18 CONCERNING THE PROTECTION OF (THE KING’S) OWN PERSON 


1 When risen from the bed, he should be surrounded by female guards 
bearing bows, in the second hall by eunuch servants wearing robes and 
turbans, in the third by humpbacks, dwarfs and Kiratas, in the fourth by 
ministers, kinsmen and door-keepers, lances in hand. 


2 He should keep near him persons descended hereditarily from his 
father and grand-father, bound (to him) by some relationship, trained, loyal 
and of proved service, not anyone belonging to another country who has 
not been given money and honour nor even anyone belonging to his own 
country if taken in service after he had been harmed. 3 The palace guards 
should protect the king and the royal residence. 


Here they are attendants of the harem. — pasyeyuh : the object is endh, rather than tam 
rajanam (Cs). The king’s own attendants are mentioned in 1.21.18 below. Cj reads pagyet, 
making rdjd the subject and riipdjivadh the object. 21 médtdpiiroyarjanah, i.e., posing as 
the parents of some harem attendants (antascardndm kriakamatdpitarah rdjapranihttah— 
Cnn). — abhydgarika ‘a servant of the inner apartments;’ he could be a sthavira or a varsa- 
dhara ‘eunuch.’ 


22 sarvah, i.e., all inmates of the palace. 


23 mudrdsamkrantabhiimikam : this seems to mean that it should proceed to its desti- 
nation only after being sealed. bhkiimi can hardly mean ‘a container’ as Cs seems to under- 
stand it. Russ. has ‘provided with a seal with an indication of the place of destination.’ 


1.21 


1 striganairdhanvibhith : the female archers are attendants or guards in the bed-chamber. 
Cj reads vandibhih ‘bards.’ — varsadhardbhydgarikath : cf. 1.20.21 above. 


2 sambandhadnubaddham is from a reading in M2. The mss. read mahdsambandha- ; 
the makd- seems due to repetition from the last two syllables of the preceding word. For 
the expression of. samsarganubandhartht 1.16.29 above. With maka Cb has ‘descended 
from big families,’ Cs ‘connected with persons born in noble ‘families (sambandha, i.e.5 
anvaya),’ Cj ‘connected by close relationship,’ Meyer ‘with important relations and mighty 
connections.’ — krtakarmadnam suggests one who has proved his worth by accomplishing 
some work. — The s. is quoted in the Nitivdkydmrta (sec. 24) with the remark, ata 
evoktam nayavidbhih. . 


1.21.4] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 52 


4 The head cook should cause all cooking work to be done in a guarded 
place, by tasting it many times. 5 The king should partake of that in 
that same condition, after first making an offering to the (sacred) fire and 


to birds. 


6 Blue colour of the flames and smoke, and a crackling sound of the 
fire (are signs of a thing) mixed with poison, also the death of birds (who cat 
it). 7 Of boiled rice, steam having the colour of the peacock’s neck, cold- 
ness, sudden change of colour as when stale, being full of (unabsorbed) water, 
and not being moist; of broths, quick drying up as well, remaining in a state of 
boiling, having a soiled appearance, presence of foam, becoming curdled and 
the destruction of smell, touch and flavour; among liquids, the appearance 
of a shade (of colour) fainter or deeper (than usual) and the appearance 
of upward lines at the edges of the mass of foam,—in the case of juice a blue 
line in the middle, of milk a reddish (line), of wine and water black, of curds 
dark, of honey white; of wet substances, becoming quickly faded, becoming 
over-cooked and having a dark blue colour in boiling; of dry (substances), 
a quick falling to pieces and loss of colour ; of hard substances softness and of 
soft substances hardness, and in their proximity the death of small creatures ; 
of bed-sheets and covers, possession of dirty circles and the shedding of 
threads, wool or hair; of objects made of metals and gems, being smeared 
with mud-like dirt and the destruction of the smoothness, colour, weight, 
power, class and touch;—these are the indications of (these objects when) 


mixed with poison. 


4 dsvddabdhulyena: this seems to mean ‘by tasting it himself again and again to 
see that it is tasteful’ (Cj), hardly ‘by getting them tasted by servants, grinders, cooks 
etc. (pzricdrakapesakapdacakadibhih kramena dsvaditath— Cnn). It may also mean ‘with 
plenty of taste (i.c., tasteful dishes).’ 

6 visayuktasya may b2 construed with agneh or we may supply annasya praksepena ; 
with vayasdm, we may understand (visayuktasya) annasya bhaksanena. 7 annasya: cooked 
rice is primarily thought of. — klistasya: klista is hastamrdita (soiled by hand), according 
toCnn. —aklinnatoam ‘not being moist,’ i.e., with the rice-grains unsaturated. — vyafi- 
jananam: these are broths prepared from pulses, vegetables, etc. —ca after guskatvuam shows 
that we have also to understand gatityam and vaivarnyam from the preceding. — kvdatha- 
dhydma- etc.: the translation follows Cnn ‘remaining on the boil even when removed from 
fire (Kudthabhdavo ‘gnivyacadhane ’pi), appearing soiled even when not touched by any other 
object (dhydmabhaco dravyantardsparge ’pi), having foam and appearing broken without 
cause (phenabhavo vicchinnabhavas ca taddhetuabhave ’pi).’? In conformity with this -patala- 
may be dropped as in D. Cj (which reads $yama for dhyama and omits patala) seems to 
have a similar explanation. A single idea ‘the state of breaking up of a mass of soiled 
(dhydma) or dark (syama) foam on the surface while boiling,’ may also appear possible. 
phenapatala- etc. : Cshas ‘the appearance of scum; of its separation from the broth (simanta) 
and of lines above.’ Meyer has ‘bits of scum at the edges seem to move upwards in streaks.’ 
We may understand ‘upward lines rising from the edge of the mass of foam (on the surface)’; 
the upward lines may be those of steam or of some substance in the liquid or of the foam 
itself; Meyer has the last. —-madhye seems to distinguish this from stmanta of liquids 
in general, though it :s possible that this is in addition to the preceding. — D has syGma 
for sydva in this and the followings. — tantu-roma-paksman refer to cotton, wool and fur 
respectively. paksman can harldy mean ‘minute portions’ (Cs). — pankamala- seems to 
mean ‘mud-like dirt.’ —-rdga is ‘colour’ while varnu conveys the idea of ‘class’ or qualit 
— prabhaoa refers to the ‘power’ which certain gems are supposed to possess. y- 


58 THE TOPIC OF TRAINING [ 1.21.17 


8 (The signs) of one who has administered poison, however, (are) : 
having a dry, dark face, hesitation in speech, excessive perspiration and yawn- 
ing, trembling, stumbling, looking about during speech, agitation in work and 
not remaining steady in his own place. 


9 Therefore, experts in the science Of poison-cure and physicians should 
be in attendance on him. 10 The physician, taking from the medicine-store 
a medicine proved pure by tasting, and making the cook, the pounder and 
himself taste it beforehand, should offer it to the king. 11 (Precautions for) 
drink and water are explained by (those for) medicine. 


12 Barbers and valets, with their garments and hands clean after 
a bath, should wait (on the king) after receiving sealed implements from the 
hands of palace-attendants. 13 Female slaves of proved integrity should do 
the work of bath-attendants, shampooers, bed-preparers, laundresses and 
garland-makers, or artists supervised by them (should do it). 14 They 
should offer garments and flowers after (first ) putting them to their eyes, and 
unguents to be used after bath, rubbing powder, perfumes and bath-cosmetics 
(after first putting them) on their own bosoms and arms. 15 By this is ex- 
plained (the procedure for) what has come from another person. 


16 Actors should entertain (the king) avoiding plays involving (the 
use of) weapons, fire or poison. 17 And their musical instruments should - 


remain inside (the palace), as also the trappings of horses, chariots, and 
elephants. 


8 ca shows that atimdtram is to be construed with svedah as well as vijrmbhanam. 
— vakyavipreksanam : Cj has ‘taking a long time to find a suitable reply (kim vaksyamtir 
visesena preksanam nibhdlanam),’ Cnn ‘listening to another’s speech, being apprehensive 
that he may come to know about him and be talking about aim (paravdkydadkarnanam kim 
aham jiato ’smi matkatham e02 kurvantitydsankayd).’ Meyer has ‘casting glances all round 
when speaking’; ‘looking restlessly about when some one is speaking to him’ is also possi- 
ble. karmani to be construed with avegah, hardly with anarasthanam. 

9 jdnguli ‘the science of poison-cure.”? Cnn remarks ‘it is well-known among the 
Buddhists (Bauddhaprasiddhda vidyd).’ 


10 nesaka: pouncing is essentialin Indian medicine as is pdka or making a decoction. 


18 sndpaka etc.: D shows prasddhaka along with udakaparicaraka in th's compound 
though the preceding s. had already referred to the prasddhaka ; that is probably due to 
1.12.9. 14 sndndnulepana- etc.: Cb Cs have ‘fragrant myrobalans etc. (sndna), wnguents 
like sandalwood (anulepana), the five astringents (pragharsa), fragrant powder for garments 
(cirnavdsa) and powder used on the head during bath (sndniya).’ Cj agrees except that 
cirna and vdsa are understood separately as ‘jambikasdyddi’ and ‘patavdsddi’ respectively. 
Cnn has ‘fragrant substance used on the head (sndnam sugandhadravyanirmitam sdrdram 
yacchirast prayujyate), unguents like kunkuma etc. (anulepanam kunkumadi), unguents 
(udvartanam eva praghargah), dry fragrant powder used for the hair after bath (ciirnah 
suskah sndnottarakdlam kegavdsdya yah prayujyate), fragrant incense (vdsah sugandhakalpah 
dhilpah)’; there is no explanation of sndniya. It might appear hetter to understand 
sndndnulepana, pragharsaciirna, vdsa and sndntya as the items intended. 


16 kufgilavdh appear here as actors and acrobats rather than as minstrels, a3 the latter 
would harldy have an occasion to use fireor weapon. Cf. 1.12.9, 


1. 21.18 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 54. 

18 He should ride a carriage or an animal when these are attended by 
trustworthy servants, and a boat when it is attended by a trustworthy 
boatman. 19 He should not go to a boat which is tied to another boat or is 
caught in a violent wind. 20 At the water’s edge, troops should stand on 


guard. 


21 He should plunge in water that has been cleared by fish-catchers. 
22 Heshould go to a park after it is cleared by snake-catchers. 


28 He should go to a forest containing game, for practising on moving 
targets, after the danger of harm from thieves, wild animals and enemies has 
been removed from it by fowlers and hunters. 


24 He should grant an interview to a holy ascetic in the company of 
trusted armed guards, to an envoy of a neighbouring prince in the company 
of the council of ministers. 25 Being fully armoured and riding a horse, 
an elephant or a chariot, he should inspect fully equipped troops. 


26 At the time of his departure from and entry into (the palace) he 
should go along the royal highway, with guards stationed on both sides and 
with persons carrying arms, ascetics and cripples removed from it by armed 
men and staff-bearers. 27 He should not plunge in a crowd of men. 28 
He should go to fairs, gatherings, fistivals and parties (only when these 
are) supervised by officers in command of ten soldiers each. 


29 And just as the king keeps a watch over others through secret 
agents, so should he, being self-possessed, guard himself against danger 
from others. 


Herewith ends the First Book of the ArthaSastra of Kautilya 
‘CONCERNING THE TOPIC OF TRAINING’ 


21 matsyagraha seems to mean ‘a fish-catcher’ (Cj), though ‘ fish and crocodiles ’ 
is also possible,asinCnn. 22 vydlagraha ‘ one who catches snakes ’ (Cj) is clearly intended, 
though Cnn has ‘ vydia, i.e., lions etc. and grdha, i.e., crocodile.’ Lions can hardly be 
thought of as possible in an udydna. 

24 Cj seems to have read only G@piasastragrahadhisthitah sdmantaditam pagyet. 

26 sastribhir from D is clearly better, since armed men are to be removed from the 
highways. — pravrajita-oyanga: these are likely to be enemy agents and hence they 
have to be removed. Perhaps we should read nyanga (for oyaga) as in 2.28.2 and other 
places. — ydird isa festival ora fairin honour of some deity inatemple, while uisava 
is any other festival. —-prahavana: see 1.10.9. — dagavargika ‘an officer in charge 
of ten soldiers or units.’ He is probably the same as the patika described in 10.6.45 ; 
cf. also 10.38.46. 

29 adhitigthatt *does harm’ (Cs); however, ‘ supervises over,’ i.e., ‘keeps a strict 
watch over ’ seems a more likely idea. — dbddha from I) Cj is the usual form of the word in 


the text, not bddha. 


Boox Two 


THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS 
CHAPTER ONE 
SECTION 19 SETTLEMENT OF THE COUNTRYSIDE 


1 He should cause settlement of the country, which had been settled 
before or which had not been settled before, by bringing in people from 
foreign Jands or by shifting the overflow (of population) from his own country. 


2 He should cause villages to be settled consisting mostly of Siidra 
agriculturist:, with a minimum of one hundred families and a maximum of five 
hundred families, with boundaries extending over one kroga or two kroéas, (and) 
affording mutual protection. 3 He should fix, at the boundary lines, a river, 
a mountain, a forest, a stretch of pebbles, sand etc., a cavern, an embankment, 
a Sami tree, a Sdlmali tree or a milk-tree (like Asvattha, Nyagrodha etc.). 


In the Second Book, which deals with the activity of the various state departments 
we have a fairly full account of the internal administration ofa state. Only the administra- 


tion of justice and the maintenance of law and order are reserved for the Third and Fourth 
Books. 


2.1 


This chapter deals primarily with the settlement of new lands ; a few rules, however, 
might appear to be applicable to old established settlements as well. 


1 bhiitapiirvuam ‘ which was settled before,’ but was apparently abandoned by its 
inhabitants because of famine etc. abhitapirva ‘not settled before’ is virgin land. 
According to Cnn (which is available in full for the first three chapters of this Book), the 
former is easy to work (sukhasddhya), the latter difficult. —— The expression Uhitapirva 
is used in connection with a kingdom in 13.5.2, 22; there it means ‘which had formerly 
belonged to him.’ — apavdhana includes the idea of enticement as well as displacement by 
force, Mallinatha quotes this passage on Raghuvamsa, 15.29. 


2 Stdrakarsaka- ‘ Sidra agriculturists ? (Cnn) rather than ‘Sidras and agriculturists ” 


(Cb). Acutal workers on land could have been only Sidras. — kulasatdvaram cte.: 

according to Cnn, kula means land that can be ploughed by one, two or three ploughs 

(being respectively best, middling and worst) ; the smallest village area has 100 such fields 

with a boundary of one kroga, while the largest has 500 fields with a boundary of two krosas. 

It is not certain that all this is meant here. — krogadvikrogastmanam : apparently the bcun- 

dary of each village is to be at a distance of one or two krogas from the houses init. Cj 

states that the village area should .be four Arogas on each side giving 16 square krogas ; 

of these 10 are to be used for fields, 5 should be given over to houses and pasture and one 
reserved for devasthana and common. According to Cs the distance between two villages 
is to be one kroga or two. kroga is the same as gorula of 2.20.25, though krosa itself is not 
mentioned in that chapter. Cnn explains ‘ntsdvasdne yavantam pradesam gavam tutam 
krstam vydpnott.’ — anyonydraksam ‘ giving protection to each other,’ though, * protected 
against each other’s encroachments’ is also possible. 3 dhrsti is from D, explained in Cnn 
as ‘a stretch of pebbles, sand etc. ’, suggesting the dry bed of arivulet. The Medint gives 
Siinyavdtikd ‘a deserted garden’ as the meaning. The word occurs in the Reveda 1.56.3 
(girer bhrstih) in the sense of a ridge or edge. Meyer proposes ghrsti and explains vanaghrsti 
by ‘ the edge ofa forest.’ The reading grsti is explained as * a small hill’ in Cb and ‘a plant 
named Badard or a kind of tree’ in Cs. This latter is unlikely. As a tree it would have 
been put later in the compound with Salmali, etc, Russ. has * prickly shrubbery ’. 


2.1.4] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 56 


4. He should establish a sthaniya in the middle of eight hundred villages, 
a dronamukha in the middle of four hundted villages, a karvatika in the middle 
of two hundred villages. (and) a samgrahana in a group of ten villages. 


5 On the frontiers, he should erect the fortresses of frontier chiefs (as) 
the gates of the country, under the command of frontier chiefs. 6 Trappers, 
Sabaras, Pulindas, Candalas and forest-dwellers should guard the intervening 


regions between them. 


7 He should grant (lands) to priests, preceptors, chaplains and Brahmins 
learned in the Vedas (as) gifts to Brahmins, exempt from fines and taxes, with 
inheritance passing on to corresponding heirs, (and) to heads of departments, 
accountants and others, and to gopas, sthanikas, elephant-trainers, physicians, 
horse-trainers and couriers, (Jands) without the right of sale or mortgage. 


8 He should allot to tax-payers arable fields for life. 9 Unarable 
fields should not be taken away from those who are making them arable. 


10 He should take away (fields) from those who do not till them and 
give them to others. 11 Or, village servants and traders should till them. 
12 Or, those who do not till should make good the loss (to the treasury). 


18 And he should favour them with grains, cattle and money. 
14 These they should pay back afterwards at their convenience. 15 And 
he should grant to them favours and exemptions which would cause an increase 
in the treasury, (but) avoid such as would cause loss to the treasury. 16 For, 
a king with a small treasury swallows up the citizens and the country people 
themselves. 17 He should grant exemptions at the time of settlement or as 
people come. 18 He should, like a father, show favours to those whose 


exemptions have ceased. 


4 karoatikam: the form khdroutikam is also possible. — These towns are established 
for purposes of revenue, being the headquarters of revenue officers like gopa, sthadnika, etc. 
Cf. 2.35.1-6 below. 

7% brahmadeyanz: the substantive may be gramani or ksetrdni: perhaps the latter is to 
be understood. -—— abhiriipadadyddakdni: Cnn explains ‘ with heirs of the same type as the 
person to whom the gift was originally made.’ D’s aniriipa-is obviously corrupt, but suggests 
that anuriipaddyddakdni may have been the original reading. Cj has ‘of which sons, 
grandsons etc. endowed with learning and character are to be owners and which are not to 
revert to the king.’ abhiruipaddyakdni of G M is possible in the sense of ‘ as worthy gifts’ 
or ‘ yielding suitable revenue, ’ but does not seem original. ; 

8 atkapurustkani ‘for one generation,’ not to pass on totheirheirs. Wasteland being 
state property, it is to revert to the state on the death of the donee; 9 nddeydni is from 
Cnn (supported by D’s corruption nd. .ni). nddeydt is grammatically impossible. 

10 dcchidya: confiscation is possible because the newly settled land was originally 
state property. 11 grdmabhrtaka : these would appear to be state servants since they are 
included in the salary lists in 5.3.28. Their precise duties are not mentioned anywhere in 
the text. Cj understands ‘ barbers etc.’ Cnn ‘ potters, smiths etc.’ apparently correspond- 
ing to the modern baluteddrs, though these receive no salary. 12 vdvahinam: vd found in 
D seems necessary. Meyer’s explanation of apahinam as ‘a smaller rent or tax’ is not very 
likely, _ Loss suffered by the state is to be understood ; ‘ vinastaksetraphalam ’ (Cnn). 

14 anu as a conjunctive in the sense of ‘ afterwards’ is not verycommon. Cf., how- 


ever, the Ramdyana, 2.84.4 (asmdn vadhisyati anu Ddgarathim Radmam). 17 yathdgatakam 
i.e,, even if they come to settle there some time after the first settlement. ‘ 


57 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.1.28 


19 He should set going work in mines, factories, produce-forests, 
elephant-forests, cattle-herds and trade-routes and (establish) water-routes, 
land-routes and ports. 


20 He should cause irrigation works to be built with natural water 
sources or with water to be brought in from elsewhere. 21 Or, to others who 
are building (these), he should render aid with land, road , trees and imple- 
ments, and (also render aid) to (the building of) holy places and parks. 22 If 
one walks out of the joint building of an irrigation work, his labourers and 
bullocks should (be made to) do (his share of) the work. 28 And he should - 
be a sharer in the expenses and yet should receive no portion (of the benefits 
derived). 24 The ownership of the fish, ducks, and green vegetables in 
the irrigation works should go to the king. 


25 The king should enforce discipline on slaves, persons kept as pledges 
and kinsmen who do not obey (their masters etc.). 


26 And the king should maintain children, aged persons and persons in 
distress when these are helpless, as also the woman who has borne no child 
and th sons of one who has (when these are helpless). 


27 The elders of the village should augment the property of a minor till 
he comes of age, also the property of a temple. 


28 If a person with means does not maintain his children and wife, 
his father and mother, his brothers who have not come of age, and his un- 
married and widowed sisters, a fine of twelve panas (shall be imposed), except 
when these have become outcasts, with the exception of the mother. 


19 panyapattana is ordinarily ‘a market town’; but in the text, it refers principally 
to ‘a port’, not an inland town. Cf. 2.28.7,10,12; 7.12.21; etc. This may suggest that 
market towns were principally situated on river-banks or the sea-coast. 


20 setum: this refers primarily to an embankment or dam built for storing water, 
also to the builjing of tanks. The setu is sahodaka when there are natural springs of water 
or 2 natural flow of water; it is dhdryodaka when it isasort ofa storage tank with water 
brought into it through channels. Cf. 7.12.4-5. 21 marga: according to Cj this refers to the 
‘channel’ for the di daryodaka setu. 
22 sambhiiyasetubandhdat, i.e., when all settlers decide to pool their resources to build a tank for common use. 
23 The punishment for a person backing out of a joint venture appears rather severe; hence Meyer proposes to include punyasthadndradmandm ca in s. 
22, to read anapakradmaniah and to understand raja as the sub- 
ject in s.
28, ‘labourers and bullocks coming together shall do work for irrigation in connec- 
tion with holy places and parks, without staying away. And the king shall share in the 
expenses and shall receive no benefit.’ This is extremely unlikely. The harshness of the 
punishment may be justified on the ground that the person who agreed to join in the work 
of new settlement, is backing out of what is beneficial to the entire village. 
24 plava‘a kind of duck’ (Cs) or ‘birds’ (Cb Cj), rather than ‘a boat’. — ‘harita, i.e., nalika (reeds) and panya, i.e., §rigataka, kaseruka, etc.’ (Cnn). — 1djd sodmyam gacchet: this is apparently because the land on which the tank is built is state property. 

25 -dhitaka-: see 3.12.9 ff. 


26 - -vyddhita- (read after -vrddha- in G M) does not appear to be original. — andtha is 
to be understood with each of dla etc. ‘tdlddindm aniahpatito ’pyanathasabdo cigesanam, 
anyathd atiprasangah syat’ (Cnn) ; and andtha is also to be understood with sirtyam and 
‘ putrdn as well. Cf. Breloer (KSt, III, 187 n. 4). 


27 The reading varjayeyuh is quite unlikely. About elders heing in charge of the 
property of minors see 3,5.20, 


2.1.29 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 58 


29 If one renounces home (to become an ascetic) without providing for 
his sons and wife, the lowest fine for violence (shall be imposed), also if one 
induces a woman to renounce home. 

80 One who has lost his capacity for activity may renounce home after securing permission from the judges. 

81 Otherwise, he shall be put under restraint.


82 An ascetic sect other than the (Brahmanical) forest hermit, a corporation other than that of those born in the same place or an association with agreements except one for a joint undertaking shall not settle in his countrysicle.

83 And there should be no parks there nor halls for recreation. 

84 Actors, dancers, singers, musicians, professional story-tellers or minstrels 
shall not create obstruction in the work (of the people). 35 Because of 
villages being without shelter (for outsiders) and because of men being engros- 
sed in (work on the) fields, an increase in the treasury, labourers, goods, grains 
and liquids follows. 


36 The king should exempt from taxes a region laid waste by the 
army of an enemy or by foresters, or afflicted by disease or famine, and 
he should prohibit expensive sports. 


37 He should protect agriculture that is oppressed by the troubles 
of fines, labourers and taxes, and herds of cattle (oppressed) by thieves, 
wild animals, poison and crocodiles as well as by diseases. 


28 kanyd vidhavd$ ca describe the two kinds of sisters who must be maintained. 
—anyatra matuh, i.e., a mother, even if patita, must be maintained. Cf. Baudhdyana 
Dharma Siira, 2.2.48: patitém api tu mataram bibhryadd anabhibhdsamanah. 


29 slriyam ca pravrdjayatah : Cnn remarks that the woman meant is aniurttarajaska 
ana still able to bear children. 30 Jluptavydyaémah is from D Cj. The latter explains 
‘devoid of internal and external powers (bahyabhyantaragaktivikalah).’ Cnn has ‘praja- 
nanasaktyabhavad.’ The word vyavdya read in Gl means ‘coitus’ and does not appear 
to be original. 

32 vdnaprasthad anyah etc.: this would exclude all herctical sects from the land. 
— sajatad anyah samghah : though sajaia means ‘born together’, it secms to refer to those 
who live at the same place, the idea being to prevent foreign tribal groups (samghas) from 
settling in the country. Only native or indigenous samghas are to be favoured. Cj explains 
‘which was formed at the time ofsettlement or which was there before in a bhiitapirva 
janapada.’ Ch explains sajadia by ‘who are conversant with the four vidyds.’ Cs, reading 
sujdtad explains ‘formed for the good of the king andthecountry.’ Cnn thinks that this 
forbids the formation of grenis. —sdmutthdyikdd anyah samaydnubandhah: sadmutthayika 
refers to those who join together for some common undertaking; in the present case sett- 
lers on land joining together for some specific undertaking like the building of a tank are to 
be understood. That is how the commentators understand. — Cnn remarks that these 
restrictions apply only to the time of settlement; heretics and others may enter the 
villages with the king’s permission (ayam nivegavisayo niyamah; dgantavas tu pdsandddayo 
rdjndnujndatah praviganit). 

35 nirdgrayatodt: dsraya ‘shelter’ for nata, nartaka, eto. 

86 paritharet: in the context, ‘should exempt from taxes’ has to be understood; 
‘dandakarddi na grhr.iyat’ as Cnn has it, or parihdrena pdlayet (Cj). 

87 visagrdha seems to mean ‘ pcison and crocodiles’ in view of 2,29.18,24. The 
expression can hardly mean ‘ a poisoncus creature. ’ 


59 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [2.2.5 


88 He should keep clear trade-routes that are harass2d by (the 
king’s) favourites, works-officers, robbers and frontier-chiefs or are 
reduced by herds of cattle. 


89 Thus the king should protect produce-forests, elephant-forests, 
irrigation works and mines that were made in ancient times and should 
start new ones. 


CHAPTER TWO 
SECTION 20 DISPOSAL OF NON-AGRICULTURAL LAND 


1 Qn land unsuitable for agriculture, he should allot pastures for cattle. 
2 And he should grant to ascetics wildernesses for Veda-study and soma- 
sacrifices, with safety promised to (everything) immovable and movable in 
them, one goruta in extent at the most. | 


3 He should cause an animal park for the king’s recreation to be laid 
out, with the same extent (i.e. one goruéa), with a single entrance, protected 
by a moat, containing shrubs and bushes bearing sweet fruits, having trees 
without thorns, with shallow pools of water and stocked with tamed deer and 
(other) animals, containing wild animals with their claws and teeth removed 
(and) having male and female elephants and cubs useful for hunting. 4 And 
he should establish on its border or in conformity with the (suitability of the) 
land, another animal park where all animals are (welcomed) as guests (and 
given full protection). 


-5 And he should establish forests, one each for the products indicated 
as forest produce, as well as factories for goods made from forest produce, 
and (settle) foresters, attached to the produce-forests. 


38 kdrmikath ; these are the state officers in charge of state undertakings. See 2.7.22- 
23. — godhayet ‘should keep clear of noxious elements,’ the noxious elements being the 
favourites, officers etc. 


89 dravyadvipavanam : these are referred to in the next Chapter. 


2.2 


For the correct form of the name of this Section, bhiimicchidraépidhanam, see 1.1.4 above. 
Cj too shows the correct form. JUhiimicchidra, is krsyayogyad bhih—Yadava’s Vaijayanii. 

1 vivitdni: the root is vi ‘to eat’ according to Cnn (vt khddane’tra drastavyah). 
2 There is little doubt that Brdhmaneohyo and the consequential tapovandni ca (in G M) 
are not original. Cb does not show the additional words. The regions are meant not for 
Brahmins as such, but for ascetics. As Cnn has it ‘brahmaranyam yatra Aranyakddivedo- 
panigad adhiyate, somaranyam yajnabhimth.’ — goruta-pardnt: for goruta, see 2.20.25. 

3 ‘gulmah karamardakddayah gucchd badardmalakddayak’ (Cnn). =e margayuka : Cj 
explains ‘mrgaydsilad mrgayaoah, tegdm karma margayukam ; * Cnn ‘mrgayur vyddhah 
tasya karma.’ mdargdyuka is grammatically indefensible. 4 sarodtithimrgam : this appears 
to be a sort of a zoological garden. a ? 3 

5 kupyapradistanam, i.e., those enumeratea in 2.17 below. ese are dracyavanas. 
adds ROLE AREER OSES ; it seems to have been a marginal gloss on the latter word. 
— atavié ca: as often in this text, atavi refers to forest-dwellers or foresters, not to 
forests : of. 1.18.7; 2.1,86etc. ‘ atavig ca dtavikdms ca >(Cnn). | 


2.2.6] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 60 


6. On the border (of the kingdom), he should establish a forest for 
elephants guarded by foresters. 7 The superintendent of the elephant-forest. 
should, with the help of guards of the elephant-forest, protect the elephant- 
forest (whether) on the mountain, along a river, along lakes or in marshy tracts, 
with ils boundaries, entrances and exits (fully) known. 8 They should kill 
anyone slaying an elephant. 9 To a person bringing in the pair of tusks 
of an (elephant) dying naturally, a reward of four panas and a quarter (shall 


be given). 


10 Guards of elephant-forests, aided by elephant keepers, foct-chainers, 
border guards, foresters and attendants, with their own odours suppressed by 
the urine and dung of elephants, with their bodies covered with branches of the 
Bhalldiaki, (and ) moving with five or seven female elephant decoys, should 
ascertain the size of the herds of elephants, by means of indications provided 
by sleeping places, foot-prints, dung and damage caused to river-banks. 
11 They should maintain a record in writing of (every) elephant, (whether) 
moving in a herd, moving alone, lost from a herd or lord of a herd, (and 
whether) wild, intoxicated, cub or released from captivity. 


12 They should catch elephants whose outward marks and behaviour 
are excellent in the judgment of elephant-trainers. 138 Victory (in battle) 
for a king depends principally on elephants. 14 For, elephants, being possessed 
of very big-sized bodies and being capable of life-destroying activities, pound 
the troops, battle-arrays, fortresses and camps of enemies. 


15 Elephants from the Kalingas and the Angaras are best; those 
from the east, those from Cedi and Karissa and those from the 
Dasarnas and the Aparantas are considered as of medium quality among 
the elephants. 


6 praiyante ‘ on the border’ of the kingdom, hardly on the border of the dravyavana. 
Cj refers to the region between Lauhitya in the east, Prayaégaiu the west, Ganga inthe south 
and Himavat in the north, describing it as the pradcya vana and implies that the janapada 
should not be inside this region. — atavydraksam ‘ of which the protection is secured by 
foresters.” 7 mndgavanddhyaksah: this officer is different from the hastyadhyaksa of 
2.81-32. Cnn quotes mnemonic verses giving descriptions of the pdrvata, nddeya, sdrasa 
and dniupa regions. 

10 Cj reads stmaka for saimika and padya for padyad. —Jenda-: this form of the werd 
is adopted throughout on the strengthofD Cnn. Cf. also ‘ padapracdrair lendai$ ca ’ in 
Manasollasa, 2.182. — kilaghdta- is damage done to riverbanks when elephants but in 
sport. 11 ekacaram niryiitham : according to Cnn the former has left the herd of his own 
accord, the latter is driven out of the herd (ekacaram soayam eva yuthadn nihsrtam, niryiitham 
yiithan nirdhdritam). 


14 -anitkavyitha- as two ideas ‘ troops and battle-arrays ’ (Cnn) is preferable to ‘ arrays 
ofanarmy.’ — prdnaharakarmdno: Cnn quotes ‘ spréannapi gajo hanti.’ 

15 kdlingdngarajah is from D ; M’s -rajah is corrupted from it, the editions making an 
attempt to correct it by reading -gajah. Cnn, which has intruded into the text of D, gives a 
definition of digareyaka vana, showing that the Anga region is not to be thought of here. 
Cb reads kalingavangajdh. According to mnemonic verses quoted in Cnn the kdlinza vana 
lies between Utkala, the southern ocean, the Sahya Mountain and Kelinga ; the angareyaka 
vana lies between Vidiéa, the Narmada, Brahmavardhana and the Pariyatra Mountain. 
According to Cnn, only these two types of elephants are best, those from prdcya etc. being 


61 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENT'S [2.3.3 


16 Those from the Surdstras and the Paficanadas are declared to 
be of the lowest quality among them. Of all of these, valour, speed and 
Spirit increase by training. 


CHAPTER THREE 
SECTION 21 CONSTRUCTION OF FORTS 


1 In all four quarters, on the frontiers of the country, he should cause 
a nature-made fortress, equipped for fight, to be made: a water-fort (either) 
an island in the midst of water or high land shut in by water, (or) a mountain 
fort (either) consisting of rocks or a cave, (or) a desert fort (either) one without 
water and shrubs or a salty region, or a jungle fort (either) a marshy tract 
with water or a thicket.of shrubs. 2 Among them a river fort and a moun- 
tain fort are places for the protectors of the country, a desert fort anda jungle 
fort are places for foresters or places of retreat in times of calamity. 


8 In the centre of the country, he should lay out a sth@niya, the head- 
quarters for revenue, on a site recommended by experts in the science of 


madl yama. — pracyds cedikarisajah : the prdcya vana lies between the Lauhitya, Prayaga, 
the Ganga and Himavat; the cedikariisaka vana between Mekala, Tripuri, DaSarna and the 
Unmattaganga (Cnn). — ddsdarnah is from Cb ; a derivative as in the other cases is better. 
The dasdarna vana lies between Dasarna, Mahagiri, Vindhya and the Vetravati (Cnn). No 
description of the dpardnia vana is foundin these verses. 16 saurdstrakah: the saurdstraka 


vana lies between Avanti, the Narmada, Dvarakaé and Arbuda (Cnn). — paficanada vana 
lies between Kuruksetra, Kalikakanana, the Sindhu and Himavat (Cnn). — Very similar 
details are found in the Madnasolldsa of Somegvara (2.177 ff.). 

2.3. 


Many of the details concerning the building of a fort are far from clear. Meyer calls 
this ‘the most frightful’ among the chapters of this text. 


In WZKSO, XI, 1967, 44-80, ‘Arthasastra-studien II: Die Anlage einer Festung’, D. 
Schlingloff has interpreted at great length the details of this chapter in the light of the 
excavations at the sites of ancient fortresses at Rajagrha, Vaisali, Kausambi etc. 


1 daivakriam ‘made by fate,’ i.e., provided by nature; the reading devakriam ‘made 
by the gods’ conveys the same idea perhaps a little more clearly. There are two varieties 
of eacn of the four kinds of durgas. — nimndvaruddham ‘surrounded on all sides by water’ 
(nimnenajalena—Cnn). Cbrenders nimna by ‘lakes.’ — prdstaram: this secnis to mean 
‘made of or consisting of rocks.’ Cj understands ‘a peak on top of a mountain with the 
sides chiselled off (sikharam eva sumantatas tankacchinnaparsvatvad durgamam).’ —niru- 
dukastambam ‘withovt water and without shrubs,’ rather than ‘where shrubs grow on 
waterless ground’ (Mcyer). —khafijanodakam: khatijana is a marshy place, a bog; cf. 
16.4.8; 12.4.25. That and water surround this kind of fort; ‘sapankajalam, khaji gati- 
vatkalye itt pathat?—Cnn. Its mention as vanadurga seems due to the growth of weeds 
etc. in the morass. Cj, reading khandanodakam, explains ‘ticchinnapravahodakam, kcacié 
kuacid udakam iti ydvat.’ All these are ‘nature-made’ and hence no man-made fortifica- 
tion is necessary in their case. 2 nadidurga: the same as udakadurga. — janapadara- 
ksa-: this expression is understood as in Cnn in the sense of antapala frontier-chiets. It 
corresponds to atavi, i.e., foresters in the nextclause. The expression may also mean 
‘protecticn of the country.’ —-The Detipurdpa, 72.58-55, agrees with this text in the 
matter of these eight durgas. . 

3 samudayasthanam,.-i.e., the place where revenue is ultimately brought and kept. 


a « . . ° t 
— sthdniyam : this is the headquarters for eight hundred villages (2.1.4. above). In mos 
cases, it is the fortified capital of the state. — It seems that hrada is illustrated by saras, 


2.8.4] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 62 


building, at the confluence of rivers or on the bank of a lake that never dries 
up, either a (natural) lake or a (man-made) tank, round, rectangular or square 
or in accordance with the nature of the building site, with water flowing from 
left to right, a market town, served by a land-route and a water-route. 


4 He should cause three moats to be dug round it, at a distance of one 
danda from each other, fourteen, twelve and ten dandas broad, three-quarters 
or a half of the breadth deep, one-third (of the surface-breadth) at the bottom 
or square with the bottom, paved with stones or with the sides (only) built of 
stones or bricks, reaching down to (natural springs of) water or filled with 
water coming from elsewhere, with (arrangements for) draining excess water, 
and stocked with lotuses and crocodiles. 


5 Ata distance of four dandas from the moat, he should cause a rampart 
to be made out of the earth dug out, six dandas high, made compact, twice 
that in breadth, piled upwards with a platform-like (flat) surface (at the top) 
or with a jug-like side, pounded by elephants and bullocks (and) having (on 
the sides) clusters of thorny bushes and poisonous creepers. 6 With the 
remainder of the earth, he should cause the low places in the residential areas 


or palace grounds to be filled up. 


a natural lake, and /fatdka, an artificial tank; hrada appears to be a common name for the 
two. — pradaksinodakam, i.e., in effect on the right bank of the river. — panyaputa- 
bhedanam is evidently a market town, ‘where packages coming from different places are 
opened for sale’ (Cj Cs). According to.Meyer putabheda is ‘a bend in the river’ (nadiva- 
kram, says the Medinikosa). According to Charpentier (ZDMG, 70, 237-242) it means a 
fork in the river where it breaksinto two. —amsapatha is the same as sthalapatha. 


4 danddantarah: D adds dvidanddntaradh v4 after this. Cnn, however, shows no ex- 
planation ofit. A danda is about six feet. In 2.20.19 a dhanus of 108 angulas (about 6’ 
9”) is mentioned as a measure for prakdra and roads. In the present passage, however, 
dhanus is not used at all, only danda. — We may, with Cnn, understand the widest of the 
three moats as being nearest the rampart and the narrowest furthest away fromit. — tri- 
bhdgamilah, i.e., the width at the bottom is to be one-third the width at the surface. Meyer 
understands (ribhdga in the sense of three-fourths ; that doesn’t appear likely, though it 
would make the sides less sloping. —wmiile caturasrapdsdnopahitah was an emenda- 
tion suggested by Meyer, the meaning being that the bottom should be paved with square 
stones. But the emendaticn is unnecessary. We should read with D milacaturagrd va 
and regard it as an option to tribhdgamildh in the sense ‘or, square with the bottom,’ i.e., 
with straight instead of sloping sides. The translation is in conformity with this.. With 
this reading, pdsdnopahitah ‘paved with stones (all through)’ becomes an option te the 
following pdsdnestakdbaddhaparévd va ‘with sides (alone) paved with stones or bricks.’ 
— saparivahah refers to arrangements for draining away excess water. — padmagrdhavatih 
“having lotuses and crocodiles,’ the former for beauty, the latter as a danger to enemies. 
Cf. Samardnganasiitradhadra, 10.17-22. Meyer thinks that padmagrdha may refer to 
some contrivance for letting water in or out by closing or opening it. That is possible 
though uncertain. : 

6 avaruddham ‘enclosed firmly’ seems to refer to firmness of foundation and the 
compactness cf the structure. Cnn explains ‘with both sides tiled with stones etc. (pdyd- 
nddwbhir baddhobhayaparsvam).’ That seems hardly intended. — durdivacayam: ‘with a 
high pile’; Cj Cnn explain ‘in the shape of an ant-hill (valmikanikarasamsthanam —C)j).’ 
— mancaprstham ‘with the top shaped like a platform, i.e., flat.’ Cnn understands ‘slightly 
depressed in the middle to make the parapet wallon it firm (madhye kimcin nimnam prakara- 
dardhyartham).’ This is not an option to érdhvacayam as Cs understands it. — kumbhaku- 
ksikam vd: ‘with jar-like sides,’ i.c., bulging in the middle to make climbing difficult. This 
is an option to drdhvacayam, mafcaprstham obviously being commontoboth. 6 vdstucchid- 

ram refers to areas in the city unsuitable for building purposes because they are not level. 
— rajabhavanam from D appears genuine in view of v4. 


63 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS | 2.3.12 


~ 


7 On top of the rampart, he should cause a parapet to be built, double 
the breadth in height, built of bricks, from twelve hastas upwards up to 
twenty-four hastas, either odd or even in number (of hastas in height), with 
a passage for the movement of chariots, shaped like a palm-stem and with 
the top decked with ‘drums’ and ‘monkey-heads’. 8 Or, he should cause it 
to be made of stones, close-knit with big slabs, but under no circumstances 
(should he have it) made of wood. 9 For, fire remains lurking in it. 


10 Heshould cause turrets to be made, square with the breadth, provided 
with steps for going down, (of the) same (length) as the height, and at 
a distance of thirty dandas from each other. 11 Midway between (every) 
two turrets, he should cause a tower to be built, with two stories inclusive of 
a hall, (and) one and a half times in length. 12 Between each turret and 


7 The height of the brick parapet is to be 12, 13, ... upto 24 hastas and the width to be 
half{the heightin cachcase. For hasta see 2.20.12. —rathacarydsamcdram : evidently this 
passage for the movement of carts is to be on the top of the parapet, though in the case of 
smaller widths, it is not easy to suppose that rathas could move freely on top. Meyer makes 
ratha- etc. as the substantive and (¢dla- . .dcitagram and prthu ...sailam as adjectives to it. 
That scems hardly possible. Allthe expressions only describe the vapra. — tdlamilam asin 
D Cb is better. As an adjective to vapram, it is explained ‘shaped like the root of a palm 
tree, i.e., broad at the base and narrow at the top’ (Cb). — murajakath kapisirsakais ca: 
the two expressions describe the shape of the coping stones on top. Cj thinks that these 
were covers for fighters, the former ‘ with even tops (samasirobhih),’ the latter ‘shaped 
like the Asgvatiha leaf (asvatthapatrasumsthanaih).’ Meyer’s rendering ‘(a chariot passage) 
with a palm base and with figures of female breasts (uraja) and monkey-heads’ is quite 


unlikely. 8 prthusildsamhatam vad gailam is an option to aistakam above. 9 avahitah 
‘placed in,’ i.e., lurking. 


10 viskambhacaturasram ‘ square with the width (of the parapet) ;’ the turrct is thus a 
square structure, each side being as long as the parapet-width. — utsedhasamdvaksepasopa- 
nam : Cnn explains ‘ with a flight of steps for descent (on the inside) in conformity with the 
height of the parapet together with the rampzrrt (savaprasya prakdarasya ya utsedhas tasya 
samo yo ‘vaksepah tatra sopadnani drohanartham nisrenipadaniva yasya)’ and adds that soliders 
can then easily go to the top even when they carry weapons in both hands. This, however, 
can hardly be understood appropriately with the atidlaka or turret. The steps may be only 
from the turret to the top of the parapet. And avaksepasopdna as‘ ladder for throwing down 
(and taking up) at will’ is not unlikely. Cj remarks that there should be murajakas and 
kapigirsakas in places on top where there are no aftdlakas (attdlakatiriktadege coparistan 
murajah kapisirsakag ca syuh). 11 saharmyadvitaldm, i.c., having two floors, onc of them 
(the upper one) being aroomorhall. It seems that the lower floor was without walls, there 
being only pillars to support the upper hall. — adhyardhaydmam ‘ with a length one and a 
half times the width, ’ the width apparently being co-extensive with the width of the para- 
pet. The pratoli tower is thus bigger and loftier than the aftdlaka. With the reading 
dvyardhad- Meyer understands ‘ two and a half times.’ 12 sdpidhdna- etc.: It seems 
that a board of planks is fixed at the outer edge of the parapet ; through holes, in it, archers 
could shoot at the enemy outside and the holes could be covered at will so that arrows from 
outside could not come in. Cnn which has this explanation (sacchidraphalakatuam $aranir- 
gamartham, sdpidhanatuam parasgarapratiskhalanartham) adds that the name indrakoSa is due 
to the many eye-like holes in it (aks:samanasahasracchidropetatuat). 18  antaresu, 1.e., 
in the spaces between the various structures, just described. — parsve © at the side ’ means 
according to Cnn ‘ on the outer side o* the parapet (prakdrabahihparsve) * since the derapatha 
is intended for the protection of the Fase of the parapeton the outside. The devapathais, 
according to it, made of strong wood fixed with copper-strips, with openings for shooting 
arrows but etherwise covered on all sides (sdraddrumayam. tamrapatrikdladdnam adhah- 
krtagaramargam sarvatas chdditam). It is so called apparently because entry into it was 
difficult. That such a structure should be designated -patha is rather odd. — GM add 
anuprakaram astahastayatam in the s., but the words seem to be merely a paraphrase of 


2.8.13 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 64 


tower, in the centre, he should cause to be erected a board, compact 
with planks having holes with coverings, as a place (from which to fight) for 
three archers. 138 In the intervening spaces, he should cause a ‘gods’ 
way’ to be made, two hastas in breadth and four times that in length, at 


the side. 


14 He should cause tracks to be made of a width of one danda or two 
dandas, and in an unassailable place a run-way and an exit-door. 


15 Outside (the fort), he should cause a covered road to be made that 
is strewn with knee-breakers, a mass of pikes, pits, concealed traps, barbed 
wires, ‘serpent*backs ’, ‘ palm-leaves,’ ‘three peaks,’ ‘dog’s jaws’, bars, 
‘jumping sandals,’ frying pans and ponds. 


16 Having made on both sides of the parapet a ‘ram’s head’ one 
danda and a half (in extent), he should cause the gate-way to be laid out, with 


pargsve caturgundyamam and appear to have got into the text from a marginal gloss. — It 
should be remarked that in view of the structures on the parapet, rathacaryd (s. 7) would be 
difficult on it. 


14 danddantarah: antara is ‘ width’ as in 2.4.3 below. — cuarydh ‘ tracks, courses’ 
seems to refer to steps for going up and down from the devapatha tc the pradhdoanika. 
The tracks would naturally be well protected as they are apparently on the outside of the 
wall. — pradhadvanikdm: Cnn explains ‘ a run-way protected by a small zig-zag wall of 
the height of a man, extending from the prakdra to the big moat, intended as a cover for the 
fighters (gomitrikakard purusapramadnamundaprakarena agralye paresam nishiradoarair nirg- 
atya parikharaksartham pradhavanti yodhda asydm).’ Cj has a similar explanation. Cb under- 
stands pradhdavitika merely as ‘a screen for the protection cf soldiers from the arrows of the 
enemy.’ — nisistradvdram : Cnn has ‘ a small exit door made of iron at the end of  stair-case 
leading down from the devapatha in the outer wallofthe rampart ; through this door soldiers 
come out into the pradhdvanikd for the protection of the moat (devapathasya adhastat 
prakdrakuksipradegegu niskiradvdram niskiryante bahihparikhdraksariham yodha yena tad 
Grohanadvataranartham kriam tiryak prakdrabahyabhittisu svalpatarasopdnam kdlayasadrdha- 
kapdtam).’ Cj seems to have a similar explanation. For this door, cf. 13.4.12. 

15 ahiprstha, talapatra, $rigdtaka etc. have reference to the shape of the contraptions 
which may have been made of iron or strong wood. — sadamstra: in 10.4.9 it is obviously 
the name of a plant dangerous to elephants ; here, however, a contraption shaped like a 
dog’s jaws made of iron may be understood asinCnn. —upaskandanapddukd ‘ sandals that 
make cne jump ’(Meyer). Cj has ‘ upaskanda, i.e., much broken ground, and pddukéd, i.e., 
a hole of the size of the foot, filled with thorns and covered with dust etc.’ 


16 mendhakam : there is little doubt about this being the originalreading. According 
to Cnn Cj, it refers to a structure on the rampart on both sides of the gate-way, resembling a 
ram’s head with two horns. It seems that according to Cnn the two heads are above the 
level of the height of the prakara and face each cther in the opening made for the gate-way. 
Cj is not quite clear but scems to imply that the two ram’s heads face inside the wall as well 
as outside, apparently above the gate extending over its entire width (mesasrngadvayasam- 
sthanam dodrasusirabhimukl. dgrabadhuprakaram—Cnn ; antar bahis ca bahia prasarya mesa- 
Srngavat margabhimukhau—Cj). —- adhyardhadandam: this according to Cnn, refers to 
the extent of the projection of the ram’s heads in the gate-way opening. As the gate-way 
area is 5-danda square, we get an opening of two dandas (1} intc 2, i.e., 8, and 5 minus 8), 
i.€., 8 hastas for the gates between the tworams’s heads. (ubhayamendhakasrngacatustaya- 
madh ye’stahastam dodramargavakdgam mukivd —Cnn). Apparently in Cj this referred to the 
extent of the projection on the inside and on the outside of the gate-way area. — pratoli- 
gattulantaram dudram: according to Cj pratoliis the name of the gate described here. That 
seems also to be Cnn’sidea. Apparently the gate resembles the pratoli or tower of s. 11, as 
it has two floors, one of them a walled-in hall. The expression seems to mean ‘a gate, having 


65 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.8.21 


space for six beams of the tower, from five dandas (square) onwards increased 
by one danda upto eight dandas square, or one-sixth part more than the length 
or one-eight part (more). 17 From fifteen hastas onwards increased by one 
hasta upto eighteen hastas (should be) the height of the floor. 18 The 
circumference of a pillar (should be) one-sixth of the length, double that the 
portion fixed in the ground; the capital (should be) one-fourth (the length) 
in circumference). 


19 Occupying one-fifth part of the ground floor (should be) a hall, 
a well and a border-room. 20 There should be two platforms facing each 
other, occupying one-tenth part (of the space) and in between two doors and a 
room. 21 And at half the height of the floor, there should be a structure with 


space for six beams cf the prateli.’ tuldis a beam and the six beams apparently are necessary 
for the ce‘ling of the ground flcor ; ina gate-way 5danda squarein area, each tuld would be 
5 danda long and there would be a space of a little less than one danda between every two 
tulds. Cb readstaldntarum, explaining tala as ‘ an archway pillar to support the gate-way.’ 
Pillars, of course, would be necessary, but it is doubtful if tala could be understood in that 
sense ; tulad, however, might be so understood. — After caturagram, Cb Cs add doidandam 
vd. ‘The words, if genuine, are misplaced. ‘They should come after adhyardhadandam 
kriud above. — sadbhdgam dydmdd adhikam is a modification of the idea in caturagram. 
Apparently, if, e.g., the parapet ran north-south, the slightly longer side of the gate-way 
would be east-west. 17 talotsedhah: the height referred to is apparently that of the ground 
floor. Cb Cs read tulotsedhah ‘ the height of the pillars’ which comes to the same thing. 
18 stambhasya: as this word for pillar is uscd, tuld as pillar (Cb Cs ins. 17) appears less 
likely. — saddydmah has to be understood as ‘ one-sixth of the length, ’i.e., dyamasadbhdagah. 
Meyer thinks that saddydmdd should be read for this sense. — dvigunah‘ double’ the one- 
sixth, i.c.,one-third. —ciilikdyah: welave tosupply pariksepah. The capital of the pillar 
is thicker than the rest of it. 
19 dditalasya: this refers to the ground floor area. — paricabhdgdah, i.e., occupying 
one-fifth part of the area. Cb Cs read pajica bhdgadh as two words, understanding five 
divisions, a tdpi, two sdlds and two simdgrhas. This is extremely doubtful. As the two 
pratimaricas occupy one-tenth part each and the kapdtayogas three-fifth part, one-fifth part 
would indeed be left over for sald, vdpit and simdgrha together. — $dld vdpi simdgrham ca: 
according to Cnn the three are on the inner side. The $ald is innermost and serves as a sort 
of armoury \pratarandvaranddisthanam). The vdpi in front of the sald is a hele six angulas 
(about 44”) in width, through which persons stationed above strike at advancing enemies 
(salagratah sthitam sadanguldntaram susiranv-vapi yaya pravisatah gatriin uparisthitah praha- 
ranti). In front of the raépi and of the same size as the sald is the simdgrha, so called because 
it is on the border between the outside snd the inside (agrasthito $alapramano bhagah stmda- 
grham bahyabhyantarabhdgayoh simni sthitatvat, simdgrham yuddhartham). 20 pratimarcau : 
these are two platforms opposite each other, evidently between the gate-leaves and the 
simdgrha. They arcintended for sentries (dudraraksal:dcaslhanabhitau—-Cnn). Cnn places 
the platforms on the two sides of the vdpi (vudpibhagasyobhayatah). This would appear doubt- 
ful, as the vdpt, according to Cnn, is only a hole six avgulas in width. After pratimaricau, 
D has a passage which is again derived from Cnn. — antaram dni harmyam ca: Cnn on this 
is not quite clear. antara seems understood in the sense of the region enclosed by $ald, vdpt, 
simagrha and the pratimazicas ; in this region are to be two dris, i.ec., doors opening tc stair- 
cases ; in the rest of the region there is to be a harmya, a white-washed room for the sentries 
to sleep etc. ($dlavdpisimagrhapratimaiicavaruddhapradege ... mantaram ttyucyate, tatra ant 
itydnidvayan sopdnamargadvadradvayam, sesapradegadvaye harmyam taksakasayanasanar- 
thar ahavalagrham). Cj.also seems to understand dni in the sense of a door. It is not easy 
to sce where exactly the doors and the room would be situated. 21 samucchraydd ardhatale 
sthiind@bandhag ca: according to Cnn this describes the dtitiyataia, i.e., the first floor. Its 
height is to be half that of the ground floor, i.e., 74 hastas, the floor area remaining the same. 
Apparently, rows of pillars, not regular walls, supp’ rt the ceiling of this floor (sardhasaptaha- 
stah samucchrayah ucchraydpeksaya ardhatalam ucyate ; kksctram tu aditalasamanam ; atra 
sthitndh lsudrastambhah aditalasyopari sthiindnydsamkrivd bandho dvitiyatalabandhah). Tt is 


2.3. 22 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 66 


pillars. 22 ‘There should be an upper chamber measuring half the built-in 
area or having a space one-third of it, with sides constructed with bricks, 
with a stair-case on the left running from left to right and on the other side a 
stair-case concealed in the wall. 28 The crest of the arch should be two 
hastas (in height). 24 The two door-leaves should occupy three-fifths (of the 
space). 25 There should be two bars (to the docrs). 26 The stake (should 
be) one araint (n height). 27 There should be a side-door five hastas 
in height. 28 There should be four eclephant-bars. 29 The ‘clephant- 
nail’ (passage) should be half (the width of) the structure. 30 The bridge 
should be equal (in width) to the opening and capable of being withdrawn, 
or it should be made of earth where there is no water. 


31 Having fixed an opening equal to (the width of) the parapet, he 
should cause the gopura-(gate) to be made, with one-third shaped like a lizard’s 
mouth. 32 Having made a well in the middle of the parapet, he should 
erect the puskarini-gate ; with four halls at a distance of one (danda) and a half 


also possible that the 7% hastas of the first floor are taken out of the total height of 15 hastlas, 

so that the dditala too would be 74 hastas high. 22 wuttamdgdram ‘ the upper chamber ’ 

is the second floor (frltyatala) according to Cnn, which adds that it should be shaped like a bell 

or a jar (ghantakalasddiracanayd). — vdmatah: apparently to thi left of a person standing 

in the gate-way and facing outside. — pradaksinasopdnam, i.e., with stairs turning to the 
right at the landings, requiring a clockwise movement for going up. — giidhabhitlisopanam, 

i.e., with stairs concealed in walls; see 1.20.2 above. 23 foranasirah: this is the part 
above the frame of the gates. Cnn scems to understand an opening of two hastas for ventila- 

tion as well as for discharging arrows (uttaradehalyam susiranv...vudtapravesandrtham sara- 
moksdrtham ca). 24 kapdiayogau: yoga conveys the idea of fixing the leaves of the gate. 

For their movement when opening or closing, three-fifths of the area would seem to be quite 

necessary. 25 GM read dvau dvau, implying twe bars for each gate-panel. That is how 
Cnn understands even with a single duau. Two bars running the full width may however 
appcarsullicient. 26 indrakilah ‘ an iron stuke or bolt ’ to be fixed in the ground inside after 
the gate is closed. Cnn remarks that Indra was ‘ fixed ’ by Ind rajit with such a stake, hence 
the name (tasmin Indrajitd kila Indro baddhah). 27 dnidvdram * small door’ in one of the 
panels of the gate. Five hastas isits height. 28 hastiparighadh: the purpose of these, as Cj 

Suys, is to prevent the gate being broken down by elephants. They seem to bciron stakes 
fixed in the gates on the outside (bahih hastipratighataksama varydm iva parighah syuh dodra- 
raksartham—Cj). So Cnn ‘ kapdtaraksartham...hastindm asadhyah’. 29 nivesardham ‘ half 
the structure,’ i.e., half the width of the gate-way, ¢.g., 24 dandas for a five-danda gate. This 
is the passage for going down. Cj seems to read nivesdrtham and include it in the pre- 
ceding s. ‘ for the protection of the settlement, i.e., of the fort.’ Thatis not happy. — 
— hastinakha is the name of the passage, so called perhaps because it resembled a nail of the 
vapra appearing like an elephant’s foot. Cnn says itis paved with stones (sildmayam) and, 
of course, sloping (kraman nimnam). 30 samhdryo,i.e., a dtawbridge. GM read asamhdryo 
vd, where v@ serves no purpose. Meyer proposes samhdryo’ samhdaryo 74, which is not 
very likely. Cb Cs render asamhdryo by ‘ firm, made of wood.’ —~-bhiimimayo vd nirudake, 
1,€., ground of so much width should be leftunexcavated, the moatbeing oneither side ((dua- 
tim bhiimim apahaya khdatavyam ityartliah—Cnn). 


31 According to the commentators we have in this and the next s. a description 
of different types of gates, gopura being the name of the gate described here. — tribhagago- 
dhamukham * with one-third shaped like a lizard’s mouth’; apparently the top one-third 
would be so shaped and possibly it would be between the two mendhakas on either side. 
The explanation in Cnn is far from clear owing to lacunae, but it seems that according to 
it, the gate-way opening (mukha) is to be of the same height as the prdkdra, i.e., 12 hastas, 
and not 15 asin the pratolt. It adds that the gate is so called because cattle generally go 
out of this gate for the pastures (prayo vivitabhimukhamh gavam etad dudram iti gopuram). 32 

uskarinidvdram : this is the name of another type of gate ; in this thereis to be only a vdpi, 
1ence the name puskarini ‘ lotus-pond gate.’ The vadpt would appear to be a sort of hollow 
into which the enemy soldiers would be trapped, should they happen to surge through the 


G7 WE ACTIVITY OF Te WIisADS OF DEPARTMENTS [2.4.2 


(from each other) and with holes, the kumdripura-(gate) ; a bare house with 
two stories, as the mundaka-gate; or (he should erect gates) in accordance 
with the (availability of) land and materials. 


88 We should cause channels to he made for storing goods, one third 
more in length (than the breadth). 


84-85 In them should be stored stones, spades, axes, arrows and 
choppers, clubs and hammer;, sticks, discuses, machines and *hundred- 
killers,’ pikes prepared by smiths and bamboos with piercing points, 
*camcel-necks,’ incendiary objects as well as all the materials described 
in the section on forest produce. 


CHAPTER FOUR 
SECTION 22 LAY-OUT OF THE FORTIFIED CITY 


1 Three royal highways running west to east and three running south 
to north, that should be the division of the residential area. 2 Itshould have 


gate. Cnn scems to imply that the floor corresponding to the hole between the two 
mendhakas is made of planks (prdkdrayor mendhakayor madhye yat susiram iatsama...phala- 
kastaro bhiimikdbandho...yuddhasaukarydrtham). ‘That the weapons are discharged from 
the cciling above is clearly to be understood. — catuhsdlam etc.: this describes the 
gate called kumdripura * the princess gate’ so called because it is enclosed by walls on all 
sides. Actually, it has rooms on the four sides. Apparently the rooms would contain 
soldiers ready to shoot at the enemy intruding in the inner quadrangle. — adhyardhantaram 
‘with a space of 14 dandas ;’ this apparently describes the arca of the quadrangle, one and 
a half dandas on each side ; in this area would the enemy be trapped. Cnnseems to under- 
stand ‘ one anda halftimes the pratoli gate, ’ understanding this of vdpi (i.e., the vdptis to be 
x hole of nine angulas?). — sdnikam ‘ with holes’ in the walls through which to shoot 
arrows (Cnn). — mundaharmyadvitalan mundakadodram : this is the ‘ bare’ gate, without 
a roof on top or without the uttamdgdra (Cnn). Cb understands munda in the sence of 
‘round.’ — bhiimidravyavasena va : this allows further variation in conformity with the 
land, materials etc. According to Cnn, this option has reference to the entire durga, not 
merely the gate. 


83 tribhadgddhikdydmah, i.c., the length of the channels or pits is to be one-third more 
than the width, the actuallength or width to vary according to need. Cnn’s illustration 
‘yadi dagahasto viskambhas tadé pafcadasahasta dyama ityddi’ presupposes a different 
reading ardhadhikd-. — bhdnda~ goods’ hererefers to weapons. — The pits are to be 
inside along the rampart (anuprakdram antah—Cnu). 


84 kdndukalpanah ‘ atrows of various kinds’ (Meyer), ‘instruments for repairing or 
sharpening arrows (Sarasamskdropakaranani)’ (Cnn). kalpana or kalpand may also mean 
‘a cutter, a chopper.’ — musundhiis ‘ gadddi macc and so on’ (Cnn), ‘ a round piece of 
wood with many nails, kilabahulo vartulah kdsthavigesah’ (Cj). — Sataghni ‘ a huge bar 
with a thousand spikes (kilasahasrdcitah sthiilaparighah)’ (Cj). 35 vustragrioyah: 
according to Cj, this is the same as kacagrahani, i.c., a long pole with a hook at one end. 
Cnn has a lacuna, but it seems to understand some long-necked vessel, for it has tatladikanz 
yath ksipyante. Thatsecms better. Hot oil would be poured from above over the enemies 
below from such vessels. Perhaps then ustragrtvi is the same as the ustrikd of 14.1.33 ; 


14,2.44. — kupyakalpe ca yo vidhih: a reference to 2.17; plants, poisons etc. seem to 
be meant. 


2.4 


1 vdstuvibhdgah: with three east-west and three north-south roads, the town would 
be divided into 16 squares. Cnn scems to bring the highways into some sort of relation 
with the puramasdytka plan of Indian architecture which has 81 squares. Referring to 
navabhdge in s.7 below, it remarks that without this plan that expression cannot be under- 
stood (na hi ekdsitipadan vihaya navabhdgasambhavah). Its remarks concerning the situa- 
tion of the roads are, however, farfromclear. Unfortunately, the fragment containing this 
important commentary by Yogghama, comes toanendatthis point. 2 yultodakabhramac- 


2.4.3 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 68 


twelve gates (and be provided) with suitable (places for) water, drains and 
underground passages. 


3 Roads should be of a width of four dandas. 4 The royal highway 
and roads in a dronamukha, a sthdniya, the countryside and pasture-lands 
as well as paths in a harbour town, a battle array, a cremation ground and a 
village (should be) eight dandas (in width). 5 Paths on irrigation works and 
in forests four dandas, paths for elephants and along fields two dandas, five 
aratnis the chariot path, four the cattle-path (and) two the path for small ani- 


mals and men. 


6 Onan excellent building site, fit for the four varnas to live on, the royal 
residence (should be erected). 7 In the ninth part to the north of the heart 
of the residential area he should cause the royal palace to be built in accordance 
with the procedure laid down, facing the east or the north. 


8 The residence of the preceptor and the chaplain, the places for 
sacrifices and for water as well as councillors should occupy its north-by-east 
part, the kitchen, the elephant stables and the magazine the south-by-cast 
part. 9 Beyond that, dealers in perfumes, flowers and liquids, makers of 
articles of toilet and Ksatriyas should live in the eastern quarter. 


channapathah : the position of yukta in the compound shows that it should be understood in 
the sense of ‘suitable, proper.’ -udaka_ stands for udakasthdna ‘ places where (drinking) 
water is available, such as wells etc.’ Cf. 2.86.43, also 1.20.10. bhrama is a water-course, 
patticularly a drain for taking water out of the city. channapatha *acovered road’ seems 
tobeunderground. Cj understands uwdakapatha ‘ a channel for bringing water into the city,’ 
bhramapatha ‘a drain for taking water out of the city ’ and channapatha ‘ a sub-terrancan 
passage’. Itis doubtful if patha is to be construed in this way. 


3 caturdanddntardh: antara has clearly the scnse of ‘ width.’ Cj reads caturdandot- 
tardh and seems to include rathyd- in the following compound. — rathydadh: these are roads 
in the city otherthanthesixhighways. 4 rdstravivitapathdhi.e., roads passing through the 
countryside and pastures. That these are as broad as the royal highways is perhaps 
because they conncct the towns and villages. — samydniya : samydna is a ‘ sea voyage’ 
so called because a number of vessels sail together (sam-yd) like asdarthaonland. samydniya 
isaharbourtown. —ovyiihapatha refers apparently to the open spaces between the different 
parts of a battle array. — Smasdnapatha: apparently a path leading to a creination 
ground ismeant. 5 ksetrapatha would be along the fields rather thanthroughthem. — 
rathapatha, different from rathyd, seems to be a cart-road in the countryside. 


G6 pravire: according to Cb, this means ‘ fullof fertility.’ 7 vdstuhrdaydd uttare nava- 
bhdge: it seems necessary to agree with the commentators and think of a paramasgdyika 
plan for the city area. This has 9 by 9, i.c., 81 squares. The central 1/81st square would 
be the vdstuhrdaya. 1/9th part (consisting of 9 smaller squares) to the north of this central 
Square is meant to be reserved for the antahpura, i.e., the royal palace and contingent build- 
ings. In other words, the grounds for the palace etc. would occupy one-ninth of the city 
area alittle to the north of the centre. Cf. 10.1.2 for the same idea. — yathoktavidhadnam 
antahpuram : see 1.20,1-2. 


8 tasya, i.e., antahpurasya — pirvottauram, i.e.,the northern half of the area to the 
east (pirvasydm dist uttarah—Cj). — dvaseyuh shows that these places are within the huge 
arca of the antahpura, while adhivaseyuh of the next s. has reference to residences of citizens 
unconnected with the antahpura. 9 All mss. add -dhanya- after -mdlya-; it is pro- 
poséd to drop it in view of dhdnyains.11 below. ‘This is supported by the actual comment 
inCb. — ‘Therecanbeno doubt about prasaddhanakaravah of D being the original reading. 
pradhanakdravah is unlikely. 


69 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.4.16 


10 The store-house for goods, the records and audit office, and work- 
men’s quarters (should occupy) the east-by-south part, the storehouse for 
forest produce and the armoury the west-by-south part. 11 Beyond that, 
grain-dealers of the city, factory officers and army officers, dealers in cooked 


food, wine and meat, courtesans, dancers and Vaigyas should live in the 
southern quarter. 


12 Stables for donkeys and camels and the workshop (should occupy) 
the south-by-west part, stables for carriages and chariots the north-hy-west 
part. 13 Beyond that, workers in wool, yarn, bamboo, leather, armours, 
weapons and shields, and Siidras should live in the western quarter. 


14 The rooms for wares and medicines (should occupy) the west- 
by-north part, the treasury and cattle and horses the east-by-north part. 
15, Beyond that, the tutelary deities of the city and the king, and workers 
in metals and jewels and Brahmins should live in the northern quarter. 


16 In enclosures in the non-residential areas, quarters for guilds and 
foreign merchants should be situated. 


10 karmanisadyd: this clearly refers to quarters for servants employed in the royal 
precincts. 11 magaradhdnyavydvahdrika ‘ those who deal in grains in the city, nagara- 
sthdne dndnyena ye krayavikrayadi kurvanti’ (Cj) . Cb seems to understand two things, 
possibly ‘ city-administrators and grain-dealers.’ 


12 sharostra-: donkeys (or mules) and camels could be usedin war; cf.10.4.18. — 
larmagrha ‘a workshop ’ for work connected with the palace. Cj’s paraphrase by ydtana- 
grham presupposes karman in the sense of ‘ torture’ as in Ch. 4.8 below. 


15 mnagarardja- etc.: we may understand ‘city-deity, king’s tutelary deity, and 
artisans in metals and jewels ’ or ‘ workers in metal and precious stones for the city, the king 
and deities (i.e., temples).’ The former seems meant. — In the lay-out as described 
here, the area to the north where mostly Brahmins live would be smallest in extent, while 
that to the south where Vaisgyas live would be largest. That might appear to be in con- 
formity with the likely ratio between the two varnas. O. Stein has discussed the details of 
this chapter in AOx, vol. 8, pp. 72ff. and has arrived at rather different conclusions regarding 
thelay-out. Hc places the antahpura right on the border in the north, and his plan does not 
take into account the words tatah param used in all four directions. His kitchen thus 
becomes separated from the antahpura by a number of localities intervening, so that he him- 
self is forced to ask what kitchen could be meant at this great distance from the antahpura. 
There is little doubt that the items mentioned in ss. 8, 10, 12 and 14 are proximate to the 
palacc and are part of the rdjanivega, and that itemsinss. 9, 11, 18, and 15 refer to the exten- 
sive areas outside the palace grounds. —Stein also interprets karmagrha in the sense of “a 
prison-house ’ from karman in the sense of ‘ torture’ asin 4.8 below. That is hardly right. 
For the prison-house the word is bandhanagara. 


16 vdstucchidranusdlesu : anusdla seems to mean ‘an enclosure or a hall’; anuldsa of 
G M hardly conveys any sense. Cj with -anusdlesu explains ‘in unoccupied areas (udstuc- 
chidresu, i.e., avydptesu) and in regions near the city wall (pradkdrasamipesu ca desesu).’ 
This is also the explanation of Cb, which however has -anuldsesu. Perhaps the original 
reading was vdstucchidre ’nusdlam ‘in non-residential areas along the rampart (sdla).”_ — 
$reni ‘ washermen etc.’ (Cj), ‘i.e., weavers, washermen, tailors ctc.’ (Cb). —- prapamt- is 
from D and seems to mean ‘a forcign merchant.’ The word is apparently derived from 
prapana ‘barter, exchange’ which is Vedic. Cj reading pravani has ‘small merchants 
from Gandhara etc.’ ; Cb with pravanika has ‘merchants from foreign lands.’ — ntkay 
‘groups ’ (Cj). Perhaps ‘ residences, quarters ’ may appear better. 


2.4.17 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 70 


17 He should cause to be built in the centre of the city shrines for 
Aparajita, Apratihata, Jayanta and Vaijayanta as well as temples of Siva, 
Vaigravana, Asvins, Sri and Madira. 18 He should install the presiding 
deities of the dwelling places according to their respective regions. 19 The 
eity gates (should he) presided over by Brahman, Indra, Yama and Senapati. 
20 Outside (the city), at a distance of onc hundred dhanuses from the moat, 
should be made sanctuaries, holy places, groves and water-works, and the 
deities of the quarters in the respective quarters. 


21 The northern or the castern part of the cremation ground should 
be for the best among the varnas, to the south the cremation ground for the 


lower varnas. 22 For transgression of that, the lowest fine for violence 


(shall be imposed). 


23 The quarters for heretics and Candalas (should be) on the outskirts 


of the cremation ground. 


17 Apardjita- cte.: As all the four names signify invincibility in some form or the 
other, they appear to be spirits of victory. Meyer thinks that they are all forms of Kumara 
or Skanda. Cj understands by these four, Visnu, Indra, Indra’s son and Skanda respcc- 
tively, Cb Cs Durga (Aparajiti), Visnu, Subrahmanya and Indra respectively. The feminine 
form of the first name appears questionable. — kostna ‘a shrine’ is a walled-in compound, 
with one or more structures inside. — Siva and Vaisravana are mentioned in a Devata- 
dvanda compound by Pataiijali on Panini 6.3.26 (Stein, AOr 8, 387 n.6). —Sriis Laksmi, 
the Goddess of Wealth and Prosperity. — Madira ‘the Intoxicating One, the Fascinating 
One’ is apparently some form of Durga or Kali. Mcyer thinks that the association of drink 
in connection with the worship of this deity was responsible for thisname. — puramadhyc: 
this would be in front of the palace grounds, to its south, in the central 1/81st part. 
18 kosthakdlayesu (found in GM) does not appear to be original. The vdstudevatds 
appear to be unconnected with Aparajita etc. and their kosthas. ‘They are the tutelary 
deities that are supposed to preside over the different parts of the vdstupurusa. 
— yathoddesam can hardly mean ‘according to the prescription (of the Silpasastra)’ (Stein 
AOr, 8, 888). 19 brdhmaindra etc. : this shows that Brahman presided over the north and 
Senaépati over the west, and not Kubera and Varuna respectively as later. Only the four 
principal gates are thought of here and hence there is no contradiction between the number 
four of the gates here and the number twelve in s. 2 above, as Stein (AOr, 8, 338) thinks. 
20 bahih might mean ‘outside (the city)’ or may be connected with parikhayah ‘from the 


outermost moat.’ 


. 21 varnottamandm etc.: the readings from D are preferred as being more likely. 
varnottamandm seems to be understood by Cb as referring to Sidras, which is unlikely. 
It may be, however, that Cb had before it {masdnabhdgo varndvardnadm dakginena varnotta- 
manam. Cj has * The cremation ground should be divided into four parts; beginning with 
the part for Sidras, those for Vaigyas, Ksatriyas and Brahmanas should be successively to 
the north orto theeast. The cremation ground should be to the south of the city.’ — The 
discrepancy that Stein finds between this passage and 2.36.31-38 (AOr, 8, 348) is due to the 
different character of the offences mentioned in the two places. The use of the wrong crema- 
tion ground is not a light offence as Stein thinks, and the lowest sdhasa-dandain this text 
is not 250 panas, but 48-96 panas (see 3.17.8 below). 


23 -ante,i.c.,samipe(Cb). Stein points out that 2.36.14 shows pdsandavasa to be inside 
(abhyantare). Perhaps the difference is due to difference in sources. It is more likely, 
however, that the present s. is not original, but a later addition. It seems to represent the 
Brahmanical ideal of an age characterised by bigotry. 


71 


WO ACTIVITY OF THE IDGADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2. 4. 32 


24 IIe should fix boundarics for houscholders in accordance with areas 
(necessary) for their workshops. 25 In them they should make, with 
permission, flower-gardens and fruit-orchards, as well as stores of grains and 
commodities. 26 An enclosure for a group of ten families should be a placc 
for a well (for them). 


27 He should cause to be made stores, ‘capable of being used over 
a number of years, of all kinds of fats, grains, sugar, salts, perfumes, 
medicines, dried vegetables, fodder, dried meat,*hay, wood, metals, hides, 
charcoal, tendons, poisons, horns, bamboas, barks, strong timber, weapens, 


shields and stones. 28 He should cause the old to be constantly replaced 
by new. 


29 He should station (a force consisting of) clephants, horses, chariots 
1and infantry-men, under more than one chief. 80 For, a (force) under 


more than one chicf does not fall a prey to cnemy instigations, through 
mvtual fear. 


31 By this is explained the making of frontier forts. 


32 And he should not allow in the city ‘outsiders’ who cause harm 
to the country. He should cast them out in the countryside or make 
them pay all the taxes. 


24 karmdntalsetravagena: the vd after this in G M serves no purpose. According to 
Stein, this s. states an option to the entire plan of the town described so far. That is not- 
likely. We have here a reference to the fixing of boundaries of the individual households. 
This is to depend on the nature of the work in which the household is engaged. 25 -vatan 
dhdnya- is emended from D’s reading -vdtadhdnya-. Itis clear that sanda and kedara are out 
of place in the city area. And we must have a separate expression from dhanya- onwards, 
for nicaydn is not to be construed with puspaphalavadta. — anujridtah: this implies that all 
private stores are known to the state, which can requisition them in times of emergency. 
26 dagakulivdtam kipasthanam : Cb reads -vdpam and explains ‘as much land as can be 
ploughed by ten bullocks or as much area as can be irrigated by one well.’ This implies 
the presence of fields in the city area, which appears extremely doubtful. The idea 
intended seems to be that there should be one well for every ten families. vata seems to 
convey the idea of a compact unit formed by the ten families. 


27 -gandha- scems to have dropped out inadvertently inGM. — Forksdra sce 2.15.14 
below. 


$1 samskdra means everything concerning the making of a fort, building, layout, 
making stores, etc. In 9.1.34-36 the idea of repairs also seems implied. 


32 bahirikdn: Cb understands ‘gamblers, beggars, dancers, actors ctc.’. Stcin sug- 
gests (AOr, 8, 356) that these are wandering tribes, something like the gypsies. That seems 
probable. — pure rdgtropa- is proposed for purardstropa- of the mss. That makes the idea 
of ksipet janapade more clear. — Cb Cs read janapadasyante and explain ‘should settle them 
on the frontiers and (ud as ca) make them pay all taxes (or taxes like all other persons—Cs). ’ 
It seems, however, that od shows an option, the idea being that if they stay in the city, they 
must be made to pay the usual taxes. Cj seems to have read bahirikam...-ghatikam 


‘(a part of a suburb) outside the city, (residents in) which might cause harm to the city and 
the country ’. 


~ 
iw 


2.5.1] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


CHAPTER FIVE 


SECTION 23 THE WORK OF STORE-KEEPING BY THE DIRECTOR 
OF STORES 


1 The Director of Stores should cause to be built a treasury, a ware- 
house, a magazine, a store for forest produce, an armoury and a prison-house. 


2 Having caused to be dug a four-cornered well free from water and 
dampness, and having paved the walls on both sides and the bottom with 
big slabs of stone, he should cause an underground cellar to be made with 
a frame-work of strong timber, level with the ground, with three floors, with 
various arrangements, with ground and upper floors having well-made surfaces, 
with a single door, (and) with a stair-case provided with a mechanism. 3 On 
that he should cause a treasure-house to be made with a prohibition (to enter) 
on two sides, with an entrance-hall, built of bricks, aid surrounded by (chan- 
nels) storing goods; or, (he should cause to be built only) an (above- 
the-ground) palace. 4 On the border of the country, he should cause 
a permanent treasure to be laid by persons condemned to death, as a provision 
against calamity. S 


5 He should cause to be made a ware-house and a magazine with pillars 
of baked bricks, with four halls (opening on to a quadrangle), with many, 


2.5 


1 The inclusion of the Jandhandgara here seems to suggest that prisoners were, like 
the other objects, to be taken charge of and treated with care. 


2 ubhayatah: Cj understands it in the sense of ubkayam, referring to paérsva and mila. 
It mentions an alternative explanation ‘along both (the length and breadth), ubhayatah 
.-- Gyamaviskambhabhyam.’ In any case, it can hardly be understood with parsvam 
alone. —bhimisamam tritalam: Cb, reading -samatritalam, explains ‘ with two floors under- 
ground and one above.’ It seems rather that all three floors are underground. — aneka- 
vidhdnam, i.e., with different arrangements for different types of goods. — kuttima- ctc.: 
Cb Cs explain ‘of which the upper floor (dega), the middle floor (sthdna) and the ground floor 
(tala) are firmly fixed (kuttima).’ This is doubtful. Cj has ‘ with paved sides (dega) ground 
floor (sthana) and upper floor (tala).’ This is better. Dut dega may be understood in the 
sense of ‘ surface ’, both of the walls and the floors. — devatdpidhanam : this expression, 
read in the text on the authority of Cb (supported by G M) is dropped in thetranslation. It 
does not seem original. In the absence of any reference to a secret passage here, the expres- 
sion has little significance, as it has in 1.20.2. A secret subterrancan passage leading from 
the underground treasury to a nearby temple does not appear contemplated here. D Cj do 
not show the expression. 8 wbhayatonisedham: the idea seems to be that the two walls 
along the length are without doors, as Cj seems to imply (ubhayaparsudyatakudyam). Cbhas 
* with a two-fold prohibition, to enter and to leave’; that is not convincing. — pragriva 
‘an entrance-hall’; cf. 2.80.4; 2.81.2. —bhdndavdhini-: we have to understand kulyd 
as in 2.3.33 ; the channels may also serve as obstacles to people trying to get inside. — 
prasadam v4: thisis an option to the bhiimigrha (with kogagrha aboveit). ;In this alternative 
there is no cellar, only an above-the-ground structure as akosagrha. 4 dirruvanidhim: asthe . 
word nidhi shows, the treasure is to be buriedin the ground. — abhityaktath: these are to 
be executed after the work is over, so that the king alone would know; where the treasure 
lies buried. 

5 anekasthdnatalam : here, too, sthana may be understood as ‘ ground-floor ’, though it 


may also mean ‘an apartment,’ as in vibhaktastripurusasthanam that follows. — viurta- 
etc. : the idea seems to be that of escape (apasdra) through pillars that are open, i.e., hollow 


73 THE ACTIVITY OF TIDE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [2.5.8 


ground and upper floors, (and) with a (secret) passage for escape through 
hollow pillars on two sides, in between, a store for forest produce with many 
long halls (and) with the walls surrounded by rooms, a similar (structure) 
with an under-ground cellar as an armoury, (aud) separate prison-houses 
for those convicted by judges and for those punished by high officers, with 
separate apartments for women and men (and) with their rooms well-guarded 
against escape. 


6 And in all (structures) he should cause the halls to be provided with 
a ditch, a well, a latrine and a bath-room, with precautions against fire and 
peison, with protection by means of cats and ichneumons and with (arrange- 
ments fer) worship of their respective deities. 


7 In the magazine, he should place a basin with a mouth one aratini 
(in width) as a rain-gauge. 


8 Presiding over bureaus of experts for the different products, he should 
receive gems, artieles of high value, articles of small value and forest produce, 


(viurta). The purpose of such a passage in the stores, is, however, not quite clear ; perhaps 
it is meant as a precaution in case of fire. — ubhayatah: Meyer construes this with the 
preceding, i.e., *‘ with hollow pillars on both sides.’ In view of antah used with hupyagr- 
ham, it seems that ubhayatah means rather ‘ on the two sides (of the kupyagrha).’ — dir- 
ghababulagdlam : as timber is the principal commodity in the Kupyagrha, long and many halls 
are necessary. — kaksydurtakudyam : the walls of the halls are surrounded by rooms, in 
which apparently minor Aupya products would be stored. The implication may be that the 
halls themselves are open to the sky. — tadeva, i.e., on the same plan as the hupyagrha, 
big halls surrounded by rooms. ~— dharmasthiyam, i.c., for those convicted by the judges. 
In the 3rd Rook, terms of imprisonment are not actually laid down as punishment, only 
fines. Those who cannot pay fines are apparently taken to prison. — apasdratah: D Cj 
read aparddhatah ‘ in accordance with the offence.’ But this cannot be properly understood 
with either the preceding or the following expressions, Cj construes it with the preceding, 
‘ separate rooms for men and women, for the reason that a crime may be committed if men 
and women are confined together.’ In the alternative it construes it with the following, 
* with rooms having greater or less protection according to offence (yathaparadham sutamam 
sulardm ca guptd kaksyd yasya).’ apasdratah however, secms definitely better, to be 
construed suguptakaksyam. 


G Thiss.ismissinginD. There is however no reason to doubt its genuineness. — salah 
is read as a separate word following Cj. The compound that follows is also read as in Cj. 
khata is a ditch allround as a moat, udapdana is for drinking water. varca as ‘latrine’ is found 
in 3.8.28. — svadaivata- (daivata is from Cb) : these are the tutelary deities of the various 
structures, ‘Vaigravana of the kogagrha, Sita of the kosthdgara, Sri of the panyagrha, Isana of 
the kupyagrha, Skanda of the Gyudhdgara, Yama and Varuna of the bandhandgaras ’ (C)). 
Ch has Sri in panyakosthdgadra and Vigvakarman in kupyagrha. With the reading -vacca, 
Meyer includes sarvesdm ... vacca in the preceding s. as a description of the bandhandgara 
(sarvesam, i.e., for all prisoners). He also understands agnivisa- etc. as applicable to prisons 
only, svadaiva being the deity of cach individual prisoner. This is hardly satisfactory. + 


7% aratnimukham: according to Cb the gauge is square, each side being one cubft. 
The Brhat Samhitd, 23.2, also refers to a hastavigdla kundaka, adding that it should measure 
one ddhaka ofrain. Perhaps the vessel was cubicalinshape. Cj adds that the capacity of 
the vessel should be one drona, for rain is measured in dronas (2.24.5). " 


8 tajjata ‘ one born to it,’ i.e., an expert (tadabhijna ttyarthah — Cj). — adhisthithh 
is used in an active sense. In spite of 2.11.1, kosadhyaksah is not to be understood as the 
subject here (Stein, Megasthenes und Kautilya, p. 211) ; this officer has not been mentioned 
in this chapter. The samnidhdtr as the officer in over-all charge has to be understood. — 


2.5.9] KAUTILIYA ARTITASASTRA Tb 


whether old or new. 9 Among these (articles), in case of fraud concerning 
gems the highest fine for violence (shall be imposed) on the perpetrator and the 
instigator, in case of fraud concerning articles of high value the middle fine for 
violence, in case of fraud concerning articles of small value and forest produce 
(making good) the same and an equal amount in addition as fine. 


10 He should accept money certified as genuine by the Examiner of 
Coins. 11 He should cut counterfeit (coins). 12 One who brings (such 
coins) shall be fined the lowest fine for violence. 


18 He should accept corn that is clean, full (in measure) and new. 
14 In case the opposite kind is brought in, the fine shall be double the price. 


15 By that are explained the commodities, the forest produce and the 
weapons (tc be received in the stores). 


16 In all departments, the punishments for officers, subordinates and 
servants, in cases of defalcation up to one pana and beyond that (increased by 
one pana) upto four panas, shall be the lowest, the middle, the highest fines and 
death (respectively). 17 For one in charge of the treasury, execution (shall be 
the punishnient) for robbing the treasury. 18 For those who help them, (the 
punishment shall) bc half the fines. 19 Reproof (only), if they were not aware. 


ratna, sdra and phalgu are described in 2.11 and kupyain 2.17. 9 tacca tavacca: Breloer 
(KSt, IIT, 283 ) renders this by ‘ the quality and the quantity.’ Areference to quality is hard 


to find here. 

10 riipadargsaka: see 2.12.25-26 below. 11 chedayat: Breloer (KSt, III, 285) 
understands ‘cut off (from currency), i.e., confiscate.’ —- dharluh: Breloer understands 
‘the user.’ Bringing to the treasury is primarily meant. 

14 Reading miilya- asin D is preferable to understanding mila in the sense of ‘ price.’ 


15 tena etc. : i.e., these are to be accepted only if good in quality ; if not, a fine equal 
to double the price is to be imposed. Brelocer (KSt, III, 287 n.2) proposes to read panya- 
kupyam ‘ goods of small value so far as they are commodities.’ Aupya, he says, is already 
mentioned in s.8. The change is not necessary. Whereas s.8is general in character and 
concerns fraud (s.9), this s. is concerned with quality and punishment for low quality. 


16 panddi- etc., i.e., when the misappropriation is of goods up to 1, 2,3, and 4 panas 
in value respectively. parama ‘maximum’ shows the limit in each of the four cases. 
pana-doipana-tripana-catuspana-paramapa- would have made this explicit. D has some- 
thing like this with tripana missing. Meyer, who has this explanation, would understand 
param apahdresu. Cj has ‘for one pana the lowest fine, for two the middle, for four the 
highest, for five corporal punishment (vadha).’ Breloer (KSt, III, 290) proposes to read 
dvipana-catuspandsiapana-dasapanaparam apahdresu to make this passage conform to 4.9.4 
below. The slight discrepancy may, however, be due to this being merely a rough resume, 
while 4.9.4 gives full details ; perhaps also due to a differencein sources. Cb Cs read panddi- 
tivipana-catuspanah param apahdresu and explain ‘ the fines for the three kinds of servants 
(yukta, upayukta and purusa are 1, 2 and 4 panas respectively ; for defalcation a second 
time, the three sdhasa-dandas respectively ; if the offence is still repeated, death for all three 
types of servants.’ This is extremely unlikely in view of 4.9.4. 18  vaiydurltyakara : 
cf. 2.8.22; 4.8.9 etc. The original word seems to be vaiydpriya- from vyapria. Prakrit 

Goacca is the same word. — ardhadanddhis meaningless in the case of vadha or ghdta. 
Meyer, following Sorabji, understands ‘ half (the value of the treasure robbed) as fine.’ This 
is unlikely. ardhadanda is applicable only when a finc is prescribed ; apparently there is no 
mitigation when death islaid down. Or, vadha may be ‘ corporal punishment ’ which can be 
thought of as reducible. 


T THE ACTIVITY OF THE TEADS OF DEPARTMENTS ER (ids 


20 For thicves, in case of breaking open (the treasury), death hy torture 
(shall be the punishment). 


21 Therefore, with trustworthy men under him, the Director of Stores 
should bring the stores into being. 


22 He should be conversant with receipts from outside and inside 
even after a hundred years, so that when asked he would not falter in res- 
pect of expenditure, balance and collections. 


CHAPTER SIX 
SECTION 24 THE SETTING UP OF REVENUE BY THE ADMINISTRATOR 


1 The Administrator should attend to the fort, the country, mines, 
irrigation works, forests, herds and trade-routes (as the main sources of 
revenue). . 


2 Custom-duties, fines, standardization of weights and measures, the 
city-superintendent, the mint master, the superintendent of passports, 
spirituous liquors, animal slaughter, yarn, oil, ghee, sugars, the goldsmith, 
the market-establishment, prostitutes, gambling, buildings, the group of 
artisans and artists, the temple-superintendent, and what is to be received 
at the gates and from outsiders, —these constitute (the source of income 
called) ‘fort’. 


20 cordndm abhipradharsane: Meyer explains ‘for forcible robbing through bandits 
(with whom the officers are in league).’ But the genitive in cordndm as usual points to the 
offenders themselves, on whom the punishment is to be inflicted. —-ciiro ghatah: see 4.11 
below. — The s. is repeated in 4.9.7. 


22 bahya and abhyantara refer to the countryside and the city respectively. —- na 
sajjeta * would not stick ’ i.e., would not falter. — vyaye gese ca samcayeisfrom D. vyaya- 
$esam ca dargayet is colourless. And samcaya refers to whet comes in, a mention of which 
is necessary. 


2.6 


The preparation of the budget and fixing of state dues from the various sources are the 
samdaharir’s dutics mentioned here. For other duties that be has to carry out, see 2.35 below. 
They show that he is in charge of general administration and is not a mere collector of 
revenue nor concerned merely with assessment of revenue. 


1 durgam etc.: these are the principal sources of revenue. —- acekseta, i.c., fix after 
clue consideration. 


2 pautavam : this evidently refers to prices of weights and measures, inspection fees 
etc. Cf{2.19. — ndgarika: this can only refer to fines imposed by this officer ; no revenue 
seems to come through him. Cf.2.86. —Jaksanddhyaksa is the mint-master ; see 2.12.24. 
Perhaps the minting charges and fees for examination of coins are to be understood under 
this item. — mudrddhyaksah: fees for passports are laid down in 2.84.1]. — surd stind 
siitram, i.e., income derived through officers as described in 2.25, 2.26and 2.28 respectively. 
‘These are mostly products of state activity. — tailam ghriam ksdrah : these apparently arc 
produced in state stores, and income from their sale seems meant. — sauvarnikah : profit 

‘from the working of the state goldsmithy is meant ; cf. 2.14. — panyasamsthd i.c., income 


2.6.3 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 76 


3 Agricultural produce, share, tribute, tax, the trader, the river-guard, 
the ferry, ships, the port, pastures, road-cess, land-survey and thicf-catching, 
—these constitute ‘country ’. 


4 Gold, silver, diamonds, gems, pcarls, corals, conch-shells, metals, salt 
and ores derived from the earth, rocks and liquids, — these constitute ‘mines’. 


5 Flower-gardens, fruit-orchards, vegetable gardens, wet crop fields, 
and sowings of roots, —these constitute ‘ irrigation works ’. 


6 Knclosures for beasts, deer-parks, forests for produce and clephant 
forests, — these constitute ‘ forests. ’ 


7 Cows and buffaloes, goats, and sheep, donkeys and camels and horses 
and mules, —these constitute ‘ herds ’. 


received from the activity of the panyddhyaksa of 2.16 and the sansthddhyaksa of 4.2. — 
vesyd ; Obviously income from the department of the ganikddhyaksa (2.27) is to be under- 
stood. — dyiilam: cf. 3.20. — vdstukam: imposts mentioned in chapters 3.8-9 appear 
to be meant. A ‘ house-tax’ is possible, but there is no specific reference to it elsewhere in 
the text. According to U. N. Ghoshal, it is ‘ ground-rent’ (Revenue Sysiems ete. p. 97). 
— karusilpiganah : a tax on crafts and professions may be understood, though this too is not 
specifically laid down anywhere. The penaltics of 4.1 could be understood. — devald- 
dhyaksah; this officer’s duties are not laid down anywhere. Apparently he supervised 
the management of temples and levied fecs. Cj scems to understand collections at temple- 
fairs (ydlrd), for which cf. 5.2.89. ‘Temples owned by the state would be a direct source of 
income. — dvdrabahirikddeyam: two ideas are meant, dvdrddcya and bahirikaddcya. The 
former is mentioned in 2.22.8; the latter is probably a reference to taxes mentioned in 2.4.32 
above. Cj understands bahirikd as in 2.4.82 above. Dreads dvdramh bahirikddeyam; the 
meaning would apparently be the same, but 2.22.8 might seem to favour the former reading. 


3 sild is income from crown lands worked by the sitddhyaksa (2.24). As Cj explains 
‘sila svakrsih’, — bhagah ‘share’ of produce from private iands, usually one-sixth (2.15.3). 
—- balih is apparently an occasional levy such as those mentioned in 5.2. — karah appears 
to be a tax paid in cash. It is rather surprising that Jali and kera do not figure under 
durga as well. — nadipdlah: such a guard is not mentioned elsewhere. Apparently fines 
for unauthorised crossing of rivers forming houndaries between states are to he under- 
stood ; cf. 2.28.15 ff. —dtarah: sec 2.28.21 ff. —-ndvah: hire for state boats seems meant; 
cf, 2.28.3 ff. — pattanam : evidently port dues are meant. — vivitam : 2.84.12 mentions 
some of these sources of income. — variani as in 2.21.24. —- rajjus corarajjus ca: according 
to Cj ‘income from the village for fixing measurements (grdmaparijridpramadnam) and 
income for finding out thieves by the pradestr’s activity.’ Cb explains ‘what is received 
from district officers (visayapdla) and what is given by the village to the thief-catcher.’ 
rajju seems to refer to revenue from survey Operations, as Ghoshal (Revenue Systems 
ctc. p. 53) says. corarajju may be ‘fine imposed on the territory where the thicf is traced’ 
us Breloer (KSt, III, 181) says. Cf. 4.18.10. Stein (AOr, VI, 31 and n.) would omit 
7ajjuS, as being due to dittography. 


4 loha refers to metals other than gold and silver.—bhiimiprastara- ctc.: sce 2.12.1 helow. 


5 milavdpa: sowing by root is distinguished from sowing by seed or stem. Ginger, 
turmeric etc. are meant (Cs). Cj adds -kanda- after mila ; that refers to bulbs. Johnston 
(JRAS, 1929, 99-101) thinks that we should read mildvdpa ‘having hollows (dvdpa in the 
sense of dlavdla) for holding water at the base.’ ‘This is not very likly. Breloer (KSt, IIT, 
1$9) construes milavdpa in the sense of ‘plantings’ with puspa and phala, these two plantings 
being then connected with three kinds of fields vata ‘ garden,’ ganda ‘ culture’ and kedara 
* water-culture’. Thus he arrives at six kinds of setu. This is far from likely. How can 
flowers and fruits be understood as growing in kedara ? 

_ GS pasumrga i.e.,‘ gavaya etc. and deer etc.’ (Cb). Cj’s ‘domesticated animals and forest 
animals’ is less tikely. Meyer understands pasumrga as one, ‘antelope’. pasu and mrga are, 
however, distinct. — parigraha is an enclosure or preserve, set apart for the various objects. 


~t 
a | 


THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2. 6. 12 


8 The land-route and the water-route constitute ‘trade-routes. ’ 
9 This is the corpus of income. 


10 Price, share, surcharge, monopoly tax, fixed tax, manufacturing 
charge and penalty constitute the heads of income. 


11 What is intended for the worship of gods and manes and for charity, 
gifts for benedictions received, the royal palace, the kitchen, the employment 
of envoys, the magazine, the armoury, the ware-house, the store for forest 
produce, factories, labourers, maintenance of foot-soldiers, horses, chariots and 
elephants, herds of cattle, enclosures for beasts, deer, birds and wild animals, 
and stores of fuel and grass, — these constitute the corpus of expenditure. 


12 The king’s (regnal) year, the month, the fortnight and the day, thus 
the date-entry, the third and seventh fortnights of the rainy season, winter 


and summer short by one day, the rest full (and) a separate intercalary 
month, — this is time. 


9 dyasariram, i.c., the total sources of income. Breloer (KSt, III, 174) remarks that 
durga and rdstra represent income from administration, khani, selu and vana income from 


state property and vraja and -vanikpatha indirecttaxes. vraja, however, belongs rather to the 
second category. 


10 miélyam is necessary asin 2.12.85. — vydjiis a sort of excess in measure or weight 
charged when goods are received in the treasury or stores. It amounts toa surcharge of 5% 
on every transaction. Cf.s.22 below. It seems to have originated in the idea of a possible 
shortfall during measuring or weighing, which required to be made good by this surcharge. 
Breloer (IXKSt, IIJ, 185) thinks that the object of vydji is to recover the cost of the apparatus 
used for measuring cte. — parigha: ‘either money for ferrying (dluradravya) or begging 
and recciving food’ (Cb). Meyer has ‘gate-toll’, Russ. ‘tax for entrance.’ Breloer (KSt, 
III, 433) suggests ‘monopoly tax’ guaranteeing that the technical production is supervised 
by the state. This seems a more likely explanation. See 2.12.35. —- klplam is a fixed 
tax ‘ to he paid by a village collectively eitherin cash or kind’(Cb). Cf. 2.28.2. —riipikam 
a manufacturing charge of 8% ; cf. 2.12.26. — alyayah: this would ordinarily include 
danda. But in 2.12.35 both are separately mentioned. Perhaps there atyaya is restricted 
to penalty for violation of state regulations, while danda is fine imposedby judges and 
magistrates only. — dyamukham refers to heads under which revenuc is classified. 


11 devapitr- ctc. and svasti- etc. are on the king’s account. For the latter, Brelocr 
(III, 189) compares the varsdsanas granted to Brahmins by the Peshwas. — kosthagara ctc.: 
establishment charges are to be understood in these cases. parigraha is here clearly upkeep 
or maintenance. — vyayasariram: payments to ministers, Officers, spics etc. do not seem 
capable of inclusion here. vycya is not classified into heads or mukha. Breloer (KSt, ILI, 
189-198) finds six heads: expenses On cultural things, expenses for court, for treasury 
administration, for the army, for herds and for parks. 


12 ‘The mention of divisions of time is for purposes of account-kecping and budgeting. 
rdajavarsam : the commencement and end of the king’s regnal year are opoarendy made to 
ccincide with those of the works-year of 2.7.6-7 which ended on the Asadha full moon 
day. — vyustam: though there is no iti before it, it seems to mean the date-entry, by year, 
month, fortnight and day. In 2.7.31-38, it refers to the period for which the accounts arc 
made up. — varsdhemantia etc. ; it seems that varsd includes sarad, hemanta includes sisira 
and grisma includes vasanta. In cach of these three groups, the 8rd and 7th fortnights have 
fourteen days, the rest full 15 days. The short fortnights thus are the Ist fortnight in 
Bhadrapada, Karttika and so on in every alternate month. ‘his fortnight is the Arsua 
paksa, according to Cj; that is in consenance with Asadha full moon marking the end of the 
year and by implication of every month. ‘These statements about short fortnights are not 
in agreement with the present day practice of calculating the Asaya or urddhi of a tithi. 
Cs brings varsd into relation with the sun’s passing through the zodiacal signs of Leo, Virgo, 
Libra and Scorpio, wand so on. For such an expanation, there is no justilicution in Uhe 


2. 6. 13 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 73 


13 The (revenue) estimate, accrued revenue, outstanding revenue, in- 
come and expenditure and balance (are items in accounting). 


14 ‘The place, the sphere of activity, laying down the corpus (of 
income ); receipts, the total of all (items of ) revenue (and) the grand total, 
— this is (revenuc estimate). 


15 Deliveries into the treasury, what is taken by the king, and the 
expenses of the city, (these as) paid in, what is carried forward from last 
year, what is released by a decree and what is ordered by word of mouth, 
(these as) not to be remitted, — this is accrued revenue. 


16 Acquiring (the fruits) on completion (of an undertaking), the 
remainder of fines, (these as) what has to be recovered, what is withheld by 


text which is unaware of the 7dsis ; besides, we would thus get solar months in which there 
can be no question of short or full paksas. — prthag adhimdsakah: cf.2.7.8 below. Cs’s 
* different from the solar month is the lunar month ’ is quite unlikely. 


14 karaniua scems to be a sort of (budget) estimate of revenue, made at the beginning 
of the year. — samsthdnam ‘ situation, position ’ secms to refer to locality, such as village, 
district etc. for which the estimate is made. Cb Cs understand ‘ assessment of revenue for an 
individual village ’; Cj has ‘ regulations (sthitih) such as this is to be done by this person 
only and at this time only, i.e., a royal order stating this.’ Some such meaning suits 2.7.2, 3, 
und is not unlikely even here. Meyer has ‘ (expenses for the) continuation (of the adminis- 
tration).’ —- pracdrah: this seems to refer to the sphere of activity of the particular 
adhyaksa. ‘the commentators understand ‘region (dega).? — Sarirdvasthapanam as in 
ss. 1-9 above. — sarvasamudayapindak sanjdtam : the former seems to refer to the total 
of items under each of durga, rdstra etc., while the latter is the grand total of durga, rasira 
and others. Cb explains ‘ the taxable capacity of villages ’ and ‘ the total of different kinds 
revenue ’ respectively. Cj seems to understand ‘ estimated revenue ’ and ‘ actual recoveries 
(which may be more or less) ’ respectively. —Breloer (KSt, III, 196-197) finds here simi- 
laritics with the system of budgeting under Peshwas. The final total, according to him, is the 
ain jama or balance left after deductions are made for revenue Officers, Inamdars ctc. who 
received at source. Deductions, however, do not seem intended here. And state officers 
do not receive at source in this text. There are full salary lists in 5.3. 


15 pravistam is from Cb (supported by Cj’s pravistaka-) and seems necessary. Itis one 
kind of stddha or accrued income, which is entered, i.e., actually paidin. arpita in kosdarpita 
favours this reading as against apravistam. — rajahdrah: apparently some income went 
directly to the king and not through the treasury. —puravyayah: the reference to vyaya is 
strange in this connection. Apparently income ear-marked for city-expenditure also did 
not go through the treasury. It is not casy to sce the reasons for this. Cj has paruisam- 
vatsard- ; parut in the sensc Of ‘ last ’ appears better than parama-, though it seems possible 
that the original reading was carama-. — apdtaniyam is the other kind of siddha ; it has 
accured, but is not actually paid in. It may be last year’s due not yet received or such. as 
may have becn allowed by the king to be paid in later, cither by a written or an oral order. 
The income, however, is not to be dropped or surrendered (apdtaniya) in any case. Cb reads 
apddaniya ‘which has to be brought in and delivered,’ which comes to the same thing. 
Cs understands this s. to refer to expenditure, not revenue and explains dpdtaniya by ‘ to be 
deducted from revenue.’ Yor siddha and praovista, cf. 2.8.18, 21. 


16 #esa seems to refer to outstanding dues. It is also of two kinds dharaniya und 
prasodhya. — siddhikarmayogah is from D and secms to convey the idea of acquiring the 
fruits of a work on its completion; income from the partly completed work is not immedia- 
tely available, but would be received only when the whole work is completed. With pra- 
karma, Cb has * loan on interest, ’ Breloer (IKSt, III, 200-2038) ‘ arrangements (yoga) for pro- 
motion (prakarma smoothening, polishing) of the establishment.’ Cj seems to understand 
* whut is lent for house-building or what is used by an officer from what was given to him.’ 
Cs has ‘recovering unpaid taxes when crops etc. are ready,’ which in effcct is the same as the 
explanation adopted. — dandaseyam is, according to Ch Cs, ‘surplus left over from the 


THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.6. 22 


force and what is used (by officers), (these as) what must be cleared, — this 


is outstanding revenue, not containing goods of high value, and containing 
few goods of high value. 


17 Current, outstanding and derived from other sources is (the three- 
fold) income. 18 What comes in from day to day is current (income). 
19 What belongs to the preceding year or what is transferred from another 
sphere of activity, is outstanding (income). 20 What is lost and forgotten, 
fines imposed on employees, extra income, compensation for loss, gifts, 
property of a person involved in a riot, property of an issueless person and 
treasure-trove is income derived from other sources. 21 Balance duc to 
(army-) disbandment and from undertakings (given up) in the middle 
because of sickness, is return from expenditure. 22 Accretion, viz., increase 
in the price of commodities at the time of sale, excess in weights and measures 
called surcharge or the increase in price because of competition for purchase, 
— this is (also) income. 


army.’ This hardly fitsin here. Aca after this would have been better to mark off the 
two kinds of dharaniya. — baldatkriapratistabdham : perhaps -stambham was the original 
reading ; else Aria is superfluous. Cj understands baldtkria in the sense of baldtkara. 
— avamrstam * touched ’ i.e., used ; ‘ yan mukhyddibhir baldd upayuktam ’ (Cj). The reading 
avasrstam ‘remitted ? seems hardly appropriate. — The difference between dharaniya and 
prasodhya is that the former is easily recoverable, the latter only with some effort (Ch).— 
asdram alpasdran ca, i.e., the duces must not contain goods of high value (sara), only phalgu 
and kupya, or they must contain only few goods of high value. vd would be better instead of 
ca. Cb has‘ yielding no fruits though expenses are incurred and yielding smali fruit for high 
expenditure,’ as two additional varicties of sesa. In that case, it is not clear why they are © 
put after sesam. Cj reads anddeyam at the end and explains ‘ that (from a family, though 
normally tax-paying) without anything of value or having only few such things — not to be 
recovered.’ ‘his yields a good sense. 


19 parapracarasamkraniah : this seems to refer to transfer fr: m the sphere of activity 
of one adhyaksa to that ofanother. Cb has ‘ what was due in one officer’s time recovered by 
his successor, or what has come from the enemy’s territory.’ 20 pdrsvam: the exact 
nature of this is not clear. Cb understands a surcharge on the fixed dues, Cp (on 2.15.3) 
a levy as recommended in 5.2, Breloer an impost for making good a deficit (III, p.321). Cj 
Meyer understand a bribe. — parihinikam is compensation for loss suffered, rather than 
* penalty for failure to carry out the task, or, something received from a mortgagee ’ (Cb). — 
damara seems to be ‘ a revolt’ which would justify the confiscation of property. Cb under- 
stands ‘ booty obtained in a fight’; for that the usual word is vilupa (cf. 9.2.9. etc.).— 
aputrakam is not to be understood to refer to the son alone; cf. 3.5.28. Meyer, however, 
would understand the expression in the literal sense. 21 Thes., repeated in 2.15.10, 
describes lapsed grants. ‘'wo reasons for ‘return from expenditure’ seem mentioned, 
viksepa ‘ disbandment of the troops ’ and vyddhitantaradrambha * undertaking given up mid- 
way because of illness or epidemics.’ Some such word as visrsta or parityakia after antara 
would have been better. For viksepa, see 7.9.22; 8.5.15 etc. Cb Cs have three items 
‘balance from army-expenditure, from expenses for medical hall and from other under- 
takings like durga, antahpura etc.’ Provision for medical halls is not mentioned clsewhere. 
Meyer has ‘ windfall (pratyaya) for purposes of expenditure (vyaya) is sickness through 
bankruptcy or failure (of a private undertaking of the king) (viksepavyddhita) and remainder 
from an undertaking given up in the middle (antararambhasesa). This is highly problem- 
utical. — upajd primarily refers to increase in the commodities (particularly live-stock) 
through natural causes; cf. 2.29.8,11. A natural increase in price is meant here. Cb Cs 
Meyer undertsand ‘ what is obtained from prohibited sale.’ — mdnonmdnaviseso : this seems 
to be a description of vydji, in which case it would refer to the 5 % surcharge ; secs. 10 above. 
It is also possible that the expression is unconnected with vyqjt, and refers to the difference 
between ordinary weights and measures and those used for receipts in the treasury, as in 
2.19.21-23,29. Sec 2.15.11 below where vyajt seems distinguished from tuldmdndniarem. 


2. 6. 23 | KAUTFILIYA ARTHASASTRA 80) 


23 Current (expenditure), that arising out of current, gain (and) that 
arising out of gain, — this is (four-fold) expenditure. 24 What is spent from 
day to day is current (expenditure). 25 Receipts (by officers, servants ctc.) 
after a fortnight, a month or a year is gain. 26 That arising out of thesc 
two is (expenditure) arising out of current (expenditure) and out of gain 
respectively. This is expenditure. 


27 What is left over after calculation of income and expenditure from the 
total of revenue-items is the balance, received and carried forward. 


28 Thus the wise (Administrator) should fix the revenue and show 
an increase in income and decrease in expenditure and should remedy 
the opposite (of these). 


CHAPTER SEVEN 


SECTION 25 THE TOPIC OF ACCOUNTS IN THE RECORDS AND 
AUDIT OFFICE 


1 The Superintendent should cause the Records Office to be built facing 
the east or the north, with separate halls, (as) a place for record-books. 


2 There he should cause to be entered in the record-books: the extent 
of the number, activity and total (income) of the departments ; the amount 
of increase or decrease in the use of the (various) materials, expenses, excess, 
surcharge, mixing, place, wages and labourers in connection with factories ; 


23 ‘The difference between niiya and ldbha is that the former expenditwr is incurred 
from day to day, the latter at fixed intervals of time, a fortnight, a month, a year ete. 
Breloer remarks (IXSt, III, 209-16) that the term /dbha represents the point of view of the 
recipient, labourer, officer ctc. as in bhakiavetanalabha, and that it is a sort of deferred pay- 
ment. It may also stand fora lump payment. 26 tayor utpannah, i.e., items of expendi- 
ture of the two types not foreseen at the time of the budget. 


27 samjatad ayavyayavisuddha : what is meantis that from the total income the total 
expenditure is deducted. samjaldd dyad vyayavisuddhd or samjdtayavyayavisuddha would 
have been better. Perhaps the latter was the original reading. — prdpld, i.e., actually 
received in the treasury. — Gnuvrtid, i.e., accrued but not actually delivered into the trea- 
sury ; it is thus carried forward to the next account period. 


28 sddhayet, i.e., overcome, remedy, take steps against. It is clear that the samdhartr 
fixes the asscssment of revenue, prepares the budget and keeps the accounts. 


2.7 

According to Cj aksa is what is used for counting, such as a pair of scules etc. and patala 
is a house (aksdni ganakopakaranani paricchedasddhanataya indriydniva tulddini, tesdrir 
patalam grham). aksa primarily seems to refer to ‘ beads’ used as counter or tally. As is 
clear from the Chaptcr, the aksapatala is a records-cum-audit office. 

1 pratyanmukham of G M is unlikely in view of 2.4.7 and other places. 


2 samkhyd- is the total number of departments. — prucdra is the activity in which 
cach department is engaged. — saumjdta is the total income from the department; cf. 


2.6.14, 27. — dravyaprayogauurddhiksaye is the increase or loss in weight or volume which 


$1 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [2.7.4 


the price, the quality, the weight, the measure, the height, the depth and the 
container in connection with jewels, articles of high value, of low value and 
forest produce; laws, transactions, customs and fixed rules of regions, 
villages, castes, families and corporations; the receipt of favours, lands, use, 
exemptions, and food and wages by those who serve the king; the receipt of 
jewels and land (and) the receipt of special allowances and (payments for) 
remedial measures against sudden calamities, by the king and his queens 
and sons; and payments and receipts in connection with peace and war with 
allies and enemies. 


8 From that he should hand over in writing the (revenue) estimate, 
accrued revenue, outstanding revenue, income and expenditure, balance, (the 
time for) attendance (for audit), (sphere of) activity, customs and fixed 
rules, to all the departments. 


4 And over works of the highest, the middling and the lowest kinds, 
he should appoint a superintendent of that class, (but) over (works) bringing 
in revenue, a suitable (officer), by injuring whom (if necessary), the king 


raw materials undergo in the process of manufacture as described in 4.1.8 ff. — prayadma 
refers to ‘ excess’ in weight as in 2.19.24 (Cj). It may also refer to additions or extensions 
to the factory ; addition to expenses (Breloer, KSt, III, 227-9) is also possible. — yoga 
is the mixing of materials in the process of manufacture. Cj gives the illustration of the 
mixing of colouring matter with gold as in 2.14.9. Meyer understands yogasthdna as ‘ the 
place of employment or work.’ — prativarnaka is the standard of quality, also quality. 
— samghdndm as in D is necessary ; cf. 8.7.40. — dharma seems to refer to peculiar laws 
about marriage, inheritance etc. prevalent in a region ctc., which are authoritative for that 
region etc. — vyavahara ‘ transactions,’ i.e., agreements or contracts between parties ; cf. 
3.1.2-14. This implies that all agreements or contracts are to be registered with the state. 
Cb explains oyavahdra by ‘ cash and landed property that is inherited.’ —cariira ‘ customs, 
usages,’ which, unlike dharma, do not have the appearance of having a religious sanction. 
— samsthdna: this word cannot mean ‘locality’ here as it probably does in 2.6.14. Cj 
explains ‘ royal order, this should be done, this should not be done and so on (samsthanam 
samsthitt rajajna atredam karlavyam idam na kartavyam iti).’ Breloer (KSt, III, 251 n.1), 
comparing this passage with 3.1.89, identifies samsthana with rdjagdsana there, which is the 
explanation of Cj. The idea is clearly that of rules fixed by the state. Cb Cs construe sam- 
sthana ‘ sticking to convention about’? with each of dharma, vyavahara and caritra. — pra- 
graha ‘favour, honour’; cf. s. 41 below. — rdjria$ ca patnipulrdndm: the ca should 
have come after -putrdndm ; if the king is not to be included, cais unnecessary. nirdesa 
is an extra allowance, according to Cb Cs; what is ordered by the king, according to Cj.— 
autpdtikapratikdra ‘taking steps against portents, such as earthquakes ctc.’(Cb, which 
mentions this as a v.1.). Cb’s reading is autpddika ‘ money obtained during festivals ete. ’ 
It seems better to adopt a reading with which pratikdra can be easily construcd. 


3 tatah may be ‘ from the accounts office ’ or ‘ from the record-book.’ — upasthadnam, 
i.e., time fixed for officers to come and render accounts (Cb). Similarly Breloer (KSt, ITT, 
235-236). Meyer’s ‘ outstanding and accrued income’ as in 2.15.11 does not appear likely 
here. Russ. has ‘side-income from office-presence.’ — prayacchet: the subject is 
evidently aksapataladhyaksah. — Apparently the aya, vyaya, nivi etc. would be those of the 
preceding year, though the karaniya would be that of the current year. 


4 tajjdtikam, i.e., an officer of the utlama kind for work of the utlama type and so 
on. — sdmudayikesu : we have to supply karmasu and explain with Cj ‘of which the 
purpose is to bring in revenue (samudayaprayojanesu dyasthdnesu).’ The word is derived 
from samudaya ‘revenue.’ Cb Cs reading sdmuddyikesu supply karmakaresu * from among 
a large number of workmen capable of doing a work.’ This is not satisfactory. — upd- 
hatya, 1.e., inflicting a fine or corporal punishment (Cj), the punishment being for loss of state 


2.7. 5 J KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 82 


would not regret. 5 His co-receivers, sureties, those living on his work, his 
sons, brothers, wives, daughters and servants shall bear the loss (incurred) 
in the work. 


6 Three hundred and fifty-four days and nights constitute the year 
of work. 7 He should fix that as ending on the full moon day in Asadha, 
(whether) short or full. 8 He should provide the intercalary month with 
a (separate) bureau. 


9 And (he'should have ) the acitivity (of departments) watched by spies. 
10 For, the person in question (viz., the officer) if not conversant with the 
activity, customs and fixed rules, causes loss of revenue through ignorance, 
if unable to endure the trouble of (energetic) activity, through laziness, if 
addicted to the pleasures of the senses, sound and others, through remissness, 
if afraid of an uproar (among subjects) or of an unrighteous or harmful act, 
through fear, if inclined to show favour to those who have work with him, 
through love, if inclined to do them harm, through anger, because of reliance 
on learning or wealth or the support of a (royal) favourite, through arrogance, 
(and) because of (deceit in) introducing a difference in weight, measure, assess- 
ment or counting, (he causes loss) through greed. 


11 ‘Among those (causes of loss of revenue), the fine is as much as the 
loss of money, increased by one-fold in each succeeding case according to the 
order (as stated above),’ say the followers of Manu. 12 ‘In all cases 
(the fine shall be) eight times (the loss),’ say the followers of Parasara. 
18 ‘Ten times;’ say the followers of Brhaspati. 14 ‘Twenty times,’ say 
the followers of Usanas. 15 ‘(The fine shall be) in conformity with the 
offence,’ says Kautilya. 


16 The accounts should come in on the Asadha full moon day. 
17 When the (officers) have come with sealed account books and balances 


revenue, through ignorance etc. to be mentioned presently. 5 sahagrdahinah,i.c., those who 
have received a share of the state revenue along with the officer. For the expression, cf. 
3.11.14. —karmopajivinah, i.e., the staff and workmen. — As Cb Cj say the later one in 
the list becomes liable in the absence of each preceding one. 

6 karmasamvatsarah : this is the official year for completing the accounts of the various 
undertakings. 7 Asddhiparyavasdnam: piirnimadnta months are clearly implied. — 
dinam ptirnam v4, i.e., whether the work is spread over the full year or only a part of it. Cb 
has ‘in accordance with the period the officer was there.’ 8 karanddhisthitam etc. : 
apparently the yearly accounts had only twelve sections, one for each month ; so accounts 
for the intercalary month were kept separately. 

9 apasarpddhisthitam: supply kuryat from the preceeding. 10 samkroga ‘ outcry, 
uproar’; cf. 1.17.39. above. — tutdmana- etc.: For the four ways of assessing extent or 
size, see 2.21.15. — upadhana ‘ placing near, introducing ’ implies substitution. Cf. 4.2.22. 
The word is related to upadhi ‘ fraud.’ 

11 tesdm refers to ajiidnaetc. — ekoltarah, i.c., one-fold for ajndna, two-fold for dlasya, 
three-fold for pramdda and so on. — Manavdh: the ruleis not found in the Manusmytt. 


17 samudrapustakabhandanivikanam : this seems to mean that accounts officers bring 
accounts in sealed books and works Officers bring actual balances in sealed containers. — 


83 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2. 7. 25 


in sealed containers, he should impose restriction in one place, not allowing 
conversation (among them). 18 After hearing the totals of income, expendi- 
ture and balance, he should cause the balance to be taken away (to the 
treasury). 19 And he should make the superintendent pay eightfold what- 
ever may increase in the balance over the total of income (as shown) on the 
page inside (the account-books) or whatever the (officer) may cause to decrease 
(from the balance) because of (the inflation of) expenditure. 20 In the 
reverse cases, it shall fall to the lot of (the officer) himself. 


21 For (officers) not coming at the proper time or coming without 
the account-books and balances, the fine shall be one-tenth of the amount due. 


22 And if, when the works officer presents himself, the accounts officer 
is not ready for audit, the lowest fine for violence (shall be imposed). 28 In 
the reverse case, the fine for the works officer (shall be) double. 


24 The high officers should render accounts in full in accordance with 
their activity, without contradicting themselves. 25 And among these he 
who makes a divergent statement or speaks falsely shall pay the highest fine 
(for violence). 


ekaira asambhdsdvarodham, i.e., the two sets of officers are not to be allowed to converse 
among themselves. Breloer remarks that this is like treating them as witnesses (KSt, III, 
246). 19 antaraparne is from D supported by Cb. parna seems to refer to the palm-leaf 
on which the accounts are written. aniahparne would perhaps have been better ‘on a leaf 
inside (the account-book).’ Cs explains the reading antaravarne as ‘in the book in which 
the actual balance is described,’ which practically comes to the same thing. Meyer has ‘in 
case of deviation (antaravarne) of the balance.’ Breloer (KSt, III, 246-247) tentatively 
suggests ‘between-counting’(?). — vyayasya: supply agrdat after this. — parihdpayet : ntoyam 
is to be understood with this. The balance is reduced because the expenditure is inflated. 
20 viparyaye, i.e., when the actual balance is greater than what is shown in the account 
book or when expenses are shown to be less than those actually incurred. — tam eva pratt 
sydt, i.e., the Officer shall keep it. Breloer, however, has ‘the state keeps the difference of 
what the officer has counted to his own disadvantage’ (KSt, III, 247). The former idea 
seems better. Cf. the illustration ‘yad aira mdm prati syat,’ in the Siddhdntakaumudt. Cj 
seems to understand that the officer is not to be punished, since he has spoken the truth. 
It also refers to the opinion that even this officer is to be fined eight times. 


22 kdrmika is obviously the officer concerned with the carrying Out of the work, while 
the kdranika is the account-keeper. Cj understands the aksapatalika by the latter. — 
apratibadhnaiah, i.e., not being ready with his accounts. Cb has ‘failing to write down.’ 
Cj reads anupanibadhnatah here as wellasins. 34 below. Because of the high fine, Breloer 
(KSt, III, 250-1) understands ‘not putting in proof, not being able to substantiate a discre- 
pancy (upasthiia).’ This does not seem likely. 28 dvigunah : the fine is double because 
he has the actual nivt with him and has failed to turn up with it. 


24 samagrah may be construed with mahamdirah, which is not very happy, or nivith may 
be understood as the substantive. But samagrdni (gdnanikydni) would have been better. — 
avisamamanirah : ‘not saying what is different,’ i.e., not making contradictory statements. 
Meyer has ‘not having dissimilar or unsuitable plans.’ Cb Cs read -mdirah and the latter 
explains ‘should broadcast (srdvayeyuh) all over the countryside (pracdrasamam) all the 
related activities or a harmonized statement of income, expenditure and balance.’ This 
is very doubtful. 25 prthagbhiiiah seems to be one whose statements do not tally with 
those of others, or rather, one who contradicts himself. Cb seems to understand one who 
has disappeared, made himself scarce. 


2.7.26 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 84 


26 He should wait for one month, if the (officer) has not brought in the 
day-to-day accounts. 27 After the month, the (officer) shall pay a fine of 
two hundred panas increased (by that amount) for each succeeding month. 
28 If an (officer) has a little of written balance due (from him), he should 
wait for five days. 29 If he brings in the day-to-day accounts after that 
period, preceded by (delivery of the balance into) the treasury, he should 
look into (the case) with reference to laws, transactions, customs and fixed 
rules and by totalling up, (and by looking at) the work soy carried out, 
by inference and the use of spies. 


80 And he should check (the accounts) for each day, group of five days, 
fortnight, month, four months and year. 31 He should check the income with 
reference to the period, place, time, head of income, source, bringing forward, 
quantity, the payer, the person causing payment to be made, the recorder 
and the receiver. 82 He should check the expenditure with reference to 
the period, place, time, head (of expenditure), gain, occasion, the thing 
given, its use and amount, the person who orders, the person who takes out, 
the person who delivers and the receiver. 88 He should check the balance 
with reference to the period, place, time, head, bringing forward, the article, 
its characteristics, amount, the vessel in which it is deposited and the person 
guarding it. 


84 If, in an affair of the king, the accounts officer is not ready 
for audit or disregards an order or changes the income and expenditure in 


26 akriahoriipaharam : ahoriipa seems to refer to the day-to-day accounts, and the 
expression refers to the Officer who fails to bring such accounts. A month is allowed to 
bring themin. This implies that the day-to-day accounts for a month are allowed to be 
completed by the end of the next month. 28 alpasesalekhyanivikam, i.c., when a small 
part of the balance as arrived at in the aceount-book is not brought in. This apparently 
refers to the works officer, while the preceding ss. referred to the accounts officer. — 
pancaratram apparently in the case of the monthly account. 29 kosaptrvam ahoriipaharam: 
i.e, the balance due is delivered in the treasury and the relevant accounts are brought in after 
a lapse of five days. Though the accounts officer is also thought of (ahoripahara), the works 
officer would seem to be principally concerned. — samkalana evidently refers to the total- 
ling of items in the accounts. — avekseta : the purpose of this investigation is to find out 
if the delay in delivery was justified or not. — Ms. D breaks off towards the beginning 
of this s., there being only one more folio containing 2.11.21-39. 


30 pratisamanayet : the object is ‘accounts.’ 31 vyusta refers to the period for which 
the accounts are made up, ‘yatha pravardhamdane pancadasardjavarse’ (Cj). See 2.6.12 above. 
— utpattt refers to the source included in dyasarira. — anuortti is being brought forward from 
the preceding period of account. — pramdna: Breloer suggests parimdna in conformity with 
the reading of mss. inthe next twoss. However, pramdna might appear better in all three 
ss. — ddpaka is the person on whose behalf the payment is made. Cb does not seem to have 
read this word. 32 ldbha, i.e., payments to employees; cf{.s.2above — yoga ‘application,’ 
i.e., use to which the article would be put. — vidhdtrkais an emendation suggested by Meyer 
‘who arranges the delivery.’ Of the other readings only nidhdtrka ‘store-keeper’ of Cb Cs 
conveys any sense. Cj seems to derive its viyataka from yat ‘to strive’. 38 anuvartana 

is Obviously the same as anuvylli. — riipa, i.e., the article or object constituting the nivi. 


34 rdajarthe: this seems to refer to state undertakings, as distinguished from the work of 
collecting taxes, fines etc. from subjects. — karanika, it is clear, is not an officer in the 
audit office, as Cj seems to have understood in s. 22 above. — pratisedhayaio: as the fine 
would appear small if we refer this only to disregarding the king’s order, Breloer (KSt, 


85 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [2.3.3 


a way different from the written order, the lowest fine for violence (shall 
be imposed). 


85 For one writing down an item (in the accounts) without any order 
or in a wrong order or in an illegible manner, or twice over, the fine is twelve 
panas. 36 Jor one writing down the balance (in any of these ways) the fine 
is double (that). 37 For one who swallows it, the fine is eight-fold. 88 For 
one who destroys it, the fine is one-fifth of the amount and restitution (of what 
is lost). 39 In case of a false statement, the punishment is that for theft. 
40 If admitted afterwards, (the fine is) double, so also if an item is forgotten 
and then brought in. 


41 The (king) should put up with a minor offence and should be 
content even when the revenue is small; and he should honour with 
favours the officer who confers great benefit (on the state). 


CHAPTER EIGHT 


SECTION 26 RECOVERY OF REVENUE MISAPPROPRIATED BY 
STATE EMPLOYEES 


1 All undertakings are dependent first on the treasury. 2 Therefore, 
he should look to the treasury first. 


3 Prosperousness of activities, cherishing of customs, suppression of 
thieves, control over employees, luxuriance of crops, abundance of commo- 
dities, deliverance from trouble, reduction in exemptions, (and) presents in 
cash, — these are (the means of) increase in the treasury. 


III, 262) understands ‘who suppresses an Order.’ — Gjridnibandha is the written statement 
handed out at the beginning concerning heads of income etc., as laid down in s. 8 above. 


35 kramdvahina is ‘lacking in order,’ while utkrama is ‘ina wrong order.’ —avalikhatah 
is not necessarily ‘who enters wrongly,’ for it cannot be understood of avijrdiam; ‘who writes 
down’ is cnough. — vastukam, i.e., an item in theledger. 36 avalikhatah in this case may 
be understood as ‘who writes down less (than the actual balance)’ as in Cs, though that is 
not necessary. The reading avalihato is found in this s. in Cj which explains ‘who tastes, 
i.e, swallows a little (tsad Gsuddayatah).’ 38 parncabandhah cannot be five times (Cs Meyer), 
in view of 2.8.11; 3.1.20; 3.11.33 etc. 40 pratijridie, i.e., when an admission is made that a 
false statement was made by him earlier. — dvigunah: double the fine for theft might appear 
too severe in the case of prasmriotpanna. Meyer therefore thinks of double the 12 panas 
prescibedins.35. That docs not appear very likely. 

41 Cj reads samopakadram and explains ‘who brings in appropriate revenue to the 
treasury.’ ; 


2.8 


1 kosapirvdh etc. : contrast 8.1.28 and the discussion in 8.1.33-52 below. 


2 pracdra may, as usual, be understood as departmental activity rather than as 
‘country’ (Cj Cs). —anugrala is maintenance, preservation as before. — pratisedha, 
i.e., keeping a strict control or check rather than ‘dismissal.’ —wupasarga ‘troubles’ such 
as fire, floods etc. ; 


2.8. 4] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 86 


4, Hindrance, lending, trading, concealment, causing loss, use, interchange 
and misappropriation, —these are (the causes of) depletion of the treasury. 


5 Failure to carry out a work, failure to realize its fruit, or failure 
to deliver it (in the treasury), constitutes hindrance. 6 For that the fine is 
one-tenth (the amount involved). 


7 Lending at interest of goods from the treasury islending. 8 Trading 
in (state) commodities is trading. 9 In those cases, the fine is double the fruit. 


10 If the (officer) makes the due date as not due or the date not due as 
due, that is concealment. 11 For that the fine is one-fifth. i 


12 If the (officer) causes a diminution of the revenue fixed or causes an 
increase in the expenditure sanctioned, that is causing loss. 18 For that the 
fine is four times the amount Jost. 


14 The use of the king’s goods by oneself or allowing it by others is use. 
15 For that, the punishment is execution for use of jewels, the middle fine 
for violence for use of articles of high value, (restitution of) that and an equal 
amount as fine for use of articles of small value and forest produce. 


16 The appropriation of the king’s goods by (the substitution of) other 
goods is interchange. 17 That is explained by (rules concerning) use. 


18 If the (officer) does not deliver the income that has accrued (or) does 
not pay the expenses put down in writing (or) denies the balance received, 
— thatis misappropriation. 19 For that the fine is twelve times (the amount). 


20 Of those (officers) the ways of embezzlement are forty. 21 What 
has accrued first is realized afterwards, what is to accrue later is realized first, 
what is to be carried out is not carried out, what is not to be carried out is 


4 avastdra ‘exceeding one’s authority’ (Russ.). 

5 siddhi refers to securing the fruits of an undertaking, recovery of revenue, taxes etc. 
Its asddhana is not carrying out the work at all, anavatdrana is not securing the fruit produced 
and apravegana is not delivering it into the treasury. Cj explains anavatdrana by ‘not 
writing down in the accounts (lekhydkaranam).’ —Cp begins with this s. and continues 

to the end of the Book. 

8 phala, i.e., the interest received or profit made. 

ae praptam nivim seems to refer to the balance received by and in;the possession of the 
officer. 

20 catodrimégat: the passage is referred to in the Dasakumdracarita, VIII. 21 piroam 
siddham etc. ; the recovery of the income accrued is delayed, evidently in consideration 
of gratification received. —-krfam, i.e. made out, represented. -—anyatah refers to the 
source of the income. -—Cs understands deyam na datiam adeyam datiam as a single case 
of misappropriation, similarly kale na daitam akdle datiam. There is little justification 

for this. —anyato dattam: Cs understands das in the sense of the dative; that is better, 
though the sense of the ablative is also not unlikely. — From pravisiam onwards offences 
by treasury and stores Officers are mentioned. —kupyam adattamilyam pravistam : Cp 
Cs explain ‘a thing is borrowed at the king’s command; after a time a part of the price is 
paid, making the entry that full price is paid.’ There is no reference to part-payment 


87 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2. 8.21 


carried out, what is carried out is made out as not carried out, what is not 
carried out is made out as carried out, what is carried out a little is made out as 
much, what is carried out much is made out as little, one thing is carried out 
while another is made out (as carried out), what is carried out from one source 
is made out as from another, what is to be paid is not paid, what is not to be 
paid is paid, payment is not made in time, payment is made untimely, a little 
paid is made out as much, what is overpaid is made out as little, one thing 
is given while another is made out as given, what is paid to one is made out 
as paid to another, what is delivered (into the treasury) is made out as 
not delivered, what is not delivered is made out as delivered, forest produce 
for which the price has not been paid is delivered, that for which the price has 
been paid is not delivered, concentration (of goods) is made out as dispersal, 
or dispersal made out as concentration, an object of high value is changed for 
one of low value, or one of low value for one of high value, the price is raised, 
or (the price is) reduced, the year is made discrepant as to months, or the 
month discrepant as to days, discrepancy as to source, discrepancy as to head 
(of income etc.), discrepancy as to workmen, discrepancy in performance, 
discrepancy in the sum-total, discrepancy in quality, discrepancy in price, 


here. It seems that the price is not paid from the treasury, yet the stores officer receives 
the goods, to be afterwards appropriated by him, the sufferer being the person from whom 
the goods are received. —datiamiilyam na pravistam: Cp Cs have ‘a thing purchased at 
a high price is entered as purchased at a lower price.’ There is no reference to high or 
low price here. The case is clearly one where the price is paid from the treasury, but the 
goods are not received in the stores. Meyer understands pravista as ‘entered in the 
register’ when sales are made from stores to merchants. In the first case, the merchant 
pays less though the entry shows the regular price. But can adatia mean ‘paid less’? 
— samksepo viksepah kriah: from here Onwards, market Officers are to be understood. For 
these terms see 2.16.1. The commentators understand ‘aggregate tax to be paid by 
a village etc.’ and ‘splitting a tax among individuals (Cp Cs) or collecting it from one 
individual only (Cb).’ In the opposite case, ‘viksepa, i.e., a tax to be reccived from an 
individual in small instalments and samksepa, i.e., recovering it at one time in a lump 
sum.’ All this seems unlikely. —-mahdrgham alpdrghena parivartitam: the purchaser 
suffers in this case, while in the Opposite case the treasury suffers. —- samdropiio’rghah: 
the panyddhyaksa, who fixes prices (2.16.2-3), might do so to his Own advantage. 
— After pratyavaropito vad, Cb Cp and the editions add rdirayah samaropitah pratyavaro- 
pita vd. G Mdo not show these cases; they are also unnecessary in view Of mdso 
divasavisamah kriah. And with the deletion of these expressions the number forty is 
very smoothly arrived at. —samvatsaro etc.: from here Onwards, works-foremen are 
thought of. The idea in this case is, when there is an intercalary month, that fact is not 
taken into account when making payments on a yearly basis. —*mdso etc.: the number of 
days in the month are manipulated to the detriment of the workers. — samdgamavisamah: 
here and in the following cases, visama seems to stand for visamaiva; though it can be 
understood as an adjective to updyah. samdgama seems to be the same as dgama and to 
refer to ‘source’ (Meyer), though Cp Cs explain it as ‘the presence of labourers at the 
time of payment of wages.’ —It is proposed to read karmika- for dharmika-. The latter 
is explained as defalcation by the purohita and his men from amounts sanctioned for 
charitable purposes like gifts to Brahmins (Cb Cp Cs.). This is unsatisfactory. We 
expect dharma- not dhdarmika-. And since the preceding and the following cases have 
reference to some work carried Out by an adhyaksa, kdrmika would appearfar more likely. 
The idea is of discrepancy in the matter of workmen (their number, wages etc.). 
— nirvartana-: Meyer prefers to read nivartana ‘because of the ceasing of a particular 
source of income.’ In all these cases, however, the reason for the fraud is not stated, 


only the item in connection with which the fraud is committed. — pinda is the total 
amount of the commodity or income. — Cp shows no explanation of pindavi h. 


—varna ‘class,’ i.c., quality of the commodity. Cf. 4.2.22. A reference to the four 


2.8.22 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 88 


discrepancy in weighing, discrepancy in measuring, (and) discrepancy,as to 
(container) vessels, — these are the (forty) ways of embezzlement. 


22 In these cases, he should interrogate, each individually, the subordi- 
nate officer, the store-keeper, the recorder, the receiver, the person who pays, 
the person who causes the payment to be made, the adviser and the help-mate. 
28 And in case of a false statement by these, the fine shall be the same as for 
the officer (concerned). 24 And he should issue a proclamation in the 
sphere of his activity, ‘ Those wronged by such and such an officer should 
communicate (it to me).’ 25 To such as communicate, he should cause 
payment to be made in accordance with the injury suffered. 


26 And in case of many accusations, if the (officer) denies (all charges) 
and is proved guilty in a single case, he shall be liable for all. 27 In case of 
partial admission, he shall stand trial in all cases. 28 And in case of mis- 
appropriation of a large amount of money, if proved guilty with respect to 
even a small part of it, he shall be liable for all. 


29 An informer, to whom a guarantee is given against reprisal (by the 
officer), should receive one-sixth part (of the amount involved) if the matter is 
proved, one-twelfth part if (he happens to be) a stateservant. 30 If in an 
accusation concerning a large amount, only a small portion is proved, he shall 
receive a share of what is proved. 81 Incase it is not proved, he shall receive 
corporal or monetary punishment, and no favour shall be shown to him. 


32 But (if) when the charge is being proved, the informer, at the 
instigation of the accused (officer), were to throw up the case or to 
make himself scarce, he shall be condemned to death. 


varnas (Cs) can hardly be understood and ‘fineness or touch of gold’ (also Cs) un- 
necessarily restricts the sense to a particular case only. 

22 wupayukiais a subordinate officer (Meyer) rather thana supervising or higher 
Officer (Cp Cs). Cf. 2.5.16. — nidhdyaka seems to be the store-keeper as in Cs. — GM 
read mantrimanirivaiyd- etc.; one -maniri- is clearly superfluous. It is possible, however, 
that one -maniri- is a corruption of -miira-. Cf. 2.9.25, also 4.8.9 (where we have sahdya). 


26 parokiah: see 3.1.19 ff. 27 vaisamye, i.e., when some charges are admitted and 
others denied (Cp Cs). Cj has alternately ‘when different persons bring different charges 


against him.’ — anuyoga ‘questioning, interrogation’ apparently by the pradesirs. 28 
-apahdare is to be preferred to -apacdre in the context of this Chapter. 
29 sticaka who secretly informs against an officer involved in fraud. — pratighdtais 


reprisal by the Officer; cf. 7.6.26; 9.6.27. For avasthd ‘guarantee,’ cf. 8.4.88. Cp has 
*‘avasthah pratibhih.’ 31 na canugrahyah : this does not necessarily mean ‘he is not to 
be saved from the vengeance of the officer’ (Cs). 


82 Meyer’s construction, supplying yadi in the first half, is adopted. That appears to 
be the construction in Cj as well: nigpatiau pramdnaih sambhdavitayam ‘when the charge 
is likely to be proved.’ Cb explains the first half ‘when it is proved, the informer should 
say that the information was given to him by some one else and should remain hidden.’ 
Similarly Cp : ‘should transfer the blame of being an informer to treasonable persons or 
plead an alibi (a4imadnam apavahayet)’ supplying disye in the first half. Cs has ‘when the 
matter is proved, he should cease the accusation and (vd) free himself from the bondage of the 
case (dimadnam apavahayet).’ The idea rather seems to be that the informer after making 
ae ime withdraws it at the instigation of the accused or fails to appear for proving 

is charge. 


89 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [2.9.16 


CHAPTER NINE 
SECTION 27 INSPECTION OF (THE WORK OF) OFFICERS 


1 All superintendents, endowed with the excellences of a minister, should 
be appointed to works according to (their) capacity. 2 And he should con- 
stantly hold an inspection of their works, men being inconstant in their 
minds. 8 For, men being of a nature similar to that of horses change when 
employed in works. 4 Therefore, he should be cognizant of the worker, 
the office, the place, the time, the work to be done, the outlay and the profit 
in these (undertakings). 


5 They should carry out the works according to orders, without con- 
certing together or quarrelling amongst themselves. 6 Concerting together, 
they might swallow up (the fruits of) the undertakings, quarrelling, they 
might ruin (them). 7 And they must not commence any work without 
informing the king, excepting measures against calamities. 


8 And in cases of remissness on their part, he should fix a fine double the 
day’s wages and (other) expenses,, 9 And he who, amongst them, caries out 
the work as ordered or better, should receive a (high) position and honour. 


10 ‘If an (officer) with small income has a large expenditure, he consumes 
(state revenue). 11 In the reverse case and when an (o‘ficer) spends in 
conformity with his income, he does not consume,’ thus say the teachers. 
12 Only through spies would (this) be ascertained, says Kautilya. 


18 He who causes loss of revenue consumes the property of the king. 
14 If he causes loss through ignorance and other causes, he should make him 
pay that, suitably multiplied. 15 He who procures double the (normal) 
revenue, consumes the countryside. 16 If he brings in (the whole) for the 
king, he should be warned in case of a minor offence, in case of a major offence 


2.9 


upayukia ordinarily ‘a subordinate officer’ is here used for ‘officer’ in general. The Chapter 
in fact uses the word yukla and does not use upayukia even once. 


4 karana ‘office, department’ (Cp) seems better than ‘way of doing or means of doing’ 
(Cj). Cj seems to add dravyam after karanam. — praksepa ‘investment, outlay’ is common 
in this text. ‘Wages of workmen’ (Cp Cs) is an unnecessary restriction. 

6 Cf. 1.15.37 above. 

8 -velanavyaya- ‘wages and (other) expenses’ rather than ‘expenses On wages.’ 

9 yathddistam etc. : cf. 1.8.18 which is a quotation from Piguna. 

14 ajndnddibhih refers to the eight causes mentionedin 2.7.10. — yathagunam, i.e. 1,2,8 
etc. times in case of ajiidna, dlasya, pramdda etc. respectively. In 2.7.11-15, this scale 
of fines is attributed to the Manavas, while Kautilya himself preferred punishment according 
to offence. Meyer thinks that we should read yathdparddham instead of yathagunam here 


as well. Cp Cs understand ‘double, three times, etc. according to the offence,’ i.¢., appa- 
rently according to repetition of the offence. This also seems likely. 


2.9.17] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 90 


should be punished according to the offence. 17 He who makes out as 
expenditure the revenue (he has raised) consumes the works of men. 18 He 
should be punished according to the offence in cases of loss (or waste) of days 
of work, the price of goods and the wages of men. 


19 ‘Therefore, he who is appointed by an order to a particular 
‘department shall communicate to him (i.e., the king) the real nature 
of that work and the income and expenditure (both) in detail and in 
the aggregate. 


20 And he should keep in check the patrimony-squanderer, the immedi- 
ate-spender and the niggardly. 21 He who consumes in unjust ways the 
property inherited from the father and the grand-father is the patrimony- 
squanderer. 22 He who straightway consumes whatever is produced is the 
immediate-spender. 23 He who amasses wealth by putting his dependents 
and himself to suffering is the niggardly. 24 If he has a (large) party (depen- 
dent on him), he is not to be deprived of property; in the opposite case, he 
should be deprived of all property. 


25 Of that niggardly officer who, placed in charge of a large amount of 
revenue, stores it, deposits it or sends it out, — stores it in his own house, 
deposits it with citizens or country people, sends it out to an enemy’s territory, 
—— a secret agent should find out the party of advisers, friends, dependents and 
kinsmen as well as the coming in and going out of goods. 26 And having 


17 samudayam vyayam upanayati: Cb Cp Cs Meyer understand ‘who brings in the 
expenditure as income,’ i.e., the sanctioned expenditure instead of being spent on the 
work is returned to the treasury as income from that work. For this we expect vyayam 
samudayam (iti) upanayati. As the parallel ss. 13, 15 show, samudayam is the object, 
not part of the predicate. Moreover, on this explanation, there is no apahdra to 
which the nexts. refers. The idea rather is that the income actually raised from 
the work is represented as expenditure. Thus no benefit is derived by the state and 
the labour of workmen is wasted so far as the state is concerned. The difference 
between s. 18 and thiss. is that in the former case no revenue (or less revenue) 
is produced, while in this case revenue is produced, but spent away instead of being 
brought to the treasury. 18 karmadivasa- etc.: with Meyer, three things should be 
understood, karmadivasa, dravyamulya and purusavetana. Cp Cs understand two things 
‘loss of the price fixed for the fruit of the work that would have been achieved on those 
days and loss of wages by the labourers.’ — There is apahdra in this case because the 


net income is pocketed by the officer. It may be calculated on the basis of karmadivasa 
ctc. that are lost. 


eh Cp Cs understand by sa all three. However, only the niggardly seems meant, as 
Cj shows. The confiscation of property thought of has hardly any scope in the first two 
cases. -— anddeyah: according to Cs, though his property may not be seized, he himself 
is to be removed from office. Thatis not certain. — parydddtavyah: Cb has ‘should be 


removed from office.’ Cf. however 5.2.54, 58 where this meaning scems unlikely. The 
confiscation of all property is meant. 


25 samnidhatle, ..paravisaye has to be understood as parenthetical. It is possible that 
this is a marginal gloss that has got into the text. 26 samcdram ‘movement,’ i.c., coming 


91 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.9. 86 


insinuated himself into the confidence of that (servant) of his who might be 
making movements (to and fro) in the enemy’s territory, he should find out 
the secret. 27 When it is fully ascertained, he should cause him to be ex- 
ecuted on the pretext of a letter from the enemy. 


28 Therefore, his superintedents should carry out the works accompanied 
by accountants, writers, examiners of coins, receivers of balances and super- 
visors. 29 Supervisors are those who ride elephants, horses and chariots. 


80 Their assistants, endowed with skill and integrity, (should work) as spies 
over the accountants and others. 


81 He should establish (each) department with many heads and without 
permanency (of tenure of office). 


82 Just as it is not possible not to taste honey or poison placed 
on the surface of the tongue, even so it is not possible for one dealing 


with the money of the king not to taste the money in however small 
a quantity. 


88 Just as fish moving inside water cannot be known when drinking 


water, even so Officers appointed for carrying out works cannot be known 
when appropriating money. 


84 It is possible to know even the path of birds flying in the sky, 
but not the ways of officers moving with their intentions concealed. 


85 And he should make those who have amassed (money 
wrongfully) yield it up and should change them in (their) works, 


so that they do not consume (the king’s) property or disgorge what 
is consumed. 


86 But those who do not consume (the king’s) goods and increase 
them in just ways, should be made permanent in their offices, being devo- 
ted to what is agreeable and beneficial to the king. 


in and going out. — anupravisya : cf. 1.17.39; 1.18.9. 27 satrusdsandpadesgena, i.e., with 
a forged letter supposedly written by the enemy to the officer, suggesting that the money 
sent by the latter was received by him. 

29 uttarddhyaksdh : these are evidently trained in the army and work as supervisors 
ostensibly for guarding the works and protecting royal property. They could hardly be 
‘deputy adhyaksas’ as Stein (AOr, 6, 42) thinks. 

81 anityam implies frequency of transfer from department to department. 

$82 arthacara ‘an officer handling money.’ 


84 caratam: Meyer following Sorabji understands the idea of ‘grazing, feeding on,’ 


i.e., swallowing, adding that car is still used in this sense in India. That is however 
not certain. 


2.10.1] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 92 


CHAPTER TEN 
SECTION 28 THE TOPIC OF EDICTS 


1-. They declare that as sdsana (edict) which is used for giving (directions 
or) orders. 2 For, kings principally depend on edicts, peace and war being 
rooted in them. 


8 Therefore, the scribe should be endowed with the excellences of a 
minister, conversant with all conventions, quick in composing, with a beautiful 
hand and capable of reading a document. 


4 He should listen with an attentive mind to the command of the king 
and set it down in writing, which is precise in meaning, with a courteous 
mention of the country, the sovereignty, the family and the namc in the case 
ofaking, and with the customary mention of the country and the name in 
the case of one who is not a king. 

5 Having taken into consideration, in (every) matter, the caste, 
the family, the position, age and learning, the profession, property and 
character, also the place and time and connections by marriage, he should 
compose the document in conformity with the person (addressed). 


6 Arrangement of subject-matter, connection, completeness, sweetness, 
exaltedness and lucidity constitute the excellences of writing. 7 Among 
them, arranging in a proper order, the statement first of the principal matter, 
is arrangement of subject-matter. 8 The statement of a subsequent matter 
without its being incompatible with the matter in hand, right up to the end, 
is connection. 9 Absence of deficiency or excess of matter, words and letters, 
description in detail of the matter by means of reasons, citations and illustra- 
tions, (and) expressiveness of words, is completeness. 10 The use of words 


2.10 


1 sdsane, i.e., forissuing directions or orders. Itmay also mean ‘for purposes of adminis- 
tration.” 2 tanmiilatudt samdhivigrayoh: Stein (ZI, 6, 48) thinks that these words are a 
gloss, as they do not apply to all sdsanas or written documents. However, the clause 
secms quite genuine as it supports the statement §dsanapradhdnd rdjdnah where rajasdsana 
alone can be thought of. 


3 samaya may be ‘conventions’ of writing or customs of different classes of men 
(Cp Cs); Cp adds that according to some, it means ‘script’ or ‘language.’ — dsugranthah 
may be* quick in composing ’ or‘ quickin writing ’. Cj reads adgugrathanah, whichis better. 

4 Cp seems to have read niéscityartham. 


8 Cp Cj read prakriasya for prastutasya. 9 uddharana is, according to Cb Cs, ‘ con- 
formity with statements in the sdsiras’ and drstanta ‘an instance from actual life.’ — 
asrdntapadatd : according to the commentators, this means ‘ the use of a word (e.g. saridha- 
tsva) fora sentence (e.g. samdhim kuru).’ This would be economy of words. The expression 
literally means * having words that are not tired or exhausted, ’ i.e., probably words which 


? 


ae on power of expression, expressive words. Russ. has ‘ being without superfluous 
y: 


93 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS’ [ 2. 10. 22 


with a charming meaning easily conveyed is sweetness. 11 The use of words 
that are not vulgar is exaltedness. 12 The employment of words that are 
well-known is lucidity. 


13 The letters (in the alphabet) beginning with a are sixty-three. 14 A 
combination of letters is a word. 15 That is four-fold: noun, verb, preposi- 
tion and particle. 16 Among them, a noun signifies being. 17 A verb, 
not having a specific gender, is indicative of action. 18 Those that qualify 
an action, pra and others, are prepositions. 19 Indeclinables, ca and others, 
are particles. 20 A collection of words constitutes a sentence, when the 
sense is completed. 21 A group with a minimum of one word and a maxi- 
mum of three words should be made, not conflicting with the meaning of the 
other words. 


22 For concluding the writing, the word zz and (the sub-script) ‘ These 
are the words of so and so’ (should be used). 


13 varnds trigastih: these are 22 vowels (5 short, 8 long and 9 pluta), 25 mutes 
(k, kh ...m), 4 semi-vowels, 4 non-combinables (anusvdra, visarga, jihudmiliya amd upadh- 
mdniya), 4 sibilants, and 4 yama-conjuncts (doubles of the first four in each group of mutes 
before the nasal of the same group). Thisis according to the Tatitiriya Pratigakhya and the 
Paniniya Siksd. 14 varnasamghatah padam : Stein (ZII, 6, 51-2) thinks that this definition 
is incomplete and should be corrected to varnds trisastir varnasamghdtah ; varnasamudayo 
*ksaram ; tatsamuddyah padam, as in the Vdjasaneya Pratisakhya (8.50). There seems little 
justification for doing so. — taccaturvidham: cf. Nirukia 1.1.8 ff. Stcin points to similarities 
with the Vajasaneya and Rk Pratigakhyas, but though he states that the conclusion from all 
this could be that this text represents pre-Paninian knowledge, he adds ‘a corresponding 
chronological deduction can hardly be made.’ It is not easy to see why not. 16 sativa 
‘being ’ is distinguished in the Nirukia from bhava ‘becoming.’ 20 Stcin compares the 
Tarkasamgraha. 21 vargah: according to the commentators this means ‘a compound,’ 
and the idea is, it should have 1 to 8 words in addition to the first, i.e., a compound should 
have 2 to 4 words. The compound should also be in conformity with the later words (2nd 
to 4th, parapadarthanuparodhena). Only Cj anderstands parapada as the principal word, 
which may be the first (as in piirvakdya) or second (as in rdjapurusa) or both (as in dharmar- 
thau) Or Outside the compound (as in bahupuira). Cb offers another explanation ‘ groups 
of words should be so formed that they are not likely to be wrongly construed with the 
preceding or the following words. E.g., after purdnam manavo dharmah svako vedas cikiisi- 
tam, djndsiddhdni catudri, we should have hantavyani na hetubhih, and not na hantavyani 
hetubhih ; for, in the latter case, na is likely to be construed with @jridsiddhani.’ This is 
referred to as the opinion of ‘some’ in Cp and is reproducedin Cs. Cs has another expla- 
nation in which eka . . .parah alone is taken to refer to compounds as above and parapadd- 
rihd- etc. is understood to mean ‘ pause, i.e, the sign of a pause, such as a comma etc. should 
be made, without harming the sense of the following words.’ There seems no reason, how- 
ever, why ekapada- etc. should be understood independently of thelatter. This explanation 
of the entire s. may well have been intended. Meyer understands varga as ‘ accumulation ’” 
i.e., padding, in order to make the sense of One word clear or to strengthen it. ‘A whole 
with a single meaning ° (Russ.) evidently refers to a compound. — anurodhena and anupa- 
rodhena ultimately mean the same thing. 


22 vdacikam asya: Cp Cs have ‘when a part of the message is not written down but is 
to be communicated by the person carrying the letter, the words ‘‘ oral message should be 
heard from the bearer of this letter’’ should be added at the end.’ This agrees with 
Mudrdaraksasa, Act 5, but is extremely doubtful here. The reference is only to the writing 
of the name of the person on whose behalf the letter is written. Cj supplies sraddheyam 
‘the words of so and so must be believed ’ adding that this is possible only in the case of 
the vdcikalekha of s. 48 below. 


2.10. 23] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 94 


28-24 Censure, praise, query, statement, request, refusal, reproof, 
prohibition, injunction, appeasement, help, threatening and propitiation, 
— with these thirteen are matters arising out of writing concerned. 


25 Among these, mention of defects concerning birth, body or actions is 
censure. 26 Mention of the merits of these same is praise. 27 ‘How is this 
so?’ is query. 28 “Thus (it is)’ is statement. 29 ‘Give (it to me)’ is request. 
80 ‘I will not give’ is refusal. 81 ‘(This is) unworthy of you’ is reproof. 
82 ‘Do not do (so)’ is prohibition. 83 ‘Let this be done’ is injunction. 
84 ‘What I am is you; what object belongs to me is yours’ this conciliation 
is appeasement. 385 Aid in calamities is help. 386 Pointing to the future as 
full of danger is threatening. 87 Propitiation is threefold, in doing a thing, 
in case of transgression and during the calamity of a person and so on. 


88 Documents of communication, command and gift, documents 
of exemption and authorization, (the document) giving news of happen- 
ings, the document in reply and (the document) applicable everywhere, 
— these are (types of) decrees. 


89 ‘So and so has communicated; he has said so; hence let it be 
given if there be truth (in it)’, ‘He has spoken of an excellent deed 
in the presence of the king,’ this is communication stated to be of 
various kinds. 


40 Where there is the command of the king concerning punishment 
or favour, especially in the matter of servants, that is the characteristic 
of a decree of command. 


41 Where honour, rendered in accordance with merits, is to be 
seen, whether in distress or when making a gift, those two become 
(decrees of) favour. 


24 abhyupapattih: both here and in s. 85 this is how the word must be read (as in Cj 
Cp) and not as abhyavapattih asin the mss. The latter means ‘surrender’ asin 12.1.11. 
— arthah lekhajah, i.e., subject-matter of a writing. 

87 arthakrtau, i.e., for the sake of getting some work of one’s own done. — atikrame, 
i.e., in case of transgression by oneself. — purusddi-, i.e., when some person is in distress 
etc. — Stein (ZII, 6,56-7) has pointed out that a partly agreeinglistisfound in the Brhad- 
devald, 1.85 ff., Nirukia, 7.8, Kavyddaréga, 2.30 ff. and the lexicons. 

_ 89 According to Cb Cp Cs there are two communications here, one in the first two 
lines and the otherin the third line, both from persons at the court to officers away from 
court. The first communicationis ‘ some one has told the king (that you have discovered a 
treasure-trove and have appropriated it) ; on that the king has said thus (if the officer does 
not hand it over, I shall recover double from him). So better hand over if there is truth (in 
the report about the treasure-trove).’ The second is ‘some one has told the king that you 
have done a good deed.’ Cj seems to understand in the first communication ‘you are re- 
ported to have a horse worthy of the king ; if true, give it to him ’ and in the second ‘I have 
learnt from the king that your act is approved and you will certainly get some benefit.’ — 
The use of both ced and yadi is rather strange. 


41 Cp understands paridane twice, once as loc. sing. like ddhau and again as nom. 
dual tn the sense of paridanalekhau with upagrahau as adjective to it in the sense of * occa- 


s 


95 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.10. 47 


42 The favour, which (is conferred) at the command of the king, 
on the various castes and on the different cities, villages and regions, 
the expert should designate as (the decree of) exemption. 


43 The delegation of authority in the matter of doing a work and 
in the matter of issuing orders, this may be a document authorizing (the 
issuing of) orders or even containing an authorization (for doing a work). 


44 With respect to a document, they designate happenings as of 
two kinds, (viz.,) those associated with the divine, of various kinds, and 
those concerning men, based on facts. 


45 After seeing the document as it really is and then after reading 


it out, the document in reply should be prepared exactly as the words of 
the king (may be). 


46 That, in which the king asks the princes and officers to ensure 
protection and comforts for travellers, would be (the decree) called appli- 


cable everywhere ; it should be known on the road, in the country and 
everywhere (else). 


47 The means are conciliation, gifts, dissension and force. 


sions for showing favour.’ The difficulty is that pariddne is neut., while upagrahau is mas. 
It seems obvious that ins. 38 this document is named pariddna, while here it is called upa- 
graha. Cs supplies sa pariddnalekhah at the end of the first half and explains the second 
half ‘ these two become the means of showing favour during distress felt by the addressee 
and when showing compassion towards a servant.’ pariddna as ‘ daydviskarana’ seems 
hardly possible. Cb seems to have read paridhane ‘ on the occasion of mental distress (@dhau) 
and bodily illness (paridhdne).’ Meyer suggests ddhi as ‘ pledge’ or the same as upddhi 
‘title’; eitheris unlikely. It seems that a condolence letter and a letter of gift are meant. 


483 kdryakaraneis from Cb. kdaryd of the mss. implies that instructions about writing 
are being given. But we have descriptions of documents here, not instructions about 
writingthem. Cjseemsto have read nisrstisthapandm kurydt. — vdcikalekhah...naisrstikah: 
the translation follows the explanation in Cp Cs, the former as authorization toissue orders 
in the king’s name (corresponding to vacane) and the latter as authorization to carry out 
a work (corresponding to kdryakarane). Cb Cj seem to understand vdcikalekha as only 
another name for naisrstika. Meyer has ‘a document in the very words of the king (vdctka) 
or the result of another authorization (naisrstika),’ making four varietiesin all. 


44, daivasamyuktam, i.e., about divine calamities. — tattvajam refers to mdnusim 
pravritim and means ‘based On actual happenings,’ (‘real’ Cb). ‘Concerning spiritual 
well-being’ (Cs) is little likely. 

45 pratyanubhdsya ‘reading Out’ to the king (Cs) rather than to himself (Meyer). 

46 pathikartham : Cj understands that the diiia or envoyis meant. Other travellers 


too may be understood. — itfvardn: ‘durgapdla, antapdla, etc.’ (Cb and others). 
Feudatory princes seem to have been primarily meant. 


47 Cf. 9.5.9 ff. and 9.6.20 ff. — Stein (ZII,6, 64-5) considers it extraordinary that 
the four updyas which properly belong to niti ‘foreign policy’ should have been discussed 
here. But since royal decrees are under consideration (in the preceding ss.) this discussion 
is not unnatural here; for, royal documents would be concerned with one or the other of 
the upayas. The lists in ss. 28-87 above (regarding documents in general) andin ss. 47-56 
(regarding royal decrees) are not mutually exclusive. The differences between the present 


passage and 9.5.10-11 and 9.6.24 are due to difference in context, perhaps also to a difference 
in sources. 


2. 10. 48 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 96 


48 Among them, conciliation is five-fold, praising of merits, mention of 
relationship, pointing out mutual benefits, showing (advantages in) the future, 
and placing oneself at the (other’s) disposal. 49 Amongst these, appreciation 
of the merits of birth, body, occupation, nature, learning, property and so on, 
praise, adulation, this is praising of merits. 50 The praising of (common) 
kinship, marriage relationship, relationship through teaching, relationship thr- 
ough sacrificial performances, (common ) family, ( affection of the ) heart, and 
(common) friend, this is mention of relationship. 51 The praising of mutual 
benefits accruing to one’s party and the party of the other, this is pointing 
out mutual benefits. 52 ‘If this were done in this way, this will happen 
to us (both)’ this raising of hope is showing (advantages in) the future. 
58 ‘What I am is you, what object belongs to me should be used by you in 
your works,’ this is placing oneself at the (other’s) disposal. 


* 54 Conferring benefits of money is making gifts. 
55 Creating apprehension and reprimanding is dissension. 
56 Killing, tormenting and seizure of property constitute force. 


57 Absence of charm, contradiction, repetition, incorrect (use of a) 
word, and confusion, — these are the defects of writing. 58 Among them, 
(the use of a ) black leaf, (and) writing unattractive, uneven and faint letters 
constitute absence of charm. 59 The incompatibility of the later with the 
earlier is contradiction. 60 Statement a second time of what is said without 
any distinction ‘is repetition. 61 The wrong use of gender, number, tense 
and case is incorrect (use of a) word. 62 ‘The making of a group where there 
should be no group and not making a group where there should be a group, 
this reversal of qualities is confusion. 


68 After going through all the sciences in detail and after observing 
the practice (in such matters), Kautilya has made these rules about edicts 
for the sake of kings. 


49 gunagrahanam from Cb is obviously necessary. gundguna as ‘merits that are 
there and that are not there’ (Meyer) is hardly convincing. — pragamsdstutih: one of the 
words is superfluous. Cs has ‘praise of existing merits and mention of non-existent merits.’ 
50 kula, i.e., friendship between the two families without there being any kinship. — 
hrdaya refers to friendship between the parties themselves, while mitra refers to a common 
friend. 58 dlmopanidhdnam corresponds to sdniva in s. 84 above. 

57 lekhadosah: as Stein (ZII, 6, 65) points out this discussion of defects in writing 
should preferably have come after that of excellences in ss. 6-12 above. 58 kdlapatrakam: 
Cp explains ‘writing Over a partly written leaf or on a naturally dark leaf (likhitocchiste 
svato vd maline patre likhitam).’ Cb Cj read kdlapatitam ‘writing over a dimmed earlier 
writing (Cb), rubbed off after writing’ (Cj). 62 Here Cp understands varga as yati 

We enais - Someone 18 Only a description of avarage varga- etc. (Cb and Meyer): 

63 Kautilyena: Cp says that the implication is that other writers before him had not 
composed @ correspOnding section. — narendrarthe: there is nothing to show that 
narendra here is 2a special designation of Candragupta Maurya or that sdsana means 
‘established law,’ as V.R.R. Dikshitar (THQ, III, 178-9) thinks. 


97 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.11.6 


CHAPTER ELEVEN 


SECTION 29 EXAMINATION OF THE PRECIOUS ARTICLES TO BE 
RECEIVED INTO THE TREASURY 


1 The Superintendent of the Treasury should receive jewels, articles 
of high value, articles of small value or forest produce, to be received into the 
treasury, (while) presiding over bureaus of experts in the (various) lines. 


2 That from the Tamraparni, that from Pandyaka-vata, that from the 
Pasika, that from the Kula, that from the Curni, that from (Mt.) Mahendra, 
that from the Kardama, that from the Srotasi, that from the Lake, and that 
from the Himavat, these are pearls. 83 The shell, the conch and miscellan- 
eous are the sources (of pearls). 


4 (A pearl that is) lentil-shaped, triangular, tortoise-shaped, semi- 
spherical, with a layer, coupled, cut up, rough, spotted, gourd-shaped, dark, 
blue, and badly perforated, is defective. 5 (That which is) big, round, with- 
out a flat surface, lustrous, white, heavy, smooth and perforated at the proper 
place is excellent. 


6 Sirsaka, upasirsaka, prakdndaka, avaghdtaka and taralapratibaddha, 
— these are varieties of (pearl-) strings. 


2.11 


raina includes sdra and phalgu as well, but not kupya which is described in 2.17 below, 
though s. 1 includes it along with the others. — Cb has prdavegya also here. — adhistht- 
tah: see 2.5.8. 


1 kosddhyaksah: this Officer is clearly under the samnidhdatr; cf. 2.5.8 where the latter 
is referred to as receiving articles in the treasury. 


2 pdandyakavdtaka : Cb Cp identify Pandyakavata with Mt. Malayakoti in the Pandya 
country. H. V. Trivedi (IC, I, 249-50) thinks it is either Negapatam or Ramnad ‘the 
port of embarkation for Ceylon.’ — pdsikya: the river Pasika ‘in the Pandya country’ (Cj) 
seems more likely than ‘near P&taliputra’ (Cb Cp). — kauleya: the river Kula is near 
Mayuragrama in Ceylon (Cb Cp). — caurneya: the river Curniis near the town Muraci in 
Kerala (Cb Cp); river Cirna near Kerala (Cj). — kdardamika: river Kardama is in Parasika 
(Cp), in Conidega (Cb), in the Uttarapatha (Cj). — srautastya: river Srotasi is on the shore 
of Barbara (Cp) or Parpara (Cb). — hrddiya ‘from a pool called Srighanta in the sea off 
the coast of Barbara’ (Cp) or Parpara (Cb). 3 prakirnakam: Cp quotes a memorial 
verse mentioning six such sources, the temple Of an elephant, the hood of a serpent etc. 


4 According to Cp, tripuiais also a kind of grain. — siktakam: Cb text shows siktha- 
kam, but the explanation ‘spotted’ presupposes sikiaka. Cs adopting sikthaka explains 
‘having spots of the shape of stktha (bees’ wax ? or boiled rice ?).’ 


6 sirsaka ‘with One big pearl in the centre, the rest small and uniform in size’ (Cb Cp). 
— upagirsaka ‘one big pearl with a small pearl on each side of it,—a series of these’ (Cb). 
— prakdndaka ‘one big pearl with two small pearls on each side—a series of these’ (Cb). 
Cp seems to understand ‘with five pearls as principal, i.e.. in the centre.’ — avaghdtaka 
‘a big pearl in the centre with pearls gradually decreasing in size on both sides’ (Cb Cp). 
— taralapratibaddha ‘a string of uniform-sized pearls throughout’ (Cb which, however, 
reads -pratividdham). The readings and explanations of Cj are far from clear. — yastipra- 
bhedah is from the commentators for -pradesak of the mss. 


2.11.7 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 98 


7 One thousand and eight strings make the indracchanda (necklace). 
8 Half that (number) make the vijayacchanda. 9 Sixty-four make the 
ardha-hara. 10 Fifty-four make the rasmi-kalapa. 11 Thirty-two make 
the guccha. 12 Twenty-seven make the naksatra-malad. 18 Twenty-four 
make the ardha-guccha. 14 Twenty (strings) make the mdnavaka. 15 Half 
that (number) make the ardha-manavaka. 16 These same, with a gem in the 
centre, become their (respective) mdnavakas. 


17 (A necklace of ) only Sirsakas is an unmixed hara. 18 Like that, 
are the rest. 19 With a gem in the centre, it is an ardhamdnavaka. 


20 One with three strips is a phalaka-hara or one with five strips. 


21 A single string is the unmixed ekavalt. 22 The same, with a gem 
in the centre, is the yasti. 28 Variegated with gold and gems it is the 
ratnavali. 24 With gold, gems and pearls at intervals, it is the apavartaka. 
25 With stringing in a gold thread it is the sopdnaka. 26 Or, with a gem 
in the centre, it is the mani-sopdnaka. 


27 By that are explained varieties of strings and net-works for the 
head, hands, feet and waist. 


8 After s. 8 Cb adds Salam devacchandah, explained rather curiously as ‘containing 
881 strings.’ — The commentators add that these varieties are primarily for decoration 
in temples etc. (devalavitanddisu gobhadkarandrtham—Cj). — The Brhat Samhitd, 81.31-36 
has a closely parallel passage with a few variations. It has a hara of 108 strings, its 
ardhaguccha has 20 strings, mdnavaka 16 and ardhkamdnavaka 12 and it adds a mandara of 8 
strings and a hdraphalaka of 5. 16 cte eva ‘i.e., an indracchanda with a gemin the centre 
instead of a pearl is indracchanda-mdnavaka and so on’ (Cb Cp); ‘e.g., padmardgendraccha- 
nda and so on’(Cj). Meyer has ‘these have a gem in the centre, therefore they are called 
manavakas.’ tat in the sense of ‘therefore’ seems doubtful here. 


17 ekagirsakah etc. ‘when in an indracchanda we have Only $irsaka strings, we get 
indracchandasirsakaSuddhahdara, and so on’ (Cp). This is what seems meant. Cb has ‘when 
there are only pearls in sirsaka etc. it is called a Suddha hdra.’ According to Cj there are 
twenty strings in a suddhasirsaka hdara, but only one according to others mentioned in it. 
Meyer’s ‘with one big pearl in the centre and made of bright pearls (Suddha) is the Ravisher 
(hdra)’is doubtful. 19 Because of a different ardha-mdnavaka in s. 15 above, Meyer regards 
ss. 17-19 as suspicious. 


20 triphalakah etc. : phalaka seems to be a strip of gold on which pearls or gems are 
set. A phalakahdra (as distinguished from guddha hdra) has 8 or 5 such strips. Thus in 
the main Cb. Cs reads 19 and 20 as ones. ‘an ardha-mdnavaka (of s.15) witha gemin the 
centre, if accompanied by 8 or 5 strips of gold on which the gem in the centre is inlaid, 
is called a phalakahdra.’ Thisisnot unlikely. Cj seems to have‘a ten-stringed ardha- 
manavaka witha gem in the centre, with three or five gold-strips inlaid with gems strung in 
between is a phalakahdra.’ 


21 sillram : according to the commentators, sfiira is the name and ekdvali is descriptive 
ofit. The closely parallel Br. Sarn., 81.36, however, gives ekavali as the name, adding that 
it is 1 hasta in length. —D has a folio covering ss. 21-39. 23 hcmamani ‘beads of gold’ 
(Cb Cp); ‘gold and gems’ (Cj as also Meyer, who argues that without an actual gem the name 
tatndoalt would hardly be justified). —apavariaka probably contains a reference to the 
warding off of the evil eye. 25 suvarnasiitrdntaram ‘with gold plates only, without gems’ 
(Cb), ‘with gold only in various designs and with holes for threads to be woven in or with 
catches On both sides for holding the thread’ (Cp), ‘where a pearl is strung in a single gold 
thread (suvarnasitrena ekena antaritar mauktikam yaira tat)’ (Cj). Thislast explanation 
has been adopted. 26 manisopdnakam : Cj says that the name would vary with the gem 
used, vsidiryasopanaks, vajrasopanaka and so on. That seems reasonable. . 


99 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.11. 35 


28 Gems come from Koti, from the Mala, and from beyond the sea. 


29 Theruby, of the colour of the red lotus, of the colour of saffron, o: 
the (colour of) pdrijata-flower, (and) of the (colour of the) morning sun. 
30 The beryl, of the colour of the blue lotus, of the Sirisa-flower, of the 
colour of water, of the colour of (green) bamboo, of the colour of the parrot’s 
wing, yellow-coloured, of the colour of cow’s urine (and) of cow’s fat. 381 The 
sapphire, with blue lines, like the kaldya-flower. deep blue, having the lustre 
of the jambi-fruit, having the lustre of the dark cloud, the ‘delighter’ (and) 
the ‘streaming interior.’ 32 The pure crystal, of the colour of mzldfa-flower, 
shedding a cool shower and the sun-stone. These are the gems. 


838 Hexagonal, square or round, of a flashing colour, having a suitable 
form, clear, smooth, heavy, lustrous, with lustre inside and imparting lustre, — 
these are the excellences of gems. 34 With a dull colour and lustre, with 
grains, with a hole in the bloom, broken, badly bored, (and) covered with 
scratches, — these are blemishes. 


85 The vimalaka, the sasyaka, the atijanamilaka, the pitiaka, the 
sulabhaka, the lohitaksa, the mrgasmaka, the jyotirasaka, the mdleyaka, the 


28 kautah: ‘from Koti between Malaya and the sea’ (Cp), ‘from Mt. Kuta’ (Cb C)}). 
— mdleyakah : ‘from Malaya’ (Cb Cj), ‘from Mala, a part of Malaya also called Karnivana’ 
(Cp). — parasamudrakah: ‘from Mt. Rohana in Ceylon’ (com.). 


29-32 The explanation attributed to ‘others’ in Cp is adopted, saugandhika, vaidirya 
and indranila being regarded as adhikara-gabdas or generic names Of various types of gems 
and the words following each understood as varieties of these. This arrangement is found 
in Russ. Cp itself regards saugandhika as only a variety of mdnikya orruby. That is in 
conformity with the Mdnasolldsa, 2.475-6. But the Br. Sam., 82.1, seems to regard saugan- 
dhika as a basic variety of gems. — padmardgo ’navadya- is necessary for padmdnaradya-, 
as two different types are thought of. —nildvaliyah is read after indranilah as in D; it is 
more likely to be a variety of sapphire than of vaidiirya. —JIt is to he noted that marakata 
itself isnot mentioned. — pusyardga ‘yellow like turmeric’ (Cp). —nandaka ‘white inside 
and blue outside’ (Cp). —sravanmadhya ‘having rays shooting like flowing water’ (Cp). 
The words guddhasphatiko mildtavarnah are from the commentators, but seem to be 
genuine. In D they are found before indranilah, clearly outof place. Cj, however, with the 
same reading as D, understands suddhasphatika and milddivarna as two further types of 
pusyardga. —miildta, according to Cb Cp is ‘curds with the upper layer removed.’ It may 
mean the flower of the mildti plant. — Cb has vaidirya of five types up to Sukapalravarna, 
pusyaraga of two types up to gomedaka, then guddhasphatika of two types miuldtavarna 
and nildvaliya, indranila of four types up to jimitaprabha, and nandaka of three types, 
sravanmadhya, $itavrsti and siiryakdnta. Cj has padmardga, vaidirya, pusyaraga, indranila, 
mahanila, nandaka (i.e., candrakdnia) and siryakdnta as the basic types. —AItisalso con- 
ceivable that from saugandhika to stiryakdnia, we havea single list of gems, without basic 
types and varieties. The absence of ca anywhere except at the end might indicate this. 


33 samsthdnavan ‘capable of being tied or set’ (com.); ‘possessed of firmness, hard’ 
(Meyer). The former as implying a suitable form or shape seems better. —Br. Sam, 82.3, 
is closely parallel. 84 puspacchidrah ‘with a drop in the interior’ (Cp), ‘with a flower- 
like whitish spot? (Cb). In the closely parallel Br. Sam., 82.4, this word seems to have been 
replaced by sadhdtu ‘with some mineral.’ 


85 vimalaka ‘white-red’ (Cb), ‘green’ (Cp). sasyaka ‘blue.’ arijanamiilaka “dark- 
blue.’ pitiaka ‘of the colour of cow’s bile.’ sulabhaka ‘white.’ lohitaksa ‘black in the 
centre and red at the fringe.’ mrgasmaka ‘white and black.’ jyotirasaka ‘white-red. 


2.11.36] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 100 


ahicchatraka, the kirpa, the pratikirpa, the sugandhikirpa, the ksitravaka, 
the sukticiirnaka, the stlapravalaka, the pulaka, the suklapulaka, — these 
are subsidiary types (of gems). 386 The rest are glass-crystals. 


87 Diamonds come from Sabharastra, from Tajjamarastra, from Kastira- 
rastra, from (Mt.) Srikatanaka, from (Mt.) Manimanta and from Indravana. 
88 The mine, the stream, and miscellaneous are the sources. 


89 Like the cat’s eye, the strisa-flower, cow’s urine, cow’s fat, pure 
crystal, (or) the muldta-flower, and of the colour of any one of the gems, 
— these are the colours of diamonds. 


40 (A diamond that is) big, heavy, capable of bearing blows, with 
symmetrical points, (capable of) scratching a vessel, revolving like a spindle 
and brilliantly shining is excellent. 41. That with points lost, without edges 
and defective on one side is bad. 


42 The coral from Alakanda and from Vivarna, red and of the colour of 
the lotus (is excellent), with the exception of that which is eaten by insects and 
which is bulging in the middle. 


madleyaka (v. 1. maileyaka) ‘vermilion-coloured.’ ahicchatraka ‘ofa faint red colour.’ kirpa 
‘with sand-grains inside.’ pratikirpa ‘of the colour of sikthaka (bees’ wax?).’ sugandht- 
kiirpa ‘of the colour of the mudga-bean.’ ksiravaka ‘milk-coloured.’ suktictirnaka ‘many- 
coloured.’ gilapravdlaka ‘coral-coloured.’ pulaka ‘with a black interior’. Suklapulaka 
‘with a white interior.’ Thus mostly Cp Cs. The names of some of these appear in a 
different from and the explanations of some differin Cj. Most of these names have no 
doubt reference to colour, but mdleyaka and ahicchatraka apparently refer to theplace of their 
origin. 36 kdcamanayah: artificial gems are clearly meant (yathoklamanirdgaprabhanu- 
ka@rinah—Cj). Cp explains by dhdtudravyamaya ‘made of mineral substances.’ 
87 Sabhdrdstra is Vidarbha (vidarbhavisaye venndkanthaparsve jdtam sabhdrastrakam 
— Cj). Cb reads mahdrdastrakam identifying the country with Aratta. — tajjamdrdstrakam: 
Cj, reading tajjumd-, explains ‘from Bhogavalli in the Kalingas.’ G M read madhyamardas- 
trakam ‘from the Kosalas’ (Cp Cs). —kdstirardstrakam: Cp seems to identify it with Kasi. 
Patafijali on Panini 6.1.154 takes Kastira to be a Vahika-grama (V. S. Agrawala, India as 
Known to Panini (Lucknow, 1958), p. 65). Cj has ‘kasmirardstrakam sirpakarabhiimijam.’ — 
$rikatanakam: ‘Kdjiicidesa kankddisu (?) paroate’ (Cj). According to Oldham (JBORS, 
18, 196) the locality is to be sought in the neighbourhood of Jabalpur Dist. “There are 
villages called Katanga and Katangi still in the vicinity’ (197 n. 2). — manimantakam: 
Mt. Manimanta is in the Uttarapatha (Cp); ‘sarkabhimijam (?)’ (Cj). Manimantha is men- 
tioned in the Mahabharata, 18.18.88. — indravadnakam ‘from the Kalingas’ (Cp), ‘from 
the K4lindi (kdlindyam ?)’ (Cj). Cb’s reading seems to be tsuvdnaka or tluvdanaka. 


40 bhdjanalekhi ‘able to scratch when shaken in a kamsya vessel containing water’ 
(Cb). —tarkubhrami: ‘though not revolving, yet appearing to revolve’ (Cb Cp). darku 
is a spindle and ‘revolving like a spindle’ seems also likely. Meyer understands the idea of 
rays shooting from it like a spindle and would even read tarkubhramibhrdjisnu as one word. 
41 parsvapaorita ‘slanting on one side’ (Cb). The idea seems to be that of one side not 
being symmetrical with the other sides. 


42 dlakandakam : Cj reads dlatsdndrakam, Cb dlasdndrakam. Cb has ‘Alasandra, a 
country in the sea off the coast of the Pappar land;’ this is Cp’s explanation of dlakandaka. 
The latter may possibly contain a reference to the Laccadiv islands. Jayaswal’s‘root-coral 
(Kanda) with a yellow tinge (dla)’ (Hindu Polity, I, App. C, 212 n. 1) seems little likely. — 
vaivarnikam : “Vivarna is off the Yavana-dvipa’ (Cp), ‘off Coniyadega’ (Cb). Cj reads vaival- 
gukam. — garbhinika ‘bulging in the middle’ (Cb), ‘with a yasti (strip?) in the middle’ 
(Cp); ‘with defects in the interior’ (Meyer). 


ae 


eens a se ne 


101 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.11. 61 


438 Sandal-wood from Satana is red and has the smell of the earth. 
44 That from GoSirsa is blackish red and smells like fish. 45 The sandal- 
wood from Hari is of the colour of the parrot’s feather and has the smell of a 
mango, also that from the Trnasa. 46 That from Grameru is red or red-black 
and has the smell of goat’s urine. 47 That from Devasabha is red and has 
the smell of a lotus, also that from Japa. 48 That from Jonga is red or 
red-black and smooth, also that from Turiipa. 49 That from the Mala is 
whitish red. 50 kucandana is rough, black like aloe or red or reddish black. 
51 That from Kala mountain is reddish black or of the colour of saffron. 
52 That from Kosagara mountain is black or black-variegated. 53 That 
from the Sitodaka hus the lustre of the lotus or is black and smooth. 54 That 


from Naga mountain is rough or of the colour of moss. 55 That from Sakala 
is brown. f 


56 Light, smooth, not dry, unctuous with oil like butter, pleasant 
in smell, penetrating the skin, unobtrusive, not losing colour, capable of 


bearing heat, allaying heat and pleasant to the touch, — these are the excellen- 
ces of sandal-wood. 


57 Aloe from Jonga is black, black-variegated or variegated with 
round spots. 58 That from Donga is dark. 59 That from beyond the sea 


has a variegated appearance (and) has the smell of ustra or the fragrance of 
navamalika. 


60 Heavy, smooth, of a pleasant smell, wide-spreading (in fragrance), 
burning well, without a thick smoke, of a uniform fragrance, capable of 
. standing a rubbing, — these are the excellences of aloe. 


61 Tailaparnika (incense) from ASokagrama has the colour of flesy and the 
fragrance of a lotus. 62 That from Jonga is reddish yellow and has the fra- 


43 The description of sara articles begins with thiss. — sdfanam ‘from the Satana coun- 
try’ (Cb), ‘from the Satana mountain’ (Cj). 44 gosirsakam ‘from the GoSirsa country’ (Cb); 
the name is more likely to be that of a mountain, asin Cj. 45 haricandanam ‘from the 
Haridega’ (Cb), ‘from the mountain shaped like hari, i.e., monkey’ (Cj). hari may possibly 


refer to the colour ‘tawny.’ — ¢@rnasam ‘from the mountain on the bank of the river 
Trnasa’ (Cj ). 46 Grameru is ‘a region’ (Cb), ‘a mountain’ (Cj). — basta ‘goat’ is the 


musk-deer, according to ‘some’ in the commentators. 47 Japa, Jonga and Turupa are in 
Kamarupa, the rest of the places mentioned in connection with sandalwood are in the 
Malaya region (com.). 51 Cb’s actual comment shows rakiakdlam before anavadyavarnam 
vd. That appeass to have been original. 53 Sitodaka ‘a river’ (Cj), ‘a country’ (Cp). 


56 sarpihsnehalepi: smearing with its oil is compared with smearing with butter. — 
tvaganusari ‘pleasantly penetrating up to the roots of the skin’s hair’ (Cb). — Ch seems 
to have read avikdri for avirdgi. Cf., however, s. 71 below. 


58 dongakam: ‘Donga is in Kamarupa’ (Cp).. Cj] seems to have read vdngakam 
‘from the Vangas.’ 


60 asamplutadhimam ‘without surging smoke’ seems to convey the idea of absence of 
Overpowcring smoke, while burning; ‘with a steady smoke, avasthitadhtimam’ (C}). 


G1 tailaparnika is a kind ofincense. Meyer thinks it is a fragrant oil used as a salve. 
All the places of origin are in Kamarupa (com.). 


2. 11. 63 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 102 


grance of a blue lotus or the smell of cow’s urine. 68 That from Grameru 
is smooth and has the smell of cow’s urine. 64 That from Suvarnakudya is 
reddish yellow and has the smell of the citron fruit. 65 That from Pirnaka- 
dvipa has the fragrance of a lotus or the smell of butter. 


66 Bhadrasriya from beyond the Lauhitya is of the colour of the jdiz- 
flower. 67 That from Antaravati is of the colour of wéira. 68 And both 
have the smell of kustha. 


69 Kdaleyaka from Svarnabhimi is smooth and yellow. 70 That from 
the northern mountain is reddish yellow. 


Thus the objects of high value. 


71 Capable of (retaining fragrance when) formed into a lump or boiled 
or producing smoke, not losing colour, and amenable to mixing (with other 
substances) ; 72 and qualities similar to those of sandal-wood and aloe, — 
these are their excellences. 


78 The kantandvaka and the praiyaka are skins from the northern 
mountain. 74 The kdntandvaka has the lustre of the peacock’s neck. 
75 The praiyaka is variegated with blue, yellow and white lines and spots. 
76 Both these are eight avgulas in length. 


77 The bist and the mahdbist come from Dvadasagrama. 78 The bist 
is of an indistinct colour, hairy or variegated. 79 The mahdbis? is rough, 
mostly white. 80 Both are twelve angulas in length. 


66 bhadragriya is camphor or takkola or grivdsaka or red sandalwood (Cp). 68 kustha 
is the name of a medicinal plant, also called paribhavya (com.). 


69 kaleyaka is also a kind of fragrant substance. It is daruharidrd (Amara, 2.4.101). 


— Svarnabhumi ‘Burma’ (Cs Meyer), ‘Sumatra’ (Meyer). 70 ullaraparoaia is evidently 
the Himalaya. 


71 pindakvatha- etc. : the idea of their retaining fragrance when formed into lumps 
etc. (com.) is preferable to the idea of their capability to form lumps etc. (Meyer). Cj 
seems to read gandha for-dhiima, ‘not losing its fragrance when mixed with something else.’ 
— yoganuvidhdayi,i.e., capable of mixing with other substances so as to retain the fragrance. 
— The adjectives here are in the neuter and would apply only to tailaparnika and bhadra- 
Sriya, hardly tokdleyakah. Perhapss.71 should be read afters. 68. And perhaps the words 
ttt sarah should be read after s. 72; for ss. '71-72 describe qualities of sara. 


7% The description of phalgu objects begins with this s. — kdntandvakam: this and 
praiyaka as names of skins are derived from the place of their origin, in the Himalayas (Cj). 
78 astanguldyamam : this comes to about six inches, clearly the skin of a very small animal. 
According to Cj it is the skin of the Himalayan rat. 


77 Jayaswal (JBORS, 18, 97) identifies bist and mahabist with the Little Yue Chi and 
the Great Yue Chi of Central Asia. In another place (Hindu Polity, I, 214) he identifies 
mahabist with the Mahavrsas of the Vedas. These and the following names seem, however, 
to contain a reference to the animal rather than to the place of their origin. 78 duhtlitikd 


‘hairy’ (Cb Cp), ‘of the shape of a house-lizard (grhagaudhakakara)’ (Cj). Meyer proposes 
dulibttika (Prakcit for doilithitikd) ‘having doukie leee (i Meyer Prop 


108 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [2.11.99 


81° The syadmikd, the kalikd, the kadali, the candrottard and the éakula 
are produced in Aroha. 82 The sydmikd is brown or variegated with spots. 
88 The kalikd is brown or dove-coloured. 84 Both these are eight angulas 
in length. 85 The kadali is rough and one hasta in length. 86 The same, 
variegated with ‘moons’, is the candrottard. 87 The éakuld is one-third 


the kadali (in length), variegated with circular spots or variegated with 
natural knots in the skin. 


88 The samira, the cinasi and the sdmili are from Bahlava. 89 The 
samira is thirty-six angulas and of the colour of collyrium. 90 ‘The cinasi 
is reddish black orpale black. 91 The sdmili is of the colour of wheat. 


92 The sdtind, the nalatild, and the urttapucchd are from Odra. 98 The 
satind is black. 94 The nalatild is of the colour of the flower-panicle of 
the nala-reed: 95 And the vrttapucchda is brown. 


These are the varieties of skins. 
96 Of skins, the soft, the smooth and the hairy are best. 


97 Woollen cloth is white, all red and part red, with threads laid in 
with the needle, variegated in weaving, with pieces joined together and with 
broken off threads. 98 The blanket, the kaucapaka, the kulamitikd, the 
saumitikd, the horse’s saddle-cloth, the coloured blanket, the talicchaka, the 
armour, the paristoma and the samantabhadraka are (varieties of) woollen cloth. 
99 Slippery and wet as it were, fine and soft is best. 


81 drohajah: Cb has ‘ Arota in the Himalayas’. 87 kadalitribhaga can hardly 
be ‘ three-fourths of kadali’ (Meyer). — kotha ‘ red circles ’ (Cb). The word may be a Prakrit 
form of kustha ‘a spot on the skin.’ Cj seems to have read naga- (for kotha-) ; but its 
explanation of it ‘ gaigasthdnaih’ is far from clear. — kriakarnikdjinaciira : the translation 
follows Cb. Meyer has ‘ variegated like the antelope’s skin when knots are formed in it.’ 
— vd seems Obviously necessary for ca of the mss. 


88 bdhlaveydh: ‘Bahlavaisin the Himalayas’ (Cb Cs). Bactriais more likely. Jayas- 
wal asserts (JBORS, 18, 97) that a Central Asian fur is still known as samira and is still 
imported into India. 


92 audrah : Cp derives it from udra in the sense Of ‘jalacarapranivisesah’. More likely, 
however, it contains a reference to the place of origin as in the Other cases, perhaps Orissa. 
Cj has Udradegajatah. 


97 $suddha ‘white’ (Cb); suddharakia ‘all red’ (Cb); paksa-rakta ‘half-red, half-white’ 
(Cb). Ifrakia from rarj means ‘dyed,’ the three terms may also mean ‘undyed,’ ‘fully dyed’ 
and ‘part dyed.’ Cj has paksmarakiam ‘dyed in (crosswise) threads Only.” — khaciia : 
the translation is as in Cb, which seems to imply some sort of knitting. — khandasam- 
ghdlyd: as Cj has ‘parts are separately made and then joined together.’ Cb has ‘with many 
threads left unwoven’. — tantuvicchinna seems to refer to some sort Of net-work or lace- 
work. Meyer refers khaciia etc. also to colours, which seems little likely. 98 kaucapakah: 
Cb, reading ko- explains by ‘a covering.’ Cp has ‘helmet for protection from cold.’ Cb 
adds kapild after this word and explains it by ‘covering for the head.’ —kulamitika and 
saumitikd are housings for elephants, the latter being black (Cb Cp). Cj has ‘somitika 
karnatrdnam, ear-guard.” — talicchakam is a kind of bed-spread (Cp) or carpet (Ci) 
vdravana : Meyer suggests the etymology from vdra ‘horses’ hair’ and vana ‘weave’, i.e., 
witha rough texture. — paristoma ‘a kind of blanket’ (Cb), ‘a carpet for the elephant? (Cj). 
Meyer thinks that it is a bed-spread ‘tucked in on all sides.’ — samantabhadrakam : ‘belt 
or hem at the bottom of the armour, sanndhatalapattaka’ (Cj). 99 picchilam, i.e., ‘where 
the hand slips’ (Cj). iva may be construed with this word also. 


2, 11. 100 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 104 


100 The black bhingist, made out of a collection of eight woven 
strands (and) the apasdraka which keeps off rain, -— that is (woollen cloth) 
from Nepala. 


101 The sampuftika, the caturasrika, the lambard, the katavdnaka, the 
pravaraka and the sattalikd are (products from) the hair of animals. 


102 The dukila from the Vangas is white and smooth. 103 That 
from the Pundras is dark and smooth like a gem. 104 That from Suvar- 
nakudya is of the colour of the sun, with gem-smooth water-weave, with a 
uniform weave and with a mixed weave. 105 Of these, there is cloth with 
a single yarn or with one and a half yarns or with two, three or four yarns. 


106 By that is explained the ksawma from Kasi and the Pundras. 


107 The patrornd-silk comes from the Magadhas, the Pundras and 
Suvarnakudya. 108 The ndga-tree, the likuca, the bakula and the banyan 
tree are the sources. 109 That from the ndga-tree is yellow. 110 That 
from the likuca is wheat-coloured. 111 That from the bakula is white. 
112 The remaining one is of the colour of butter. 113 Of these, that from 
Suvarnakudya is best. 


100 astaprotisamghdiya seems to mean ‘in which there is a collection (samghdtya) of 
weaves (profi) of eight strands,’ apparently suggesting very thick threads. — bhingis? is 
apparently the name of this cloth; so Cb, which, however, reads limkis?. —varsavadranam 
apasdrakah : in spite of the absence of ca, this seems to refer to another type of Nepal 
cloth, apasdraka being the name and varsavdrana (despite the difference in gender) 
descriptive of it. Meyer understands only one type in the whole s., the apasdraka. Three 
(bhingist, varsavdrana and apasdraka) are possible, but not very likely. 


101 samputikd ‘a guard for shanks’ (Cb); lambard and katavdnaka are kinds of bed- 
spreads, s0 is pradvaraka also a bed-spread with a fringe on both sides (com.). It may be 
that samputikd is ‘a bag,’ lambard ‘a curtain, hanging,’ katavdnaka ‘matting or rug,’ and 
pravaraka ‘a rug’. satialikd is also a kind of bed-spread. Cp says that to local people, 
katavanaka is known as bhdsyaka, pravaraka as romavariaka and satialika as tulika. 


102 dukilam: cf. J. Charpentier (ZDMG, 78, 144-145) for the suggestion that this 
is a case Of Prakritism for dvikiila, a word primarily descriptive of the cloth ‘with two 
borders’ and secondarily of the material. — Suvarnakudya ‘a region in Kashmir’ (Cb). 
‘Suvarnakudya was subsequently changed to Karnasuvarna, which includes Murshidabad 
- and Rajmahalin Bengal. The soil here is red like gold and hence the name’ (Haraprasad 
Shastri, JBORS, V, 1919, 818). 104 manisnigdhodakavanam : ‘soaking the material in 
water, then rubbing it with a gem and then weaving’ (Cp), ‘rubbing with a gem, making 
wet with water, then weaving’ (Cj), ‘a weave producing the smoothness of a gem and the 
transparency of water’ (Meyer). — caturagravdnam ‘weave with one uniform colour’ (Cb 
Cp). Avreference to colour seems hardly to be there. Cj has ‘unmixed with cotton or silk.’ 
vydmisra-, 1,€.,@ mixture with cotton or silk or a mixture of colours(com.) The three expres- 
sions would seem to describe all three types of dukiila. 105 ekdrmsukam,i.e., with a single 
yarn in the warp and the woof; adhyardhamsukam with a single yarn in the warp and double 


in the woof; and so on. Cb refers to another explanation where armsu is understood 
as ‘colour.’ 


107 parirornd, literally, ‘wool in the leaf’ refers to a kind of silk. Joges Chandra 
Ray (JBORS, ITI, 216) identifies it with the Eri or Muga silk of Assam. Lassen mentions 
12 kinds of worms native to India, the trees favoured by them being badari, eranda 
and pippala (Meyer). 


105 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.12. 1 


114 By that are explained the silk and silk-cloth from the land 
of Cina. 


115 Cotton fabrics from Madhura, the Aparantas, the Kalingas, Kasi, 
the Vangas, the Vatsas and the Mahisas, are best. 


116-117 Of precious articles other than these, he should be con- 
versant with the amount, price, characteristics, class and appearance, 
their storing, manufacture of new ones and repair of old ones, secret 
treatment, tools, their use according to place and time, and remedies 
against things destructive (to them). 


CHAPTER TWELVE 


SECTION 80 STARTING OF MINES AND FACTORIES 


1 The Director of Mines, being conversant with the science of (metal) veins in the earth and metallurgy, the art of smelting and the art of colouring gems, or having the assistance of experts in these, and fully equipped with workmen skilled in the work and with implements, should inspect an old mine by the marks of dross, crucibles, coal and ashes, or a new mine, where there are ores in the earth, in rocks or in liquid form, with excessive colour and heaviness and with a strong smell and taste. 


114 cinabhiimijah: Jayaswal (Hindu Polity, I, App. C, 212n.) argues that Cina 
refers not to China but to Shina, the Gilgit tribe, which still carries on silk manufacture. 
Cina, he says, are often mentioned with Darada and other Himalayan or North-western 


people (Manu, 10.44 etc.). ‘Cina alone cannot jump over thousands of miles away 
into China.’ 


115 mddhuram ‘Madhura is the capital of the Pandyas’ (Cb); Cj refers to northern 
Madhura as well as the southern. — mdhisakam may refer to Mahismati on the Narmada 
or to Mahisamandala. Cb reads mahismakam. 


117 karma guhyam, i.e., colouring, falsification of jewels etc. — desakdlapartbhogam 
‘the proper time and place for manufacture, purchase etc. and the manner of their 
use’ (Cb Cp); but ‘use at the proper place and time’ would appear a better idea. 
Breloer (KSt, III, 298) thinks that as the verses deal with the guarding of goods 
while the chapter is concerned with their inspection, they are probably derived from 
a different soarce. 


2°12 


1 $ulbasgdstra ‘the science of metallic veins in the ground, or that of transmutation 
of copper into silver or gold’ (Cb Cp). Cjhas ‘bhiimipariksasatra.’ Breloer (KSt, IIT, 410) 
understands ‘geometry.’ — rasapdka ‘ alchemy and smelting’ (Cb); it seems, however, that 
we have a single idea ‘smelting of liquid ores.’ Cf. suvarnapaka in 1.18.8 (where manirdga 
is also mentioned). — bhitaptirvam implies an abandoned mine. —bhimi, prastara and 
rasa are the three types of ore that may be found. — Breloer (KSt, IIT, 809) refers atyania- 
varnagauravam to bhiimi- and prastara-dhatu only and ugragandharasam to rasadhdtu only. 
That does not seem intended. 


2.12.2 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 106 


2 (Those liquids) that flow inside a hole, a cave, a table-land at the 
foot, a rock-cut cave, or a secret dug-out in mountains whose regions are known 
(to contain gold-ore), that are of the colour of the jambi- the mango- or the 
palm-fruit or of a cross-section of ripe turmeric or of jaggery or of orpiment 
or red arsenic or honey or vermilion or white lotus or of the feather of a parrot 
or a peacock, that have in their environs water and plants of the same colour, 
and that are viscous, clear and heavy, are gold-bearing liquids. 38 (If, when) 
thrown in water, they spread on the surface like oil and absorb mud and dirt, 
they are capable of transmuting copper and silver up to one hundred (times 
their own weight). 


4 Exactly similar to that in appearance, (but) with a strong smell 
and taste, he should know to be bitumen. 


5 Ores in earth or rocks, which are yellow or copper-coloured or 
reddish-yellow, which, when broken, show blue lines or are of the colour 
of the mudga or masa bean or krsara, which are variegated with spots or 
lumps as of curds, which are of the colour of turmeric or myrobalan or 
lotus-leaf or moss or liver or spleen or saffron, which, when broken, show 
lines, spots or svastikas of fine sand, ‘which are possessed of pebbles and 
are lustrous, which, when heated, do not break and yield plenty of foam 
and smoke, are gold-ores, to be used for insertion, as transmuters of copper 
and silver. 


6 (Ores) of the colour of a conch-shell or camphor or crystal or butter 
or a dove or a pigeon, or vimalaka (gem) or the peacok’s neck, (or) of the colour 
of sasyaka (gem) or gomedaka (gem) or jaggery or unrefined sugar, (or) of the 
colour of the flow: r of koviddra, or lotus or patali-flower or kaldya-flower or the 
flower of flax or of linseed, (and) containing lead, containing antimony, smelling 
like raw flesh, when broken (either) black with a white shimmer (or) white 
with a black shimmer, or all variegated with lines and spots, soft, (which) 
when being smelted do not split and yield plenty of foam and smoke, are 
silver-ores. 


7 In the case of all ores, when there is increase in heaviness there is 
increase in metal-content. 


2 gudhakhdta may be one made by robbers. —guda foundin Cb and a v. |. in M2 seems: 
genuine. —savarnodaka- ctc.: the liquids evidently affect the colour of water and plants 
nearby. 8 veddharah: the root vyadh seems to have the technical sense of ‘to transmute.’ 
Cj has ‘suvarnasya kartarah’ as the paraphrase. In gatdd upari the idea apparently is that 
for each 100 units of copper or silver, one unit of this liquid would be sufficient. 
Meyer compares Ksemendra’s Kalavilasa, 9.7-8. 


aint 5 prattodparthah : according to the commentators, this ore in powder form is inserted 
in Copper or silver while boiling. 


6 For vimalaka and sasyaka, see 2.11.85, for gomedaka 2.11.80. vimalaka is white- 
red according to Cp here. 


107 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [2.12.16 


8 Of these, those that are impure or dim in the interior flow in a pure 
form when infused in strong urine and caustic, when formed into lumps with 
(a paste of) the rdjaurksa, the banyan tree, the pilu, cow’s bile, pigment and 
the urine and dung of the buffalo, the donkey and the young camel, either 
mixed with this (during boiling) or smeared with this (paste). 


9 The insertion (in the ore) of the bulbous roots of the kadali and the 
vajra, along with the caustic (of the ashes) of barley, mdsa-bean, sesamum, 


palaga and pilu or along with the milk of the cow and the goat, is productive 
of softness. 


10 Honey and liquorice, goat’s milk with sesamum-oil, mixed with 
ghee, jaggery and fermenting stuff, together with the kandali, — with 
only three infusions in this, a (metal ore) that may have been broken 
even a hundred-thousand-fold becomes soft. 


11 The inscrtion of (the powder of ) the teeth and horns. of the cow is 
the remover of softness (in metals). 


12 Ore from rocks or a region of the earth, which is heavy, unctuous and 
soft (and which is ) tawny, green, reddish or red (in colour) is copper-ore. 


18 That which is crow-black or of the colour of the dove or yellow 
pigment or studded with white lines (and) smelling like raw flesh, is lead-ore. 


14 That which is grey like saline earth or of the colour of a baked lump of 
earth is tin-ore. , 


15 That which is made up mostly of smooth stones, is whitish-red or of 
the colour of sinduvdra-flower is iron-ore. 


16. That which is of the colour of kdkdnda (* crow’s egg ’) or birch-leaf 
is vatkrntaka-ore. 


8 miudhagarbhah,i.e., when the metal content is not clear. — miira of human beings 
or of the elephant, horse, bullock, donkey and goat (com.). —ksara is derived from the 
ashes of kadali, apdmarga etc. (Cb Cj). —karabha‘a young camel’ may also mean ‘a young 
elephant.’ —Meyer understands an option between tiksna- etc. and rajaurksa- etc. But 
the option appears to be only in the matter of prativapa or avalepa. 


9 yavamdsa- etc. : barley-husks, bean-stalks, sesamum-stalks, and the wood of paldga 
and pilu tree a;:e burnt to form the caustic. yavaksdara is well-known as salt-petre. —vaj- 
rakanda is either visnukanda or vanasiirana (Cp). 

10 The stanza in the middle of the chapter is clearly a quotation from an earlier 
authority. — kinva:its ingredients appear to be described in 2.25.33; cf. 2.25.26. Cb reads 
-gudacirna- in the sense of ‘sandy jaggery.’ — vibhinnam conveys the idea of brittleness. 

12 bharikah etc. ; it may be that bharika, snigdha and mrdu are to be understood of all 
metal ores mentioned in ss. 12-16; they differ only as to colour. 

15 khurumbah ‘consisting mostly of smooth stones’ (Cp); Cb reads surumbah in ne 
same sense. 

16 kakdnda is ‘a kind of tree’ identified with mahaGnimba in the Sahaakalratnen 
—bhujapatra appears to be corrupted from bhirjapatra. Apparently reading kanda- 


2.12.17 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 108 


17 That which is clear, smooth, lustrous, possessed of sound, cold, hard 
and of a light colour is gem-ore. 


18 What is produced from ores, he should put to use in factories for the 
respective metals. 19 He should establish trade in manufactured goods in a 
single place, and (lay down) a penalty for those who manufacture, purchase or 
sell elsewhere. 


20 Heshould make a miner who robs pay eight-fold, exccpt in the case of 
jewels. 21 The thief and the person who lives (by mining) without permis- 
sion, he should bind and force to work (in the mines), also the person who 
offers personal labour in place of a fine. 


22 He should let for part-share or on lease a mine that is burden-soimne 
in point of expenses or working ; a light one, he should work himself. 


23 The Director of Metals should establish factories for copper, lead, 
tin, vaikrntaka, brass, steel, bronze, bell-metal and iron, also (establish) trade 
in metal-ware. 


24 The Mint Master should cause to be minted silver coins with one- 
fourth part copper (and) containing a hardening alloy one mdsa (in weight) 
of one of the following, (viz.) iron, tin, lead and antimony, (of the denominations 


bhirjapaira-, Cp explains ‘kandam samudraniaraktam valliphalam, bhiirjapatram bhirjda- 
bhidhdno urksas taiphalavarnam.’ — vdseems to show the option between kakdnda and bhuja- 
patra. —vaikrniaka : the exactidentification of this metal is uncertain. Cj’s not very 
clear words are ‘vaikriadhdtur acchalohasya dhatur ityarthah; vaikrtato hi vadrakusale cinadcse 
papam (vayam ?) utpadyate,’ which seems to suggest that the name is derived from some 
locality, and may be some special kind of iron or steel. 

17 Ch, reading sttativrah, explains ‘becoming cool immediately on being taken out 
of fire.’ Cj seems to read tivratarardgah. 

19 atyayam: thisis 25 panas as in s. 26 below, according toCs. It may however be 600 
panas asin s. 81 below and 2.25.2, as it involves a violation of state monopoly rights. 


20 anyatra ratnebhyah : in this case the punishment is death as in 4.9.2. 21 dando- 
pakdarinam :i.ec., the person who, unable to pay the fine, offers personal labour instead, same 
as dandapratikartr (2.24.2) or dandapratikdarini (2.23.2) ; cf. 3.18.18. 


22 In bhdga a fixed share of the actual produce is received; in prakraya a fixed rental 
is received whatever the amount of produce. 


28 drakita, kamsa and tala are alloys of copper with tin or zincin various proportions. 
— loha seems to be used for ‘iron’ as well metal in general. 


24 laksanddhyaksah : laksana in this name apparently refers to the emblem of the king 
or state stamped On the coins as on the punch-marked coins. There was Obviously no 
name or effigy of the ruler. Cf. Jayaswal, Hindu Polity, I, 42-48. — Though the actual 
weight of the coin is not stated, it is reasonable to suppose that it is the same as karsa or 
suvarna, 1.€., 16 madsakas (cf. 2.19.3), as Cp says. Thusasilver pana would have 4 mdsakas 
of copper, 1 masa (i.e., masaka) of bija or hardening alloy and 11 mdsakas of silver. In the 
lower denominations the same proportions hold good. But, as Meyer says, though this is 
the sense, the wording favours the idea that even in the lower denominations thie alloy is to 
be 1 masaka in each. — padajivam, ‘i.e., one-fourth silver, 11 parts copper and 1 masa alloy’ 
(com.). But the copper mdsa or mdgaka is lower in value than a quarter pana and seems 
to be 1/16th of a pana in value (cf. 4.9.4, 9). The weight of the copper masaka appears 
also to be 1 suvarna and not 1 mdsaka ; for coins 1/8th of this in weight are mentioned. A 
masaka (coin) cannot be supposed to contain 4 mdsas of silver as against 1 8/8th masa in an 


109 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.12.32 


of) one pana, a half pana, a quarter pana and a one-eighth pana; (further), 
copper coins with one-quarter sustenance (of an alloy), (of the denominations 
of) one médsaka, a half mdsaka, a kdkani and a half kdkani. 


25 The Examiner of Coins should establish the currency of panas, for 
trade and for receipts in the treasury. 26 (He should also fix) a coining 
fee of cight per cent, a commission of five per cent, an inspection fee of one- 
cightin per cent, and a penalty of twenty-five panas for those who manufacture, 
purchase, sell and examine in other places. 


27 The Superintendent of Mines should establish factories for (articles of) 
conch-shells, diamonds, gems, pearls, corals and caustics as well as commerce 
in them. 


28 The Salt Gommissioner should collect at the proper time the share of 
salt as released after crystallization as well as the lease-rent, also the price, the 
inspection fee and the surcharge from the sale. 29 Imported salt shall pay 
one-sixth part (as duty). 30 (Its) sale (shall be allowed) only after the share 
and the dues are paid (viz.,), five per cent surcharge, the inspection fee and the 
manufacturing fee. 31 The purchaser shall pay the duty and a protective 
duty corresponding to the loss sustained by the king’s goods ; one who pur- 
chases at another place (shall pay) a fine of six-hundred panas in addition. 
32 (A person selling) adulterated salt shall pay the highest fine (for violence), 
also the person living (by salt-manufacture) without permission, except forest- 


astabhdga pana and 2 3/4th mdsa in a quarter pana. There is little doubt that there is no 
silver in the copper coin, Only the ajiva or the hardening alloy. Perhaps the original 
reading was pddabijam. Cj seems to imply that the copper coins are also called pana, 
ardhapana etc. and that it is these that are meant in connection with fines. 


25 vyavahdrikim kosapravesyam ca: apparently two sets of currency, one for trade 
purposes and the other for payments to the treasury are thought of. Breloer thinks (KSt, 
III, 426) that copper coins were used for trade and silver coins alone came into the treasury. 
This appears to be Cp’sidea. 26 riipikam is manufacturing charges Or coining fce, according 
to the commentators. Meyer understands a sort of commodity tax, on each object (rapa) 
as such. —vydjim : see 2.6.10. —atyayam : according to Cp Cs, the offenceis the reduc- 
tion of metal-content to the extent of 1/8th. There is nothing here to show this, and the 
fine would appear too small for such tampering with coins. anyatra scems to mean ‘else- 
where’, i.e., not in the royal mint, as in s. 19 above, though here karir- etc. is used in the 
dative or ablative, not genitive. The 25 panas thus work out as a licensing fee for making 
coins elsewhere than in a royal mint. With anyaira in the sense of ‘excepting’ Cp under- 
stands the fine as 1,000 panas for karir, etc., Cs ‘according to offence.’ Cb seems to explain 
‘servants are fined 25 panas for their offences, except in the case of those who do the things 
in the proper place.’ The nature of the offence is not clear in this case. 


27 ksara: commentators understand alkalis or caustics, Meyer ‘mica’ or ‘quartz.’ 
In view of the mention of ksdra with lavana in s. 34 and 2.15.14-15, sugar-cane products are 


not unlikely even here. 

28 riipam is the same as pariksikam (com.). 30 dattabhagavibhdgasya : vibhdga refers 
to vydji, riipa and rupika (Breloer). It would have been better, in that case, if payicakam... 
riipikam, ca were included in the preceding s. — ruptkam : if thisis “manufacturing charge’, 
it could hardly apply to imported salt. Perhaps it became a regular impost whether the 
state manufactured the articleornot. 31 kretd,i.e., the native trader who purchases from 


2.12. 88 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 110 


hermits. 83 Brahmins learned in the Vedas, ascetics and labourers may 
take salt for their food (without payment). 34 All other varicties of salt and 
sugar shall pay (only) the duty. 


35-86 Thus from the mines he should collect the price, the share, 
the surcharge, the monopoly tax, penalty, duty, compensation, fine, 
inspection fee, and manufacturing charges as well as the twelve kinds of 
metals and commodities (made from them). In this way he should fix the 
collection (of income) under various heads in the case of all commodities. 


87 The treasury has its source in the mines; from the treasury 
the army comes into being. With the treasury and the army, the earth is 
obtained with the treasury as its ornament. 


CHAPTER THIRTEEN 
SECTION 81 THE SUPERINTENDENT OF GOLD IN THE WORKSHOP 


1 The Superintendent of Gold should cause to be built a workshop with a 
court-yard having four work-halls without inter-communication (and) with a 
single door, for the manufacture of gold and silver. 2 In the middle of the 
market highway he should establish the Goldsmith, skilled in his profession, 
of noble birth and trustworthy. 


the foreign merchant. Cf. 2.21.7 ff. —anyaira,i.e., not at the toll gate. Breloer omits 
kretd, ‘in the Other case, 600 panas as an additional impost.’ 84 lavanaksdravargah : see 
2.15.14-15. — Sulkam and not the other imposts as well. 


35-86 Cb’sca bhdgam is certainly preferable to vibhagam. — parigham: see 2.6.10 above. 
The commentators here understand inspection fee, which is little likely. As monopoly 
tax, it would be something fixed on every article made by the state which no one else 
could make. — vaidharana, it would appear, Operated when the state goods remained 
unsold because of competition, or when their prices went down. It was nota regular tax. 
— riipam: Cb has ‘silver and copper coins,’ which seems hardly likely in view of s. 80 above; 
‘inspection fee’ is better. — dvddagavidham : commentators supply samudayam as the 
substantive, looking on dhdtu and panya as the 11th and 12th items of income. It is, 
however, better to understand it as an adjective to dhdtum asin Meyer, who has gold, silver 
and the metals of s. 28 (lodhra of the mss. as loha plus another metal). The twelfth metal, 
however, might well be manidhdtu of s. 17. —mukha- refers to dyamukha as in 2.6.10. 
— Breloer (KSt, III, 487) contends that the inclusion of these kdrikds, which really belong 
to the province of the samaharir, in the Chapter on the Mine-Superintendent shows that 
the office of the samaharir (and also of the samnidhdtr) was not differentiated, before Kau- 
tilya’s time, from what was mainly the king’s household economy. Kautilya may therefore 
represent, according to him, the attempt to stress the importance of political control. He 


pee however, that the differentiation is very old and represents a natural and living 
vision. 


87 This stanza, says Breloer (KSt, III, 407), belongs to a simpler conception; kosa 
and danda are among the oldest political ideas. It seems that he finds traces of develop- 
ment where probably none exist. 


2.13 


The significance of the name aksaéald for t eta 4 
etonisincticleas’ ksasala for the workshop where gold is purified, assaye 


2 sauvarnikah : his duties are described in the next Chapter, 2.14. 


111 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.18. 14 


8 That from the Jambi river, that from (Mt.) Satakumbha, that from 
Hataka, that frorn Venu, that produced in Srngagukti, that found in a natural 
condition, that transmuted by means of liquids and that preduced from mines, 
— these are (types of) gold. 4 (Gold) of the colour of the lotus-filament, soft, 
smooth, not producing a sound and lustrous is best, reddish-ycllow is of a 
middling quality, red of the lowest quality. 


5 Of the best (varieties), the pale-yellow and the white are impure. 
6 Heshould cause that because of which it is impure to be removed by means 
of lead four times that quantity. 7 Ifit becomes brittle by the admixture of 
lead, he should causc it to be smelted with dried lumps of cow-dung. 8 If it 
is brittle because of (its own) roughness, he should cause it to be infused in 
sesamum-oil and cow-dung. 


9 (Gold) produced from the mines, becoming brittle by the admixture of 

1 lead, he should turn into leaves by heating and cause them to be pounded on 

wooden anvils, or should cause it to be infused in the pulp of the bulbous roots 
of the kadalt and the vajra (plants). 


10 That originating in Tuttha, that from Gauda, that from Kambu and 
that from Cakravala, — these are (types of) silver. 11 (Silver which is) 
white, smooth and soft is best. 12 The opposite kind and that which tends 
to burst is bad. 13 He should purify that with one-fourth part of lead. 
14 That in which a crest has appeared at the top, which is clear, lustrous and 
of the colour of curds is pure. 


3 jdmbiinada: ’ from the Jambu river near Mt. Meru. This gold is used by gods alone 
and is of the colour of jambi-fruit.’ (com.). — §atakumbha ‘ from Satakumbha mountain ’” 
(com.). Meyer thinks that Satakumbha may be a river. This gold has the colour of a 
lotus-filament. — hdtaka contains a reference to the region ; ‘ of the colour of kurandaka 
flower’ (Cp), ‘ of the colour of pdthadnkuri or kusumbha flower’ (Cb). — vainavam ‘ from 
Mt. Venu’ (com.), ‘from river Venu’ (Meyer) ; ‘ of the colour of karnikdra flower * (com.). 
—Srngagukti is Suvarnabhimi (com.) ; ‘ of the colour of manahsild’ (com.). — jataraipa 
apparently refers to its being found in a naturally pure form. — rasaviddha by transmuting 
copper or silver with the kdvicanika rasa of 2.12.2-8. Russ. renders rasaviddha by ‘ obtained 
from streams.’ 4 anddi ‘not producing a sound ’ is from Cb for anunddi ‘ resonant” of 
themss. Cphas anddi but refers to the other v.1. 


5 $resthandm: Cb Cs read this at the end of s. 4 which makes three kinds of $restha, — 
$resthandm $Srestha, Sresthandm madhyama, etc., whichis not a happy idea. At the beginning 
of s. 5, it may refer to the Srestha of s. 4 except as regards colour. That also is not convincing. 
The word sresthanam does not appear to be original and perhaps it might be better to drop it. 
6 yena apraptakam etc. * by lead four times the amount of impurity ’* (Cb) ; ‘ by lead four 
times the gold itself’ (Meyer, who asks, how can the amount of impurity be calculated 
beforehand ?). In the latter explanation, tat may be taken as referring to the impurity 
and as the object of fodhayet. 8 mnisecayet: *the process of infusion is to be repeated a 
number of times’ (com.). 9 ‘Gandih crksasya mildcchakhavadhibhagah *’ (Hemacandra). 

10 Tuttha is a mountain of that name according to the commentators. The sense 
‘crucible’ does not fit. This silver has the colour of jasmine-flower. — gaudikam : ‘ Gauda 
is the Kamarapa region and silver has the colour of the tagara-flower’ (com.). — kambukam 
‘from Mt. Kambu, has the colour of the kunda flower ’ (com.) — cakravdlikam : ‘ from Mt, 
Cakravala, has the colour of the kunda-flower (com.) 12 sphotanam ‘liable to burst? 
apparently in the process of smelting. 14 wudgatacilikam ‘ with a bud-like form at the top’ 

b). 


2.13.15 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 112 


15 One suvarna of pure, turmeric-coloured (gold) is the standard. 
16 Thence by the substitution of one kakani copper onwards (in a suvarna of 
gold) up to the limit of four (masakas), sixteen standards (are obtained). 


17 After first rubbing the gold (to be tested) on the touchstone, he 
should afterwards rub the standard gold (onit). 18 That witha streak ofthe 
same colour (as the standard) on places (on the stone) that are neither depressed 
nor elevated, he should know as properly tested ; what is over-rubbed or lightly 
rubbed or powdered over with red chalk from underneath the finger-nail, he 
should know as deception. 19 Gold, touched with the forepart of the hand 
smeared with 7ati-vermilion or sulphate of iron dissolved in cow’s urine, be- 
comes white. 20 The streak (of the gold) on the touchstone, that has fila- 
ments, is smooth, soft and lustrous is best. 


21 Stone from the Kalingas or from the Tapi, which is of the colour of 
the mudga-bean, is the best touchstone. 22 That which shows the exact 
colour is advantageous for either sale or purchase. 23 That which has the 
colour of an elephant, with a green tinge, is over-sensitive to colour (and) is 
advantageous for sale. 24 That which is firm, hard and of uneven colour, 
is not sensitive to colour (and) is advantageous for purchase. 


25 The cut (of gold) that is sticky, of even colour, smooth, soft and 
lustrous is best. 26 The heating that is uniform outside and inside, (and) 
has the colour of the lotus-filament or the colour of kurandaka-flower, is best. 
27 That which is dark or blue shows impurity. 


28 Weights and measures we shall explain in (the Section) * the Superin- 
tendent of Standardisation’. 29 In accordance with thosc rules he should 
give and receive silver and gold. 


15 suvarnah: this refers to the weight, equivalent to 16 mdsakas ; cf. 2.19.8. — varna- 
kah: i.e., touch or fineness of gold. 16 kdkaniand suvarna are nowhere in the text brought 
into relation with one another. A kakaniis a copper coin 1/4th of a mdsaka in value (2.12.24). 
It seems that here it is understood to be 1/4th of a mdsaka in weight, though the two mdsakas 
are different ; so that a suvarna would bé eqal to 64 kdkanis. By substituting 1, 2, 3 etc. 
kakanis of copper in place of gold in a suvarna, we get 16 touches with proportions of gold 
and copper ranging from 63:1 to 48:16 (the 16 kdakanis in the last make 4 mdsakas which 
in fact is here stated to be the limit, d catuhsimGntat). Both mdsaka and kdkani appear to 


be names of weights as well as of coins which apparently are different in weight. That is 
confusing. 


17 varnikdm, i.e., one of the 17 standards mentioned above.. 10 jatihinguluka ‘a 
variety of vermilion called sasada (Cp) or hamsapdda (Cs).’ — puspakasisa seems to be sul- 
phate of iron or blue vitriol. 


a 21 ‘River Tapi in Maharastra ’ (Cj) ‘in Arattadesa (Cb). 22 samardgi, i.e., showing 
e colour of gold as it really is. ‘Of a uniform colour’ is less likely. 238 pratirdgi , i.e., 


showing a higher to eo x 
Ione ene uch than what the gold actually has. 24 apratirdgi, i.e., showing & 


25  chedah, i.e., the section where it is cut. 26 td i i 
ft, 1.€. 7 ipah: Cb Cs read tape and that 1s 
With tare by J olly-Schmidt. However, the nom. seems better corresponding to chedah above. 
; » We cannot think of a masculine substantive for Sresthah etc., as suvarna is neuter. 
8 pautavadhyakse in 2.19 below. 


113 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.18. 48 


30 An unauthorized person shall not approach the workshop. 31 One 
approaching is to be extirpated. 82 Even an officer, if carrying gold and 
silver (inside), shall be deprived of the same. 


83 Artisans doing the work of setting in gold, bead-making, plating 
and gilding and ornamental gold, (and) blowers, servants and dust-washers, 
shall enter and leave after their garments, hands and private parts are searched. 
84 And all their tools and uncompleted works shall remain just there. 
85 He should hand over the gold received and the work being carried out into 
the office. 386 In the evening and in the morning, he should deposit (the gold 
and the articles), marked with the seals of the maker and the overseer. 


37 Setting, stringing and minor work, these are ways of working (in 
gold). 388 Setting is the fixing of binding and so on. 389 Stringing is 
weaving in threads andsoon. 40 (Making) a solid article, a hollow article or 
one with beads and so on is minor work. 


41 In the work of setting, he should use one-fifth part as fastening 
at base and tenth part as side-fastening. 42 Silver with a quarter part copper, 
or gold with a quarter part silver is artificial ; against that he should guard. 
48 In the work of fixing of beads, (there should be) three parts enclosing at 


31 wucchedyakh: Cb Cs understand ‘confiscation of entire property.’ Cf., however, 
1.15.6 above. 32 tenaiva jiyeta, i.e., what he has brought with him should be confiscated. 


83 Cj drops -hasla-. — kdaitcanakadru seems concerned with setting gems in gold and 
silver as described in ss. 41-48. The root appears to be kac, karic to bind. The 
Trikadndagesa has ‘kdcanam patranibandhanam.’ prsatakadru seems concerned with the 
making of gold beads or globules, tvastrkaru is the gilder and plater as in ss. 44-46, and 
tapaniyakdru is the maker of ornamental gold as in ss. 47 ff. — caraka seems to be an ordi- 
nary servant. If he has any special duty in the workshop like the others, its nature is not 
clear. Cj shows saraka, which means ‘a gem’. But it can hardly beconstrued with pdmsu- 
dhdvaka. Dust-washing is possible in the case of gold, not of gems. 35 dhriam ca prayo- 
gam : Meyer proposes kriam as a contrast to anigthitah. However, work heldinhand under 
production, is a better concept. Cb explains dhriam by ‘ weighed’ and karanamadhye by 
‘in the presence of witnesses.’ karana as office appears, however, more likely. 86 sdyam 
pratag ca: strictly this would imply night shifts as well. Perhaps, however, seals were 
made in the evening and opened in the morning. — karir is the artisan and kérayitr is the 
supervisor or ‘ suvarnddhyaksa himself’ (com.) 

88 kdcarpana ‘in which kdca, i.e., a gem, pearl, diamond or coral is fixed’ (Cj). kdca 
would seem to refer rather to the gold in which the gem etc. is set. 89 sifravdna: gold 
threads arranged in various patterns seem meant. 


41 arpayet: this position of the verb is unusual. — paficabhdgam kdaiicanam dasabha- 
gam katumdnam : Cb has ‘ one-fifth of the gem should be set in the base and one-tenth in 
leaves of gold.’ Cj explains katumdna as ‘ the covering of wax or lac (madhticchistasya ldak- 
saya vd pracchddanam).’ Cp, reading katamanam, has ‘one-fifth as base and one-tenth 
as binding at the side,’ the remaining 7/10th of gold remaining unconnected with the gem as 
in aring. This is what seemsintended. Meyer suggests katimanam as the reading ‘ side- 
binding.’ GMreadonlymanam. 42 The point of the warning seems to be that artisans 
frequently use this alloy for setting and that fact cannot be very easily detected. 43 prea- 
takdcakarmanah: the difference from pure kdcakarman seems to be that we have gold beads 
set in this case, or gold beads and gems (Cs Meyer). paribhdnda is probably the same as 
katumana, and vdstuka the base. Cb, understanding gems Only even in this case, explains 


paribhanda as ‘ the lotus-shaped Or svastika-shaped fixing for the gem.’ — hi in the s. does 


2.18.44 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 114 


the sides and two parts base, or four parts base and three parts enclosing 
at the sides. 


44 In the work of the gold-plater, he should plate an article of copper 
with an equal amount of gold. 45 An article of silver, whether solid or hol- 
low, he should cover with half the amount of gold. 46 Or, he should gild 


(the silver article) with one-fourth part gold by means of the liquid or powder 
of sand-vermilion. 


47 Oxnamental gold of the best kind, possessed of excellent colour, pas- 
sed through an equal amount of lead, turned into leaves by heating (and) made 
bright with Indus-carth, becomes the base of blue, yellow, white, green and 
parrot-feather colours. 48 And iron of the colour of the peacock’s neck, white 
at the cut, shimmering, (and) powdered after being heated, is for this (gold) a 
colouring matter one kdkani in measure for one suvarna (of gold). 


49 Or, silver, purified, four times in a crucible of bones, four times in one 
with an cqual amount of lead, four times in a dry crucible, three times in a 
pot-sherd (and) twice in cow-dung, thus passed through seventeen crucibles, 


notscemto have any significance. — It is possible that the s. refers to the making 
of gold beads, vdstuka being the interior base, usually of lac and paribhdnda the exterior 
covering of gold. For this prsatakarmanah would be enough. Or, vdstuka may refer to 
the bead itself and paribhadnda to the decorative extension at the sides. 


44, samyiihayet : Meyer has suggested that thisisa Prakritism for sam-vyith. 45'susiram: 
the ghanasusiram of the mss. is obviously due to repetition from the preceding word. 
Cf.s.40 above. 46 vdlukahingulukasya etc. ‘ with the powder of vermilion and sand’ (Cb), 
* gold, which is powdered and mixed with mercury, is mixed with the powder of sand-ver- 
milion and melted on straw-fire’ (Cp). It is difficult to see how mercury can be brought 
in unless rasena is read after ciirnena. And mercury dos not seem necessary for the gilding 
described here. What exactly is meant by vdlukahinguluka is not clear. See 2.14.34 below. 
— vadsayet from vas caus. ‘ to clothe ’ refers to gilding. 


47 tapaniyam seems to mean ‘ which is to be turned into ornaments’ by heating, 
colouring etc. It is here an adjective to suvarnam. — saindhavikayd ‘ with earth from the 
Saurastra country ’(com.); ‘earth from Indus’ seems more likely. — ujjudlitam probably 
by rubbing with it, hardly ‘ by heating along with it ’ (Meyer). — -sukapota- of the mss. is 
obviously corrupt for -sukapatra-; cf.s. 56 below. —Some of the colours mentioned here 
are not referred to in ss. 51-56, while others referred to there are not mentioned here. 48 
asya ... kakanikah suvarnardgah, i.e., one kdkani of iron is the colouring for one suvarna of 
gold (i.e., 1 in 64 as in s. 16 above) as describedin s. 47. Meyer has ‘ a strong (tiksna) form of 
this gold etc.’ Itis not easy to see how this strong formis arrived at. — pitacirnitam ‘heated 
and powdered’ (com.). pita may also convey theidea of soaking in water, which may be done 
after heating. ‘ pratapya udakositam tatag cirnitam’ (Cj). — It is not clear what colour is 
produced in gold by the insertion of this powder. 


49 tdram upaguddham vd: tara is silver, particularly that used for ornaments ; 
upaguddha refers to the purification as presently described ; 0d shows the option with 
savarna above ; i.e., this silver also can be a base for colours. Meyer has ‘ fine silver (dra) 
or almost pure (upasuddha) silver’. This appears little likely. —- asthitutthe etc. : Cb Cp 
understand these terms as descriptive of the crucibles — made of earth mixed with bone- 
powder, of earth mixed with an equal amountof lead, of earth mixed with sand (suskatuttha, 
i.¢., katasarkaramisda), of earth alone and of earth mixed with cow-dung. It may be, however, 
that asthi ete describe the substances along with which the silver is smelted, fuskatuttha 
referring to smelting without any mixture. Meyer understands tuttha as blue vitriol, 
@ mixture of this with asthi and samasisa, and guska as dry blue vitriol ; only kapala, he 
says, he cannot understand. But evenin his gomaya there is no blue vitriol. Altogether 


115 THE ATIVITTY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.13. 59 


(and) made bright with Indus-earth (is a base for colours). 50 From this 
one kdkanit onwards up to two mdsas should be inserted in one suvarna ; after- 
wards the adding of colouring matter (should follow) ; it becomes white silver. 


51 Three parts of ornamental gold, strengthened with thirty-two parts 
of white silver, it becomes white-red. 52 It makes copper yellow. 
58 Making the oranmental gold bright, he should give one-third part colour- 
ing ; it becomes yellowish red. 54 (With) two parts of white silver, one part 
of ornamental gold produces the colour of the mudga-bean. 55 When 
smeared with half'a part of black iron, it becomes black. 56. Ornamental 
gold twice-smeared with an enveloping liquid gets the colour of the parrot’s 


feather. 57 In undertaking that work, he should take a test regarding the 
various colours. 


58. And he should be conversant with the treatment of iron and copper. 
59 Therefore, (he should know) also loss in the case of articles made of dia- 


his explanation is not satisfactory. 50 kdkanyutiaram etc.: from one kdékani onwards up 
to two mdsas (i.e., 2 masakas) of this tara is to be inserted in one suvarna. This word there- 
fore must be understood as the weight of that name and not as gold. Hence the me- 
talin which the insertion is to be made would appear to be ordinary silver; this would 
give nine tints of silver. Thus in the main Cp. Cb, reading kdkanyuttarépasdritd, understa- 
nds the insertion to be made in gold. That would make gold svetatdra. This is not very 
likely ; it also would not fit in with the possibility of tapantya and $velatdra being mixed 
tegether (s. 51). Meyer understands the removal of 1 kakani etc. of silver and insertion of 


gold in its place. suvarne deyam makes this hardly possible. — rdgayogah : this would appear 
to be the fiksna as described above. 


51 trayo ’msah etc.: the grammatical difficulty is best removed by reading tat from 
Cb and retaining mircchitah of the mss. Cp refers to the following explanation of ‘some’: 
‘3 narts of tapaniya are added to 32 less 3, i.e. 29 parts of ordinary gold and this mixture is 
smelted with 32 parts of svelatdra.’ It is difficult to see how the words can yield all this 
meaning. Cb has ‘out of 32 parts 3 are tapaniya, the rest 29 silver.’ Since, however, 
mirch has the sense of ‘ to increase, augment,’ the proporion of 3 to 82 would appear more 
likely. It is not altogether unlikely that dodtrimgadbhdga means 1/82nd part, so that the 
proportion might be 3 to 1/82 or 3 to 8/82. 52 tdmram pitakam karoti: Cp has ‘ 82 parts 
gold (with 8 parts tapaniya as above) with 32 parts copper become yellow.’ Cb has ‘8 parts 
tapantya and 82 parts copper.’ That seems to be meant. Meyer has ‘8 parts copper and 
82 parts svetatdra’. 58 rdgatribhdgam ‘1 kdkant in 8/4ths of a suvarna, i.e., in 12 mdgakas 
of gold’ (Cp), ‘ one-third purified gold in unpurified gold’ (Cb), ‘1/8rd tapantya is inserted 
in évetatdra’’ (Meyer). What seems meantis that in 3 parts of tapaniya 1 part of rdga of 
s. 48 is inserted. Cj seems to have read tdmratribhdgam. — pittardgam ‘ yellowish red’ as 
distinguished from pitaka above. 54 svetatdira- etc.: according to Cp, rdgayoga is to be 
understood in addition; but svetatara already seems to have it. 55 kdldyasasya etc. ; 
‘ gold of the colour of mudga when mixed with half part (half of 1/8, i.e., 1/6) of colouring, 
becomes black’ (Cb) ; evidently kdldyasa is identified with tiksna and ardha is related to 
tribhdga of s.58. Meyer thinks that svetatdra becomes black in this way, not fapaniya. Cb 
however seems right in understanding the mixture of s. 54. And as it has 8 parts and rdga 
is half a part, the latter does amount to 1/6th of that mixture, though not in the way Cb 
understands it. 56 pratilepind rasena: Cp has ‘liquified iron mixed with mercury.” 
pratilepin, however, is an adjective ‘smearing all round, enveloping’ qualifying rasa, 
and the latter can hardly mean ‘ mixed with mercury.’ rasa seems to be that of kdldyasa 
or tiksna ; Meyer thinks of kdiicanika rasa of 2.12.2. 57 prativarnikd seems to refer to the 
test on the touchstone to ascertain whether the desired colour is obtained or not. 


58 tiksnatamra- etc.: the suvarnddhyaksa is to be conversant with this, though iron 
and copper articles are manufactured in separate factories, because these metals are used in 
the manufacture of gold and silver articles. 59 tasmdt: there is nothing in the text 
to explain this use of ‘therefore’. Perhaps it owes its origin to 2.14.48. — apaneyimanam 


2.18.60 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 116 


monds, gems, pearls and corals and the amounts required for the making of 
gold and silver wares. 


60-61 Of an even colour, symmetrical, with beads not sticking to 
each other, firm, well-burnished, not soaked (for a false glitter), 
divided (into suitable parts), pleasant to wear, not gaudy, full of lustre, 
with a charming shape, even, and pleasing to the mind and eye, — these 
are declared to be the excellent qualities of an ornament. 


CHAPTER FOURTEEN 


SECTION 82 THE ACTIVITY OF THE GOLDSMITH IN THE MARKET- 
HIGHWAY. 


1 The Goldsmith should cause the gold and silver work of the citizens 
and the country people to be carried out by workshop artisans. 


2 They should do the work with the time and the (nature of the) work 
stipulated, without stipulation as to time when there is the excuse of the 
(nature of the) work. 8 In case the work is done otherwise (than as ordered) 
(there shall be) loss of wage and a fine double that (amount). 4 Incase the 
time limit is exceeded, (he shall receive) a wage reduced by one-quarter and a 
fine double that (amount). 


‘taking away, removal ’ is understood as ‘substitution of an inferior for a superior gem’ 
(Cb). It may also mean ‘ reduction or loss’ in the process of cutting, polishing etc. (Meyer). 
— budhyeta is to be supplied from the preceding s. — bandhapramdandni refers to ‘3 parts 
paribhdnda etc.’ (Cb), ‘amount required for plating’ (Cp), ‘amount required for making 
the article ’ (Meyer). 

60 samadvendvam ‘having a similar pair,’ i.e., symmetrical. — asampiiam ‘ not gilded 
to increase its lustre artificially ’ (Cs) ; ‘not fabricated’ (Meyer). Cj (with asamvitam) has 
*the colour of which is not obscured by other articles of momentary charm.’ — vibhaktam 
seems to refer to proper proportions in the various parts. 61 abhinitam ‘ not gaudy’ 
(Cj), ‘tasteful’ (Meyer). It may also convey the idea of ‘highly finished.’ — samsthana 
seems to mean ‘shape or form’. svasthdna of M ‘in its appropriate place (on the body) ’ 
is also not bad. — tapantya here is clearly ‘ornament’, not merely gold. — The karikds 


more properly belong to the sphere of the sauvarnika of the next Chapter than to that of the 
suvarnddhyaksa. 


2.14 


The sauvarnike or goldsmith is clearly in state service. Apparently private goldsmiths 
are to work under his supervision. 


1. riipyasuvarnam stands for rapyasuvarnabhdndam ‘ gold and silver articles.’ There 
isno reference to gold coins here, as is sometimes supposed. — dveéanibhih : these also appear 
to be in state service. 


2 ké&rydpadesam, i.e., the nature of the work itself provides a valid excuse for delay. 
These ss. are repeated in 4.1.4-5, 7. In conformity with that, Cb Cp Cs interchange ss. 8 
and 4here. 4 pddahinam vetanam taddvigunas ca dandah: the fine would be ‘ double the 
abe lbbe ” (Cs) rather than ‘ double the full wage’ or ‘double the 1/4th wage that is 


117 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [2.14.14 


5 The (artisans) shall deliver in the same condition as to quality and 
quantity as they receive the entrusted metal. 6 And even after a lapse of 
time, (customers) shall receive it in the same condition, except what is lost 
(in manufacture) and worn away (by time.) 


7 The (Goldsmith) should be conversant with every detail in connection 
with the characteristics and the manufacture of gold and its articles by work- 
shop artisans. 


8 In the case of gold and silver (used in the manufacture of articles), 
a loss of one kakani in a suvarna may be allowed. 9 One kdkani of iron — 
twice that in the case of silver — is the insertion for colour ; one-sixth part 
of that is the loss (allowed). 


10 Incase of diminution of quality to the extent of one mdsa at least, 
the lowest fine for violence (shall be imposed) ; in case of diminution of quan- 
tity (to that extent), the middle (fine); in case of deceit in scales and weights, 
the highest (fine), also in case of fraud in an article manufactured. 


11 For a (person) causing the manufacture (of an article) unseen by the 
Goldsmith or in some other place, the fine shall be twelve panas. 12 For 
the artisan, (the fine shall be) double, if there is a valid excuse. 18 If there 
is no excuse, the (person) shall be taken to the magisterial court. 14 And for 


5 varnais clearly ‘ quality.’ 6 kdldntardd api,i.e., ‘ when delay is caused by illness, 
disturbances, etc.’ (Cb). Cs has ‘ even if the artisan has gone On a long journey or is dead, 
his sons must return it in the same condition.’ — anyatra ksinaparisirndbhyam : Cb Cp have 
‘when there is diminution or wearing away there is a fine.’ Cp mentions a fine of 1,000. 
It seems that ksina refers to loss allowed in manufacture and parigirna to wearing away by 
time ; in either case there is no fine. 


7 lakgana and prayoga are to be construed with suvarna and pudgala, In view of 2.18. 
35 and s. 11 below ‘ trade or practice of fraud ’ (Cs) is unlikely for prayoga. 


8 tapia seems to be the same as fapaniya ornamental gold, and kaladhautaka orna- 
mental silver. Cj understands ‘ during the acts of heating (tapia) and washing for rubbing 
(kaladhauta).’ — kdkanikah suvarne etc. : i.e., loss allowed in the process of manufacture 
is 1/64th or 1.56 per cent. 9 It seems best to regard ripyadvigunah as a parenthetical 
clause asin Meyer. The insertion in the case of silver would be 2 kdkanis in 1 suvarna. Cb 
Cs, reading ripyadvigund, explain ‘ 1 kakani of iron with 2 kakanis of silver forms the colour- 
ing for gold.’ Silver, however, is not mentioned as a colouring material in the last 
Chapter. It is true that the last Chapter does not also refer to 2 kakanis as colouring 
material for silver. Nevertheless the former explanation appears preferable. — sadbhdgah 
ksayah: i.e., of 1 suvarna gold and 1 kdkani rdga (added to it) loss allowed is 1/64th of 
gold and 1/6th of rdga leaving 68 5/6th instead of 65 kakanis; in silver, 64 2/8rds would 
remain Out of 66 kdkanis. 


10 médsavare, i.e., one maga of metal of higher quality (varna) is reduced to a lower 
quality (Cp). Meyer has‘ when the loss suffered by the customer is of the value of 1 mdga.’ 
This ignores varna. — pramauahine : we have to understand mdgavare with this. — kriabhd- 
ndopadhau seems to refer to fraud after the article is made (krita), i i.e., during inspection as 
in s. 44 onwards, though the idea of ‘ during the making’ is also not unlikely. mdsdvare 
need not be understood with this or the preceding case. 


11 karayatah seems to refer to the customer, who gets work done on the sly to escape 
the regular state charges for manufacture. 12 sdpasdraég cet is to be understood in s. 11 
as well. 18 anapasarah: This raises the possibility that the gold may be stolen propery 
and hence the need for investigation by the pradesty asin Book 4. 14 panacchedanam ‘ 


2.14.15 [ KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 118 


the artisan, (the punishment shall be) a fine of two hundred panas or the cutting 
off of the fingers of his hand. 


15 They shall purchase the scales and weights from the Superintendent 
of Standardisation. 16 Otherwise, (there shall be) a fine of twelve panas. 


17 Making solid objects, making hollow objects, plating, coating, fixing 
and gilding constitute an artisan’s work. 


18 Fraud in the balance, removal, tapping, boxing and embedding are 
the means of pilfering (by artisans). 


19 (Easily) bending, carved out, with split top, with a subsidiary (false) 
neck, with bad strings, with defective scales, given to swinging, and magnetic, 
—— these are false balances. 


20 Two parts of silver and one part of copper constitute triputaka. 21 
By means of that, mineral gold is removed; that is ‘ removal by tripufaka.’ 
22 By (substitution of) copper, that is ‘removal by copper’, by (substitution of) 
vellaka, that is ‘ removal by vellaka, ’ by (substitution of) gold containing half 
copper, that is ‘removal by gold’. 


28 A dummy crucible, foul dross, the ‘crane’s beak’, the blow-pipe, 
the pair of tongs, the water-vessel, borax, and the same gold, these are the ways 
of removal. 24 Or, sand made into lumps and placed (there) beforehand, is 
taken out of the fire-place on the breaking of the crucible. 


ting off the fingers ofa hand.’ agrahasiasya chedanam (Cj), parcangulicchedanam (Cp). Cf. 
4.10.1. 


15 pautava stands for pautavddhyaksa, 2.19. 


17 ghanam susiram is read as in 2.18.40; see 2.18.45. — samyitihya is thick plating, 
while avalepya is coating with thin plates ; samghdtya is fixing base metal in a precious metal, 
while vdsiiaka is gilding. 

19 samnamini ‘ bending easily ’ because it is made of soft metal (Cb); Meyer thinks of 
a contrivance for bringing the scales down. — utkirnikd ‘hollowed and filled with iron powder 
(Cj) or mercury (Cb) inside.’ — bhinnamasiakd apparently allows one side to go down easily. 
— upakanthi apparently has a centre where the scales balance unevenly; ‘full of knots or 
accretions ’ (Cp). — gikya refers to the strings with which the pans (kaksya) are suspended 
from the beam. sakatu is uncertain ; Cb comment and Cj show only katu-. — dyaskanta : 
the beam has a magnet On one side, so that the metal pan tends to rise towards it. 

( os aGkarodgatam : cf. 2.18.8. 22 vellaka ‘an alloy of equal parts of silver and iron’ 
com.). 

23 mikamisd has a false bottom into which a part of the melting gold drips down. — 
pulikitiah ‘the foul-smelling dross’ in which gold may be concealed. Meyer proposes 
pratikitta ‘apparent dross’ which does not seem necessary. — karatukamukham ‘a crane’s 
beak’ appears to be a kind of pincers with hollow ends for concealing gold. Cj mentionsa 
view according to which it is the passage for wind at the end of the bellows. Cb, reading 
karatamukham ‘a crow’s beak’, explains ‘a vessel for receiving something.’ — jongant 
vessel for holding water’ (Cb), ‘lohakatika (? iron vessel?) ’ (Cp); Cj’s ‘ kafictka uyttam 
marydrisandagrdlohi’ is unintelligible. The root jurig means ‘to set aside, exclude.’ ‘Can 
the word mean a sieve, a strainer? — suvarcikdlavanam probably the same as sauvar- 
cala * horax ’ of 2.15.15. — tadeva suvarnam : the idea seems to be, the presence of the gold 
itselfand its handling create the opportunity for pilfering. 24 pindavdlukdh: these appear 
like gold particles and are picked up instead of gold, which is recovered later. 


119 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.14. 85 


25 At the time of fixing together afterwards or at the time of testing the 
laid-on plating leaf, interchange (of a gold article) by a silver article is tapping, 


or (the interchange) of sand lumps (containing gold) by sand lumps containing 
iron. 


26 A firm and a removable enclosing is made in cases of plating, coating 
and fixing. 27 A piece of lead covered with a leaf of gold, (with) the interior 
fixed with lac, isthe firmenclosing. 28 The same, when therc are casings of 
layers, is the removable (enclosing). 29 A leaf that is compact or a twin- 
leaf is made in casos of coating. 30 Copper or silver is made the interior of 
leaves in cases of fixing. 31 An article of copper, fixed with a leaf of gold 
(and) polished is supdrgva (* with a well-made side’ ) ; the same, fixed with a 
twin-leaf (and) polished, and an article of copper and silver (similarly treated) 
are uttaravarnaka (‘ with quality outside ’). 


32 Heshould find these two out by heating and testing on the touchstone 
or by failure of (right) sound and by scratching. 33 The removable (en- 


casing) they sect down in the acid of the badara-fruit or in salt-water. Thus 
the ‘enclosing ’. 


34 Ina solid or a hollow article, gold-mixed earth or the pulp of maluka 
and vermilion, when heated, remains (embedded). 35 Or, in an article with 


25 pascdd bandhane: the loc. as in Cb is necessary, not nom. as in the mss. The 
reference is to joining parts that are first separately made. — dcitakapatra is the gold leaf 
used for plating. — visrdvanam seems to refer to substitution of one article or piece by 
another of a lower metal, while in apasdrana the gold-content is tampered with, not the entire 
article or piece. — pindavdlukd here must be supposed to contain gold. 


27 abhyantaram astakenea baddham seems to be almost a parenthetical clause. 28 
patalasamputesu appears to be used as a locative absolute, ‘ when there are casings of layers’; 
the idea seems to be that the lead inside is not fixed or soldered andcan be removed. There 
is no fixing with astaka (Cp). samputa ‘a fold,’ a sort of box or casket, hollowinside. 29 
patram Gslistam yamakapatram vd: ‘i.e., on One side of the article or on both sides ’ (Cb). 
The insertion of lead between the gold-leaf and the article in one case and between the two 
leaves in the other is probably to be understood, though there is no direct reference to that. 
31 Following Cb, supdrsva and uttaravarnaka are understood as two types of samghdtya. 
In the ulfaravarnaka two items are included, a copper article covered with a double gold-leaf 
and a copper-silver article (either as alloy or in separate parts of the article) covered 
with gold-leaf. Cs begins the s. with samghdtyesu kriyate and understands two types up 
to the second pramrstam, explaining ‘amratdra- etc. as ‘ copper or silveris used as a plating 
for ironware etc.’ or ‘a piece of copper is plated with silver.’ Meyer seems to find three types 
of samghdalya,—sparsva, pramrsta and tdmratdrariipa, ‘ samples for further work (of fraud) ’ 
being his explanation of uttaravarnakah. Many of the details in these ss. are far from clear. 


32 tad ubhayam, i.e., the gadha and the abhkyuddharya petaka. — nihgabda * absence of 
right tone’ (Meyer) seems preferable to ‘cutting without a sound’ (Cp). 33 sddayanti 
*‘ put it down’; Cb adds that the article then becomes red in colour. 


34 The difference between peiaka and pinka appears to be that in the former a different 
metal is inserted in the plating of gold, while in the latter a chemical or mineral substance 
is embedded in the article. — vd supports the reading ghane susire from Cj. Cf. 2.18.40, 45 
etc. — mdlukahinguluka-: perhaps vdlukdhinguluka- should be read as in 2.18.46. Cb 
comment seems to support it. Cp seems to understand ‘pulp of hinguluka along with 
suvarnamrd and suvarnamdlukd (these two being kindsof minerals).’ Thisignores the vd 
that follows. Cp, however, does not show the vd. 35 drdhavdstuke : i.e., the embedding is 


2.14. 36 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 120 


a firm base, lac mixed with sand or the paste of red lead, when heated, remains 
(embedded). 86 Of these two, heating or breaking is the (test of) purity. 


87 Or, in an article containing an encircling metal, salt heated by a 
fire-brand along with soft pebbles, remains (embedded). 88 Boiling is (the 
test of) its purity. 


89 Or, a layer of mica is fixed in an article with a double base by means 
of lac. 40 Of that, in which the fixing has been covered, one part sinks 
down when it is placed in water, or it is pierced with a needle in the spaces 
between the layers. 


41 Gems, silver or gold form the embedding in solid or hollow articles. 
42 Of that, heating or breaking is (the test of) purity. Thus the embedding. 


48 Therefore, the (Goldsmith) should ascertain the class, appearance, 
quality, quantity, the ornament made and the characteristics of articles made 
of diamonds, gems, pearls and corals. 


44 In the course of testing articles that are made or in the course of re- 
pairs to old articles, four ways of stealing (are practised) : knocking off, 
cutting out, scratching out or rubbing off. 45 When under the pretext of 
(discovering) an ‘ enclosing ’, they cut out a bead or a string or a casing, that 
is knocking off. 46 Or, when in an article with a double base, they insert 


done in the solid base. — gdandhara ‘ redlead’ evidently named after the country of its 
origin. 
87 katusarkarayd: ‘soft stone or pebbles’ (com.). Meyer wonders if it can mean 


“hard sugar.’ Some kind of sand seems to be intended. 88 kvdthanam is done in the 
badaramla of s. 33 (com.).. 


89 dvigunavdstuke : i.e., the base has two layers of gold plates, between which mica is 
fixed with lac. — vd shows a new type of pinka ; and it is not necessary, as Meyer thinks, to 
read ekavastuke at the beginning to justify it. 40 apihitakdcakasya: kdca seems to mean 

. ‘ embedding ’ here, same as pinka ; it is covered with the outer layer of gold. — udake, i.e., 
‘in badarémla’ (com.). — patalaniaresu vad: vd shows that this is another method of 
discovering the presence of mica inside. pataldntara is therefore ‘space between layers ’ 
rather than ‘ other layers, such as copper etc.’ (Cp). 


41 minayoripyam etc. : ‘inferior gems are pinka, i.e., haranopaya (means of pilfering) 
for genuine gems, silver for gold, and impure gold for pure gold ’(com.). It seems more likely, 
however, that an inferior or impure object of the same class constitutes the pinka or embedd- 
ing in a superior or pure article of that class; in the case of mani, it amounts.to nothing more 
than substitution. Meyer seems to understand manayah etc. as stating the material out of 
which articles are made, adding ‘ in their case pasting is practised.’ But.these words are in 
the nom. and go with pinkah. 


43 Cf. 2.18.59. — pudgala ‘the ornament made.’ 


45 pitakd seems related to petaka and to be some sort of casing. 46 dcigunavd- 
slukanam is strange ; we expect dvigunavdstuke as in s. 89 above. —sisaripam : this 18 
coated with gold (com. as also Meyer). That may not appear quite necessary. — It seems 
that in parikuttana, some external part is cut out, while in avacchedana a part from the inte- 


121 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.14. 55 


an object of lead and cut the interior out, that is cutting out. 47 When 
. from solid objects they scratch out with a sharp tool, that is scratching out. 
48 When after coating a picce of cloth with the powder of one of the following, 
(viz.,) yellow orpiment, red arsenic or vermilion, or with powder of kuruvinda 
(-stone), they rub the article with it, that is rubbing off. 49 By that articles 


of gold and silver lose in weight and yet no part of these (articles) gets 
bruised. ge. ns 


50 Of plated articles that are broken or cut or rubbed off, he should form 
an inference (as to loss) with the help of a similar article. 51 Of coated arti- 
cles he should form an estimate by cutting out as much as has been cut out 
(by the artisan). 52 Or, of those that have changed their appearance, he 
should do heating and rubbing in (acid) water a number of times. 


53 Sudden movement of the hand, the weights, the fire, the wooden 
anvil, the tool-box, the receptacle, the peacock’s feather, tke thread, garment, 
talk, the head, the lap, the fly, attention to one’s person, the bellows-skin, the 


water-platter, and the fire-pan, — these -he should know as the means of 
pilfering. 


54 Of silver articles he should know that as fraudulent which smells like 
raw flesh, easily catches dirt, is rough, very hard or changed in colour. 


55 Inthis manner he should test the new and the old as well as the 


article that has changed its appearance, and should impose penalties on 
the (artisans) as prescribed. 


rioris cutout. Cj shows parikarianam for parikutianam. 48 kuruvinda ‘a kind ofstone’ 
(com.). Is the meaning ‘ black salt ’given in the lexicons possible ? 


52 viriipandm vd: Cp renders vd by ca, perhaps rightly. Cp Cs, reading a stop after 
va, construe this with the preceding, but instead of supplying utpdtyanumdanam as expected, 
they supply sadrgendnumdanam, which is little likely. viriipa, ‘i.e., made inferior in touch 
by mixing with an alloy ’ (Cb). 


58 avaksepah ‘sleight of hand’ (Cb Cs). Cj has ‘laghavena samcaranam, moving 
lightly or quickly.’ ‘ Throwing out (in the rubbish),’ to be recovered later, is also not 
unlikely. — pratimanam ‘ substitution while weighing or adjusting weights ’ (Cb). — bhan- 
dika ‘ tool-box’ (Meyer), ‘ vessel for collecting molten gold ’ (Cb). — adhikarani ‘ an iron 
vessel ’ (Cb). — siitram ‘the thread for measuring or that in the balance, with wax applied 
over it’ (Cb), ‘ coil of thread used in making the ornament’ (Meyer). — cellam bollanam : 
Cj has cellacollanam ‘ tying the knot with a piece of cloth, vasirakhandena nivibandhanam.’ 
Cb seems to aave celam pollanam ‘ garment and talking.’ Cp has celkam colanam. Meyer 
prefers cellacollanam ‘folding the garment.’ Deéi words are evidently used here. — sirah 
ulsangah are used for concealing gold. — kdcam ‘ means of pilfering ’ seems a meaning deve- 
loped from that of s. 40 above. 


54 prastinam ‘hard.’ Cb reads prastitam in the same sense. 


55 atyayam yathoddistam : actually no penalties are prescribed in this or the preceding 
Chapter. Perhaps the fines of 4.1.26 ff. are to be thought of. Breloer (KSt, III, 439-440) 
thinks that the kdrikd belongs to the duties of the suvarnddhyaksa, not the sauvarnika. 
That seems to have been Meyer’s view too. Asit stands, however, the sauvarnika alone 
can be thought of in the stanza. 


2.15.1 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 122 


CHAPTER FIFTEEN 
SECTION 33 THE SUPERINTENDENT OF THE MAGAZINE 


1 The Superintendent of the Magazine should know about agricultural 
produce, revenue from the countryside, purchase, barter, begging, borrowing, 
labour in place of taxes, income from other sources, return from expenditure 
and additional income. | 


2 The various kinds of grains brought in by the Director of Agriculture 
constitute agricultural produce. . 


3 The aggregate tax, the one-sixth share, provisions for the army, tribute, 
tax, the ‘lap’, the ‘ side’, compensation for loss, presents, and income from 
stores constitute revenue from the countryside. 


4 The price of grains, disposal of treasury and recovery of what is given 
at interest constitute purchase. 


5 Exchange of different kinds of grains at a different price is barter. 


6 Asking for grains from another source is begging. 7 The same, in- 
tended to be returned, is borrowing. 


8 The work of pounding, splitting (pulses), frying, fermenting, and 
grinding from those who live by these, the pressing of oil from oilmen using the 


2.15 
2 sitdis produce from state or crownlands. Cf. 2.24 below. 


8 pindakarah,i.e., received from the village as a whole, not from individual cultivators. 
Breloer (KST, III, 319) thinks of fixed payments which are less than the regular share-tax, 
e.g.,in amelioration contracts or from land given to officers etc. — senabhaktam ‘ for payment 
to mercenaries ’ (Cb); apparently this varied according to the strength of the army. — 
For bali and kara, see 2.6.3. — utsangah ‘ presents on festive occasions like a prince’s birth ’ 
(Cp), ‘ money given On interest ’ (Cb), ‘ maintenance of officers (dyuktavurtith) ’ (Cj), ‘ super- 
tax ’ (Meyer). — parsvam : see 2.6.20. ‘ Alevy asin 5.2 below ’ (Cp), ‘ a surcharge on what 
has been fixed ’ (Cb), ‘ bribe ’ (Cj), ‘ impost in case of deficit ’(Breloer, LII, 321). — parihi- 
nikam : see 2.6.20. Cj has here ‘ recovery of ouststandings, ’ mentioning ‘ confiscation of 
the goods of those exiled or gone from the country ’ as the view of others. — kaustheyakam 
“income from the stores,’ is ‘revenue from tanks, parks etc. made by the king’ (Cs). Breloer 
(III, 321) seems to agree with ‘ receipts from tenants of crown lands’ (Cb). — rdstra here 
differs materially from rdstrain 2.6.8. Breloer thinks ofrulership as land-tax corresponding 
to sarkar amal of modern times (III, 319). 


4 kosanirharah ‘ paying out of the treasury for the purchase of grains’ (Com.). Meyer 
understands selling grains to fill the treasury with cash. The former idea seems better. 
— The inclusion of recovery of loans under purchase is a bit strange. 


5 arghantarena ‘ at different prices’; the quantities would vary according to price 
ina fair exchange. 


8 rocaka ‘ who separates the two halves of pulses ’ (com.). — audracakrikesu is from Cj 
10r aurabhra-. Cj explains ‘ those who press oil with a machine (audra hi putikd yanirena 
pidayanti) and those who use the oil-press going round (cdkrikds) tu catursu parsvesu calya- 
manena cakrena).’ The latter is apparently the ghadni; the former was apparently worked 
by hand. Cb has no explanation of aurabhra- ; Cs explains ‘who do the work of slaughtering 
the sacrificial ram ’ ; Meyer has ‘ shepherds ’; Breloer has ‘ austrika oil-millers (and cdkrika 


128 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS  [ 2. 15.17 


hand press and the round press, and the work of extracting and treating juice 
of sugar-canes, — these constitute labour in place of taxes. 


9 What is lost, forgotten and so on is income from other sources. 


10 Balance due to (army-) disbandment and from undertakings (given 
up) in the middle because of sickness, is return from expenditure. 


11 Difference in weights and measures, hand-filling, residue of the 


heap, surcharge, outstanding (revenue), and earned income, constitute addi- 
tional income. 


12 As regards grains, fats, sugars and salts, we shall state rules concern- 
ing grains in the (Section on the) Director of Agriculture. 


18 Butter, oil, suet and marrow are fats. 


14 Treacle, jaggery, unrefined sugar and granulated sugar constitute the 
group of sugars. 


15 Salt from the Indus-land, sea-salt, b¢da-salt, salt-petre, borax and 
salt from saline soil constitute the group of salts. 


16 That made by bees and the juice of grapes, are honey. 


17 One of (the following, viz.,) sugar-cane juice, jaggery, honey, treacle, 
the juice of jambi-fruit and the juice of panasa-fruit, infused with a decoc- 
tion of mesasrngi and long pepper, kept for one month, six months or a year, 
(and then) mixed with cidbhita, urvdruka, sugar-cane stalk, mango fruit and 
myrobalan, or unmixed (with these), constitute the group of fermented juices. 


labourers)’ (III, 327). — samhanika: some sort of derivation is possible for this form and 
for samhatikd, hardly for simhatikd or simhanikd. The sense, of course, is technical. 
Russ. renders stmhanikd by ‘receipts from treatment of agricultural products.’ 


10 vyayapratyayah : see 2.6.21. Cj here gives the same explanation as Cb On that s. 


11 tuldmdndntaram: there are varying sets of weights and measures for trade and for 
receipts in the treasury; see 2.19.22,29. — hasiapuranam ‘holding the hands above the mea- 
sure so as to take in more grains when measuring out into the treasury’ (Cb). It may possibly 
refer also to the throwing in of 4 handful or so over and above the grains measured out. — 
utkarah ‘ what is left over of the heap of grains after the measuring is finished ’ (Cb). — 
vydji: cf. 2.6.10. — paryusitam : cf. 2.6.19 above. — prarjitam ‘ gains made by trading’ 
(Cb), ‘ flowers, betel-leaves etc. raised by the store-keeper himself’ (Cs). The actual com- 
ment in Cb shows uparjiiam as the reading. Breloer understands paryusitam prarjitam 
as one ‘reclain ed balances of income ’(III,329). 

12 sitddhyakse in 2.24 below. 


14 Meyer understands khanda and Sarkard as two ‘candy’ and ‘ grain-sugar,’ which 
also is possible. 


15 bida ‘ muriate of soda with small quantities of muriate of lime, sulphur and oxide 
of iron’ (Monier-Williams: Dictionary). — udbhedaja ‘derived from saline soil? (com.), 
‘from salt-springs or salt-wells * (Meyer), ° pit-salt ’ (Breloer, IIT, 806). 

16 madhu need not be assumed to be fermented as Breloer (KSt, III, 806 n.1) thinks. 

17 cidbhita is a kind of melon.—urvdruka is a variety of cucumber. — avasuia 


evidently does not imply infusion over a length of time. — sukta seems to be something like 
vinegar, of which six varieties are mentioned. 


2.15.18 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 124 


18 Tamarind, karamarda, mango, pomegranate, myrobalan, citron, kola, 
badara, sauviraka, parisaka and others form the group of sour fruit-juices. 


19 Curds, sour gruel and others are the group of sour liquids. 


20 Long pepper, black pepper, ginger, cumin-seed, the bitter kirdta, white 
mustard, coriander, coraka, damanaka, maruvaka, the stalk of sigru and others 
constitute the group of spices. 


21 And dried fish and dried meat, bulbous roots, roots, fruits, vegetables 
and others constitute the group of vegetables. 


22 From these he should set apart one half for times of distress for the 
country people, (and) use the (other) half. 238 And he should replace old 
(stock) with new. 


24 He should personally observe the amount of increase or decrease in 
the grains when pounded, rubbed, ground or fried, and when they are mois- 
tened, dry or cooked. 


25 Of kodrava and vrvhi-rice, one-half is the substance, of §dli-rice, one- 
half less (than that), of varaka, one-third less. 26 Of priyazgu, one half is 
the substance with an increase of one-ninth. 27 uddraka has the same mass, 
also barley and wheat when pounded, and sesame, barley, mudga and masa 
when rubbed. 28 Wheat increases by one-fifth, also fried barley. 29 
Kaldya-meal is less by one quarter. 30 (Meal) of mudga and mdsa is half a 
quarter less. 381 Of legumes, one-half is the substance, that of lentils, one- 
third less. 


18 kola, badara, sauviraka and pariisaka are different kinds of edible berries or jujubes. 
19 dhdnyamla sour gruel ‘made from the fermentation of rice-water’ (Dict.). 


20 coraka appears to be anise-seed. — Many of the names in these ss. including the 
unusual cidbhita, karamarda, kustumburu, damanaka, maruvaka, etc. have derivatives in 
Modern Indian Languages. 


21 Dried fish and meat are included in saka which ordinarily refers to vegetables only. 
Anything with which broths are made is evidently included here. 


23 See2.4.28 above. 
24 ghrsta ‘rubbed’ or ‘ crushed * refers to the splitting of pulses etc. 


25 kodravavrihinam : we have to understand ksunnadndm with this. Cj seems to have 
read this word. — ardhabhagonah may mean One-half less than the ordha, i.e., 1/4th or the 
same asardha1/2. Ins. 42 the best type of sali for the king has 1/4th. Cb Cj read astabha- 
&0nah, one-eighth less than ardha, i.e., 8/8th. — iribhdgonah inay be 2/8rds (Cb) or 1/2 less 
1/8,1.e., 1/6. The latter would be too little. — kodrava and varaka are inferior kinds of 
grains. priyangu and udadraka seem to be varieties of millets. 26 mnavabhagavrddhih : 
1/2 plus 1/9, i.e., 11/18. 27 tulyah ‘having the same sdra as priyangu’ (Cb). The idea 
rather seems to be that the mass remains the same as before pounding. As Breloer (KSt, 
ITT, 310) says, we have to think in terms of mass, not weight. — Cb shows no explanation of 

¥a0d godhiimaég ca ksunnah, and it is possible that these words are not original. 28 godhii- 
io me may understand ghrsiah with this. 29 kaldya refers to peas. — camasi.’ meal 
com.). 


125 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS /[ 2.15. 44 


82 Ground flour, uncooked, and kulmdsa become one and a half times 
(in volume). 383 Barley-meal becomes double, also pulaka and cooked flour. 


84 Of kodrava, varaka, uddraka and priyangu, the cooked preparation 
is threefold, of vrthi-rice fourfold, of $alz-rice fivefold. 


35 later grains, when moistened, become. double, one half more, when 
sprouted. 


36 (There is) an increase of one-fifth in the case of fried grains. 87 ka- 
laya becomes double, also fried rice and barley. 


38 One-sixth is the amount of oil from linseed. 29 From nimba, kuéa, 
mango, wood-&pple and others, one fifth part (is the amount of oil). 40 Oils 
from sesame, kusumbha, madhika and iigudt amount to one-fourth. 


41 Of cotton and flax, five palas yield one pala yarn. 


42 Twelve ddhakas of rice-grains from five dronas of $dli-rice are for 
the feeding of a young elephant, eleven for that of vicious elephants, ten for 
riding elephants, nine for war-elephants, eight for infantry-men, seven for 
chiefs, six for the queens and the princes, five for kings or one prastha of rice- 
grains, unbroken and cleansed. 


43 One prastha of rice-grains, one-fourth (of that) broth, a quantity of 
salt one-sixteenth of broth, (and) one-fourth part (of broth) butter or oil con- 
stitute one meal of an Aryamale. 44 One-sixth (of a prastha) broth, (and) 


32 pistam apparently refers to flour of wheat and saklu; yava-meal is mentioned 
separately in the next s. — kulmdsah : ‘ mudga, masa etc. ’ (Com.), * grains, particularly rice, 
moistened and half-cooked * (Meyer), ‘ cooked rice’ (Breloer). It may be a kind of grain. 
33 ydavakah * barley-flour ’ (Cs), ‘ barley without husk pounded ’ (Cb), * yavaudana, a barley 
and rice preparation(?) ’ (Cp). — puldkah ‘ put in water and cooked ’ (Cb) ; grains moistened 
and half cooked are meant for animals ; cf. s. 51 below and 2.29.43 ; 2.80.18. 

85 timitam ‘made wet.’ — apardénnam ‘mudga and s0 on, because it is grown later’ 
(Cj). Cp understands phalddhakt, canaka and s00n. The reading avardnnam in the sense of 
* lower kinds of grains ’ would probably refer to the same, mudga, mdsa etc. These are often 
kept in water for some time. When taken out of water, they sprout after a time (viraidha) 
and then are used for making broths. Cb has ‘the preparation of rice which has become 
moist in the fields (¢imifam) at the time of ripening and of unripened rice (apardnnam) 
becomes double.’ This is doubtful. 


89 Itis not clear if Kuga and dmra are to be understood separately or kusamra as one ; 
cf. 2.17.4. 


41 Breloer remarks (KSt, III, 311-2) that this s. may appear to be in the wrong place, 
but that cotton and flax are required for sacks useful for storing. 


42 paficadrone etc. : i.e., from 20 ddhakas of paddy we get 12 ddhakas of rice, of the 
roughest quality. In the best or highly polished, the rice yield is only 1/4th of the paddy. — 
Breloer remarks that the four, kalabha, vydla etc. refer to classes of animals, not to elephants 
only, and that the next four refer to classes of men, commoners (pattz), officers (mukhya), court 
(devikumara) and king (KSt, III, 313). — akhanda ...prasthak: this prastha is not brought 
into relation with any amount of paddy as Breloer (III, 318) thinks. 

48 Itis proposed to add tandulandm prasthah at the beginning. The words are necessary 
to show the amount of rice in the daily ration. They seem to have dropped out be- 
cause they had occurred just before at the end of the last s. 44 ardhasneham: i.e., half 
that allowed to an Arya (1/16 prastha), i.e., 1/82 prastha. If we understand 1/2 of 1/6, i.e., 
1/12 prastha (as in Cb Cs and Meyer), that would mean the lower classes are to get more fat 
than the Arya, which is unlikely. 45 pdadonam applies to allitems of ss. 48 and 44. 


2.15. 45 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 126 


half the quantity of fat is for the lower classes. 45 One-quarter less for 
women. 46 One half for children. 


47 For twenty palas of meat, half a kuduba of fat, one pala of salt, one 
pala of sugar, two dharanas of spices and half a prastha of curds (should be 
used). 48 By that higher quantities are explained. 49 For vegetables, 
one and a half times as much, for dried (meat etc.) twice as much and the 
same ingredients. 


50 We shall state the amount of food ration for elephants and horses in 
the (Sections on the ) Superintendents of these. 


51 For bullocks, one drona of masa or a puldka of barley (shall be added), 
the rest as laid down for horses. 52 The special (ration for bullocks is) one 
tulad of oil-cake from the press or ten ddhakas of broken grains and bran. 
58 Twice that for buffaloes andcamels. 54 Half a drona for donkeys, spot- 
ted deer and red deer. 55 One ddhaka for ena- and kuranga-deer. 56 Half an 
Gdhaka for goats, rams and boars or double that broken grains and bran. 
57 One prastha of boiled rice for dogs. 58 Half a prastha for swans, herons 
and peacocks. 59 For deer, beasts, birds and wild animals other than these, 
he should cause an estimate to be made from one meal (consumed by them). 


60 He should cause charcoal and husks to be taken to metal workshops 
and for plastering walls. 61 He should give the broken grains to slaves, 
labourers and broth-makers, (and) things other than these to dealers in cooked 
rice and in cakes. 


62 Implements for weighing and measuring, grinding-stones, pestle and 
mortar, pounding and crushing machines, scatterer, winnowing basket, sieve, 
cane-basket, box and broom are the implements. 


47 viméatyd: the instrumental is unusual; perhaps the visarga after it got dropped 
out. 49 adhyardha- etc.: Meyer thinks that this applies to curds only or at most to 
fat and salt also, but not to ksdra and katuka, with which the word generally used is yoga ; 


for we have yogah separately mentioned here. 
50 tadadhyakse, i.e., in 2.81 and 2.30 respectively. 


51 puldkah: see s. 838 above. The amount of yavas for making it would also be 1 
drona ; cf. 2.29.48. 58 Repeated in 2.29.44. 54  ardhadronam: this refers to mdsa 
or puldka, not to oil-cake and bran. 59 atah to be construed with sesanam. — ekabhaktad 
by inspecting food eaten by them in one day’ (com.). It is possible that in s. 48 also 
eka bhakic refers to the day’s ration, not a single meal. 


,.__ 91 kanikah would appear to be larger than kana on which the animals are fed. — ato 
ieee to refer to surplus food from the royal kitchen. It is not clear from prayacchet 


62 rocanidrgad ‘the grinding stones,’ for which rocani alone is used in 3.8.11. — 
Fullakayantra ‘ pddakramantyam ustragriodkdram’ (Cj). — rocakayantra ‘a machine for 
crushing pulses ete.” Coy ‘ hastabhramaniyam ’ (Cj), ‘ pesanayantram ’ (Cp).— patraka ‘a kind 
of tray (cargerikd) ’ (Cp), ‘a wooden pounder ’ (Cb), ‘ fan’ (Meyer). 


127 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.16. 7 


63 Sweeper, watchman, weigher, measurer, supervisor of measuring, 
giver, supervisor of delivery, receiver of tallies, and the group of slaves and 
labourers, — these are the workmen. 


64 On high should be the storing place for grains ; close-knit grass 
bags for sugar ; earthen jars and wooden casks for fats; and the earth 
(should be the storing place) for salt. 


CHAPTER SIXTEEN 
SECTION 34 THE DIRECTOR OF TRADE 


1 The Director of Trade should be conversant with the differences in the 
prices of commodities of high value and of low value and the popularity or 
unpopularity of goods of various kinds, whether produced on land or in water 
(and) whether they have arrived along land-routes or water-routes, also (should 

‘know about) suitable times for resorting to dispersal or concentration, purchase 
or sale. 


2 And that commodity which may be plentiful, he should collect in one 
place and raise the price. 3 Or, when the price is reached, he should fix 
another price. 


4 He should establish in one place trade in royal commodities that are 
produced in his own country ; in many places, in those produced in foreign 
lands. 5 And he should cause both to be sold so as to favour the subjects. 
6 And he should avoid even a big profit that would be injurious to the 
subjects. 7 He should not create a restriction as to time or the evil of a glut 
in the market in the case of commodities constantly in demand. 


68 dharaka ‘holder’ of scales, i.e., weigher. Meyer has ‘keeper, preserver.’ — 
mdpaka who supervises measuring. Cb has ‘measurer of length.’ — saldkdpratigrdhaka 
the receiver of sticks or tallies for counting, an accountant (cf. saldkdgahaka of Pali texts). 
Cj renders by kalayitd ‘counter.’ Cb has *‘ who supervises grinding and pounding.’ — 
vistih: Breloer remarks (III, 304) that ‘ state worker * is a better rendering of visit. 

64 mitah: from mav ‘to bind’ is a woven basket or grass bag. The word is Vedic. 
Breloer (III, 804-5) says that the Chapter mentions other groups besides these four and hence 
the kdrikd seems taken from elsewhere. The four, however, are the principal groups among 
edibles (cf. s. 12). The other groups (ss. 16-21) are secondary, and needed no special men- 
tion for this purpose. 


2.16 


1 sdraphalgvarghantaram ‘ differences in the prices of sara and phalgu goods ’ (com.) 
is better than * what is sara, what is phalgu and fluctuations in their prices’ (Meyer). — 
viksepa is dispersal of goods in many places for sale, and samksepa is concentration in one 
place only for sale, as described in this Chapter. — prayoga ‘ use, employment.’ Meyer’s 
“lending at interest ’ is little likely. Breloer (KSt, III, 332 n.1) proposes -prayogakalpan 
‘the kind and manner (kalpa) of actions (prayoga) viz., distribution and collection, for 
purchase and sale.’ That is not very happy. 

3 prapte *rghe either because the commodity has ceased to be plentiful or the demand 
for it is greater. — arghdntaram, i.e., a lower price. 


4 ekamukham, i.e., concentrated in one place. — Foreign goods are to be sold in 
many centres probably to make them easily available for the country peopleas well. 5 Cf. 


2.16.8 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 128 


8 Or, traders should sell royal goods in many places with the price 
fixed. 9 And they should pay compensation in accordance with the loss 
(sustained). 


10 One-sixteenth part is the surcharge in measure by capacity, one- 
twentieth part in measure by weighing, one-eleventh part of commodities sold 
by counting. 


11 He should encourage the import of goods produced in foreign lands 
by (allowing) concessions. 12 And to those (who bring such goods) in ships 
or caravans, he should grant exemptions (from taxes) that would ‘enable’a 
profit (to be made by them). 18 And no law-suit in money matters (shoul 
be allowed) against foreign traders, except such as are members (of native 
concerns) and (their) associates. 


14 Officers in charge of (royal) goods shall deposit the price of goods 
(sold), in one place, in a wooden box having a lid with one opening. 15 And 
in the eighth part of the day, they should hand it over to the Director of Trade, 
declaring, ‘ This much is sold; this is left over.’ 16 They should also hand 
over the implements of weighing and measuring. 


17 Thus (the sale of goods) in one’s own territory has been explained. 


18 In foreign territory, however, he should ascertain the price and the 
value of the commodity (taken out) and the commodity (to be brought) in 
exchange and should calculate the profit after clearing expenses for duty, 
road-cess, escort-charges, picket- and ferry-dues, food and fodder and share. 


4.2.27,85. 6 In view of api, siksmam would have been better than sthilam. 7 ajasra- 
panya ‘that are constantly in demand or always sold’ (com.); ‘which must be fresh’ 
(Breloer, III, 340). Milk, vegetables, etc. are meant. — samkula- ‘ crowding, ’i.e., glutting 
the market. 

9 chedais the loss suffered by the state because it has not itself engaged in the trade 
and made the usual profit. 


10 According to Cp and ‘ others ’ in Cb, ovydji goes to the customer. In the text, how- 
ever, it is evidently a source of stateincome. Cj has ‘ sodagaprasthdn vikrtnanah ekam nivar- 
tayet, krindnah saptadagakam adhikam grhnityat,’ i.e., according to it the vydji Operates two 
ways between the trader and the customer. That is unlikely. 


12 dyatiksamam: dyatiis ‘income’ (2.9.10, 11 etc.) as wellas ‘future’ (2.10.36, 48, etc.). 
SO we may have ‘ capable of yielding an income, i.e., profit ’ or ‘ yielding profit in the future ’ 
(Cp). 18 anabhiyogah, i.e., the dispute is to be settled by the panyddhyaksa himself. — 
— sabhyopakaribhyah : i.e., when they are partners in a native corporation or its associates 
(or assistants), suits can be filed against them. Cb comment shows sahopakaribhyah ‘ if 
there is a quarrel between a foreign merchant and a native merchant, the king shall not 
show partiality (abhiyoga); if, however, benefit has been conferred by him, partiality 
may he shown to him.’ abhiyoga as ‘ partiality ’ is doubtful. 


14 panyddhisthatarah are clearly salesmen in state service. 15 ahnag ca astame 
bhdge, i.e., the last part of the day. Cf. 1.19.6 ff. 


18 panyapratipanyayoh: panya is the commodity taken out, and pratipanya the 
commodity brought in exchange for it. Breloer seems to understand the Opposite ‘ the ware 
(asked for) and the counter-ware (offered in return) ’ (III, 845). — argha seems to be the 
selling price, while milya is its cost price or value. Breloer understands argha of panya and 


129 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [2.17.8 


19 Should there be no profit, he should see if there is any advantage in taking 
out goods or in bringing in goods in exchange for goods. 20 Then with 
a quarter of the goods of high value, he should set going trade by land along 
a safe route. 21 And he should establish contacts with forest chieftains, 
frontier officers, and chiefs in the city and the countryside, to secure their 
favour. 22 In case of a calamity, he should rescue the goods of high value 
or himself. 28 Or, if he has reached his destination, he should carry on the 
trade after paying all dues. 24 And on the water-route he should ascertain 
hire for boats, provisions on the journey, price and amount of (his) goods 
and of the goods in exchange, seasons suited for voyage, precautions against 
dangers aud regulations at the ports. 


25 And along river-routes, he should ascertain (conditions of) trade 
from the (port) regulations and should proceed to where there is profit 
and avoid absence of profit. 


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN 
SECTION 85 THE DIRECTOR OF FOREST PRODUCE 


1 The Director of Forest Produce should cause forest produce to be 
brought in by guards in the produce forests. 2 And he should start factories 
for forest produce. 3 And he should fix dues from those cutting produce 
forests, also penalty, except in cases of distress. 


milya of pratipanya. — Glivdhika ‘escort charges;’ cf. 2.28.25 etc. Cb curiously has 
‘paid to those who go in the morning (?)’. — gulma seems to be a sort of police or military 
picket, stationed in places of danger. Cb has ‘ paid (deya) to those who stay in the forest. ’ 
— bhdga ‘share’ claimed by the foreign state as, e.g., in the case of salt, 2.12.29 etc. Cj 
seems to read -bhrtibhakta- for -bhaklabhdga-. — For the s., cf. 2.85.12 below. 19 bhduda- 
niroahanena : Cp reads bhdndanirvahanena ‘by not taking out’; that is less likely. — labham 
is sOme political or strategic advantage. 20. taiah, i.e., in either case, whether there is 
profit to be made or some advantage to be secured. —sdrapddena i.e., 1/4th of the total 
goods taken out are to be sdra , the rest phalgu. Cb has ‘ giving one-fourth of what is agreed 
upon as profit, i.e., at a cost Of 1/4th of the calculated profit,’ Meyer ‘with strong beasts 
of burden,’ Breloer ‘one-fourth of the four types of goods (ratna, sGra, phdlgu, kupya), 
viz., sGra.’ These explanations appear doubtful. 21 Cf.1.16.7. 22 dGpadi, e.g., when the 
caravan is attacked by robbers. 23 dimano ud bhumim pradpiah: The reading is from 
Cp, almanah bhimi being understood in the sense of ‘his destination’. Cj shows this read- 
ing, but explains it by ‘svadeéasthah’. Reading aprdpiah, Cs also understands by dafmano 
bhiimi the native land of the panyddhyaksa, i.e., when he has not come back and is still in 
the foreign land. vd has little significance here. 24 ydnabhdgaka: Cb’s -bhdtaka would 
appear more appropriate in the sense Of ‘hire’. Though the state owned boats and hired 
them out (2.28.3-5) private boats also are thought of, and, in case of need, could be hired 
by the state. panyapattanacdritra : cf. 2.28.7 below. 


27. nadipathe: apparently, the preceding s. primarily dealt with sea-voyage. 


2.17 | 

8. deyam: Cb Cs understand * wages’to be paki to those who cut the trees.’ However, 
deya usually refers.to what is due to the state (cf. 2.16.18, 28), and seems to refer here to fees 
charged for taking fuel or timber from state forests, — aiyayam is penalty for taking these 
things without paying thedues. — anyatra dpadbhyah when no charges are recovered. 


2.17.4] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 130 


4 The group of forest produce (is as follows) : 


Saka, tinisa, dhanvana, arjuna, madhika, tilaka, sala, siméapa, arimeda, 
rajadana, strisa, khadira, sarala, tala, sarja, asvakarna, somavalka, kusa, dmra, 
priyaka, dhava and others (constituting) the group of (trees with) hard wood. 


5 wtaja, cimiya, capa, venu, vumsa, satina, kantaka, bhallika and others 
(constituting) the group of reeds. 


6 vetra, Sikavalli, vasi, Sydmalata, ndgalatd and others (constituting) the 
group of creepers. 


7 méalati, mirvd, arka, sana, gavedhuka, atast and others (constituting) 
the group of fibre-plants. 


8 muiija, balbaja and others (constituting raw) materials for ropes. 
9 The leaves of tali, tala and bhirja. 
10 The flowers of kiméuka, kusumbha and kunkuma. 


11 Bulbous roots, roots, fruits and others (constituting) the group of 
medicinal plant products. 


12 kdlakita, vatsandbha, haldhala, mesasriga, musta, kustha, mahdvisa, 
vellitaka, gaurardra, balaka, markata, haimavata, kdalingaka, ddradaka, ankola- 
sara, austraka, and other poisons, serpents and insects, these samc kept in 
jars, (all constituting) the group of poisons. 


18 Skin, bones, bile, tendons, eyes, teeth, horns, hooves and tails of the 
lizard, seraka, leopurd, bear, dolphin, lion, tiger, elephant, buffalo, camara, 
srmara, rhinoceros, bison and gavaya, and also of other deer, beasts, birds 
and wild animals. 


4. kusdmra is read as in 2.15.89 and understood as two; Otherwise the mango tree 
would find no mention at all. 


5. The commentators thus differentiate : ‘ ufaja with big holes, slender thorns and a 
rough surface, cimiya without holes and with a soft surface, cdpa with small holes and very 
rough, venu without thorns and fit for the bow, vamga with holes and long joints, fit for lutes, 
sdtina with many projecting thorns, kantaka with wheat-like fruit, and bkallika with long 
jOints or with a large circumference.’ 

6. According to Cb, gikavalli is also called hamsavallt and ndgalatd is also called 
nagajihvd. 

11. ausadha is the product of a plant (osadhi) with a medicinal property. 

12. Some of the poisons are well-known ; the identification of others is uncertain. 
markata ‘so called because the shape of its root is like the monkey’s penis’ (Cb Cs). 
— haimavata, kalingaka and ddradaka are names derived from the regions of their origin, 
Darada being in North-west India. — austraka ‘shaped like a camel’s penis’ (Cb, which 
seems to have read austrika). — kumbhagatdh, i.e., preserved for use against enemies. 

13 seraka may be the same as siraka ‘porpoise’. It is ‘the white-skinned godha’ 
(Cs). —rksa after dvipi is from Cb ; it seems genuine. — srmara ‘a kind of deer’ (Dict.), 
‘same as Sarabha ’ (Cs). — asthi twice as in the mss. is clearly wrong; we have to read akgi 
in one place. Eyes of animals are of use as is shown by 14.3.1,6. 


181 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [2.18.5 


14 Iron, copper, steel, bronze, lead, tin, vatkrntaka and brass (constitu- 
ting the group of) metals. 


15 Vessels made of split bamboo-cane and of clay. 


16 Charcoal, husks and ashes; enclosures for deer, beasts, birds and wild 
animals and enclosures for fuel and grass. 


17 Scparate factories making all kinds of goods should be erected, 
outside as well as inside, by the Director of Forest Produce, for ensuring 
livelihood and protection of the city. 


CHAPTER EIGHTEEN 
SECTION 86 THE SUPERINTENDENT OF THE ARMOURY 


1 The Superintendent of the Armoury should cause to be made machines 
for use in battles, for the defence of forts and for assault on the enemies’ cities, 
also weapons, armours and accoutrements by artisans and artists expert in 
those lines, producing goods with an agreement as to the amount of work, 
time allowed and wages, and should store them in places suitable for each. 
2 He should frequently change their places and expose them to sun and wind. 
8 Heshould store in a different way what is being damaged by heat, moisture 
or insects. 4 And he should know them by their class, appearance, charac- 
teristics, quantity, source, price and place of storing. 


5 sarvatobhadra, jdmadagnya, bahumukha, visvdsaghatin, samghiti, 
yanaka, parjanyaka, baht, ardhvabahu, and ardhabahu arc fixed machines. 


14 The metals would come from mines, which are under the dkarddhyaksa (2.12 above}. 
The kupyddhyaksa, in fact, appears to be stationed in the city in charge of the kupyagrha, 
though the cutting of trees etc. is evidently his concern. 


16 mrgapasu etc. are items Of expenditure in 2.6.11. 


17 bahir antag ca: i.e., in the country and in the city respectively. Meyer has ‘ out- 
side and inside the forests.’ — vibhaktah, i.e., a separate factory for each class of manu- 
facture. Breloer (III, 297 n. 1) has ‘ not close together ’ from the strategical point of view 
80 that they do not fallin the enemy’s hands all at thesametime. — ajivoapuraraksarthah, 
i.e., ‘ by providing ploughs, pestles etc. for djiva and machines, weapons etc. for puraraked ” 
(Cs). — kupyopajivin is the same as kupyddhyakga, as Cj Cp show. 


2.18 


1 ca yantram is proposed for cakrayantram of the mss. and yantram of Cb Cj Cp. ca is 
necessary and seems to be read in Cj; -kra seems to have been added after it under the 
impression that all yaniras are based on the wheel. — tajjdta: cf. 2.5.8 etc. — karmapra- 
mana refers to the amount of work, while phalanispatti refers to the type of work to be done, 
according to Meyer. Cb explains *‘ who produce articles after an agreement is made that so 
much work is to be done in s0 much time for so much wage.’ This appears better. 4 Cj 
reads -deSa- after jali-. niksepa ‘scabbards’ (Cb) i.e., containers. It may also mean 
‘a place for storing ’ corresponding to nidhdna of 2.11.116. 

5 sarvatobhadra ‘ of the size of a cart-wheel with a sharp rim, placed in the hand ofa 
gandharva in a wall and sending stones or arrows all round when turned’ (com.). — jamad- 
agnya ‘a dhanuryantra, discharging big arrows through a hole in the centre’ (Cb), ‘discharging 


2.18. 6] . KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 182 


6 pdaicalika, devadanda, siikarikad, musalayasti, hastivdraka, tdlavrnta, 
hammer, mace, sprktald, spade, dsphatima, utpatima, udghatima, sataghni, tri- 
dent and discus are mobile machines. 


7 Sakti, prasa, kunta, hataka, bhindipdla, sila, tomara, vardhakarna, 
karpana, kanaya, trasika and others are (weapons) with piercing points. 


8 Made from tala, capa, wood and horn (and known as) kérmuka, kodanda 
and drina are the bows. 9 mirvd, arka, Sana, gavedhu, venu and sinews 
(of animals) are bow-strings. 10 venu, sara, salaka, danddsana and ndaréca 
are arrows. 11 Their tips for cutting, piercing and striking are made of iron, 
bone or wood. 


weapons Of all kinds in various ways’ (Cj). — bahumukha ‘a place for archers on the tower 
etc., with many holes for shooting from (Cj), ‘a tower with 3 or 4 decks with a leather- 
shield placed on wheels, from which arrows are shot’ (Cb).— visudsaghdlin‘a beam outside the 
city wall placed crosswise and slaying when released by a mechanism ’(Cb). sammghdii‘ a fire 
machine made of long beams, for setting fire to turrets’ (com). —ydnaka ‘one danda long, on 
wheels, with planks inside’ (Cb). — parjanyaka ‘a water-machine for putting out fire’(com.). 
— bahi ‘two pillars facing each other, slaying when the mechanism is released.’ Cp adds 
that the pillars are 25 hastas long. — tirdhvabahu ‘a single pillar, 50 hastas long, slaying by 
release of mechanism ’ (Cp) ; ardhabdahu is halfin length, i.e., 25 hastas. — sthita as contras- 
ted with cala; cf. 7.10.7; 7.18.8 etc. 


6 pdaiicadlika ‘a wooden plank thickly studded with iron nails and placed in the moat 
to obstruct the enemy ’(com.). — devadanda ‘a big beam without nails placed on the wall’ 
(Cp) apparently for hurling down like a bolt from the blue. Cj has ‘a stick one aratni long 
discharged by a machine (yantraksepyo ’ratnimdtro lakutah).’ — siikarikd ‘a leather bag 
stuffed with cotton, wool etc. for protecting turrets etc. from stones ’ (Cj), or, ‘a pig-shaped 
cane-bag covered with leather to prevent storming of the wall’ (Cp). —musalayasti ‘ a pike 
made of the khadira wood’. — hastivadraka ‘a bar for striking down elephants’ (Cb) ‘ or, 
n pike with two or three points (Cp). — tdlavrnta ‘ a vdtacakra ’ (com.) apparently produc- 
ing a strong wind and raising dust. — mudgara ‘hammer’ and gadd ‘ mace’ are ‘ yantra- 
ksepye discharged from machines ’ (Cj). — sprktald a mace with sharp nails (Cp); Cj, which, 
reads sprktula has ‘ afmatuldntaragatdsdvatarandat bahir asmano muficati’ which is far from 
clear. — dsphdtima ‘a sort of catapult with four leather-covered pillars’ (com). Cj’s 
asphotima might appear to bebetter. — utpdtima ‘a sort of wrench for pulling down pillars.’ 
— udghatima ‘ a mudgara- shaped machine.’ Meyer remarks that -ima forms havea passive 
sense and hence we have to understand weapons that themselves burst or are uprooted or 
Opened. — Satlaghni (for the short -ghni, cf. 2.3.84) ‘a big pillar studded with big and long 


nails with a cart-wheel at one end and placed on the wall’ (com.), probably intended to be 
hurled down. 


7 Sakti‘ 4 hastas long, all-metal with the tip shaped like the karavira-leaf and the 
head like a cow’s nipple’. prdsa ‘24angulas long, all-metal, with wood inside, having 
two backs.’ kunia ‘7, 6 or 5 hastas long,’ ‘a weapon for horse-riders’ (Cj). hdtaka ‘similar 
to kunta, but with a three-pointed tip ’ (Cj). bhindipdla ‘same as kunta, but with a broad 
tp.’ sila ‘with one point, length not fixed.’ tomara ‘4, 41/2 or 5 hastaslong, with an 
arrow-shaped tip.’ vardhakarna ‘same as prasa (tomara, Cj) with tip shaped like a boar’s 
ear. kanaya * 20, 22 or 24 angulas long, all-metal, with tridents at each end and a grip 
in the middle.’ karpana (kampana Cj) ‘an arrow Of the size of tomara, 7, 8 or 9 kargas in 
weight to be thrown by the hand.’ trdsikd ‘all-metal, of the size of prasa, with a tuft at 


oneend. Cj has prasikd ‘ prasardhaéaktim’. — hula- ‘spike’ is more likely t hala- 
‘plough-share’ of Ch Cs. ~ P ely than 


& karmuka- etc: Meyer thinks that the names correspond to the four types of 
ae and hence would read -drinaédrngdni or understand dhanus itself as the name 
Bag aa bow. However, karmuka seems to contain a reference to karma ‘action’ 

nda to its length ‘almost a danda’ and not to the material of which they 


are made. 10 gg Ay ; f 
‘all-metal’ (com.). ldka is ‘made of wood,’ danddsana is ‘ardhandrdca,’ and ndrdca is 


188 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [2.18.20 


12. nistriinga, mandalagra and asiyasfi are swords. 18 The horn of the 
rhinoceros and buffalo, the tusk of the elephant, wood and bamboo-root form 
the hilts. 


14 parasu, kuthara, pattasa, khanitra, spade, saw, and kaéndacchedana are 
razor-type weapons. 


15 Stones for use in machines, in slings and by hand, and mill-stones are 
stone-weapons. 


16 A coat of mail of metal rings or metal plates, an armour of fabrics, 
and combinations of skin, hooves and horns of dolphin, rhinoceros, dhenuka, 
elephant and bull, are armours. 17 Helmet, neck-guard, cuirass, robe, coat 
of mail, breast-plate and thigh-guard, box, leather shield, hastikarna, talamila, 
dhamanika, kapata, kitika, apratthata and balahakdanta are shields. 


18 Objects used in giving training to elephants, chariots and horses, 
objects used for their decoration and arrangements for their equipment are the 
accoutrements. 


19 Illusion magic and secret practices are (secret) work. 
20 And concerning the factories, 


the Master of the Armoury should know the desire (of the king), the 
carrying out of the undertaking, the use, fraud (if practised), gain, loss 
and expenditure of (the various types of) forest produce. 


12 nistrimsga ‘has a curved tip’ (Cp). The name may contain a reference to length 
‘beyond thirty (angulas?).’ — mandalagra ‘ straight with a round tip.” — asiyasti ‘ thin 
and long.’ 13. visdna ‘horn’ as well as ‘ tusk.’ 

14 parasu ‘all-metal, 24 angulas long’. — pattasa ‘ an axe with a trident at one end 
or both ends.’ — kdndacchedana ‘a big axe’ (Cp), ‘ kKdnddsikda’ (Cb). 

15 gospana: Cb reads gavana and explains gavanapdsana by ‘catapult.’ — cdsma- 
yudhdani from Cb is clearly preferable to cdrdyudhdni ‘ awl-like weapons’ of the mss. 

16 Commentators read lohajdlajalikd- etc. Cb explains ‘helmet for the head (lohajdla), 
headless armour (jalikd), armour (patta) and armour with many flaps or folds (kavaca).’ 
Similarly Cp, which construes loha with each term up to kavaca. It may be, however, that 
kavaca made either of lohajalikd or of lohapatta is alone to be understood. — siitrakankata 
evidently made of cotton cloth with stuffing inside; they are made by the sitradhyaksa 
as 2.28.10 shows. — carmakhura- etc., i.e., the entire skin with hooves, horns etc. is used as 
anarmour. 17 kirpdsa ‘ with half-sleeves’ ; kavicuka ‘up to the knees’; vdravdna up to 
the ankle ’ (sce 2.11.99 above) ; patia ‘ without arms and not made of metal’; ndgodarikd 
‘a thigh-guard’ (Cj), ‘karangulitranam’ (Cp). — peti a ‘cover made of wood and creepers’; 
hastikarna ‘ a board used as a cover.’ — itdlamila ; cf. 2.3.7 above. — dhamanika ‘a cloth- 

bag into which wind is blown ’ (Cp) ; a leather-bellows may appear more likely. — kapdta 
‘a door-fly.” — kitika ‘made of cane-work and leather.’ Meyer has ‘a light shield.” — apra- 
tihata, i.e., hastivdraka, warder off of elephants’ (Cp), ‘ hastavdraka handguard (?)’(Cs). 
— balahakdnia ‘same as apratihata with iron strips at the end.’ Cb shows the form 
varadhakdnta ‘beloved of the boars.’ — dvarandni: from $irasirdna up to ndgodarikd we 
have coverings for the soldiers’ persons, from peli onwards shields or covers as protection. 


19 This karma or secret work is described in Books 18 and 14 below. 


20 karmdntdnadm ca to be construed with the following stanza. — Since the stanza 
refers to forest produce factories, Cp says that it applies to the preceding Chapter as well. 
Most of the weapons came from those factories and hence the Armoury Superintendent must 
be conversant with them. — vydjam ‘fraud’ from Cb Cp is preferable to vydjim ; the latter is 
out of place. — uddayam ‘gain, profit’ (Cb Cp Cs). Sorabjihad proposed udgamam ‘source, 
ovigin.’ Meyer proposes vydjamudriyam or vydjamudritam ‘fraud and stamping’ or vyd- 
jamad dvayam ‘ deceitful duplicity ’ or vydjam adbhutam ‘fraud and the wonderful.’ None 
is an improvement. Cj seems to have read yogam oydjin samuddayam. Cb’s explanation 
appears least unsatisfactory. 


2.19.1] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 134 


CHAPTER NINETEEN 
SECTION 87 STANDARDISATION OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 


1 The Superintendent of Standardisation should cause factories to be 
established for the manufacture of standard weights and measures. 


2 Ten mdasa-beans make one mdsaka of gold, or five guitjd-berries. 
3 Sixteen of these make one suvarna or karsa. 4 A pala is equivalent to 
four karsas. 


5 KEighty-eight white mustard-seeds make one masaka of silver. 
6 Sixteen of these make one dharana, or twenty simbd-beans. ~ 


7 <A dharana of diamond weighs twenty rice-grains. 


8 <A half-mdsaka, a masaka, two, four, eight mdsakas, a suvarna, two, 
four, cight suvarnas, also ten, twenty, thirty, forty (and) one hundred 
(suvarnas ), (are denominations of weights). 9 By that are explained 
(denominations of) dharanas. 


10. Weights should be made of iron (or) of stone from the Magadhas or 
the Mekala hills or such as would not increase in weight by water and 
smearing or decrease in weight by heat. 


11 Beginning with six angulas (in length) and rising successively by 
cight agulas, he should cause ten balance-beams to be made, one pala of 


2.19 


pautava is derived from potu going back to the root pu to purify, refine, rectify. It 
stands for standardisation of weights and measures. 


2 masaka is the name of a weight (equal to 1/16 suvarna and also referred to as maga) 
us well as of a copper coin (equivalent to 1/16th of a pana ; 2.12.24). Thishasled to some 
confusion. — A gurijd-seed is 2 or 1.80 grains (Fleet, JRAS, 1915, p. 228) or 1.8295 grains 
(A. S. Hemmy, JRAS, 1987, pp. 1-26). A karsa, which is 80 times that comes to a little 
less than a modern told. <A karsa or suvarna is the weight of the pana as well as of the 
coin mdsaka (between which and the weight mdsaka there is no relation of identity). 
* Karsa is the name of a weight in ancient Iran as well. The weight in India was there- 
fore an importation from Western Asia like the Vedic Mand or Mind.’ (F.W. Thomas, 
JRAS, 1916, p. 366). 

5-6 If, as seems very likely, the pala of 10 dharanas (s. 20) is the same as the pala of 
4 karsas (s. 4) 88 mustard-seeds would be equivalent to 2 guvijds, so that the silver mdsaka 
would be 2/5ths of a gold mdsaka. Manu, 8.134-185, has the same ratio between the 
gold masa and the silver mdsaka. 

8 Weights of these denominations are meant to be manufactured. 9 For silver, 
dharana would appear in place of suvarna. 

10 Maikala hills are in Madhya Pradesh. — In view of -maya, -$ild- for -Saila- would 
lave been better. 

11 Thelengths would be 6,14,22 . . .78 angulas and weights 1, 2,3. . . 10 palas respect- 
ively. The beams would be very thin. — yantram ubhayatahsikyam vd: the translation 
follows the commentators. Cb has ‘ with pans on both sides of the fulcrum (yanira) or a 
pan on one side only,’ understanding by the latter the steelyard type of balance described 
in the following ss. It is also possible that yantra as ‘ mechanism ’ refers to the steelyard 


135 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [2.19.22 


metal onwards (in weight) increased successively by one pala, with scale-pans 
on the two sides of the fulcrum or a pan (on one side only). 


12 He should cause the samavrttd (balance) to be made of metal thirty- 
five palas (in weight) and seventy-two angulas in length. 13 Fixing a ball 
(of metal) five palas in weight (at one end), he should cause the level to be 
secured (for marking zero). 14 From that (point) onwards, he should cause 
markings to be made for one karsa, increased by a karsa up to one pala, 
then increased by a pala up to ten palas, then for twelve, fifteen and twenty 
palas. 15 Thereafter, he should cause markings to be made increased by ten 
up to one hundred palas. 16 In the ‘fives’ he should cause it to be covered 
with 2dndi (the svastika mark). 


17 He should cause a balance (called) parimani to be made with double 
this amount of metal and ninety-six angulas inlength. 18 On that he should 


cause markings to be made beyond one hundred for twenty, fifty and (two) 
hundred (palas). 


19 A bhdra contains twenty tuld weights. 


20 <A pala contains ten dharanas. 21 One hundred of these palas is 
the revenue measure. 22 Less by five palas (successively) are measures for 


type of balance and ubhayatahsikya to the pair of scales. Meyer has ‘on each of the two 
sides, there shall be a contrivance (yantra) or a scale-pan.’ What contrivance is meant is 
not clear. Russ. has ‘on both sides appliances for regulation of scales (yantram) or chains 
for cups (sikyam).’ 
12 This beam would be thicker. samavriia ‘even-rounded’ is the name of the balance. 
13 mandalam etc. : it seems that the steelyard type is described here. According to Cb, 
a metal bull (mandala) weighing five palas is to be tied at one end, while the thing to 
be weighed is to be suspended as the other end ; then the beam is to be lifted with a string, 
the point at which equilibrium is secured showing the weight of the object in accordance 
with the markings. It seems that this type of balance is still used in Malabar, being called 
tulakkol. It does not seem possible to understand the fully developed steelyard, in which 
the beam is suspended from above at a fulcrum dividing it into two unequal arms, the 
object being at the shorter end and a poise being shifted along the markings On the longer 
arm to indicate the weight when equilibrium is found. mandala can hardly refer to such a 
poise. — samakaranam kdrayet: this seems to refer to the marking of zero at the point 
where equilibrium is secured with the mandala at one end and nothing at the other (perhaps 
only alight pan). 14 tatah,i.e., from the zero thus found and marked. The length between 
zero and the beam’s eid is to be divided for markings up to one hundred palas. — aksesu 
ndndipinaddham : aksa is a multiple of five, 5, 10, 15 etc. (com.). ndnditis * svastika’” (Cp), 
‘a mark of the crow’s foot ’ (Cj), ‘ mark of the wedge’ (Cb). pinaddha then would mean 
‘ covered,’ i.e., marked, perhaps even carved, engraved. The reading naddhriwould mean 
‘a strap,’ pinaddha would then be possible in the sense of ‘ tied * and aksa in the sense of 
‘the pivot.’. But it is not easy to see pivots, straps etc. in the balance described here. 
For tuld, cf.: ‘ The balances with which the Hindus weigh things are charistiones, of which 
the weights are immovable, while the scales move on certain marks and lines. Therefore, 
the balance is called tula. The first lines mean the units of the weight from 1 to 5 and 
further on to 10; the following lines mean the tens, 10, 20, 30 etc.” (Alberuni’s India, tr. 
C. Sachau, I, 164-5). 


20 Cp states that this pala is bigger than the other pala by 1 karsq, i.e., has 5 karsas in it 
instead of 4. How this relation is arrived atis not clear. However, iatin the next s. might 
suggest that a different palais thought of here. Nevertheless, dyamdnt is clearly the same as 
the samavyttad. 22 Thus the vydvaharikt weighs upto 95 palas, each pala being 94 dharanas, 
beam-metal 38 palas and length 66 avgulas. The values for the other two are 90, 9, 31, 60 


2.19. 28 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 136 


trade, for payments and for measuring out to the palace. 28 Of these, 
the pala is (successively) less by half a dharana, the metal of the upper (beam, 
successively) less by two palas and the length (successively) less by six angulas. 


24 In the case of the former two, an excess (in weight) of five palas (is to 
be received) except in cases of meat, metals, salt and gems. 


25 The balance made of wood (should be) eight hastas (long), provided 
with markings (or) with weights (and) supported by ‘ peacock’s feet.’ 


26 Twenty-five palas of fire-wood are a means of cooking one prastha of 
rice. 27 This is an indication for more and for less. 


28 Thus weights and balances have been explained. 


29 Now, two hundred palas of mdasa-beans make one drona for revenue 
measures, one hundred and eighty-seven and a half palas, (the drona) for trade, 
one hundred and seventy-five palas, for making payments, (and) one hundred 
sixty-two and a half palas, for measuring out to the palace. 


80 Of these, ddhaka, prastha and kuduba are smaller measures, being 
each one-fourth of the preceding. 81 Sixteen dronas make one khari. 
32 Twenty dronas make one kumbha. 88 Ten kumbhas make one vaha. 


and 85, 8}, 29, 54 respectively. The three tulds would actually weigh up to 902}, 810 and 
722% dharanas only instead of 1000 as in the dyamdni. Meyer says ‘the dharana of the 
trade is greater than that of the revenue measure by 1/20th, that for servants by 2/20th and 
that for harem by 3/20th ; in 100 palas this gives 5, 10 and 15 palas more respectively. So 
that the difference is squared and whatis differently weighed is in reality the same (just as in 
the different systems of Indian philosophy). Thusis reached the highest triumph of the 
Indian spirit : a refined system.’ Where he gets different values for the dharana is not clear. 
And such classifications, with no practical effect whatsoever, cannot, in fairness, be attri- 
buted to the author of the present work. Meyer also gives 51, 49, and 47 as the weights of 
the beams. Itis difficult to see how he arrives at these figures. 53 is nowhere mentioned as 
the weight of the dyamdni beam; 85 is mentioned for the samavrtid. — antahpura- 
bhdjani: the smallest measure is for delivery to the palace, apparently because the king 
could then plead that if he paid to others by a measure smaller than the revenue measure, 
he himself received by a still smaller measure. The expression may also mean ‘ for making 
payments from the palace.’ In that case, the king would be the greatest beneficiary. 

24 piirvayoh, ‘i.e., of samavrita and parimdni’ (Cp). — prayamah ‘ extension ’, i.e., 
an addition in weight. This seems to mean in effect that 5% and 2 1/2% respectively are 


pene in addition in revenue receipts. Perhaps this is the same as oyajt mentioned else- 
where. 


25 kdsthatuld ‘ balance made of hard wood ’ (com.) rather than ‘ balance for weighing 
fuel’ (Meyer). — padavatit, i.e., of the steelyard type, while pratimanavati implies two scale- 
pans; the two cannot go together. A vdseems necessary after thelatter word. — mayira- 
pada- refers to the frame-work supporting the balance-beam. Narada, 2.278, describes the 
torana, consisting of two posts 1 or 14 hasta away from each other with a transverse beam on 
top from which the balance beam is suspended. ‘This torana does resemble a peacock’s fect. 


26 As Cs says this really belongs to the province of the Stores Officer. 


29 On the basis of 2 grains to a guiijd, a drona would have 128,000 grains by weight, 


approximating a capacity of a little over 500 cubic inches or a little less than a quarter 
bushel or 2 gallons. 


_ 98 Meyer, calculating 87 1/2 bushels in a vaha, remarks that this amount of a cart-load 
implies that roads were in a very good condition. 


187 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.19. 46 


34 He should cause measures to be made of dry, hard wood, even, with 
one-fourth as top-heap, or with the heap included inside. 35 However, in the 
case of liquids, wine, flowers and fruits, husk and charcoal, and lime, the 
measure of the top-heap is an increase that is double. 


386 One pana and a quarter (should be) the price of a drona ; three-quar- 
ters, of an ddhaka; six mdsakas, of a prastha; one mdsaka, of a kuduba. 
87 The price of the measures for liquids and others (should be) double. 


88 (The price) of the weights (should be) twenty panas. 89 One-third that 
the price of the balance. 


40 Heshould cause a stamping (of the weights and measures) to be made 
every four months. 41 The penalty for unstamped (weights etc.) is twenty- 
seven panas and a quarter. 42 (Traders) shall pay a stamping fee amount- 
ing to one kakanit every day to the Superintendent of Standardisation. 


48 One-thirty-second part is the surcharge for heating in the case of 
clarified butter, one-sixty-fourth part in the case of oil. 44 One-fiftieth part 
is the flow from the measure in the case of liquids. 


45 He should cause measures of a half-kuduba, a quarter-kuduba and 
one-eighth kuduba to be made. 


46 , Kighty-four kudubas of clarified butter are known as a varaka ; 


but sixty-four (Kudubas make a vdraka) of oil; and one-quarter of these is 
known as a ghajtkd. 


34 samamis ‘cylindrical in form ’.— caturbhdgasikham, i.e., 3/4ths of the actual amount 
is inside the measure, 1/4th being the heap on the top ; antahsikham where all four parts 
are inside the measure and thereis no heapingon top. 35 rasasya tu: com. understand 
aniahgikham with this and read a stop here. Perhaps, however, tu indicates an exception 
in the case of surd etc. among rasas (in whOse case antahSikha is understood ipso facto). Of 
course, rasesu would be better for this. — duvigunoliard, ‘i.e., double the 1/4th sikhda; thus 
in a prastha 3 kudubas inside and 2 in addition’ (Cb). Cp understands all five in the prastha. 
For such an explanation, sikhdmdanasya dvigund orddhih would have been better. Cj, reading 
Sikhadmdnadvigunotiard, seems to arrive at 75 for rasa, 100 for surd, 125 for puspa, 150 for 
tugsdfigara and 175 for sudhd as the measure Of the sikhd. Though this appears to do greater 


justice to the wording (uttard), it seems highly unlikely that such additions are really inten- 
ded in these cases. 


87 rasddindm : the higher price is due to the measure being larger to account for the 
greater sikhdmana. 39 tribhagah, i.e., 1/8rd of 20 panas (‘ others’ in Cp) ; ‘ one-third of 
a pana for the smallest of the ten tulds of s. 11, increased by 1/8 in each successive case,’ 
(Cb. and ‘some’ in Cp). On that basis of 1/8 pana for 1 pala metal, the samavritia would 
cost 11 2/3 panas. It seems, however, that the price of the samaourtid alone is stated here 
as One-third of 20 panas. 


40 prdtivedhanikam, i.e., stamping as well as inspection regarding stamping. — caturmd- 
gikam of the mss. is clearly wrong, because the fee is laid down, not here, but in s. 42. It 
comes to 80 mdsakas for the four-month period. 42 prativedhanika is here the stamping fee. 


43 taptavydaji seems to refer to the additional measure of ghee or oil to compensate 
for the loss suffered by these in the process of liquefaction. Ordinarily the customer would 
receive this ; but Cb says the king received this as well as the mdnasrdva. That is likely 
when these articles are delivered in the state stores. 44 mdnasrdva is a similar compensa- 
tion for what sticks to the measure when liquids are measured out. 


45 This s. should have come earlier, after 5.88. The prices of these should also haye 
been stated. 


46 caturd#tih of the mss. is metrically easy, but grammatically uncertain ; caturasitih 
(Cb) is hard on metre but grammatically impeccable. 


2. 20.1 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 138 


CHAPTER TWENTY 
SECTION 38 MEASURES OF SPACE AND TIME 


1 The Superintendent of Measurements should be conversant with the 
measurements of space and time. 


2 Eight atoms make one rathacakraviprus (chariot-wheel particle). 
3 Eight of them make one ltksd (nit). 4 Wight of them make onc yuka 


(louse). 5 Eight of them make one yavamadhya (barley-middle). 6 Night 
yavamadhyas make one angula (finger). 7 Or, the maximum width of the 
middle (part) of the middle finger of a middling man is an angula. 


8 Four angulas make a dhanurgraha. 9 Light aigulas make a dhanur- 
musi. 10 Twelve anrgulas make a vitasti (span) and the height of the 
shadow-gnomon. 11 Fourteen azgulas make a sama, a sala, a pariraya and 
a pada (foot). | 


12 Two spans make an aratni (cubit), the hasta of Prajapati. 13 (A 
hasta) with a dhanurgrahais the measure (of a hasta) for weights and measures 
and for pastures. 14 (A hasta) with a dhanurmusti makes a kisku or a kathsa. 
15 Forty-two angulas make a carpenter’s sawing-kisku, a measure for the 


camp, the fort and royal property. 16 Fifty-four aigulas make a hasta for 
(measuring) forest produce. 


17 Eighty-four aigulas make a vydma, a measure for ropes and a 
paurusa (man’s height) for (measuring) moats (or diggings). 


2.20. 


1 mdnddhyaksah ‘ same as paulavadhyaksa ’ (Cp); Cp adds that he may be an indepen- 
dent Officer appointed by the samdhartr. Measurements of space and time are his concern. 
2 rathacakraviprus: ‘this is perceptible to the eye’ (com.). It may be the same 
as the trasarenu of the Naiyayikas. 4 yikdisfrom Cb. yiékamadhyah of the mss. seems 
influenced by yavamadhyah. 5 yavamadhyah, i.c., width in the middle, at its widest. 
(Cf. * yavodarair angulam astasamkhyaih’? —- Bhaskaracarya). 7 madhyamapurusa as 


deforped by Cb is * with a height of 100 of his own finger-widths and a girth of 92 finger- 
widths.’ 


8 dhanurgraha ‘a bow-grip’ in the middle of the bow where the four fingers are 
clasped round it. 9 dhanurmusti apparently has reference to the fist with the thumb 
upraised when holding the bow for shooting. 10 chaydpaurusa, i.e., the height of the 
sanku on the sun-dial. <A dvddasdngulasanku is mentioned in the Atharvayeda (S. B. 
Dikshit, Bharatiya Jyotisasastra, p. 367). 11 sama appears related to Samyda ‘ yoke-pin’, 
Sala to Sulya * dart’ and pada to ‘foot’. The significance of pariraya is not clear. 

13 pautavavivilamanam : Meyer understands a single idea ‘measuring pasture-land by 
the weight-superintendent.’ Thatis unlikely. What is meant is that in the work of the 
pautavddhyaksa and the vivitddhyaksa, 2 hasta of 14 angulas is to be used. 14 hkisku 
scems to have a reference to the fore-arm. ‘The significance of kamsa ‘cup’ is not clear. 


Meyer thinks of as much land as can be sown with a kamsa-ful of seeds. That is doubtful, 
as this is clearly a linear and not an area measure. 


17 vydama is the distance from tip to tip of outstretched hands. — rajjumdnam, 1.¢-, 4 


unit for measuring ropes. It may ref 
; ropes. y refer to the length of rope used for tying cattle, as Meyer 
thinks. — khdta primarily a moat, also a well. ce ; aN 


139 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS —[ 2. 20. 86 


18 Four eratnis make a danda, a dhanus, a nalikd, and a paurusa for the 
yhouseholder. 19 One hundred and eight angulas make a dhanus, measure 
for roads and city-walls and a paurusa for (measuring) the piling of fire-altars. 
20 Six kamhsas make a danda, a measure for gifts to Brahmins and to guests. 


21 Tendandas make arajju. 22 Two rajjus make a paridega. 28 Three 
rajjus make a nivartana on one side. 24 A bahu has two dandas more. 


25 Two thousand dhanuses make a goruta. 26 Four gorutas make a 
yojana. 27% ‘Thus measurements of space (have been explained). 


28 Hereafter (are explained) measurements of time. 


29 tuta, lava, nimesa, kdstha, kala, nalikd, muhirta, forenoon and after- 
noon, day, night, fortnight, month, season, ayana, year and cycle (of years) are 
divisions of time. 380 Two tufas make a lava. 31 Two lavas make a nimesa. 
32 Five nimesas make a kastha. 33 Thirty kdsthdsmakeakald. 84 Forty 
kalds make a ndlikd. 35 Or, a hole in a jar (with a dimension) of four mdsa- 
kas of gold made four a7gulas in length, (with) an ddhaka of water (running 
through it) measures one nalikd. 36 Two ndlikds make a muhirta. 


18 nalikd paurusam ca garhapatyam : it is better to read garhapatyam at the end of this 
s.asin Cb. It can hardly be construed with the following s. The significance of ndlika, 
about 6 feet long, is not clear. Is it possible that the primitive ndlikd used for measuring 
time was really a hollow reed 6 feet long from which water flowed out through an aperture at 
one end during a period of 24 minutes ? — gdrhapatya paurusa seems to refer to the average 
man’s (householder’s) height. Cb, which adds matam after gdrhapatyam, explains ‘ the 
4-aratni danda, dhanus, ndalikd and paurusa are according to the opinion of Grhapati or 
Vigvakarman.’ That is doubtful. Cp reads garhapatyam at the begining of s. 19 and 
explains it by ‘taught by Visvakarman’. 20 satkamso dandah: Meyer thinks of an area 
measure. 

21-24 Meyer thinks that rajju etc. are area measures and finds the mixing of area 
measures and linear measures confusing. But danda, rajju and bahu are clearly only linear 
measures, so it appears paridesa * pointing out’. nivartana, no doubt, is an area measure 
later (cf. JBORS, XII, 118 n.3). But here only the length of one side of the area is men- 
tioned, as shown by ekaiah, i.e., again a linear measure Of 80 dandas is mentioned. nivariana 
may primarily have reference to the turning back of the bullocks at the plough, a linear 
conception. bdhu may also refer to the length of one side of an area measure; but thatis 
far from certain. Cp reads ekato in s. 24. 


25 dvidhanussahasram: Gl’s reading dhanus- is faulty and Fleet’s calculation, on its 
basis of a yojana of 4.54 miles (JRAS, 1912, 234-6) isunacceptable. Fleet also identified 
his yojana with the Persian parasang of 4.76 miles (JRAS, 1912, 462-3). The yojana, 
however, is double that. The name yojana seems to have reference to the ‘ yoking’ of 
bullocks, i.e., distance covered before the yoke is taken off. 


29 tutaisclearly a Prakritism. 31 nimegsah ‘ time taken to pronounce a short syllable’ 
(Cj). 85 suvarnamasakah etc. : the idea is, gold 4 masakas in weight is made into a wire 
4 angulas long, the wire’s thickness representing the measure of the hole in the jar through 
which the water is to flow out. The wire itselfis of no further use in the nalikd. ‘Thus Cb. 
Cs thinks that the gold is to be turned into a hollow tube, apparently for fixing in the jar, 
through which the water is to flow out. But unless the thickness Of the gold leaf out of 
which the tube is made is also stated, the diameter would vary from tube to tube. The 
Punjab reading is derived from Samkararya on Kamandaka 5.42 and is clearly only a gloss. 
Fleet (JRAS, 1915, pp. 213-230) points out that the Vedanga Jyotisa requires 61/64 of a 
drona of water to flow in 1 nddikd, that the Divyavadana has 1 drona for 1 nddikd, the hole 
however being 1 suvarna of gold 4 angulas long, and that the Vayu, Visnu and Bhagavata 
Puranas agree in all details with the present passage. Kumbha here is simply ‘jar’, and is 
not the measure of that name (2.19.32) as H. Jacobi (ZDMG, 74, pp. 250-1) seems to have 


thought. 


2.20. 37] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 140 


37 A day of fifteen muhirtas and a night (of the same length) occur in 
the months of Caitra and Agvayuja. 38 After that, one of them (first) 
increases and (then) decreases by three muhdrtas during a period of six months 
(and vice versa the other). 


39 When the shadow (of the gnomon) is eight paurusas, one-eighteenth 
part (of the day) is past, when six paurusas, one-fourteenth part (is past), 
when three paurusas, one-eighth part, when two paurusas, one-sixth part, 
when one paurusa, one-fourth part, when eight-angulas, three-tenth part 
(is past), when four azgulas, three-eighth part, (and) when there is no shadow, 
it is midday. 40 When the day has turned, one should understand the 
remaining parts in like manner. 


41 Inthe month of Asidha, the midday loses shadow. 42 After that, 
in the six months beginning with Sravana, the shadow (at midday) increases 
by two angulas in each month and in the six months beginning with Magha, 
it decreases by two azgulas in each month. 


48 Fifteen days and nights make a fortnight. 44 That in which the 
moon waxes is the bright (fortnight). 45 That in which the moon wanes 
is the dark. 


46 Two fortnights make a month. 47 Thirty days and nights make a 
works month. 48 A half day more makes a solar month. 49 A half day 
less makes a lunar month. 50 Twenty-seven (days and nights) make a 


_ $7 ‘This means that the equinoctial days fall in the months of Caitra (vernal) and 
Aévina (autumnal). Cj has ‘ Caitre mesddau, Asoayuje tulddau ; similarly Cp ‘ mesatulayoh ’. 
The text, however, does not show acquaintance with the rdsis. 38 tribhir etc.: as the in- 
crease or decrease is from solstice to solstice, we have to understand that the day increases 
for three months from the vernal equinoctial day in Caitra and decreases for three months 
thereafter. The longest day at the summer solstice thus amounts to 14 hours 24 minutes. 
Jacobi(ZDMG, 74, p. 252) states that the longest day of 18 muhirtas is true of North Punjab 
and is mentioned in the Veddnga Jyotisa and the Suryaprajnapit. 


8 39. astapaurusyam: the paurusa of s.10 is to be understood. —/ripaurusyam is proposed 
‘for catuspaurusyam of the mss. in conformity with 1.19.7 and following a suggestion of 
‘Jacobi (ZDMG, 74, 253-254). Even tripaurus? is slightly longer than the actual shadow 
after 1/8th of the day is past. — acchdyo madhydhnah: this is true only of the summer 
solstice dayin Asadha. Cf. 5.41. Jacobi(ZDMG, 74, pp. 253-4) states that in the first 


four cases, the actual parts of time at Pataliputra deviate more from those mentioned here 
than do those et Ujjayini. 


41 Asddhe masi etc. : this can happen only on the Tropic of Cancer, i.e., in Magadha 
‘or Bengal or Malwa. 42 doyangulotiard, i.e., 2 angulas in Srivana, 4 in Prausthapada 
and s0 on up to 12 in Pausa, decreasing thereafter to the same extent. In Pausa in the 
winter solstice the shadow thus equals the length of the gnomon, again showing a place on 
the TropicofCancer. Jucobi(ZDMG, 74, 255) states that on the Tropic of Cancer the actual 
length would be 18.08 arigulas and adds that Kautilya’s incorrect figures are given as those 


of the Vasistha Siddhanta in the Pajicasiddhantika, 2.9. This text indeed appears derived 
from early sources. 


_ * karmamdasah is proposed for prakarma- of the mss. as suggested by karma for prakarma 
2 30:18 and by karmasamvaisarah of 2.7.6. Cb explains prakarma-as ‘for calculating wages 
Se eer: Cj seems to have read prakarma ‘for superintendents to commence their 
wens eee dhah: curiously Cj understands two and a half paksas, i.e. 87 1/2 days, which 
: q 35 a ly ; 80 plus half adayismeant. 49 ardhanyiinah: Cj again has 1 1/2 paksas;, 

¢ ,22 1/2 days. — balamdsahis from Cb Cj: ‘ for giving wages to the army that is dispersed 


141 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [2.21.1 


month of constellations. 51 Thirty-two make a month for the army. 52 


Thirty-five, (a month) for maintenance of horses. 58 Forty, (a month) for 
maintenance of elephants. 


54 Two months make a season. 55 Sravana and Prausthapada are 
the rainy season. 56 Afvayuja and Karttika are autumn. 57 Margasirsa 
and Pausa are winter. 58 Magha and Phalguna are the season of frost. 
59 Caitra and Vaisakha are spring. 60 Jyesthamiilliya and Asadha are 
summer. 


61 The uttardyana begins with the season of frost. 62 The daksina- 


yana begins with the rainy season. 63 Two ayanas makea year. 64 Five 
years make one cycle. 


65 The sun takes one-sixtieth part of a day ; thus in one season he 
brings about the loss of one day, and so does the moon (cause loss of) 
one (day). 


66 Thus in every period of two years and a half the two beget an 
additional month, the first in summer and the second at the end of (the 
cycle of) five years. 


CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE 
SECTION 39 THE COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS AND TOLLS 


1 The Collector of Customs and Tolls should establish the customs 
house and the flag facing the east or the north in the vicinity of the big gates 
(of the city). 


(sendviksepabhuktadanadrthah)’ (Cj), ‘ forthe maintenance of the army’ (Cb). vala- is cor 
rupted from balu-; mala- seems to be an attempt to correct it. 52-53 agvaudhdydah... 
hastivahdyah ‘ months for calculating the wages of attendants of horses and elephants’ 
(com.). The reason for such separate calculation is not clear. Fleet had ‘ for hiring horse- 
carriages and elephant-carriages.’ Elephant-carriages are strange. Meyer ina footnote 
suggests udhd as ‘ period of gestation, ’ i.e., 10 months of 85 days for mares and 10 months 
of 40 days for female elephvnts. He adds that actually 10 months of 60 days are required 
for elephants and ends by asserting that Indians knew little about the breeding of clephants 
whom they caught ready. All this seems wide of the mark. The fem. gender and the geni- 
tive case of the words are strange. asvavdha ‘a horse-attendant ’ is referred to in 2.30.3. 


61 The ayanas apparently begin with the beginning of the season and hence of the 
month ; they are not brought into relation with the sun’s entry into a constellation. 


65 haratyarkah sastibhadgam because the solar day is longer than the normal day by 
1/60th. Thatisone kind ofharana. The lunar day is shorter by the same amount ; thatis 
another kind of harana. 


66 grisme...pirvam: this implies that in Grisma of the third year, half the year is 
over ; in other words, the year began with Sigira and Magha. — Allthese details about the 


five-year cycle and intercalary months agree with those in the Veddnga Jyotisa, 82 (Cf. 
Fleet, JRAS, 1914, p. 998). 


2.21 


1 dhvaja would apparently bear the emblem of the king. — mahddofra- refers 
to the four main gates, as implied in 2.4.19. 


2. 21. 2] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 142 


2 The receivers of duty, four or five in number, should record in writing 
(details about) traders who have arrived in a caravan, who they are, from what 
place, with how much merchandise and where the identity-pass (was issued) 
or the stamping was made. 


8 For (goods) without the stamp the penalty is double the dues. 4 For 
those with a forged stamp, the fine is eight times the duty. 5 For those with 
broken stamps, the penalty is distraint in the ware-house. 6 In case of 
change of the royal stamp or of (change in) the name, he should make (the 
trader) pay a fine of one pana and a quarter per load. 


7” ‘Traders shall declare the quantity and price of the goods that have 
arrived at the foot of the flag, ‘ Who is willing to purchase these goods, so 
much in quantity, at this price?’ 8 Whenit has been thrice proclaimed, 
he should give it to those who have sought it. 9 In case of competition 
among purchasers, the increase in price together with the duty shall go to the 
treasury. 


10 If for fear of duty a (trader) declares the quantity of the goods 
or the price to be less (than it actually is), the king shall confiscate that excess. 
11 Or, the (trader) shall pay eight times the duty. 12 He should 
impose the same (penalty) in case of depreciation of price of a package con- 
taining goods by (showing) a sample of lower value and in case of concealment 
of goods of high value by goods of low value. 


13 Or, if through fear of a rival purchaser a (trader) increases the price 
beyond the (due) price of a commodity, the king shall receive the increas¢ in 


2 abhijndnam mudra va is as proposed by Meyer. The two are different as shown 
by s. 26 below. The former seems to be a sort of pass for identification of the trader, the 
latter the stamp or seal made on the package of goods. Both are issued by the 
antapdla (s. 26). In 2.84.1-5, however, mudrd means the passport which a person must 
carry about with him. 


8 amudrdndm: supply panydndm rather than vanijam. — deya, ‘i.e., Sulka’ (Cp), 
‘vartant, road cess’(Cb). Theformerisright. 5 bhinna- may refer to accidental breaking. 
Meyer understands deliberate tampering. — ghatikdsthdne sthanom : this seems to refer to 
distraint of goods in the ware-house ; the distraint may be for one day (as in one of the 
explanations in Cp) or till corroboration comes from the frontier (Cj). Cb Cs read ghalikah 
sthanam ; the former has no explanation, the latter has ‘ distraint in the toll-house for three 
ghatikds, i.e., ndlikds.’ This is extremely doubtful. Meyer (understanding deliberate 
tampering) thinks of confiscation. 6 mdmakrle: the name would appear to be that of the 
trader on the passport. — vahanam etc.: Meyer thinks that the carriage load is also 
confiscated. The wordscan hardly yieldthissense. Breloer (III, 461) seems to understand 


abs load pay 1/4th pana fine for every pana.’ Itis difficult to see how this meaning is 


7 Imported goods were clearly sold at the gate. Meyer thinks that onl 
C } ; | y confiscated 
beans were sold there. There is nothing to indicate this 8 etat etc.: the sense requires 
clavalpramdnam anena arghena etc. Cp does not show ss. 8-9. 


12 nivislapanyasya bhadndasya : bhanda seems to refer to the container in which the 
Senor ) are packed (nivista). It contains goods more precious than the supposed 
woata are aittooe ) carried outside the package. In the two cases of this s. the trader 
ee ne to lose by sale at the gate unless ‘he were in collusion with the purchaser. We 

y erstand that not all imported goods are sold at the gates. 


18 It is difficult to see any di iti : 
‘ : y difference between ‘ competition among purchasers ’ (8-9) 
and “fear of a rival purchaser” (this s.). — dvigunam ad gulkam : aenarently this option 


143 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS  [ 2. 21. 23 


price, or make the amount of duty double. 14 The same (penalty) eightfold 
(shall be imposed) on the Superintendent concealing (the trader’s offences). 


15 Therefore, the sale of goods should be made by weighing, measuring 
or counting ; an appraisal (of value should be made) of goods of small value 
and goods enjoying concessions. 


16 And for goods that have passed beyond the foot of the flag without 
the duty being paid, the fine is eight times the duty. 17 Secret agents 
operating on roads and in places without roads should find out such (evasion). 


18 Goods intended for marriage, marriage-gifts accompanying the bride, 
goods intended as gifts, goods required on the occasion of a sacrifice or a cere- 
mony or a birth and goods used in various rituals like worship of the gods, 
tonsure rite, initiation for Veda study, hair-cutting rite, consecration for a vow 
and so on, should go duty-free. 19 For a (person) making a false declaration 
(in this respect) the punishment for theft (shall be imposed). 


20 For the trader taking out a commodity for which duty has not been 
paid along with one for which duty has been paid, or carrying off a second 
(commodity) under one stamp after breaking open the package, forfeiture of 
the same and an equal amount as fine (shall be the punishment). 21 For the 
(trader) carrying off (goods of high value) from the customs house after securing 
acceptance of cowdung (cakes) or straw as the basis (for calculating duty), 
the highest fine for violence (shall be the punishment). 


22 For the (trader) taking out any one of the unexportable articles, viz., 
weapons, armours, coats of mail, metals, chariots, jewels, grains and cattle, 
there sha!l be a fine as proclaimed as well as loss of the goods. 23 Incase any 


operated when the miilyavrddhi amounted to less than the sulka. 14 astagunam: eight 
times the miilyavrddhi or the Sulka, according to the two options. 


15 dnugrdhikdndm : this conveys the sense of what the state has decided to confer 
anugraha on, i.e., to grant concessions to; cf. 2.22.8. The idea of ‘ what is beneficial’ 
does not seem intended. 


17 pathika, i.e., ‘ disguised as traders’ (Cb), and utpathika, i.e., ‘ disguised as shep- 
herds, wood-cutters etc.’ (Cb). Cf. 2.36.13. 


18 aupdyanikam : Meyer understands presents to the king only and compares 2.15.3. 
— krtyaisindependent of yajna ; cf.3.8.8 ; 5.1.43. 


20 nirvdhayato: this and the following two ss. seem to refer to export; cf. 2.16.19. 
— dvitiyam etc. : ‘ bringing in another similar-looking package on the strength ofa mudra 
on one (dvitiyam ekamudrayd) and breaking open a package on which duty is paid and 
inserting in it goods On which duty is not paid (bhittod putam apaharaiah).’ Thus the com- 
mentators, who understand imports as meant. But nirodhayaiah seems to refer to exports ; 
cf. 2.16.19, also s. 22 below. And it appears that in this s. only a single ideu is intended, 
‘ breaking open a package and inserting other goods under the same mudrd.’ It seems that 
upa-har in this s. and the next, has reference to ‘ taking out’ of the country or the city. 
mudrd may be understood as made even On exported goods. 21 pramdnam krivd, i.c., 
making a declaration about the goods. 
22 anyatamam aniroadhyam is proposed for -tamanirudhyam of the mss. as being necessary. 


The prohibition of the export of these goods is obviously for military and economic reasons. 
— ndgais to the owner, i.c., confiscation. 28 dnayana is import. — wucchulka ‘ duty- 


2. 21, 24] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 144 


one of these is brought in, its sale (shall be effected) duty-free outside (the city- 
gate) itself. 


24 The frontier officer should charge a road cess of one pana and a 
quarter for a cart-load of goods, of one pana for a one-hoofed animal, of half a 
pana for cattle, of a quarter pana for small animals, of one mdsaka for 
a shoulder-load. 25 And he shall make good what is lost or stolen (on 
the way). 26 He should send on to the Superintendent a caravan from a 
foreign land after making an investigaton as to goods of high and low value 
and giving them an identity-pass and stamp (on the goods). 


27 Or, a secret agent appearing as a trader should communicate to the 
king the size of the caravan. 28 In accordance with that information, 
the king should tell the Collector of Customs about the size of the caravan, in 
order to make his omniscience known. 29 Then the Collector, on meeting 
the caravan, should say, ‘ These are goods of high and low value belong- 
ing to such and such a merchant. It should not be concealed. This is the 
king’s power.’ 80 For one concealing goods of low value the fine shall be 
eight times the duty, (for concealing) goods of high value, confiscation of 
everything (shall be the punishment). 


81 He should cut out goods that are harmful to the country and 
that are worthless. He should make goods that are highly beneficial 
duty-free, also seeds that-are rare. 


CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO 
SECTION 389 (Continued) THE TARIFF OF DUTIES AND TOLLS 


1 (Goods are) from the countryside, from the city and from foreign 
lands. 2 That on (goods). going out and that on (goods) coming in is duty. 


free,’ “ because these confer benefit on the country ’ (Cb), or because the king is the purchaser 
of these goods. 


24 variant is a cess on traders for the use of roads. This itself involves the liability 
to protect and indemnify the trader for loss suffered on the way ; separate escort-charges 
are also thought of, called dtivdhika ; cf. 2.16,18; 2.28.25 etc. 26 abhjfidnam mudrdm ca : 
see s. 2 above. 


27* presayet should send word, inform ; cf. 12.8.20,etc. 28 tena pradgéena : cf. 5.2.88. 


81 ucchindydt: this may imply prohibition of import or destruction when imported. 
— mahopakdram : this is regarded as an adjective to bijam by com. Meyer regards it first 
a8 a separate item ‘ an object that is highly beneficial ’and-then also as adj. to bijam ‘ seeds, 
even if highly beneficial, only if (tu) they are rare.’ Butcaof the mss. is preferable to tu 
of the editions, and two items appear intended. 


2.22 


1 The mss. show the word éulkavyaoaharah ‘the tariff of duty’ at the beginning. It 
really belongs to the colophon of the Chapter and hasnoplacein any 6. It has clearly got 
inby error. — bdhyam etc. ‘ produced in the countryside (bahyam), produced in the city 
(abhyantara) and foreign (4tithya)’ (com.). For this explanation, ca should have come after 
Gtithyam. But though, as the text stands, we can understand dlttAya as duty on internal 


145 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS {2.22.7 


3 On goods coming in (the duty shall be) one-fifth of the price. 


4 Of flowers, fruits, vegetables, roots, bulbous roots, fruits of creepers, 
seeds, dried fish and meat, he should take one-sixth part (as duty). 


§ Of conch-shells, diamonds, gems and necklaces of pearls and corals, 
he should make (a valuation) through men expert in the line, making an 
agreement with them as to the amount of work, time allowed and wages. 


6 On ksauma, dukila, silk yarn, armours, yellow orpiment, red arsenic, 
antimony, vermilion, metals of various kinds and ores, on sandal-wood, aloe, 
spices, fermentation, and minor substances, on ‘skins, ivory, bed-spreads, 
coverings and silk cloth, and on products of goats and rams, (the duty to be 
charged is) one-tenth part or one-fifteenth part. 


7” On clothes, four-footed and two-footed creatures, yarn, cotton, per- 
fumes, medicines, woods, bamboos, barks, leather goods and earthen-ware, 
and on grains, fats, sugars, salts, wine, cooked food and so on (the duty is) 
one-twentieth part or one twenty-fifth part. 


trade (betwcen city and country) and gulka as duty on foreign trade, it seems better to 
follow the commentators. 2 niskramyam: pravesyam: Cb (reading nai-...prd-) has 
‘goods going out of the city into the country and out of the country into foreign 
lands (naiskrdmya) and coming from foreinglands into the country and from the country 


into the city (prdvegya).’ So Cj. It is possible that foreign exports and imports are 
primarily meant. 


3 milyapancabhdgah: ‘this implies that the duty on imports was received in cash’ 
(Breloer, III, 451). 


4 gadbhdgam grhntydt: according to com. ss. 4-7 state exceptions to the 20% ad 
valorem duty ofs.3. But the exceptions would seem to cover the entire range of dutiable 
commodities. Breloer refers these to exports and says that this duty was received in kind 
(III, 450). That seems rignt, though internal movement of goods between city and country 
is also conceivable in the case of certain commodities. 


5 gankha- etc.: it seems that hdra is to be construed with mtkid end pravdla only, 
sankha, vajra and mani being incepencent items. — kdrayet: supply mtilyam as the 
object (Cb). The valuation is necessary for cherging duty, fer 1/6th pert of tl.ese tl.ings can 
hardly be fixed off-hand. Itisin fact doubtful if duty on jewels etc. was received in kind. 
And if cash duty fixed after valuation is to be understood, it is possit letc suppcsethet tle s. 
belongs to imports and should be read immedistely after s.8. — kriakarma- etc. : this 
isa standard formula for work given on a contract basis ; see 2.18.1. — Brelcer(III, 451-3) 
says that gankha etc. come from the king’s ground and hence sre cuty-free ; only the cost of 
labour increases its value. He seems to understand ‘special officers, to whom prcceeds 
(nispatti) come from the result (phala) of the work done, mount, time and wage, see these 
goods through duty-free.’ This appears very doubtful. 


6 krimitdna seems to be silk yarn, while krimijdta eppears to be silk cloth. Cf. 2.23.8. 
— lohavarnadhdatu ‘ minerals of the class of metals, such as red chalk’ (Cs), ‘ metels and 
colouring material’ (Meyer), ‘base metals snd minerels’ (Prelcer). KEcr varna as kird or 
type, cf. 2.15.5. — arfjana in the compound is from Cb and 2ppears genuine. — Kkinvd- 
varanam is from Cb. dvarana ‘ covering ’ of the other reading weulc tein strengeccmperny, 
and the next clause has prducrana which means the seme thing. Cb’s -avara mey meen 
‘a minor substance,’ though that too is not quite setisfectcry. — carmcdantdstarana- 
is again from Cb, so is djaidakasya. nikara in the other reading is uncerstcce as ‘cloth’ 
by Cj or ‘cloth-sheets’ by Breloer. The repetition of ksau.ma and dukila in it mekes it 
suspicious. 


% carma: to obviate the idea of repetition this should be construed with thdnda 
‘leather goods.’ 


, 2.22.8 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 146 


8 ‘To be received at the gate is one-fifth of the no-mal duty, or he 
should fix it with a concession in accordance with the benefit derived by the 


country. 


9 And no sale of commodities (shall be allowed) in the places of their 
origin. 10 For taking metal goods from mines the penalty is six hundred 
(panas). 11 For taking flowers and fruits from flower-gardens and fruit- 
orchards, the fine is fifty-four panas. 12 For taking vegetables, roots and 
bulbous roots from vegetable-gardens, the fine is fifty-one and three quarter 
panas. 18 For taking all kinds of crops from fields, (the fine is) fifty-three 
_ panas. 14 One pana and one pana and a half is the penalty in case of 
agricultural produce. 


15 From this, he should fix the duties for new and old commodit- 
- jes in accordance with the customs of the country and the community, 
and penalty according to the offence. 


CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE 
SECTION 40 THE SUPERINTENDENT OF YARNS (AND TEXTILES). 


1 The Superintendent of Yarns should cause trade to be carried out in 
yarns, armours, cloth and ropes through men expert in the work. 


8 dvdrddeyam sulkaparcabhdgah : this seems to refer to tolls on goods coming into the 
city ; itis to be one-fifth of the Sulka as fixed above (Cp). Cj, reading dudradeyam, says that 
this additional one-fifth of the su/ka is to ke paid at the time of entry into or exit from 
the city and is over and above the regular sy/ka. Russ. rencers dudradeya by ‘ collections 
meant for the door-keeper.’ — dnugrdhikam: this involves an anugraha or concession by 
the state; cf. 2.21.15. It may be that this cption epplies not only to tLe town auty but to 
all import and export duties as well, as Cp uncerstanas it. 


9 The purpose of this prohibition is, according to Breloer, to force all goods to the 
markets and allow the turn-over to be controlled (III, 453-4). In addition, tolls required 
to be recovered and prices to be regulated by the state. 10 satchaiam: cf. 2.12.31 ccn- 
cerning salt, where also the king enjoys a moncpCly. 14 pcno’dhyardhapanas ca sita- 
tyayah : ‘the purchaser pays 1 pana and the vendor 1} pana’ (Cp Cs). Cp adds that this 
impost is to be paid on every sale whether an Offence is committed or not, while according 
to Cs this is in addition to 58 panas when the cffence is committed. Cb Cj seem to have 
read pano’rdhapanag ca. The former has ‘ 58 panas in the case of other grains, a pana or 
half a pana in the case of paddy.’ Cj refers to another explanaticn ‘half a pene fire for 
grains valued at 1 pana and so on.’ It may be that sifd refers as usual to the produce of 
crown lands (2.15.2). If purchases are mace from the field, the penalty is nomine] in this 
case because state goods would be duty-free and sale in the fielas would meen no loss of 
state dues. The two fines may be related to the purchaser and vendor as in Cp, the vendor 
in this case being a state officer. However, see 5.2.18 below. Russ. renders sttdlyaya by 

transgression of rules about sowing. n 


15 degajaticaritratah ‘ according to the customs of the region and the caste’ (com.) 
appears preferable to ‘place, class of goods and custcm’ (Meyer) or ‘land, caste and occupa- 
oon (Breloer), — Concerning stanzas at the end of 2.21 and 2.22 Breloer remarks that 

ath ag not show the prolixity of Kautilya and are taken from predecessors who were much 
are RIO DHE eee Oey, aa): Bhat they are derived from early sources is, st cour, 
2s ; 1ey do not reveal si imitive i : ay down 
guiding principles. y simpler or ES primitive ideas. They merelylay 
2.28 


1 The form rajju may be ado ; ° ake 
us ‘ | pted throughout as in 2.17.8 and 2.24.8. — vyarahara 
cen ally is trade’ ; but the Chepter refers only to manufacture. Actual trace would 

m to bein the hands of the panyddhyaksa. 


147 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS  [ 2. 28. 14 


2 He should get yarn spun out of wool, bark-fibres, cotton, silk-cotton, 
hemp and flax, through widows, crippled women, maidens, women who have 
left their homes and women paying off their fine by personal labour, through 
mothers of courtesans, through old female slaves of the king and through 
female slaves of temples whose service of the gods has céased. 


8 He should fix the wage after ascertaining the fineness, coarseness or 
medium quality of the yarn, and the largeness or smallness of quantity. 
4, After finding out the amount of yarn, he shoud favour them with oil and 
myrobalan unguents. 5 And on festive days, they should be made to work 
by honouring (them) and making gifts. 6 In case of dim nution in yarn, 
(there shall be) a diminution in wage, according to the value of the stuff. 


7 And he should cause work to be carried out by artisans producing 
goods with an agreement as to the amount of work, time and wage, and should 
maintain close contact with them. 8 And when starting mills for the 
weaving of (cloth from) ksauma, dukila, silk yarn, hair of the ranku deer, and 
cotton yarn, he should gratify the (workmen) by gifts of perfumes and flowers 
and by other means of showing good-will. 9 He should bring about the 
production of varieties of -loth, bed-sheets and coverings. 10 And he 
should start factories for armours by artisans and craftsmen expert in the line. 


11 And those women who do not stir out — those living separately, 
widows, crippled women or maidens, — who wish to earn their living, should 
be given work by sending his own female slaves to them with (a view to) sup- 
port (them). 12 Or, if they come themselves to the yarn-house, he should 
cause an interchange of goods and wages to be made early at dawn. 13 The 
lamp (should be there) only for the inspection of the yarn. 14 For looking at 
the face of the woman or conversing with her on another matter, the lowest 
fine for violence (shall be imposed), for delay in the payment of wages, the 
middle fine, also for payment of wages for work not done. 


2 pravrajitad is one who has left home for good and is living independently. ‘Eman- 


cipated ’ is how Breloer (III, 474 and n. 4) renders the word. — dandapratikarini: cf. 
3.18.18. ome mairkd : see 2.27.5. 
5. tithisu ‘on festive days’ (Cp). — pratimdnaddnaih, though not very satisfactory, 


is adopted from Cb for pratipddanamdnath of the mss. Cj has pratimdnanaddanaith. 


7 karmapramdana- etc. is a standing formula for piece-rate work; cf. 2.18.1; 2.22.5. 
— pratisamsargam amounts to control (Breloer) or a strict watch over tlLem (Meyer). 


8 Woolis not mentioned in this connection. — Weavers eppear to be treated with 
specialfavour. 10 kankata: this ‘armour’ made from fabrics may have been made of 
wool or other cloth filled with cotton or other stuffing. 


11 Ss. 11-15 should preferably have come immediately after s. 6 above. — prosiid 
vidhaod is emenaed from prositavidhavd, and prositd is uncerstood in the st me sense 25 pra- 
vrajitd in s. 2 above. Cb uncerstanas prosita (in prositavidl.ava) in the sense of prostia- 
bharirkd. In any case, vidhavd must be understcoa incepencently ; cf. s. 2 akcve. — 
anusdrya, i.e., senuing these to theirhomes. — sopagraham,i.e., by showing fayour or by 
giving support. 


2. 28. 15] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 148 


15 If a (woman) after receiving the wage does not carry out the work, 
he should make her forfeit the tongs formed by the thumb (and the middle 
finger), also those who have misappropriated or stolen and then run away. 


16 And in the matter of wages, (there shall be) a fine for workmen 
in accordance with their offence. 


17 And he should himself keep in touch with rope-makers and makers 
of armours. 18 And he should cause articles, such as straps and others to 
be manufactured. 


19 He should cause ropes to be made of yarn and fibres, (and) 
thongs of canes and bamboos, as trappings for war and bindings for 
vehicles and draught-animals. 


CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR 
SECTION 41 THE DIRECTOR OF AGRICULTURE 


1 The Director of Agriculture, himself conversant with the practice of 
agriculture, water-divining and the science of rearing plants, or assisted by 
experts in these, should collect, in the proper seasons, seeds of all kinds of 
grains, flowers, fruits, vegetables, bulbous roots, roots, creeper fruits, flax 
and cotton. . 


15 argusthasamdamsam ‘the thumb and middle finger of the right hand’ (Cb Cp). 
Cj seems to understand the two thumbs (a7vgusthabhyam samdamsam). Cb Cp state thet the 
entire thumb and the tip of the middle finger are to be cut. Russ. understands the thumb 

and the index finger. — bhaksitdpa- etc.: the translation follows the commentators. 
Meyer objects that the participles cannot be understood in an active sense, as adjectives to 
strindm. His rendering ‘ when anything is used oP (bhaksita) or stolen (apahrta) or delibera- 
tely ruined (avaskandita)’ seems, however, hardly plausible. 

16 vetanesu...dandah, i.e., the fine is to be recovered from the wages. 

17 rajjuvariakaih: these may have formed a caste of their own. — varmakdraih 
is from Cp. carmakdraih of M Cb does not fit, because even the varairds or thongs seem to 
be made not ofleather, but of cane and bamboo (s. 19). pirudkdraih of G makes little sense. 
Meyer suggests for it mirvdkdraih ‘makers of bowstrings.’ varma ‘armour’ may refer 
to accoutrements, including straps etc. 


19. Breloer (III, 471-3) thinks that ss. 17-18 and this kdrikd deal with the manufacture 
of war-material ; the silirddhyaksa therefore may, originally, have been an assistant of the 
Superintendent of Arms and that his independent status here may be due to Kautilya him- 
self. Thissounds plausible. 


2.24 


Breloer (I, 74-89, also III, 485-502) is of the opinion that the sitd@dhyaksa supervised the 
total cultivation of crops in the realm and that one of his duties was to see that no land 
remained uncultivated. The Chapter, however, produces the impression that heis concerned 
with the management of crown lands only. 5.2.8-11 show that it is the samdhartr and his 
men who are concerned with sowings by independent farmers. Moreover, the revenue 


brought in by the sitadhyaksa is called sitd and is distinguished from bhdga or sadbhdga receiv- 
ed from farmers (2.15.2-8 > 2.6.8). § 


" 1. gulba “for finding out if there is water underground’ (Cb Cj). This eppears to 

mae oe thing like water-divining. — ParaSara or Vrddha-Paraégara is credited with the 

h 1orship ofthe Krsitantra and Agnivesa with that of Vrksdyurveda. — Cb seems to 
ave read samgrhniyat, which might appear better. 


149 THE, ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2. 24.8 


2 He should cause them to be sown in land, suitable for each, which has 
been ploughed many times, through serfs, labourers and persons paying off 
their fines by personal labour. 3 And he should cause no delay in (the work 
of) these on account of ploughing machines, implements and bullocks, and on 
account of (the work of) artisans, such as smiths, carpenters, basket-makers, 
rope-makers, snake-catchers and others. 4 In case of loss of fruit of a work 
(through their negligence), the fine (shall be equal to) the loss of that fruit. 


5 Sixteen dronas is the amount of rain in dry lands, one and a half times 
(that) in wet lands, where sowings are in conformity with (the nature of) the 
region, thirteen dronas and a half in the ASmakas, twenty-three in the Avantis, 
unlimited in the Aparantas and the snowy regions, and (unlimited) as to time, 
in lands where sowings are made with the help of canals. 


6 One-third of the (annual) rainfall in the first and the last months 
(together), two-thirds in the intervening two months, — this is the form of 
excellence (of the season). 


7 Its ascertainment (is made) from the position, motion and impregna- 
tion of Jupiter, from the rise, setting and movements of Venus and from modifi- 
cation in the natural appearance of the sun. 8 From the sun (is known) 


2. svabhiimau, i.e., on land suitable for the crop to be sown. According to Joknston 
(JRAS,1929,90-1), this means ‘on crown lands.’ Thatisalso possible. — dandapratikartr 
cf. 3.13.18. 3 karsanayantra contains a single idea, not two ‘ ploughing ana mzclines’” 
(as Meyer ultimately prefers in the Nachtrag). — medaka ‘a maker of baskets’ (Cb), 
‘digger’ (Cs). Meyer relates it to Meda a mixed caste mentionea in Manu, 10.48, and 
suggests * catchers of wild and dangerous animals’asthe meaning. 4 tesam refers to dasa, 
karmakara etc., as well as to the craftsmen. — tatphalahdnum: for the expression, cf. 
2.29.33. 


5 On the basis of about 511 cubic inches in a drona and a cylindrical raingauge with a 
surface area Of about 254.8 sq. inches (1 araini about 18” aismeter, 2.5.7), 16 dronas amcunt 
to about 32” of rain ; if the gauge-mouth is understooa to be square (18” by 18”), they weuld 
amount to about 25". — jdngala are dry tracts as opposed to anipa or wetlanas. Manu, 
7.69, recommends jangala lana for settlement. — varsapramdnom ‘ rain-fall necessary for 
g00d crops ’ in such regions (com.). — desavdpandm: Cj Cp Cs understana this a6 intro- 
ducing what follows ‘(amount) required for sowing according to aifferent countries (will now 
be explained).’ desavdpa, however, seems contrasted with kulyaudpa, the former referring 
to sowing uepenaent on rain and the nature of the region (whether jangala or anupa), the 
latter to sowing in irrigated areas (which are not dependent on rain). — ardhatreyodasa 
is understood by allas 18}, not 124. — Aésmaka, i.e., ‘Maharastra ’ (Cp), ‘ Aratta’ (Cs). 
The capital of ASmaka was Pratisthana on the Godavari (V-S. Agrawala, Inaia as knuwn 
to Pdnini, p. 88). — Aparanta ‘Konkanavisaya’ (Cp). — haimenya ‘in which there 
is plenty of snow which makes agriculture possible ; this is near the Himalsyas” (CL). — 
kdlatah : supply amitam with this, the idea being that agriculture is here incepencent of 
seasonalrain. Cf. Breloer(III,493n.4). Pran Nath (IA, 60, 111-2) seems to unoerstand 
varsa as share due to the king, making kulydvdpa an adjective to haitmonya * winter Crcps. 
This seems haraly likely. 

6 The four monsoon months are Sravana to Karttika according to the commentators. 
— sugamd * paramd sobha’ (Amara, 1.8.17). . 

7 garbhddhana, i.e., ‘dew in Margagirsa, snow in Pauga, wind in Magha, clouds in 
Phalguna, wind and rain in Caitra and rain with wind anc ligl.tning in Veisakhe, tcgether 
with rain on the days of conception (viz., the first four days of tlhe dark half of Vaigaékl.a) 
(com. which quote mnemonic verses in support). The Brhatsamhtid, 21.7, refers to the 
impregnation of a cloud 195 days prior to its sending down that rain. —cdra ‘movement 


2.24.9 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 150 


the successful sprouting of seeds, from Jupiter the formation of stalks in the 
crops, from Venus rain. 


9 Three clouds raining (continuously) for seven days (each), 
eighty (clouds) showering drops of rain (and) sixty clouds accompanied 
by sunshine, this rainfall is even and beneficial. 


10 Where it rains distributing wind and sunshine properly and 
creating three (periods for the drying of) cowdung cakes, there the 
growth of crops is certain. 


11 In conformity with that, he should cause crops to be sown, requiring 
plenty of water or little water. 12 dli-rice, vrihi-rice, kodrava, sesamum, 
priyangu, udadraka and varaka are the first sowings. 138 mudga, masa and 
§aimbya are the middle sowings. 14 Sufflower, lentils, Aulattha, barley, 
wheat, kaldya, linseed.and mustard are the last sowings. 15 Or, the sowing 
of seeds (should be) in conformity with the season. 


16 What is left over from sowing, farmers cultivating for half the pro- 
duce should till, or those who live by personal labour (should work it) for a 
one-fourth or one-fifth share. 17 The (farmers) shall pay a share for uncul- 
tivated land as desired (by the king), except in times of distress. 


(of Venus) on the nine days from the 5th to the 18th of Asédha’ (com.). — prakrtivaikr- 
tat‘ cnangein the natural conaition ’ (com.), ‘ naturalana unnatural 2ppearance ’ (Meyer). 


9 saptdhikd, i.e., sending down rain more or less continuously for seven days. — 
afgitih, i.e., eighty days of light and intermittent showers. — dlapameghdnam, i.e., rain 
alternating withsunshine. Tietotalcomestol6laays. Contrasts.6aLove. 10 karisdn 
* breaks in the rain long enough to allow the drying of cowdung cakes’ (Cb). Cs reaas 
karsakan, but it can haraly mean ‘ ploughing,’ i.e., sowing. And three sowings ao not seem 
intenced here. 


12 pirvavadpah etc.: in the alternative, this may imply sowings one after another 
in the same fielu ; but that does not appear very likely. 15 yathartuvasena vd : seasons for 
the aifferent crops are suggested by purvavapa etc. of the preceuing ss. ud seems to have 
little significance. 


16 vdpdtiriktam: this refers to land which the sita@dhyaksa has not managed to get 
cultivated. That is to be leased to tenents on crcp-sl.cre Lasis. Brelcer uncerstercs 
vdpdlirikta as ‘fallowland.’? Johnstcn (JRAS, 1££¢, $2) weulc. insert: vd after vapaliri- 
ktam and explain ‘or, land shoula be let out to cultivators whe pry half tle precuce as rent 
on the vdpdlirik a system, unaer which an amount equal to tle seed sown is uecuctea frcm 
the gross produce and handea over to tle tenent, tle rest Leing equelly aivicea between 
the king and thé tenant.’ This appears too involved. — svaviryopajivinah: Jcl.nstcn 
(JRAS, 1929, 95) understands solciers, policemen, etc. But virya here is only personal 
labour, not valour. — In this case, seeus, implements etc. are proviaed by the state. 
— caturtha- etc.: Johnston uncerstanas ‘ paying 1/4th or 1/5th to the state.’ That is 
hardly likely. Cf. Gnoshal, Rev. Sys., p. 80 n.2. 17 anavasitabhdgam : this is share of 
the produce from land that has been recl: imed and brcugl.t uncer cultiveticn for the first 
time, as described in Chepter 2.1. For anavasita referring to giinyanivega, see 7.11.1 ff. 
Cb has ‘when half-sharers and Others, after agreeing to till, do not ao so, they hand 
reeenst the king desires, i.e., the entire produce to the state.’ This is unlikely ; 80 18 
oe oT 6 share other than those set out above (avasiia as uparinirdista).’ — yathesfam, 
=v Ms oe aa by the king or sifad/yaksa. T..is implies the iuea of concession to such 
ne ere — 4nyatra krcchrebhyuh: this may mean ‘ when the stete is in distress; 

te may be withdrawn’ or ‘when the farmers are in distress, they mM2y be 
cee tOm giving any share.’ The former seems meant; cf. arthakrcchra in 5.2.1. 


151 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2,24, 24 


18 The (farmers) shall pay a water-rate of one-fifth in the case of water 
set in motion by the hand from their own water-works, one-fourth when set 
in motion by shoulders and one-third when set flowing in channels by a mechan- 
ism, one-fourth when lifted from rivers, lakes, tanks and wells. 


19 According to the amount of water (available) for the work, he should 
decide on wet crops, winter crops or summer crops. 20 dali and others are 
the best (crops), vegetables middling, sugar-cane worst. 21 For, sugar- 
canes are fraught with many dangers and require (much) expenditure. 


22 (A region) where the foam strikes (the banks) is (suited) for creeper 
fruits, (regions on) the outskirts of overflows, for long pepper, grapes and sugar- 
canes, (those on) the borders of wells, for vegetables and roots, (those on) the 
borders of moist beds of lakes, for green grasses, ridges for plants reaped by 
cutting, (such as) perfume-plants, medicinal herbs, ustra-grass, hribera, pinda- 
luka and others. 28 And on lands suitable for each, he should raise plants 
that grow on dry lands and that grow in wet lands. 


24 Soaking in dew (by night) and drying in the heat (by day) for seven 
days and nights (is the treatment) in the case of seeds of grains, for three days 
and nights or five in the case of seeds of pulses, smearing at the cut with honey, 
ghee and pig’s fat, mixed with cowdung in the case of stalks that serve as seeds, 
(smearing) with honey and ghee in the case of bulbous roots, smearing with cow- 
dung in the case of stone-like seeds, (and) in the case of trees, burning in the pit 
and fulfilment of the longing with cow-bones and cowdung at the proper time. 


18 svasetubhyah: Johnston understands state irrigation works. But with dadyuh 
as the predicate sva can hardly refer to the king. Accoraing to the commentators, the king 
is entitled to a water-rate even when the works are maae by the farmers themselves, 
because he is the owner of all water as well asland, a stanza being quoted to this effect. — 
udakubhagam : this would naturally mean a share of the proauce over ana above the regular 
lana-revenue. It is also possible to understand thet the regular bhdga is 1/6th wl.en no 
irrigation facilities are available, ana that 1/5th, 1/4th etc. are chargea insteaa when the 
farmers enjoy irrigation facilities (mace by themselves), tlhe rates varying accoraing to the 
nature Of the irrigation work. Meyer’s idea of a share of the water itself suppliea to crown 
lands from private irrigation works does note ppearlikely. — hastapravartima, 1.€., araw- 
ing water with the hanas and carrying it to tle fielas in pitchers, etc. — skandha- are the 
shouluers or backs of bullocks. — srotoyantra- a mechanism for letting water in channels 
flowing into the fields. — -udghdtam: com. understana the water-wheel for raising 
water from river, etc. 


19 karmodaka-: Meyer’s ‘amount of labour and water available’ would require 
karmakara for karma. — kaiddram refers to wet crops. Johnston’s proposed kedare *on 
wet land ’(JRAS, 1929, 96) is haraly acceptable. 


22 phendghdlah: supply pradesah ; ‘ where the foam strikes’ are banks Of rivers etc. 
-— parivdaha ‘ overflow, flooding ’is, according to Cb, ‘another, ie., a secondary canal.’ — 
harani ‘ moist empty beds of lakes’ (Cb Cp), ‘canals, channels’ (Cs). — Java (from la 
to cut) a plant which when cut continues to grow ; gandha, bhaigajya etc. are illustrations. 

24 kosidhdnya ‘grains in the pods,’ i.e., pulses. — kdndabija ‘ whose seed is the 
stelk,’ that grow from stelk, such as sugar-cane etc. — garladahah, i.e., burning grass, 
leaves etc. in the pit in which tlie seed isto besown. Meyer construes go’sthigakrdbhih with 
diizh and refers dz shrda to the longing of trees imagined by classical poets (pddaghata for 
Afgoka etc.). Tnat is very doubtful. 25 asuska-; Cb reads Suska ‘aried’ fish. The ca 


2. 24, 25) KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 152 


25 And when they have sprouted, he should feed them with fresh acrid fish 
along with the milk of the snuhi-plant. 


26 He should collect (and burn) the seeds of cotton and the slough 
of aserpent. Serpents do not remain where there is this smoke. 


27 However, at the first sowing of all kinds of seeds, he should sow 
the first handful (after it is) immersed in water containing gold and should 
recite the following mantra: 


‘Salutation to Kagyapa, the Lord of Creation and to the god (of 
rain) always. May the divine Sité prosper in my seeds and my grains.’ 


28 To watchmen in vegetable-gardens and in fruit and flower enclosures, 
to cowherds and serfs and labourers, he should supply food in accordance with 
persons dependent on them, and pay a wage of one pana and a quarter per 
month. 29 To artisans, (he should give) food and wages in conformity with 
their work. 


80 And those learned in the Vedas and ascetics may take flowers and 
fruits that have fallen on the ground for worship of the gods, rice and barley 
for the dgrayana sacrifice, (and) those who live by gleaning (may take) what is 
left at the base of a heap (of grains). , 


81 And at the proper time he should bring in the crops and other 
things as they are harvested. The wise man should not leave anything 
in the field, not even husk. 


82 (He should make) high walls, or roofs of the same kind. He 
should not make the tops compact nor very light. 


after -matsydn is strange. Meyer thinks that some word has drcpped out. — -ksirena:: 
with pdayayet as the preuicate, -ksiram (with -matsyaih) would have Leen Letter. 

26 -sdra ‘essence,’i.e., seeds. Sorabji mentionsa modern practice, burning old rags 
to keep cif serpents. 


27 The first line ishypermetric. Meyer proposes prajdpatye (for -pataye) which is not 
necessary. Cb’s reauing : ppears to be prajapaieh kdsyapdya devaldya numah sada. It also 
reads madhyama for rdhyatam. — dhanesu eviuently refers to grains, ana seems to have 
been usea instead of dikdnyesu for metrical reasons. 

28 -pdlaka is to be construed with each of sanda-, vdta- and go-. — purusa-paricapa 
refers usually to retinue or followers; cf. 1.16.5; 3.8.8. Here aependents are eviuently to 
beunuerstooa. Tl.e state feeas not only thelabcurer Lut also his uepenuents, Lut he alone 
gets the cash wage of 1 1/4 pana a month. — sapddspanikam: Breloer (III, 505 and n.3) 
has ‘a montlily wage, receiving 5/4t].s for every pana,’i.e, ue gets 5/4 times the wage sanction- 
ea for him, the actual amount of the wa ge not Leing statea. It is aifficult to see how this 


meaning is possible. For the mont] c 
is necessary. nthly wage of 5/4 pana, see 2.27.9. Theca after this word 


80 dgrayana is the offering of fresh grains at t : cen 
pragirnam is to Le unaerstoca alsc wit). an r he end of the rains. vrihiya 


82 prakaranam is from Cb, also found in G2. It refers to the walls of the shed in which 
Sian mere Eek ena of the mss. haraly suits, alsc prokurdncm of Cp Cs. — samu- 
Dette Peete of from the second half. prdakdrdn ucchritan kurydt wCulc have been 
be made of iro he thatchea roofs’ of the sea (CL). Cb aaas thet tle roof should 

n or stones as that gives protection from piédcas. — tathdvidhah: we have 


153 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.25.6 


83 Heshould make the heaps situated at the border of the circle of 
the threshing-floor. At the threshing ground, workmen should carry no 
fire and should be provided with water. 


CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE 
SECTION 42 THE CONTROLLER OF SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS 


1 The Controller of Spirituous Liquors should cause trade in wines and 
ferments to be carried on in the fort, the country ot the camp, through persons 
dealing in wines and ferments, being born to that work, either in one place or 
in many places or according to (convenience for) purchase and sale. 2 He 
should fix six hundred panas as the penalty for those who manufacture, 
purchase or sell in other places. 


8 (He should enforce) prohibition of taking wine out of the village and its 
accumulation, because of the danger of remissness in duties by those appointed, 
because of the danger of transgression of the bounds of propriety by Aryas and 
because of the danger of rash acts by bravoes. 4 Or, those of known integrity 
may carry out a small quantity, well marked, either one-fourth (of a kuduba), 
half a kuduba, a kuduba, half a prastha or a prastha. 5 Or, they should 
drink in the drinking-houses without moving about. 


6 In order to find out things (that are) misappropriated after being 
received in trust or as a deposit or a pledge and (that are) acquired in undesir- 
able ways, he should, on finding an article or money not belonging to a person, 
get the person offering it arrested in another place under some (other) pretext, 
also the person who spends lavishly and the person who spends without 
having a source of income. 


to understand by this samucchritadh. vd seems to have the sense Of ca. 88 prakardn: Cb 
reads prakardn here as well, but it is hard on the metre. And walls of sheds would not 
be right on the borders of the threshing-floor circle. — Brelcer (III, 484) remarks that the 
karikds are not compressed in style as usual and seem to have hac a Cifferent source. 


2.25 


1 vyavahara: here both manufacture and trade seem intended. — ckemt.kham etc. 
see 2.16.4 above. 2 anyaira karir- etc.: cf. 2.12.19, 31. 
8 anirnayanam: supply sthdpayet from the preceding. — For sampdia * accumula- 


tion ’ of goous, cf. 8.4.36 ; 13.4.88 etc. Cb Cs unaerstand surdé as ‘a aruuken man,’ Gnir- 
nayana as ‘not going Out’ and asampdia as ‘ not allowing them to go in a crowu or frcm 
housetohouse.’ Thiseppearslittlelikely. 4 laksitam‘merkea ’ witha seal(Cs). — vd: 
Meyer understands the option to be between laksiicm ana alpum ; the cpticn Lowever seems 
to be betweent his s. and the prececing. 5 This s. in effect nullifies the concession 
of the preceding s. — asamcdrinah ‘not moving about’ when in a state Of intoxication. 


6 niksepopanidhiproyoga-: niksepa is an article entrusted to an artisan for monufac- 
ture (3.12.88 ff.). prayuga is ‘pleaging an article’ wien ti king a loan (CL). Mey €r’s reraer- 
ing ‘ if things are stolen in orcer to use tl.em (prayoga ‘use’) as an Open depcsit (nikgepa) or 
sealed deposit (upanidht)’ is quite unlikely. — kupyom shoula be unaerstooa to mean 
some smallarticle, rather than ‘forest produce’ as usual. — nikseptarem refers to the 
customer who passes On the misappropriated article in payment of wine. — anyatra ovyapa- 
deéena; this is in order that other criminals are not frightened away from the ale-house (Cs). 


2. 25. 7 J KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA , 154 


7 And the (vintner) shall not sell liquor at a different price or on credit, 
except spoiled liquor. 8 He should get the latter sold in another place. 
9 Or, he should pay it as wages for slaves and labourers. 10 Or, he should 
give it as a strong drink for draught animals or as nourishment for pigs. 


11 He should cause ale-houses to be built with many rooms, (and) 
provided with separate beds and seats, (and) drinking bars provided with | 
perfumes, flowers and water, (and) pleasant in all seasons. 


12 Secret agents, placed there, should ascertain the normal and 
occasional expenditure (of customers) and get information about strangers. 
18 They should make a note of the ornaments, clothes~and cash of custo- 
mers who are intoxicated or sleeping. 14 In case of loss of these, the 
traders shall pay the same and a fine of equal amount. 15 Traders, on 
their part, should find out through their own female slaves of beautiful 
appearance, the intentions of strangers and natives, who have the (outward) 
appearance of Aryas, when they are intoxicated or asleep in secluded parts 
of the rooms. 


16 Concerning the medaka, the prasannd, the dsava, the aristas, the 
maireya and madhu: 17 One drona of water, one-half ddhaka of rice-grains 
and three prasthas of ferment form the mixture for the medaka. 18 Twelve 
Gdhakas of flour, five prasthas of ferment or the mixture of its class along 
with the bark and fruit of the kramuka, form the mixture for the prasanna. 
19 One tulad of the wood-apple fruit, five tulds of treacle, and a prastha 
of honey form the mixture for the dsava. 20 One quarter more (of this 
mixture) is the best (dsava), one quarter less the lowest kind. 21 The 
aristas are as prescribed by physicians for each separate malady. 22 The 
maireya is distilled from a decoction of the bark of the mesasrngi with the 
addition of jaggery, having a mixture of long pepper and black pepper or 


7 anarghena, i.e., different from the price fixed by the state ; if higher, the difference 
is likely to be pccketed by the vintner; if lower, tl.ere is sccpe for aculteraticn. — 
kalika On Crecit’; cf. 12.4.8. Meyer's ‘clearance sele witl.in a limited time’ seems less 
likely. 10 vdhanapratipadnam : cf. 2.29.48 etc. ‘ Weges for guarcing cattle’ (Cs) is little 
likely. Similarly siikaraposanam is haraly ‘ wegesfor swine-heras ’ (Cs). 

11 -Sayandsana- suggests that these were also lodging Louses. 


14 vanijah: these are vintners licensed by the state. 15 vdstavyanam may be 
understooa as an adjective to dgantiindm or incepencently as ‘resicents,’ i.e., natives: 
The latter is better in view of the ca. 


17 medaka may suggest the fattening prcperty of this liquor. — kinva: see s. 26. 

18 pisia seems rice-flour, though barley-ficur is alsc pessitle. Weter eight times tle. 
Cangas of flour is to be understcoc as in tl.e cese cf macke (ccm.). — -kiemuka-is {r¢m 
in s Sa Cf. 8. 29.. — jatisamlharch ‘ mixture Lelcrging tc its cless, £6 c.est riled 
(jai) : com): Tids is an option to the 5 prasthas of kinva. Meyer has ‘addition of 
onaion ees a not uncerstenc. this as an ¢ pticn, Lut rercers vd Ly ‘ececrcirg to Cres 
primaril ‘inf i neme prasannd, may refer to tl.e cleerness Of the liqucr. 19 4sava 18 
TAPER E ( a n. The amount of weter weula evicently ke 8 tulds. 21 vikéranem 
refers to abse m.) rather than ‘ modification (in the ingrecients)’ (Meyer). Tl.e name arista 
nee ofinjury orharm. 22 The significance of the namemaireya is not clear. 


155 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.25.82 


mixed with the three fruits. 23. Or, there should be a mixture of the 
three fruits in all (liquors) mixed with jaggery. 24 The juice of grapes is 
madhu. 25 Its name dcrived from the place of origin is kapisdyana and 
harahiraka. 


26 One drona pulp of mdsa-beans, raw or cooked, with one-third part 
more rice-grains, mixed with a part weighing one karsa (each) of morata and 
others is the formation of ferment. 


27 A mixture weighing five karsas (each) of pathd, lodhra, tejovati, carda- 
inum, vdluka, liquorice, madhurasd, priyangu, daruharidra, black and long 
pepper is the addition for the medaka and the prasannd. 28 And katagar- 
kara, mixed with a decoction of liquorice makes the colour clear. 


29 The mixture for the dsava is one karsa (each) of cinnamon bark, 
citraka, vilanga and gajanippalt and two karsas (each) of kramuka, liquorice, 
musta and lodhra. 80 And one-tenth part of these is the formation of 
the essence. 


31 The mixture for prasannd is that for white liquor. 32 Mango-liquor, 
with a higher proportion of juice or a higher proportion of essence, is mahasura, 


23 triphald may be three myrobalans, haricki, bithiicka and dmalcka, or ‘nutmeg, areca- 
nut anu clove’ (Sorabjianc Meyer). Accorcing to this s., wlerever jaggery is usec, tripl.ala 
should be added. 25 tasya svadeso vydkhydnem is an Oda expressicn. vydkhydna seems 
used in the sense of designaticn, neme. In that case, we cxpect stcdesat. — K«pisSa was 
an ancient capital in the region of tle Kabul valley (cf. V.$. Agrawala, op. cii., p. 118 n. 1). 
Harahira is the name ofa region or pecple keyona the North-West of Inaia ‘ of Scythien or 
Turkish stock according to Kern’ (Weber). MeyerthinksofHara-Hinas. Jayaswal thinks 
of ‘Arachosian wine’ (JBORS, II,79n.). 


26 kalani apparently the same as kalka. — moratddinadm: ddi refers to the ingredi- 
ents mentioned in the first compound in s. 88 below. — kérsika-: 1 karsa ofeach. — 
-yuklam as going with dronam is preferable tc -yt.kiah of the mss. 

27 patcakadrsikah, i.e., 5 karsas each. — sambhd@rayoga is epparently to be used 
in place ofthekinua. Cf.s.18above. 28 katasarkardiseviaently some plent. Its pewcer 
is mentioned in s. 38. Cb reads kandasarkard ‘ pieces of jaggery.. — varnaprasddani, 
i.c., the colour of medaka and prasannd Leccmes clear (Cb). 

80 dasabhagas caisam bijabandhah: the idea epparently is, 1/10th of this mixture is 
to be added as essence in preparing dsava asin s.19. It smounts to 12/10ths cfa karsa, 
rather a smail quantity. Cp reacs satkdrsikah for karsikch (in s. 29); thet gives 32/10 
karsa. Meyer construes this s. with the following ‘ one-tenth of these as the basic c epCsit 
and the mixture as in the case of prasannd yields white liquor.’ For this, a cais necessary 
after prasanndyogah. Understanaing prasanndyogah as an adjective to bijatandi.ah (Meyer, 
fn.) is no improvement. 


81 According to Cp Svelasurd differs from prasannd in that it has no samthdra and 
has an equal amount offerment. Accoraing to Ct tl.ereis neitl.er somthare nor lijatandha. 
32 Cp has four kinds, sahakdrasurd (liquor mixed with mango oil,), rasoticrd (with jeg gery 
added), mahdsurd (with a lerge emcunt of bija) ane sambhariki (with a large ¢mcunt c{lija 
and sambhdra). Cb has five, bijoltard teing distinguisl.ec frcm mchdsv.74, lija Leirg mre 
in the former, mdird (?) being more in t].eletter. Neither aces justice to the ty ud in the 
sentence. Meyer has mahdsurd as the name of ra: ottard sahakarasurd and scmbhaiihi as tle 
name of bijottard sahakdrasurd. It might ¢ ppeer Letter to tl.irk cf mahdsurd elcre as the 
name, with three alternatives, rasottard, bijoticrd anc. samthariki, all understccec. as ettri- 
butes of sahakdrasurd, which may be liquor frcm mango juice, not mede by mere addition 


2.25.88 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 156 


or when it contains the mixture. 838 The powder of burnt katasarkara, 
infused in a decoction of moratd, paldsa, pattira, mesasrigi, karafija and 
kstravrksa, mixed with half (its quantity) of the pulp of lodhra, citraka, 
vilanga, pathd, musta, kalinga-yava, ddruharidrad, indivara, Satapuspa, 
apamarga, saptaparna, nimba and dsphota, —a handful (of this) with nails 
invisible, makes one kumbhi of those (liquors) clear, fit to be drunk by the 
king. 384 And jaggery, five palas in weight, should be added to it to increase 
the (sweet) juice. . 


85 Householders should be free to manufacture white liquor on festive 
occasions or an artsta for medicinal use, or other (spirituous preparations). 


86 On the occasions of festivals, gatherings and fairs, permission to 
manufacture and sell liquor should be granted for four days. 37 On those 
days, he should charge a penalty per day from those not permitted, till the 
end of the festivity. 


88 Women and children should make a search for (ingredients used in) 
liquors and ferments. 


39 Dealers in goods not manufactured by the state shall pay a duty 
of five per cent on surd, medaka, arista, madhu, sour fruit juices, and sour 
liquors. 


40 And after ascertaining the day’s sale and the surcharge on 
measures and on cash, he should fix the compensation accordingly and 
should keep going what is customary. 


of mango oil. 88 Cb again reads kandasarkard ‘ pieces of jaggery ’ with which, however, 
dagdha iardly fitsin. — kalingoyava: Cp reaas kdldguru. Meyer haa proposed kalcya- 
yava for the faulty kaldgayava of tue euitions. — kalkdrdhayukiam, i.e., tle pulp is to be 
half the cirna in quantity. — antarnakho mustih, i.e., the fingers are so clcsea that the 
nails cannot veseen Outsiae. The amount woulaLefairly small. — ktmlhim‘s pitcher’ 
(Cb). Cs equates it with khdri, i.e., 16 dronas (2.19.81). Cp makes out cat.ssastisahasra- 
palas (i.e., 1004?). 34 rasavrddhih, i.e., the strengthening of rasa as against Liju or sam- 
bhara. rasa may also suggest ‘ taste, flavcur.’ 


86 saurikah:the commentators understand not only manufecture and drink, but also 
selling. 37 Gndnujndtandm: epparently permission could be refused to scme persons. 
What they pay daily for manufacture ana sale without prermission : mounts to a sort of 
license fee. Cb reaas anycsu ananujfidlanam ‘for arinking in places otl.er than the place 
where thie ufsava etc. is being celebratea, the fine Leing in confcimity wit}, tl.e loss suffered 
in work On account of the arink.’ 

38 vicayam ‘search’ for the various ingredients frcm plents, trees etc. It may also 
mean ‘ picking good from bad, selecting.’ Com. unaerstana it to mean ‘roasting, arying 
etc.” of tle materials. 

39 surakd- etc. may be construed with the preceding (Cs) or with the stanza that 
follows (Meyer). The former seems slightly Letter in view of tl.e ca after the first wora in 
the stanza. The ca at the end here seems used in spite of the ccmpound. 

40 vyajim manahiranyayoh : the extra commission for mana is 6 1/4% or 59%, and for 
hiranya 5% (cf. 2.16.10 ana 2.12.26 res, ectively). —- vaidharanam: the ccr.pensaticn 
is to be recovered because a state monopoly (manufacture ana sé le of liquor) has keen allcwed 
to be broken; cf. 2.12.81. The vydji would be taken into consiceration wh.en fixing the 
vaidharana. The latter would be apparently reducea to that extent. — ucitay ‘ custo- 
mary,’ rather than ‘appropriate.’ 


157 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2. 26.6 


CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX 
SECTION 48 THE SUPERVISOR OF (ANIMAL-) SLAUGHTER 


1 The Supervisor of Slaughter should impose the highest fine (for 
voilence) for binding, killing or injuring deer, beasts, birds or fish for whom 
safety has been proclaimed and who are kept in reserved parks, the middle 
fine on householders (for these offences) in reserved park enclosures. 


2 For binding, killing or injuring fish and birds whose slaughter is not 
current, he should impose a fine of twenty-six panas and three quarters, (for 
binding) deer and beasts, double (that). 8 Of those whose slaughter is 
current (and) who are not protected in enclosures, he should receive one-sixth 
part, of fish and birds one-tenth part more, of deer and beasts, duty in addition. 


4. He should release in sanctuary parks the live one-sixth part of 
birds and deer. 


5 Sea-fish having the form of an elephant or a horse or a man or a bull 
or a donkey, or those from lakes, rivers, tanks or canals, curlew, osprey, 
gallinule, swan, ruddy goose, pheasant, bhragaraja, cakora, mattakokila, 
peacock, parrot and madanasarika, which are birds for sport and auspicious 
(birds), also other creatures (whether) birds or deer, should be protected trom 


all dangers of injury. 6 For transgression of (this) protection, the first fine 
for violence (shall be imposed). 


2.26 


The sinddhyaksa is primarily concerned with the safety of game; he is to prevent the 
slaughter and ill-treatment of animals. He also strictly controls the sale of meat. There 
is no direct reference to slaughter-houses in the Chapter. ‘stind served to carry flesh, RV. 
1.16.10, AV 5.17.14, and was probably a braided (stv) basket.’ (H. Zimmer, Altindisches 
Leben, p. 271). 


1 pradistabhayadndm : see 2.2.2 above. — abhayavana may also refer to the perks of 
2.2.4. — vadha is ‘killing’ and himsd ‘injury’ (Meyer). — parigraha ‘enclosure’; 
cf. 2.6.6. — A lesser fine is imposed on householders apparently because tl.e meat would 


be for personal use, not forsale. 


2 apravritavadha : the slaughter of certain animals may be disallowed by custom (on 
religious or other grounds) orby thestate. Meyer’s ‘ who do not do any harm ’ seems hardly 
right. 8 aparigrhita ‘ not in the enclosures’, i.e., not protected. Meyer’s ‘ who are not 
caught’ is unlikely. If they are not caught, how is the state to receive the sixth part? 
— dagabhdgam vddhikam: Meyer has ‘ one tenth as fine for killing (td@dhikam from vadha).’ 
So Breloer has ‘ tax on slaughter’ (KSt, III, 584). But this sense is hardly possible with 
vadhikam as adjective to fulkam. Wehave to understand 1/10 in addition to 1/€ in the case 
of fish and birds, and gulka in addition to 1/6 in the case of deer and beasts. The Sulka 
woul coms to 1/20 or 1/25 as shown by 2.22.7. ud may be understood as ca. It is quite 
possible that the original reading was cddhikam. 

4 paksimrganam : fish and beasts are omitted probably because they were intended to 
be consumed even when received alive. 

5 It would be better to read sdmudrdh outside the compound. — hastyasca- etc. : 
some of the shapes are clearly imaginary. — vihdra-z.aksinah ‘such as cocks, etc.’ (Cs). 
—mangalyah ‘ §yamabhdradodja and others’ (Cb). — dbddha as ‘danger’ is common 
in this text. 6 raksdltikrame: the fine is for the sinddhyaksa (Cs). His subordinates, 
keepers in the parks, would appear more likely. 


2. 26. 7 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 158 


7 (Traders) shall sell meat without bones, of deer and beasts freshly 
killed. 8 For (meat) containing bones, they should give a compensation 
for loss. 9 For what is short in weight, (the fine shall be) eight times the 
short measure. 


10 The calf, the bull and the milch-cow among these (animals) are not 
to be killed. 11 For one killing (them, there shall be) a fine of fifty panas, 
also for (one) torturing (them) to death. 


12 They shall not sell (meat that is) swollen, without head, feet and 
bones, foul-smelling and (of a) naturally dead (animal). 13 Otherwise, 
there shall be a fine of twelve panas. | 


14 Beasts, deer, wild animals and fish, belonging to sanctuaries, 
should, when harmful, be killed or bound in places other than the place 
of their protection. 


CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN 
SECTION 44 THE SUPERINTENDENT OF COURTESANS 


1 The Superintendent of Courtesans should appoint as a courtesan, 
with one thousand panas, a (girl), from a courtesan’s family or a family not of 
courtesans, who is richly endowed with beauty, youth and arts, (and) a deputy 
courtesan for half the family-establishment. 


2 Ifa (courtesan has) run away or died, her daughter or sister shall run 
the family-establishment, or the mother shall provide a deputy courtesan. 
8 In the absence of these, the king should take away (the establishment). 


% vikriniran: the subject is butchers who have observed the rules laid down in s. 3 
above. 8 pratipdtam isfrom Cb. Cf. 5.2.12. It means compensation for loss, which 
apparently would be equal to the weight of the bones. 

10 esdm,i.e.,mrgapasiindm. 11 ghnatahis from Cb and is necessary as corresponding 
to ghdtlayaiah. 

_ 12 pariginam is an emendation from Meyer for paristinam. The former suggests the 
diseased condition of the meat. The latteras ‘slaughtered or sold outside the slaughter- 
house’ (com.) is doubtful, as there is no reference to slaughter-houses, or the obligation to 
slaughter or sellonly there. And pari as‘ outside’ is also uncertain. Russ. has.‘ not gone 
through the slaughter-house ’ or (in the Notes) ‘ rejected by the slaughter-house.’ 


14 guplisthanebhyah : these are clearly the abhayavanas. The actual slaughter is to be 
done outside the sanctuaries. 


2.27 


1 aganikanvayam: apparently respectable girls could be recruited to the profession 
when they went astray. — sahasrend, i.e., by giving 1000 paras to set up the establish- 
ment. Tne purchase of ornaments, dresses, furniture etc. seems meant. Meyer regards this 
astheannualsalary. Theannual salary, however, would seem to be referred to ins. 4 below. 
— kutumbardhena i.e., with 500 panas. 


' 2 kutumbam bhareta: this clearly impli i ; : t 
ee y implies the continuation of the establishment. 
3 Cp concludes from this that the son of a ganikd does not inherit from her. 


159 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.27.10 


4 In conformity with superiority in point of beauty and ornaments, 
he should, with one thousand panas, assign the lowest, middlemost or highest 
turn (for attendance), in order to add distinction to (attendance with) the 
parasol, the water-jug, the fan, the palanquin, the seat and the chariot. 
5 In case of loss of beauty, he should appoint her as the * mother ’. 


6 The ransom price is twenty-four thousand panas for a courtesan, 
twelve thousand for a courtesan’s son. 7 From the age of eight, the latter 
should do the work of the king’s minstrel. 


8 The female slave of a courtesan, whose professional career is over, 
should do work in the magazine or the kitchen. 9 One, not going (for such 
work), should, being kept under restraint, (be made to) pay the monthly 
wage of one pana and a quarter. 


10 He should keep an account of the payment by visitors, gifts, income, 
expenditure and gains of a courtesan, and should prohibit an act of excessive 
expenditure. 


4 Cb explains ‘consistently with the increase in beauty and ornaments duties may 
be assigned, ullama, viz., at pratihdra, playing with dice, giving ta@ambila etc. for 1000 
panas, madhyama, viz., holding fans, chowries etc., at 500 panas and kanistha, viz., 
carrying pitha, washing feet, etc. at 100 panas. In addition, he should give chatra 
and bhragdra for kanistha duty, fan and chowries in addition for madhyama duty and 
these as well as pitha and ratha for uttama oara.’ Cs understands chatra and bhrigdra 
asthe kanistha vara, vyajana and $ibikd as madhyama and pithikd and ratha as uttama, 
also 1000, 2000 and 38000 panas as the nazarana to be paid by the courtesans for 
the three types of duties respectively. It seems, however, that the amounts are 
piyments made to the ganikd, not by her to the state. The amounts in Cs appear 
more likcly than those in Cb. As a matter of fact, the text refers to one amount 
only, 1000 panas. The idea of the present of the various things to the three types of 
ganikds (Cb) is also not suggested by the wording. — visesdrtham: this may refer to 
the distinction made in the three types of work, or to the distinction, i.e., sustre added 
tothe task. 5 mdirkd a sort of mother superior of the establishment. 


” kuSilava: cf. 1.12.9. 


8 ganikdddst: this should be read as a single word as in the commentators ‘the 
female attendant of a courtesan.’ Apparently such a ddsi carried on the profession of a 
prostitute. When she can no more do that work (bhagnabhoga), she is to be given work in the 
kitchen etc. Meyer (with ganikd and dasi as separate words) thinks of the ganikd herself 
being bhagnabhogd and made to workas a dastinthe kitchenetc. But the ganika’s own case 
seems to have been already considered in s. 5 above. 9 aviganii, i.e., not going to the 
kitchen etc. for work. Meyer has‘ who does not come to the king ’, because she is araruddha 
‘the kept mistress ’ofsomeoneelse. As the reference is to  bhagnabhoga, this is an unlikely 
explanation. avaruddhd is understood as ‘a kept mistress ’ even in Cp, but in the context, 
it can only mean ‘kept under restraint’ as in 1.10.11. — sapddapanam mdsavetanam : 
this is the monthly cash wage (beside boarding) ; cf. 2.24.28. She pays the wage to the 
person who does the work which she has refused to do. The commentators say ‘ the servant 
is to pay this amount to the ganikd, her former mistress.’ vefana would hardly be used for 
such piyment. Meyer's ‘a m?nth’s wage and one and a quarter pana ’ is doubtful in the 
absence of ca. 


10 ddaya ‘ gifts by the king or other men* (Cb), rather than ‘inheritance frcm the 
mother ’ (Cp Cs), as day to day or month to month accounts are thought ofhere. — dyati 
seems to refer to some extra income ; that is how Cp understands it. Ch does not seem to 
have read the word though its text ‘shows it. Cs renders the word by ‘ prabhava, power, 
capability.’ 


2.27.11] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 160 


11 For handing over her ornaments to the keeping of any one else 
but the mother, the fine shall be four panas and a quarter. 12 If she sells 
or pledges her belongings, the fine shall be tifty panas and a quarter, twenty- 
four panas in case of verbal injury, double that in case of physical injury, 
fifty panas and a quarter and one pana and half a pana for cutting off the ear. 


13 In case of violence against a maiden who is unwilling, the highest 
fine (shall be imposed), the lowest fine for violence, if she is willing. 14 Ifa 
(man) keeps under restraint a courtesan who is unwilling, or helps her to run 
away or spoils her beauty by cutting up a wound, the fine (shall be) one 
thousand panas. 15 Or, there shall be an increase in fine in accordance with 
the importance of her position, up to double the ransom amount. 16 Ifa 
(man) causes the death of a courtesan who has been appointed to the office, 
the fine (shall be) three times the ransom amount. 17 For killing a mother, 
a daughter or a female slave living by her beauty, the highest fine for violence 
(shall be imposed). 


18 Inall cases, the prescribed fine (shall be imposed) for the first offence, 
double that for the second (offence), threefold for the third (offence), in case 
of the fourth (repetition of the offence) he may do what he pleases. 


19 A courtesan, not approaching a man at the command of the king, 
shall receive one thousand strokes with the whip, or a fine of five thousand 
panas. 


20 Ifa (courtesan), after receiving payment, shows dislike, she shall be 
fined double the amount of payment. 21 Incase she cheats in connection with 
attendance on visitors staying (overnight), she shall pay eight times the 


12 svdpateyam, i.e., her personal belongings. Cb reads sudpadeyam ‘ ornaments etc. 
given at the time of going to bed.’ Thisis not very likely. — vdkpdrusye: the offence 
is by the courtesan against a visitor (com.). Meyer thinks that these are offences against 
the courtesan. However, the wording clearly favours the former view. — pano’rdhapa- 
nas ca: this goes to the ganikddhyaksa, while 50 1/4 panas go to the state, according to Cp Cs. 
The totalin Cb comes to 50 3/4 panas. It may be that 1 pana is the physician’s fee and 
half a pana charges for medicaments. — karnacchedane: though this is more likely by 
an irate visitor, this offence against a visitor by a ganikd is not inconceivable. 


_ 18 Kumaryah : not necessarily a ganikakumdri ; cf. 4.12.26. 15 sthdna, i.e., her posi- 
tion or status, utlamadtodrapradhanyena (Cp) It can hardly refer to ‘the limb of the 
body where the wound is made’ (Cs). — 4d niskrayadvigunat: Cb, reading a niskraydd 
doigunah has * for kanistha 24000 panas, for madhyana 48000 panas and for uttama 96000 
panas.’ Tnisislittle likely. Cb also understands 1000 for rundhaiah, 2000 for nispatayatah 
and 3000 for répam ghnatah. — panasahasram vd dandah read after this s. is omitted ; 
Cp rightly ignores it. S.14,to which s. 15statesan option, already mentions this same fine. 
16. prdptadhikaram: i.e., appointed as a courtesan, not necessarily, however, for atten- 
dance on the king. 17 duhiirkda is not yet appointed as a ganikd. — riipaddsi may be 
the same as or similar in status to the ganikdddsi of s. 8 above. Cp understands ‘ one who 
does work in connection with perfumes, flowers, ete.’ — ghdtc: because of the lighter 


Pee icatat, thinks of * beating” rather than ‘killing.’ But ghatayato of the last s. 


18 This rule seems applicab] : 

— sydt: the subject is raja (Cb). all offences, not only to those concerning courtesans. 
20 dvisatydh : in effect, ‘ refusin ice.’ 

tke ganika’ (Cb), evidently for the night. Ti 

does not stay overnight with the ganikd. Itis 


2) vasatibhoga *‘ payment for staying with 
It seems that in the ordinary bhoga, the man 
possible also that bhogais only attendance with 


161 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.27.29 


amount of payment, except in case of (her) illness or defects in the man. 22 
If she kills a man, (the punishment shall be) burning on the funeral pyre or 
drowning in water. 


28 Ifa (man) robs a courtesan of her ornaments, her goods or the payment 
due to her, he shall be fined eight times (the amount). 


24 The courtesan shall communicate (to the Superintendent) the pay- 
ment, the gain and the (name of the ) man. 


25 By this are explained (rules for) the women of actors, dancers, singers, 
musicians, story-tellers, bards, rope-dancers, showmen and wandering min- 
strels, who deal in women, and (women) who follow a secret profession. 
26 Their musical instruments, when coming from foreign lands, shall be 
charged a fee per show of five panas. 


27 (Prostitutes) who live by their beauty, shall pay per month (a tax) 
double the (normal) fee (charged by them). 


28 He should provide maintenance from the.king’s exchequer to the 
(teacher) who imparts to courtesans and female slaves who live by the stage, 
the knowledge of the arts of singing, playing on musical instr: ments, reciting, 
dancing, acting, writing, painting, playing on the lute, the flute and the drum, 
reading the thoughts of others, preparing perfumes and garlands, entertaining 
in conversation, shampooing and the courtesan’s art. 


29 And the (teachers) should train the sons of courtesans to be the chiefs 
of those who live by the stage and also of all types of dancers. 


singing, dancing etc. while vasatihhoga includes sexual enjoyment. In any case, Meyer's’ 
‘when the robbing ofthe paymentis continuous (vasali in a locative absolute clause) ’is 
quite unlikely. 

24 Cf. s. 10 above. 


25 saubhika ‘a juggler ora shadow-player’(com.). Hemay be the saubhika of Patafi- 
jali who puts upa kind of dramatic show. Cf. Winternitz, ZDMG, 74 (1920), 113 ff. CbCs 
include strivyavahdrindm in the long compound that precedes and understand by it a 
separate class ‘ khanariposaka (?)’ (Cb), ‘members of a prostitute’s femily ’ (Cs). It is 
better, however, to keep it outside the compound as descriptive of naia, nartaka, etc. — 
gadhajioal : cf. 4.4 below for the secret professions. 26 preksdvetanam is clearly a sort of 
license fee. 


27 rupdjicah are not in state service. The ganikddhyaksa is only concerned with 
collecting a tux framthem. — bhogadoayagunam, i.e., twice her charge fora single visit. 
Meyer considers this too little and suggests ‘ double the monthly inccme per year ’, amount- 
ing to the usual 1/6th. The words, however, can hardly yield this sense. For mdsam ‘ per 
month ’, cf. 2.24.28. Cp reads bkogadvayam only, which might appear better. 


28 samythana in the sense of ‘preparing’ should be construed with gandha and 
malya, samvddana being ‘ art of entertaining in conversation ’(Cp). Cs, reading sampddana, 
has gandhasamythana and malyasampddana, which is a doubtful construction. — rdjaman- 
dalat: this has to be understood as ‘from the king’s purse.’ The circle of kings can 
hardly be thought ofas collaborating and contributing a share towards these expenses. 


29 It is proposed to read -jtvindm ca (implied in Cb’s explanaticn) for -jivinads ca or 
-jivinag ca of the mss. The ca is really misplaced ; it should come after gonikaputran. — 
Cp reads -tdlapacardmg ca and construes it with the following stanza ; but the accusative 
can hardly be right, in view of tesam and striyah in that stanza. 


2.27. 80 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 162 


80 And their women, who are conversant with various kinds 
of signs and languages, should be employed, under the lead of their 
kinsmen, against the wicked, for spying, killing or making them blunder. 


CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT 
SECTION 45 THE CONTROLLER OF SHIPPING 


1 The Controller of Shipping should look after activities concerning sea 
voyages and ferries at the mouths of rivers, as well as ferries over natural 
lakes, artificial lakes and rivers, in the sthdniya and other (towns). 


2 Villages on their shores and banks shall‘pay a fixed (tax). 
3 Fishermen shall pay one-sixth (of their catch) as rent for the boats. 


4 Traders shall pay a part (of the goods) as duty according as it may be 
current at the ports, those travelling by the king’s ships (shall pay) hire for 
the voyage. 


5 Those fishing for conch-shells and pearls shall pay a rent for the boats, 
or sail in their own boats. 6 And (the duty of) the Supervisor of these is 
explained by (that of) the Superintendent of Mines. 


7 The Controller of Shipping shall observe the regulations in a port town 
as fixed by the Commissioner of Ports. 


8 He should rescue boats that have gone out of their course or are 
tossed about by a gale, like a father. 9 He should make goods that have 
fallen in water either duty-free or pay half the duty. 10 And he should send 
these (boats) on, as commissioned, at times suitable for voyage from the port. 


30 cdraghdtapramdddrtham : three separate ideas seem better than two, the ghdta and 
pramdda of enemy’s spies (Cs). andlmasu already mentions the persons against whom they 
aretobeused. — bandhuvdhandh, i.e., under the lead or supervision of kinsmen. Cbhas 


. athels kinsmen are to be given money and honow and then these are to be employed among 
usyas. 


2.28. 


The ndvadhyaksa is not a military officer. He is concerned with the control of shipping, 
management of ports and provision of ferries. Cb on this Chapter is missing. 

1 visaras is, according to Cs, a lake liable to dry up in summer. 

2 klptam: a fixed tax. Cf. 2.6.10. 

3 sadbhagam : 1/6th part of their catch, as rent for use of state boats. When taken to 
the city for sale, 1 /6th of the remainder as gu/ka would also be due. 

+ Sulkabhagam, i.e., in accordance with 2.22.4-8. — ydlrductanam would seem to refer 
to the hire of the boat, including wages for tlie crew. 7 

© This implies that pearl-fisheries are not a state monopoly. 6 adhzaksa$ caisam 
ctc.: this is a reference to 2.12.27. The manufacture and sale of articles made of sankha 
and muktd is the concern of the khanyadhyaksa. The navadhyaksa has nothing to do with that 
(as Cs thinks). 

8 It is proposed to read -hata navah for -hatdm tam or -hatanam of the mss. The pro- 
pun in the former of these is unlikely and the genitive in the latter cannot be properly 
poustrued: Cp shows -hatam ndvam. “Meyer hac proposed -hatatantam (or -tdntdlt) * in dis- 
ne Be Mdnta from tam) being buffeted by strong (madha) winds.’ miadgha, as adjective tc tala, 

ahappy idea. 10 yathani rdistah, i.c., to their destinations as originally directed. 


168 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2. 28. 18 


11 He should demand duty from ships sailing on sea when they come 
within the domain. 12 Heshould destroy (boats) that cause harm, also those 


coming over from the enemy’s territory and those violating the regulations of 
the port. 


18 And he should keep in use big boats in charge of a captain, a pilot, 
a manipulator of the cutter and ropes and a bailer of water, on big rivers that 
have to be ferried on (even) in winter and summer, small ones on small rivers 
flowing (only) in the rainy season. 14 And these should have their crossing- 
places fixed because of the danger of crossing by traitorous persons. 


15 For one crossing out of time or elsewhere than at the crossing, 
(the punishment shall be) the lowest fine for violence. 16 For one who 
crosses without authority even at the proper time and at the crossing, the 
penalty for crossing is twenty-six panas and three quarters. 17 ‘There shall 
be no penalty for fishermen, (carriers of) loads of wood and grass, attendants 
at flower-gardens, fruit-orchards and vegetable gardens and cowherds, also for 
those whose going after an envoy is conceivable, and for those carrying out 
activity in connection with goods for the army, when these cross in their own 


barges, as well as for those who ferry across seeds, food-stuffs and articles for 
household use in villages along the water-courses. 


18 Brahmins, wandering monks, children, old persons, sick persons, 


carriers of royal edicts and pregnant women should cross with a sealed pass 
from the Controller of Shipping. 


11 kgetra seems to refer to the domain of the state. — Sulkam ydceta: the point of 
this statement, according to Cs, is that higher rates of duty are not to becharged. Theidea, 
however, seems to be that duty is to be demanded whether the ships discharge the goodsin 
that portornot. These appear more as port dues than dutyon goods. 12 himsrikdh,i.e., 
piratical ships; they may or may not belong toanenemy. — amitravisaydtigdh ‘bound 


for enemy territory ’ (com.), ‘ coming over from the enemy’s territory ’(Meyer). The latter 
appears better. 


18 nirydmake is a steersman, a pilot. — ddlrarasmigrdhoka: this would eppeesr to 
be a single person. Meyer’s idea, however, ‘ the holder of the hook and the rope, i.e., the 


anchor-thrower ’ is not very convincing. N. N. Law has ‘sailors with sickles and ropes’ 
(IHQ, V, 1929, p. 615). 


16 anisrstatdrinah: the sense of the causal does not seem intended in -id@rin. — tar- 
alyaysh : the penalty is for violation of the state monopoly of ferrying. 17 sambhdaov- 
yaditdnupdatinadm : ‘those in pursuit of suspicious characters such as thieves (sambhdavya) 
and those who follow royal messengers to supplement their work’ (Cp Cs). The meaning 
given to sambhdvya is doubtful. *‘ Those who pursue likely messengers ’ is possible, but makes 
little sense. ‘ Those who are the followers ofa likely envoy ’ or ‘ those who can be thought of 
(sambhavya) as an envoy’s followers’ may seem intended, more like]y thelatter. Apparently, 
an envoy’s followers enjoyed certain privileges. The expression is, however, a bit awkward. 
— senabhanda- etc.isalsoan involved expression. CbCs read-cdra for-pracara-. Butthe 
activity of secret agents is hardly likely to be known to the ndvadhyaksa. — svataranais 
taratam : this is to be construed with the preceding two clauses. Meyer construes it also 
with what follows. — bhaktadraoya as a single idea seems better: otherwise, dravya 
remains unspecificed. — tdérayaté@m shows that the villagers get these things without the 
help of the state ferry. 


18 This implies free use of the ferry. 


2. 28. 19 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 164 


19 Persons from foreign lands may enter when permission to enter is 
granted or on the testimony of the caravan. 20 He should cause to be 
arrested a person carrying off the wife, the daughter or the property of another, 
a person who is frightened or agitated, a person hiding behind a heavy load, a 
person concealing (his face) by a load on the head containing heavy goods, a 
wandering monk who has just put on the marks or who is without the marks, 
@ person whose illness cannot be seen, a person showing a changed appearance 
because of fear, a person secretly carrying goods of high value, letters, weapons 
or means of fire, a person with poison in hand, a person who has travelled a long 
distance and a person without a sealed pass. 


21 Asmal] animal and a man with a load (in hand) shall pay one mdsaka, 
a load on the head, a load on the back, a cow and a horse (shall pay) two 
(masakas), a camel and a buffalo four, a small vehicle five. one driven by 
bullocks six, a cart seven, a load of commodities one quarter (of a pana). 
22 By that is explained (fare for) aload of goods. 28 The fare for ferries on 
big rivers is double. | 


24 Villages on water-ways shall pay a fixed amount of food and wages 
(for the ferrymen). 


25 At the frontiers, ferrymen should recover the duty, the escort-charges 
and the road cess, and should confiscate the goods of one going out without 
a seal, also (those) of a person crossing with a heavy load at an improper time 
and elsewhere than at the regular crossing. 


26 When a boat, that is lacking in men or equipment or is unseaworthy, 
comes to grief, the Controller of Shipping shall make good what is lost or ruined. 


19 krtapravegah: cf. 4.10.7. The expression is used predicatively. —- sdarthapra- 
mdnd vd : if od were omitted ar in most mss. the guarantee ofthe caravan would he the reason 
for granting permission to enter. But that would be applicable only to traders. It seems 
better to read ud. 20 udbhandikria ‘ tottering under a heavy load’ (Cp). Cb (on 2.86.13) 
explains ‘ hiding himself with a load on hishead.’ It seems that thislatter explanation from 
some commentary (mahdbhdndena mirdhni bhdrendvacchddayantam) has got into the text 
after udbhdnditrtam. Else there is tautology. Meyer explains udbhdndikyia as * who ig 
excessively stirred up ’ or ‘ who is deprived of his tools, vessels etc., helpless. ’ Neither is 
satisfactory. — ltnga are marks of a monk, kasdyavasira, danda etc. — alaksyavya- 
dhita may mean ‘whose illness (pretended in order to escape the fare) cannot be seen’ 
(com-), or “ who conceals his illness (either because of wounds or a secret or contagious dis- 
SSE SAKES and are meant: amudram : the mudrd may be that given by the 

YG -84.1-4), or by the ndvadhyaksa (s.18 above). — upagrahayet: perhaps 
Only grdhayet should be A seer wie : E e 


21 golingam: supply yanam. — bhdra is the weight of 20 tulds (2.19.19). 22 
bhanda, as distinguished from panyg, refers to other than commercial goods. ‘A vehicle 
drawn by buffaloes, camels etc. ” (Cp) is an unusual sense for bhdnda. 


24 klptam: this being i , : } 
of s. 2 Boas eing intended for the ferrymen is apparently different from the kip 


as 25 pr alyantesu, i.c., where the rivers form the boundaries ; there is no antapala there, 
y the ferry service. — nirgacchatah : the goods were being taken out to the foreign 
country. — amudradravyasya : for sealing of goods, cf. 2.21.2-5. 


26 asarskrtaydm, i.e., not properly buil i ir ; ‘ unsea- 
’ : oC y built and not kept in good repair; hence unse 

eRe pales 9S abhydoahet is from Cb and seems aoa for the sense ‘ to be res- 
p9nsible for, to beliablefor’ as distinguished from abhydbhi ‘ to have the right to (8.9.1). 


165 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2,29. 4 


27 Between the eighth day after the full moon day of Asadha and that 
of Karttika, ferrying (shall be provided). The workman should give a 
surety and should bring in the regular daily earnings. 


CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE 
SECTION 46 THE SUPERINTENDENT OF CATTLE 


1 The Superintendent of Cattle should know about (cattle) looked after 
in return for a wage, tended with a tax and a fixed return, become useless 
and cast off, entered (in the state herds) by payment of a share, the total 


number of (cattle in) herds, (cattle) that are lost or have perished, and the total 
produce of mk and ghee. 


2 The cowherd, the buffalo-herdsman, the milker, the churner and the 
hunter should look after one hundred milch-cows, receiving a wage in cash. 


3 For, if given a wage in milk and ghee, they might do harm to the calves. 
These are (cattle) looked after for a wage. 


4 One person should look after one hundred animals containing an equal 
number of aged cows, milch-cows, cows with young, cows with calf for the first 


27 saptahaorttam, i.e., when seven days have passed after the full moon days of the 
two months. — larah: supply sthdpanizah. The commentators interpret (ara as fare 
for the ferry’ and supply grdlyah. — Read karmikah pratyayam in the text. This is 
prop dsed for Adrmikapratyayam of the mss. With the latter taram or dtaram can be under- 
stood as the substantive (Meyer Nachtrag), but the idea of the tesimony (pratyaya) of work- 
men for the necessity of a ferry is not very happy. Wlth the propo.ed emendation, 
karmika would refer to the officer in charge of the service, who gives a surety (pratyaya) to 
testify to his integrity. For pratyaya, cf. 3.12.14; 3.14.34. The commentators have 
‘the (ferryman) should give information (pratyaya) about working days (kdrmika) to the 
ndvadhya.csa,’ which is hardly satisfactory. — nilyam i.e., probably as fixed by the rules 
in ss. 21-23. — dvahet ‘should bring in’ and hand over to the ndvudhyaksa. 


2.29 


The cattle in charge of this Superintendent clearly belong to the state. 


1 upalabheta, i.e., should have a record of. 


2 pinddrakea is the original of the modern Pindari and is a Deshi word from peddd in the 


sense of mahist (J. Charpentier, IA, 59, 149-51). — lubdhaka serves to guard cattle from 
wild animals. 3 vetanopagrahikam: the upagraha may refer to the care bestowed on 
cattle or the favour of wage received. 


4 pasthauhi: the form goes back to the Taiitiriya Bradlmana, 1.7.3.2 and the Sata- 
ptaha, 4.6.1.1]. Inthe latter place itis paraphrased by prathamagarbhd ‘ with calf for the 
first time.’ Cf. A. Hillebrandt, Vedische Mythologie, 11, p. 98 n.8. The commentators 
here explain ‘ who has reached an age when she longs to be covered by a bull.’ The word 
hasa Prakrit appearance (from the feminine of prasthavah). —- samavibhdgam : according 
to Cb, this means 100 of each kind, jaradguetc. Thatappearsdoubtful. — ekah: this is a 
sort of a contractor, who mikes his own arrangements for tending the cattle. 5 asglau 
vadrakan: onthe basis of a vdraka as 84/64th ofa drona (2.19.46 above), eight rdrakas amount 
to about 19.2 gallons; this much ghee would require 16 times milk (s. 36 below) or about 
307.2 gallons of milk. As there are only 20 lola (dhenu) in the herd, each cows 
contribution would be about 15.4 gallons. This may be-supp?sed to be 2 or3 weeks’ yield 
of milk in the case of good cows. Tie rest of the milk would obviously be used by the 
contractor as payment for his services. Meyer, thinking that 8 udrakas (72 litres) is too 
little for the entire herd, understands 800 vdrakas. Healso assumes that there are 50 milk- 
yielding cows in the herd and arrives at 10 litres of milk per day per cow. Itis not easy to 
follow his reasoning and his figures. And his explanation seems to leave little for the herds- 


2. 29. 5] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA | 166 


time and heifers. 5 He should give eight vdrakas of ghee, one pana per 
anima! and the hide with the mark, every year. This is tending with a tax and 
a fixed return. 


6 Herdsmen looking after one hundred animals divided into an equal 
number of cows that are diseased, that are crippled, that do not allow another 
person to milk them, that are difficult to milk and that kill their calves, should 
give a share appropriate to that class. These are (cattle) become useless and 
cast off. 


7 Ofcattle that have entered (the king’s herds) through fear of an enemy 
invasion or forest-tribes, the (owners) should give one-tenth part according to 
the law of protection. These. are (cattle) entered by payment of a share. 


8 Calves, weaned calves, young bulls being broken in, draught-bullocks, 
and stud-bulls are male cattle ; (buffaloes) drawing a yoked vehicle or a cart, 
stud-buffaloes, slaughter-buffaloes and those carrying (loads) on their backs 
and shoulders are male buffaloes ; the heifer, the weaned heifer, the cow with 
calf for the first time, the cow with young, the milch-cow, the cow that has not 
borne a calf and the sterile cow, are cows and she-buffaloes ; those a month or 
two old, are their off-springs (as) calves and heifers. 9 He should mark 
those that are a month or two old. 10 He should mark an animal that has 
stayed (in the herd) for a month ortwo. 11 The (branded) mark, the (natural) 
mark, the colour, the peculiarity of the horns,—with these characteristics, 
he should record additions (to the herd). This is the total of (cattle in the) 
herds. 


man. — panikam puccham, i.e., 100 panas are paid by him per year as tax in addition. 
Brelver (ITI, 519 n.1) understanding pana as ‘ stipulation ’ has ‘ 8 vdrakas of ghee as stipula- 
ted per tail.” T..is also would leave little for the herisman. And for ‘stipulated * peni- 
tam would seem necessary. — ankacarma: this would apply only when the anima) dies. 
— karapratikarah: it seems that kara refers to the 8 vdrakas of ghee and 100 panas that the 
herism in pays to the state and pratikara to what he gets for himselfoutoftleherd. It is 
also possible that kara refers to the panika puccha and pratikara to the $3 vdrokas. The 
marked hide could hardly have been meant by pratikara, as Breloer thinks. 


6 putraghni: one that gives birth to a dead calf. — samavibhdgam: Cb again has 
100 ofeach kind. —  tajjdtikarm bhagam ‘1/2 or 1/8 or 1/4 of the 8 vdrakas, according to the 
trouble in tending them’ (Cb). vyddhitad nyangad might yield little or nothing. Breloer 
thinks of 1/10 as in 5.2.27. But that refers to a oart of the cattle themselves and is hardly 
applicable here. 


7 dagabhagam, i.e., one-tenth of their produce (Meyer), hardly 1/10th of the cattle 
themselves. Cf. 8.18.28. The share is received by the state. 


8 vrsd uksdnah: the commentators understand ‘stud-bulls and aged bullocks. ’ 
Meyer understands a single idea ‘stud-bulls’ corresponding to ursabhdsa uksdnah of the 
Rgveda. ‘The latter seems intended ; cf. 8.10.24 and 4.18.20. — akata appears to be 
bigger than yugavdhana ; cf. 2.28.21. — dhenu$ cdprajatd: the ca is strange; 80 is the 
Plural in vandhyah. aprajatd, i.e., ‘who has not borne a calf, but whose sterility is not yet 
certain” (Cb). — upajah* born near, ’i.e., additions. 9 ankayet: the mark may be some 
number or svastika or sickle, spoon etc. (Meyer, who also refers to cutting or splitting the 
ears in various ways in Panini 6.8.115). 10 paryusiia, i.e., staying in the king’s herds, 
unclaimed by the owner. 11 cihna, as distinguished from avika, seems to be some natural 
Pai nae Srigantaram * peculiarity of the horns’ (Cb Cp). ‘ Distance between thehorns 
fy. possible though in either sense rngantara can be thought of only in connection with 

y Bown up cattle. —- evam upajah: Meyer, understanding a single expression, has 


‘ e 
pecruoranch oud such @ cow and such and such a bull.’ Itis doubtful if records of pedigrees 


L67 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS  [ 2, 29. 24 


12 An (animal) that is stolen by thieves, has gone into another herd or 
has disappeared is lost. 18 An (animal) that has sunk in mud or has got in 
an inaccessible place, or is struck down by illness or old age or has suffered 
because of water or food, or is struck by a tree, a bank, wood or rock, or is 
struck by lightning or killed by a wild animal, a serpent, a crocodile or in a 


forest conflagration, is destroyed. 14 They should make good (what is lost 
or destroyed) through negligence. 


15 Thus he should be cognisant of the number of animals. 


16 He who himself kills (an animal) or incites another to kill or steals or 
incites another to steal shall be executed. 


17 He who changes the cattle of another with the royal mark shall pay 
the lowest fine for violence per animal. 


18 After recovering what is stolen by thieves from cattle belonging to his 
own country, a person shall receive the animal agreed upon. 19 He who 
recovers cattle belonging to a foreign country shall receive half (the animals). 


20 Cowherds shall (care for and) treat the young, the old and the 
diseased. 21 ‘They shall graze (the cattle) in a forest from which the fear of 
danger from thieves, wild animals and enemies has been removed by fowlers 
and hunters and which is suitable in different seasons. 22 And in order to 
frighten serpents and wild animals and to know the movements in the pastures, 
they should tic a bell round the necks of timid animals. 28 They should take 
(cattle) down to water, to which the descent is even and broad, and which is 
free from mud and crocodiles, and should guard them (atthe time). 24 They 
should report catte scized by robbers, w !d aiimals, serpents or crocodiles 
and cattle that have died because of disease or old age; otherwise, they 
Shall be liable to pay the price of the animal. 


13 toydhara ‘because of defects in water or food’ (Cb). -— Cb Cs read orksatata and Cs 
expluins atata as ‘fall from a precipice.” In view of abhihata at the end, ‘fall’ need not 
be understood. Breloecr (III, 526) understands urksa with kdstha and tata with Sild. 


14. This applies to nasta as well as vinasta, not to the latter alone as in Cs. For 
abhydvah, see 2.28.26 above. 


17 parivartayila: apparently the substitution of an inferior animal is thus. thought 
of. — ripasya, i.e., for each animal. lt can hardly he construed with partvariayvid in the 
sense Of ‘app2arance’. ripa refers to ‘animal’ in this Chapter. 


18 panitam riipam, i.e., thc animal that was promised as reward to any one who reco- 
vered the stolen cattle. This implies cattle-lifting on a large scale. Cb Cs read pantkam 
ripam and explain ‘the rescuer should get. one rana per animal’; Meyer agrees and adds 
that the go’dhyaksa is to be thought of asthe rescuer. Such extra remuneration to an officer 
would be unusual. 19 moksayitd is evidently the person who successfully lifts cattle 
from a neighbouring state, or traces such cattle lifted by robbers from that state. He 
must, of course, inform the state; then he keeps half the cattie, the other half going to the 
state. Cf. I. H. Johnston, JRAS, 1936, pp. 82-83. Breloer remarks (IIT, 528 n. 1) that 
this is according to the law concerning the finding of treasure-trove. moksayita cannot 
be the ‘owner of the cattle’ (Cs) since these are paradesiya, nor the go’dhyaksa (Meyer). 


22 gocardnupdta- : anupata clearly means only ‘movements.’ Meyer, however, has 
‘pursuit (by wild animals).’ That does not seem very likely. — trasninam : this is ‘in 
order to accustom the timid ones to sound’ (Cs). More likely, it is because they would 


be the first to take fright and altract the herdsman’s attention by the sound of the bells, 
if there is anything amiss. 


2. 29. 25 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 168 


25 Of (an animal) dying through a valid cause, they shall deliver the 
marked hide in the case of the cow and the buffalo, the mark on the ear in the 
case of the goat and the sheep, the tail and the marked skin in the case of the 
horse, the donkey and the camel, and the hair, skin, bladder, bile, tendons, 
teeth, hooves, horns and bones (in the case of all). 26 They may sell the flesh, 
either fresh or dried. 


27 ‘They should give the butter-milk to the dogs and pigs. 28 They 
should bring in the solidified curds as food for the army. 29 The whey is for 
moistening the oil-cake from the oil-press. 


80 The seller of cattle shall pay one quarter (of a pana) per animal. 


81 In the rainy season, autumn and winter, they should milk (the cattle) 
both times, in the season of frost, spring and summer, once (only). 82 For 
one milking a second time (then), the cutting off of the thumb (shall be) the 
punishment. 383 For one allowing the milking time to pass, the fine (shall be 
equal to) the loss of that fruit. 84 By this are explained (punishments for 
neglect of proper) times for putting the nose-string, for breaking in, for accus- 
toming to the yoke and for (training in) going round. 


85. From a drona of cows’ milk, a prastha of ghee (is the normal yield), 
one-fifth more in the case of she-buffaloes, one-half more in the case of goats 
and sheep. 86 Or, (actual) churning shall decide the amount in the case of 
all. 87 For, in accordance with the excellence of the ground, the grass and 
water, there is an increase in (the yield of ) milk and ghee. 


88 For one causing a bull of the herd to be hurled down by another 
bull, the lowest fine for violence (shall be the punishment), for causing his 
death, the highest (fine). 


25 kdranamrtasya, i.e., about the cause of whose death there is no suspicion. Meyer 
proposes to read kdranam n.rtasya ‘as proof (kdrana), they should bring, of the dead, 
ear-marks etc.’ This seems hardly plausible. 


28 kurcikadm is from Cb, explained as ‘dried coagulated curds’ or cheese. Cp secms 
to have read rucikdm in the same sense. Cf. ‘dadhnd saha ca yat pakvam ksiram sd dadhi- 
kiircikd etc.’ (Sabdakalpadruma). 

30 pasuvikretd: this might refer to the sale of private cattle and one quarter of a pana 
per animal might appear to be a sort of salestax. We can hardly think of the sale of royal 
cattle by the herdsman or the go’dhyal:gn (Meyer), for there seems to be no reason why these 
‘Should pay such a tax. If we think of it as a fine for unauthorized sale of state cattle, it 
would appear to be extremely small for the offence. Breloer (ITI, 581) thirks of one-quarter 
of the animal itself (padikam riipam) as being given to the state. That can apply only to 
a dead animal. In that case mamsavikretd might appear a better readirg anc this s. may 
better be read immediately after s. 26, so that the rule would apply to the sale of meat. 


82 ekakdlam, i.e., in the evening (com., also Meyer). 88 tatphalahdénam, i.e., equal to 
the value of the milk lost. Cf. 2.24.4. 84 etena, i.e., the danda is to correspond to the 
phalahdana, loss of work-days by bullocks due to delay in their training. — yugopingena 
the root appears to be pifj ‘te join.’ — vartana ‘going round’ is necessary on the threshing 
floor and in the oil-press. 


85 This means that 16 parts of milk yield 1 part ghee. — paficabhdgdchikam, i.e., 


1 1/5 part ghee from 16 parts milk; so in the next clause. 87 kgiraghrtavrddhih ‘increase 
in milk and ghee’ includes the idea of increase in the proportion of the yield of ghee. 


169 _ THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2. 29. 47 


39 By grouping according to class, groups of ten (cattle) should be 
guarded. 40 The arrangements at the place of stay (should be) according 
to the movements of the cattle or according to the strength of the cattle, and 
in conformity with capability for guarding. 


41 He should cause the wool of goats and sheep to be gathered every six 
months. 


42 By that are explained (rules concerning) herds of horses, donkeys, 
camels and pigs. 


48 For bullocks, with nose-string and capable of driving at the speed of 
a gentle horse, (the ration shall consist of) half a bhdra of green fodder, grass 
double that, a tuld of oil-cake from the press, (or) ten ddhakas of broken grains 
and bran, five palas of rock-salt, one kuduba of oil for the nose (and) one pras- 
tha as drink, a tuld of meat and an ddhaka of curds, a drona of barley or of half- 
cooked mdsa-beans ; a drona of milk or half an ddhaka of liquor, a prastha of 
fat, ten palas of sugar and a pala of ginger (as) a strength-giving drink. 44 
One quarter less (is the ration) for mules, cows and donkeys, double for 
buffaloes and camels. 45 For bullocks used for work and for milch-cows 
suckling their calves, the giving of rations (shall be) according to the time of 


work and the yield (of milk respectively). 46 For all, there shall be abund- 
ance of grass and water. 


47 Thus is explained the care of herds of cattle. 


39 varndvarodhena : the commentators understand varna as ‘colour,’ i.c., cattle should 
be grouped according to colour for ease in watching. It scems, however, better to under- 
Stand varna as ‘class, type’ such as jaraagu, dhenu, garbhini etc. 40 upanivega ‘settlement’ 
for the night (Cb). Stay for a long or short period may also be understood. — gopracarat, 
i.e., in accordance with ease of movement for the cattle. Cb, however, has ‘according to 
colour, white in the east, black in the south, etc.’ This is hardly likely. — balanvayato, 
i.c., according to the strength of the herd. Cb has ‘the division shoulc be according to 
weakness and strength,’ i.e., apparently weak on one side and strong cn the other. 


41 ajddindm : it seems quite clear that ajdvindm should rather be read. Sheep. the 
principal source of wool, would not just be left to be inferred from ddi. Cf.s.45 below. 


42 a$va in herds are, it seems, the concern of the go’di.yaksa, while those in stables are 
looked after by the ascddhyaksa (2.30). 


43 nasya to be construed with -oahin. — bhadra qualifies asca rather than gati. — bhdra, 
i.e., 20 tulds. As this appears tco much, Meyer proposes for bhdra thé sense of what 
can be carried in the arms.. The rations, however, throughout appear on a very liberal 
scale. — It appears that a ud has dropped out after dasddhakam, for 10 ddhakas of bran 
etc. appear as an option to 1 tuld of oil-cake in 2.15.52, which is more reasonable. — mukha- 
lavana ‘salt from the Indus land’ (Cs), ‘rock-salt’ (Meyer). — mdmsa as ‘meat’ being strange, 
Meyer understands ‘pulp of fruit’; the Sugruta (1.824.15) does use mdamsa in this sense 
(citaphale paripakoe kegaram@nsdasthimajjanah). — pratipdnam is to whet the appctite 
(Cs). Cf. 2.25.10. 45 karmakdlatah is to he understood of karmakarabalivardas and 
phalatah of payanartha dhenus. Cb reads padyandartham with a stop after it ‘for the drink- 
ing of workmen’s bullocks,’ which mak7>s little sense. Cs (reading karmal-aratalioardanam 
at the end of s.44) has pdyandrtham cc dhentindm as a separate sentence ‘the drink-ration 
and the food-ration (understood because of ca) are to be double for milch-cows.’ ‘This is 
very doubtful. 


47 gomandalam clearly refers to herds of cattle. It is an item of expenditure in 
2.6.11. 


2.29.48 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 170 


48 He should provide a herd of one hundred donkeys and horses 
with five stallions, of (one hundred) goats and sheep with ten rams, and 
of cows, buffaloes and camels with four bulls. 


CHAPTER THIRTY 
SECTION 47 THE SUPERINTENDENT OF HORSES 


1 The Superintendent of Horses should cause to be registered the total 
number of horses, received as gift, acquired by purchase, obtained in war, 
bred (in the stables), received in return for help, stipulated in a treaty or 
temporarily borrowed, according to their pedigree, age, colour, marks, class 
and source. 2 And he should report such as are not good or are crippled 
or diseased. 


8 The horse-attendant shall receive from the treasury and the magazine 
a month’s allowance (for the horse) and carefully look after it. 


4 He should cause stables to be constructed, in length according to the 
number of horses, in width double a horse’s length, with four doors and a rolling 
ground in the centre, with an entrance-hall, provided with boards for sitting at 
the main gate, (and) crowded with monkeys, peacocks, spotted deer, ichneu- 
mons, cakoras, parrots and $érikds. 5 He should cause a stall for each horse 
to be built, square with the length of a horse, with a flooring of smooth planks, 
with a receptacle for fodder, with outlets for urine and dung, (and} facing the 
east or the north. 6 Or, he should arrange the direction according to the 
(nature of the) stables. 7 For mares, stallions and foals (the stalls shall be) 
at separate ends. 


8 Fora mare that has borne a foal, a drink of a prastha of ghee (shall be 
provided) for three nights. 9 After that, a prastha of barley-meal and an 


_ 48 Breloer (IiI, 509) remarks ‘the sections on cattle-rearing and agriculture are more 
interspersed with verses than the chapters on trade. The difference lies in the nature of 
things. The lists in the trade parts were probably not clothed in verse in the original 
books.’ It must be pointed out that there is not a single versein the body of this Chapter on 
cattle-rearing. 


2.30 


The horses under the care of the afvadhyaksa are those useful in war. 


1 panydgarika should be understood as ‘received as a gift’ in conformity with the sense 
of panyagarain 7.15.20; 9.6.28,29. The Glossary (in Part I) should be corrected accordingly. 
or sale in the market’ docs not quite suit. — sahdyydgatakam ‘received in return for help 
rendered’ (Cb). ‘Received for rendering help’ is possible; but these may be supposed to 
Pedncluded in yavatkdlika. — ponasthitam, i.e., received as a condition in a treaty. Cb 
I kept as a hostage,” Cs ‘kept as a pledge.’ — varga ‘breed, such as Parasika etc.’ (Cs). 
t might refer to uttama, madhyama and avara classes. 


3 médsala4bham : this month is one of thirty-five days as in 2.20.52, according to Cp. 


4 asvaydmadcigunavistardm : as cach stall is in length equal to a horse’s length (s. 5) 
ee ala has a width double that, half of the Teeteteronla be a sort of corridor behind 
(cf. 1 Wey stalls situated along the four walls.—updcartana ray be ‘rolling’ on the ground, 

> suihito "soa updvrttah — Vaijayanti, or ‘going round’ in a ring while in training- — 
Prdgrica: cf. 2.5.8. — pradvdrdsanaphalaka- ‘a wooden seat with a back-rest, on both sides 


171 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.80, 25 


invigorating drink of fat and medicines (shall be given ) for tennights. 10 
Thereafter, half-cooked barley or beans, green fodder and a diet according to 
the season (shall be given). 


11 After ten nights (from birth) a foal should have a diet of one kuduba 
barley-meal, ghee one-quarter and a prastha of milk, till it is six months old. 
12 After that, (it should be given) a prastha of barley, increased by half 
(a prastha) every month, till it is three years old, (then) a drona (of barley) 
tillit is four yearsold. 18 After that, when four-year old or five year old, it 
is fit for work, being fully developed. 


14 The face of the best (type of) horse is thirty-two angulas, its length 
five times the face, its shank twenty azgulas (and) height four times the shank. 
15 Three angulas less (successively, are the measurements) for the middling 
and lowest types. 16 One hundred angulas is the girth (of the best type). 

17 One-fifth part less (that) of the middling and lowest types (successively). 


18 For the best (type of) horse (the ration is) two dronas of édli-rice, 
vrthi-rice, barley or priyangu, either half-dry or half-cooked, or a half-cooked 
meal of mudga or masa and a prastha of fat, five palas of salt, fifty palas of meat, 
an ddhaka of juice or double that curds for moistening the lumps (of dry food), 
a prastha of liquor with five palas of sugar or double that quantity of mrlk as an 
invigo ating drink. 19 And for whetting the appetite of those fatigued by a 
long journey or a heavy load, a prustha of fat (should be given) as a clyster, one 
kuduba (of fat) for the nose, half a bhdra of green fodder, grass double that or 
a collection of bundles of grass six aratnis in circumference. 20 This, less by 
one quarter (successively), is for the middling and lowest types. 


21 Equal to the best type (in point of ration) is the chariot-horse and 
the stallion of the middling type. 22 Equal to the middling (are those of) 
the lowest types. 28 One quarter less (is the ration) for mares and mules. 
24 And half of this (is) for foals. 25 These are rules for rations (of horses). 


of the door for watchmen’ (Cb). For pradudra ‘main gate,’ cf. 2.36.21. — vdnara- etc. : 
some of the creatures are for detection of poison, others for averting the evileye. 5 pran- 
mukham udanmukham vd : with the present day method of tying horses, this would imply 
that there are to be stalls only on the western and southern sides. 


11 The 7iz at the end of this s. and the next which is found in the mss. is not necessary. 
It is proposed to drop it. 12 At the end of the third year, the increase does amount to 
16 prasthas or a drona. 


14 The length of the horse comes to about 10 feet and the height 5feet. 15 tryangu- 
lavaram : Cb Cp Cs read duyanguldvaram. 17 ~parcabhdgavarah: as parinahch is to be 
understood, this is proposed for -varam of the mss. One-fifth less comes to 80 and 60 
angulas respectively. Cb has 80 and 64(1/5thof80). Cp Cs have 95 and 90 azgulas, which 
seems hardly possible. — The smallest size appears to be more or less that of a pony. 


18 mdmsam: see 2.29.48 above. — rasa seems to be sugar-cane juice. — kleaanartham 
from Cb is necessary as going with ddhwkam and cvigunam ; cf. 2.81.18 below. 19 khd- 
dandrtham ‘to make them eat,’i.e., to whet their appetite. — anuvdsanam ‘washing the lower 
intestines by an enema’ (com.). 


21 rathyo ursas ca madhyamah : Meyer construes madhyama with orga alone. It could 
also Peeetiod ofrathya. 28 pddahinam,i.e.,1/4th less than that for the malein each 
class. 24 ato’rdham, i.e., half that of the female in each class. 


2. 30. 26 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 172 


26 Those who cook the food (for horses), who hold the reins and who 
treat them should taste the food beforehand. 


27 (Horses) incapacitated for work by war, disease, or old age should 

~ receive food for maintenance. 28 (Horses) unfit for use in war should be used, 

as stallions, (to breed) on mares in the interests of the citizens and the country 
people. 


29 Of those fit for use, the best come from Kamboja, Sindhu, Aratta 
and Vanayu, the middling from Bahlika, Papeya, Sauvira and Titala, the rest 
are inferior. 80 In accordance with their fiery, gentle or dull mettle, he 
should assign to them work connected with war or riding. 


81 The all-sided work of a horse is (work) connected with war. 


82 Moving at a gallop, moving at a canter, leaping, moving at a trot, 
and responding to signals are (movements of ) riding-horses. 


83 Among them, aupavenuka, vardhamdnaka, yamaka, Glidhapluta, 
prthuga and trikacali are (varieties of) gallop. 


84 The same, with head and ears unaffected, is canter, or it has sixteen 
(types of ) paces. 85 prakirnaka, prakirnottara, nisanna, pdrsvdnuvrtta, 


26 sutragrdhaka ‘the rein-holder,’ i.e., ‘the groom’ (com.). — pratisvdda: cf. 1.21.10 ~ 
and 5.1.81. Cp Cs, however, have ‘(shares in) the ration,’ i.e., their {ood should be prepared 
along with that of the horses. 


27 pindagocarikah, i.e., receiving food only for their maintenance. 


29 Ka-nboja was an ancient kingdom to the north of Gandhara. The samgha type of 
rule prevailing there is mentioned in 11.1.4 below. — Aratta is a part of the Punjab (Meyer, 
who compares Mahdbhdarata, 8.44.81-8). — Vanayu ‘Arabia’ (the Vdcaspatya, N. N. Law 
and K. Nug), ‘Persia’ (Mallinatha on Raghu 5.78, Haldyudha and Meyer). Cf. Johnston, 
JRAS, 1939, 232. — Bahlika ‘from Bactria.’ The origin of pdpeyaka is uncertain. — 
tattala ‘from Titala’ in Orissa (Agrawala, op. cit., p. 61). Mahabharata, 6.90.5, mentions’ 
tittraja horses (Meyer, who asks if tuitala refers to these). The Sauviras are along the Indus 
to the north of the Sindhus. 


80 aupavahyaka refers to riding. Carrying of loads on back seems hardly intended. — 
prayojayet, 1.e.; train to that type of work. 


81 caturasram ‘four-sided,’ i.e., of all types. A horse’s work in warfare is referred to in 
10.4.18 and 10.5.53. — samnahyam is predicative, not caturagram (as in Meyer). 


$2 aupavdhydh : the substantive is asvah. Consequently, valgana etc. are adjectives 
descriptive of a horse. margah ‘gaits’ is possible as the substantive, but seems less likely. 
— Meyer suggests ndrastra for ndrosira ‘with a goad (astra) in the form of a man (néara).’ 
That is possible, but not certain. 


38 The exact nature of the various types of a horse’s gaits, sometimes even their names, 
areuncertain. Ch is lacking from s. 21 onwards. Cp is far from clear and does not always 
ke fal right. — aupavenuka “with a circle (mandala) of only one ha:ta’ (Cp); this is hardly 
! all 1 — vardhamanaka ‘Jumping in a series of circles of one hasta each’ (Cp). — yamaka 
ee foal in two circles simultaneously’ (Cp). — dlidhapluta ‘jumping with one leg contrac- 
ted! an the other stretched forward’ (Cs). dlidha is a posture in archery. — prthugah 
. eatotneee with a suggetion by Meyer for the unlikely form prihagah of the mss. Cp 
in thiseeease pe eD ng with the fore-part of the body.’ Cs (with Cb) reads purvagah 
in it being ae ye are Jumping with the hind-part of the body’ (Cp, the exact reading 

84: $a eva, i.e, the same as valg : * * ns 

ana. — sirahkarnaviéuddhah : this apparently m¢a 
ous head and ble bee eed, not moving. — A gomOreGa > ‘od in the sense cf ca’ 
it is unrelated poss le, however, that this is an alternative view about nicairgata, vi7., SB” 
valgana and has 16 types. 85 prakirnaka ‘containing a mixture of all gaits 


178 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2. 80. 48 


urmimarga, sarabhakridita, sarabhapluta, tritala, bahydnuvrtta,. pancapani, 
simhayata, svadhuta, klista, slingita, brihita and puspdbhikirna are the paces 
in canter. 


86 Monkey leap, frog leap, antelope leap, one-foot leap, cuckoo move, 
breast-movement and crane move are (types of) leap. 


87 Heron gait, heron-on-water gait, peacock gait, half-peacock gait, 
ichneumon gait, half-ichneumon gait, boar gait, half-boar gait are (varieties of) 
trot. 


88 Acting in accordance with signals is signal-responding. 


39 Six, nine and twelve yojanas is the road (covered in a day) for chariot- 


horses, five yojanas, seven and a half, and ten, the road for riding (and pack-) 
horses. 3 


40 The stride, the (gait) with gentle breath and the load-carrying 
are the gaits. 


41 Striding, galloping, leaping, near-fast and fast are the speeds. 


42 Teachers of training should give directions concerning straps and 
implements for them, and charioteers concerning accoutrements of chariot- 
horses necessary in war. 43 Physicians of horses (should prescribe) remedies 


against decrease or increase in (the weight of) the body, and diet varying 
according to season. 


(Cp). — prakirnottara ‘mixed, with one gait prominent’ (Cp). — nisanna ‘in which the back 
is motionless’ (Cp). (visannah in our text is a misprint.) — pargvdnuortta ‘a sideways gait? 
(Cp). — udrmimarga ‘heaving the body up and down’ (Cp). Referring to Mallinatha on 
Sisupdlavadha, 5.4, Meyer (in the Nachtrag) suggests that some of these gaits are not those 
of a single horse, but rather movements of cavalry-formation. Thus piexingaka ‘spread 
out,’ urmimarga ‘wave-like formation’ are formations by a number of horses, not the gait 
of one. This appears plausible. — tritdla ‘moving with three legs’ (Cp). — bahydnuortta 
‘prancing to the left and the right’ (Cp). Meyer proposes bdhvanuurtia ‘harmonious in the 
fore-legs, bahu is not very likely for the fore-legs of a horse. — paricapani ‘placing three 
legs on the ground and striking the ground twice with the fourth’ (Cp). — Meyer has ‘spread- 
ing out in five columns.’ — stmhdyata ‘long like a lion’s gait.” — suddhiita: ‘with very 
long strides’ (Cp). — klista ‘laboured’ is ‘vivahanavisrabchagatih with a steady gait in carry- 
ing(?)’ (Cp). — $lingita ‘moving with a bent fore-part’ (Cp which shows $ldghtta). — brmhita 
‘with the fore-part raised’ (Cp). — puspabhikirna ‘with a zigzag motion’ (Cp, which shows 
-vakirna). The expression seems to suggest taking steps very lightly. — 

86 The expressions are adjectives to asvudh. — ekapddaplutah ‘contracting threelegs and 
juroping with the fourth’ (Cp). — urasya ‘contracting all four legs and jumping with the 
breast alone’ (Cp). 

87 vdrikanka : Cb Cs read varikdnksa ‘with the gait of a swan,’ Meyer preposes vart- 
dhudnksa ‘water-crow.’ The gait of a heron on water may well have been intended. 

39 According to Cs, 6,9 and 12 are for the best, middling and lowest respectively. 
The reverse might appear more likely. 


40 vikramoh ‘taking a stride.’ — bhadrdsvdsah ‘breathing gently,’ i.e., not over-exerted. 
— bhdravdhya ‘load-bearing,’ i.e., with a laboured gait. 


41 vikrama is the slowest arrorg speeds (Cs). — upakantham, literally, ‘near the throat’ 
seems to refer to a leaping run, when the fore-legs come near the thioat. — dhdrd is pace 
in running or speed. 


42 For bandhana and upakarana, cf. 2.82.12-18 below. — Meyer distinguishes sarmgrd- 
mika alamkéra from rathadsvalamkdara. That seems hardly intended. 


2. 80. 44 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 174 


44, The holder of reins, the binder of horses, the fodder-giver, the food- 
cook, the stall-guard, the hair-trimmer and the specialist in poison-cure, 
should wait upon horses with their respective duties. 45 And in case of trans- 
gression of duties by them, he should cut down their day’s wage. 46 For 
one riding a horse kept apart for the rite of lustration or kept apart (for 
treatment) by a physician, the fine shall be twelve panas. 47 In case of a 
worsening of the disease because of withholding treatment or medicine, the 
fine shall be double the (cost of) cure. 48 In case of an untoward happen- 
ing through their fault, the fine shall be the price of the animal. 


49 By that are explained (rules for attendance on) herds of cattle, 
donkeys, camels and buffaloes and goats and sheep. 


50 He should cause a bath to be given to horses twice a day, 
also perfumes and garlands. Qn the junctures of the dark halves of 
months, offerings to spirits (should be made) and on those of the bright 
halves, reciting of blessings (by Brahmins). 


51 He should cause the lustration rite to be performed on the 
ninth day in AsSvayuja, at the beginning or the end of an expedition or 
in case of illness, being intent on a pacificatory rite. 


CHAPTER THIRTY-ONE 
SECTION 48 THE SUPERINTENDENT OF ELEPHANTS 


1 - The Superintendent of Elephants should carry out the guarding of 
elephant-forests, (and look after) the stables, stalls, places for lying down and 
the amount of work, food and fodder for male and female elephants and 
cubs, that are being trained or are competent for work, the assignment of 
tasks to them, the straps and implements and the accoutrements of war, 
and physicians, trainers and group of attendants. 


44 sitragradhaka: see s. 26 above. — agvabandhaka who yokes the horse to the chariot 
or ties it to the post. 


46 nirdjandisa purification-rite, performed over arms, hcrses, elephants etc., with recita- 
tion of maniras, offering of oblations and waving of lights before them. Cf. s. 51 below. 
Br. Sam., ch. 44, describes the nirdjana vidhi. 


47 sanga ‘attachment,’ i.e., not rendering them in time, withholding them. 

48 vailomya is, in effect, death. — patra ‘vehicle,’ i.e., the horse. 

49 tena, i.e., the rules in ss. 45 ff. apply, with suitable modifications. 

50 dvir ahnah: this ‘only in summer and autumn’ (Cs). — krsnasama@hi, i.e., the new 
moon day and suklasamdhi, i.e., the full moon day. 51 The ninth day in Agvayayuja 


does not exactly correspond to the Dasara day, which falls on the tenth of the bright half 
of that month, on which, however, horses are still worshipped in many parts of India. 


2.31 


1 hastivanaraksém: apparently the ndgavanddhyaksa and his subordinates (of 2.2.7ff.) 
worked under the hastyadhyaksi. — karmaksdnta is one who has completed his training 
for some particular type of work. Cb has ‘who needs rest after training.’ — gayyd: this 
18 described in s. 4 below. — The form aupasthdyika is fayoured by CbCp. M has upasathda- 
yuka here, but upasthayika in 5.8.17. 


175 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2. 31.12 


2 He should cause a stable to be constructed double an elephant’s length 
in height, breadth and length, with additional stalls for female elephants, 
with an entrance-hall, with a collection of beams, (and) facing the east or the 
north. 8 He should cause a stall (for each elephant) to be built, square in 
conformity with an elephant’s length, with a smooth tying-post and plank- 
flooring, (and) with outlets for urine and dung. 4 (There should be) a 
place for lying down equal (in size) to the stall (and) half in height, in the 
fort, for elephants used in war and used for riding, outside (the fort) for those. 
under training and rogue-elephants. 


5 The first and seventh of the one-eighth parts of the day are times 
for bath, after that for feeding. 6 In the forenoon is the time for exercise, 
the afternoon is the time for invigorating drink. 7 Two parts of the night 
are the time for sleep, one-third part for lying down and getting up. 


8 The time for catching (elephants) is in summer. 9 A twenty year 
old should be caught. 10 A cub, an elephant with small tusks, one without 
tusks, one diseased, a female elephant with young and a suckling female 
elephant are not to be caught. 


11 A forty year old (elephant) with measurements of seven aratnis 
as height, nine as length and ten as girth is best, a thirty year old one is middl- 
ing, a twenty-five year old one lowest. 12 For those two, the ration is less 
by a quarter (than that for the preceding type). 


2 -viskambhadydmam : that the length of the Sdld is to be only double an elephant’s length 


(i.e., about 18 aratnis) is surprising. We expect it to be in conformity with the number of 
clephants, as in 2.30.4 above. Perhaps double the length of the number of elephants 
is to be understood. — hastinisthandchikam, i.e., with additional, i.e., separate stalls for 
females. Ch Cs, however, have ‘more by six arainis, the stall for a female, i.e., 24 hastas 
long.’ How this meaning is arrived at it is difficult to see. — kumdrisamgrahdm ‘with a 
beam placed on the tying post for easein tying’ (com.). As Meyer remarks this should have 
come in the description of the stail, not of the salad. He has ‘a scaffold or framework of 
beams.’ 8 In conformity with 2.30.5 -starakam is proposed for -ntarakam, and -tsargam 
sthdnam for -tsargasthdnam, as suggested by Meyer. 4 Sayydm: this seems to refer to 
temporary sheds, to be used when the number of elephants exceeds the accommodation in 
the sala. — ardhdpasrayam : this may be understood as ‘having half the height (of a sthana) 
and probably without a roof. Cb has ‘with a ceiling 5 hastas above the height of the 
elephant’; Cp ‘half,i.e., 41/2 hastas in height on one side;’ Meyer ‘with a railing or banister 
half as high as the elephant.’ 


6 pratipdnakdlah : Thinking that the whole afternoon is unlikely for drink, Meyer 
proposes pratipddanakdlah ‘time for exhibition of what is learnt er for recoupment or 
restoration to normal.’ This reading is actually found in the mss., but it does not seem 
to be original. For pratipdna for elephants, see s. 18 below. 


10 vikka ‘a cub that still sucks’ (com.). modha ‘with tusks like those of a female 
clephant’ (com.). makkana ‘a tuskless elephant.’ Al] these are apparentl, Deshi words. 


11 pramdnatah etc.: this seems to mean that the utfama attains these dimensions at 
40; at 30 he is in size like the madhyama and at 25 like the avv.ra, whose heights at 40 are6 
and 5 arainis respectively. This last in implied in s. 15 below, ard this is how Cp urder- 
stands it; AZanasolldsa, 2.222-4, supports theidea. 12 pdddvarah, i.e., 3:4thy and 1/2 of 
the uttama respectively. Cb has 3/4ths of the machyama for the avara. _ 


2. 81. 18 ) KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA «176 


18 For each aratni (of height), (the ration is) a drona of rice-grains, half 
an a¢hake of oil, three prasthas of melted butter, ten palus of salt, fifty palas 
of meat, an a@dhaka of juice or double that quantity of curds for moistening 
dry lumps, an dd¢haka of liquor with ten palas of sugar or double that quantity 
of milk as an invigorating drink, a prastha of oil for smearing the limbs, an 
eighth part (of a prastha of oil) for the head and for the lamp, two bhdras and 
@ quarter of green fodder and two bhdras and a half of dry grass; of leaves of 
plants etc., there is to be no limit. 14 Equal in the matter of food to the 
seven-araint elephant is the eight-aratni one when beyond rutting. 15 Acco- 
rding to the (size in) hastas, the rest, ( viz.,) the six-aratnt and the five- 
Gratin? ones. 


16. A cub, fed on milk and green fodder may be caught for play. 


17 With redness formed, covered, with smoothened sides, with an even 
girth, with flesh spread evenly, level with the back-bone, and with a trough 
formed, these are appearances (of an elephant). 


18 In conformity with the appearance, he should give exercise to 
the gentle and the dull (elephant) and to the animal with mixed charac- 
teristics, in various types of work, or'in accordance with the season. 


13 aratnau: this means that for a seven-aratni clephant, each item is to be sevenfold. 
Meyer thinks this too much and proposes to read saptdrainau. Butin that case, the geni- 
tive case would be expected. Cf. also yathahastam, s.15 below. It is possible that these 
are a month’s rations; cf. 2.80.8 above. —- kadankara ‘branches, leaves etc. of the sallaki 
and other plants’ (com.). 14 Cb reads hastyardlah for atyardlah,and that seems suppor- 
ted by the A7anosollda, 2.222-4, where an ardla is 8 arainis tall and atyardlaYaratinis. How- 
ever, an ardla is an elephant in rut and would normally require Jarger quantities of food; 
only an atyardla ‘beyond the stage of rutting’ would have smaller rations. 


16 This s. should preferably have come after s. 10. 


17 According to Cs gobhds are stages in the appearance of an elephant as he grows up, 
samjatalohita being the appearance on the first few days after birth. which is reddish, and 
saon. Meyer thinks that these are appearances of different types of elephants, true of them 
throughout life. The explanations in Cb, which reads al] the expressions in the plural, 
seem to show these as stages in the recovery of an elephant after a serious illness. — samjd- 
talohita ‘who, being emaciated, with bones and skin alone left, has started gaining strength 
on beginning to take food’ (Cb). — praticchannd ‘covered’ apparently with some flesh; ‘who 
has gained strength’ (Cb). — samliptapaksad ‘with sides well-smeared’ is ‘with a smooth 
skin and flesh filling up’ (Cb). — samahaksyd : kaksyd seems to refer to ‘girth.’ Cb has 
‘with full flesh’. — vyatikirnamémsd : Cb has ‘with uneven flesh.’ Perhaps we should 
understand avyattkirna- ‘not scattered,’ i.c., evenly spread. — samatalpatcld ‘with flesh on 
a level with the back-bonc’ (Cb). Perhaps the original reading was-talpald, for talpala 
means the back-bone of an elephant; ci. Sigupadlavadha, 18.6. — jatadronikd ‘with a 
drona-like trough formed,’ evidently because of old age. Cb has ‘so stout-that the vamga or 
spine is covered.’ The first and the last expressions seem to support Cs. However, Cb, with 
which Cp mostly agress, may be right. 


18 vydydmam : training or exercise. — mrgam samkirnatingam is proposed as suggested 
by Meyer; that appears to be Cy:’s reading. This seems necessary whether we understand 
mrga as the third and samkirnalinga as the fourth type, as in the commentators, or samki- 
rnalingam as only a description of mrga, the third type. This latte: idea is better. -— 
vydla is not mentioned here, as he is not amenable to oyayama. 


177 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2.82.6 


CHAPTER THIRTY-TWO 


SECTION 48 (Continued) 
The .Activity of Elephants 


1 Classes (of elephants) corresponding to work are four : one in training, 
one used in war, one for riding and the rogue-elephant. 


2 Among them one under training is of five kinds: getting used to 
(a man on) the shoulder, getting used to the (tying) post, getting used to the 
place for catching elephants, getting used to the trap, and getting used to a 


herd. 8 The accompanying treatment for him is the work of (bringing 
up) a cub. 


4 The war elephant has seven ways of doing work : standing in atten- 
dance, going round, marching together, killing and trampling, fighting with 
elephants, assaulting towns, and fighting in battles. 5 The accompanying 
treatment for him is the work of (putting) on the girth, the work of (putting 
on) the neck-chain, and the work of (moving in) a herd. 


6 The riding elephant is of eight kinds : . one who is led, one ridden 
with (the help of another) elephant, one trotting, one trained in (various) 
gaits, one ridden with a stick, one ridden with a goad, one ridden without 


2.32 


1 karmaskandhdh, i.e., groups or classes based on the kind of work they do. Cp has 
‘groups of works;’ but the words that follow are attributes of elephants, not of karma, 


2 skandhagata, i.c., allowing a man to sit on his shoulders. — vdrigata : according to 
com. vari is the place where elephants are captured; hence vdrigata is ‘trained to catch other 
elephants.’ Meyer has ‘trained to go through and in water’ or ‘accustomed to the tyin 
rope’ (fn.). Neither is satisfactory. — avapdta ‘pit used as a trap for catching elephants 
(com.). Meyer has ‘getting used to a precipice.’ — yiithagata ‘getting used to the company 
of trained female elephants’ (com.). It may also mean ‘getting used to a strange herd and 
the company of unknown elephants.’ 3 wupavicdrah, i.e., the treatment to be given 
during the period of this training. Russ. has ‘preliminary work (necessary for training).’ 
— vikkakarma ‘i.e., he should be given food (milk, green fodder etc.) fit for a cub’ (Cb). 


4 upasthdnam ‘standing in attendance’is ‘raising and lowering fore- and hind-parts and 
jumping over fire-brands, bamboos, ropes, etc.’ (com.). Meyer has ‘standing stil] (even 
when there is a loud noise).’ — samvartanam ‘going round’ is ‘lying down, sitting, leaping 
over pits etc. on the ground’ (com.). Cb reads vartanam. — samydanam ‘rrarching together’ 
is ‘various gaits, straight, transverse, zigzag, circular, etc.’ (com.). — vachdvachah ‘destruc- 
tion or capture of horses, men or chariots by means of trunk, tusks etc.’ (com.). Meyer 
understands dvadha as the second word, which could be rendered by ‘trarrplirg.’ — hasii- 
yuddham is fight between two elephants in an arena. — ndgardyanam is breakirg down 
the defences of fortified towns. — sdmgrdmikam, i.e., as in 10,.4.14 and 10.5.54. 5 kakg- 
yakarma seems to refer to everything connected with saddling while graivcyokarma refers 
to ornamental chains etc. — yiithakarma, i.e., working jointly with otherelephants. Com. 


have ‘giving him work according to the type of herd (river, mountain, etc.) from which he 
came.’ 


6 dcarana ‘lowering the fore-part or the hind-part and so on’ (Cb), apparently to allow 
a rider to get on the back. Meyer has ‘going rightly or straight.’ In the context, ‘bein 
led’ seems also quite likely. — kurijaraupavdhya ‘doing samndhya or aupavadhya work wi 
another elephant’ (Cb), ‘with a man on back, but led with another elephant at the tire’ 
(Cs), which seems more likely. Meyer has ‘allowing himself to be ridden in the manrer of 
an elephant.’— dhorana ‘doing all work with one side only’(com.). It right mean ‘trottirg’ 
as in 2.30.82,87. — ddhdnagattka ‘endowed with two or three types of gaits or capable of 
imitating the gaits of other elephants’ (Cb). Meyer has ‘who goes forward in all circum- 


2, 82. 8 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 178 


any help, and one used for hunting. 7 The accompanying treatment for 
him is the work of keeping fit, the work of recouping what is lacking and the 
work of responding to signals. 


8 The rogue-elephant has one way of activity : (he is) frightened, 
restrained, abnormal, in rut, with rut fixed and with a fixed cause of intoxica- 
tion. 9 The accompanying treatment for him is the work of guarding in 
solitary confinement. 10 One who is lost for all activity is a rogue-eiephant, 
pure, firmly resolved, vehement and spoiled by all defects. 


11 The tying equipment and implements for them should be in accor- 
dance with the instructions of trainers. 12 The tying post, the neck-chain, 
the girth, the stirrup-rope, the foot-chain, the upper chain and so on consti- 
tute the tying equipment. 13 The goad, the bamboo, the machine and so 
on are implements. 14 The vaijayanti-garland, the ksurapra-necklace, 
the covering, the carpet and so on are ornaments. 15 The armour, lance, 
quiver, machines and so on are accoutrements for war. 


16 The physician, the trainer, the rider, the driver, the guard, the 
decorator, the cook, the fodder-giver, the foot-chainer, the stall-guard, the 
night-attendant and so on form the group of attendants. 17 The physician, 
the stall-guard and the cook should receive a prastha of boiled rice, a prasrti 


stances.’ 7% sdradakarma: ‘$drada is fourfold, fat, lean, suffering from indigestion and 
normal; itskarma is making the fat lean, the lean fat, stimulating digestion and maintaining 
normalcy’(Cb). Cf. N. N. Law, Studies etc., p. 64n. The general sense scems to be maintain- 
ing fitness. — hinakarma ‘giving exercise to one who is without it’ (com.). Cj seems to read 
ksinakarma ‘nourishment etc. of the weak.’ — ndrostra : sec 2.30.38. 


8 A re-arrangement of the words is proposed, Sa7kitah . . -vinigcayas cu being read 
immediately after -kriydpathah, and tasyopa-...- raksakarma treated as an independent s. ~ 
Thus we get an upavicdra with karma at the end as usual. Sankita etc. describe the various 
reasons why an elephant becomes vydla; his behaviour is always the same, he is ekakriya- 
patha. Com.and Meyer understand karmasankita etc. as characteristics of one and the same 
animal, which is not convincing. Cb has ‘karmagankita, i.e., not obeying orders at the 
time of training, avaruddha, i.e., disregarded as unfit for work, visoma, i.e., whimsical 
in behaviour, prabhinna, i.e., who has become a vydla because of madadosa, prabhinnavi- 
nigcaya, i.e., in distress bacause of defects in drink etc. and rut, and madaheluviniscaya, 
i,e., the cause of whose intoxication is known.’ Cp agrees. Cb quotes a verse wherein five 
causes of mada are enumerated ‘samtapo ’bhijana vyddhih parindmas tathausachth.’ Cj has 
apardddho for avaruddho. 9 dyamyaikaraksd ‘guarding alone after being put under 
restraint.’ Cb has ‘making him work and thus bringing him under control.’ 10 Ariya-— 
utpanna is another kind of vydla, for whom there is no upavicdra. It may mean ‘on whom 
training is lost’ or ‘unfit for any activity;’ ‘harmful in his actions’ (Cb). — §uddha has 18 
defects, according to the commentators. — suvrata : Cb reads suvrlta and explairs ‘causes 
the rider’s fal] and has 15 defects.’ — visama ‘causes the fall of the rider and kills him in 
addition;’ it has 83 defects. — sarvadosapradusta has 52 defects in all (com.). 

’ 12 pdrdyana ‘a rope for support when mounting an elephant’ (Cb). — utlara ‘a second 
girth-band, a second neck-chain’ (Cb). Meyer has ‘smaller, inferior or secondary fetters.’ 
A chain for the upper part of the body may also have been meant. 13 yantra ‘for cutting 
tusks’ (Cp). 14 ksurapramdla : com. call it naksatramdla; it may have 27 picccs in it. 

These, according to Meyer, may be semi-circular metal discs. 

16 “drohaka is the mahdmdtra of elephants who knows the sastra; ddhorana has not 
studied the astra, but knows by practice; hastipaka is an attendant, mahout’ (Ch). — 

aupacarika ‘who decorates the elephant’ (com.). 17 prasrti ‘a handful’ is about two palas. 


179 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2. 38. 4 


of fat and two palas of sugar and salt, also ten palas of meat, excepting the 


physicians. 18 Physicians shall treat (elephants) afflicted by long journey, 
illness, work, rut or old age. 
I. 


19 Uncleanliness of the stall, non-receipt of fodder, making (elephants) 
sleep on bare ground, striking them at an improper place, mounting by another 
person, riding at an improper time, (or) on unsuitable land, leading down 
(to water) where there is no crossing, and a thicket of trees are occasions for 
penalty. 20 He should take that from their food and wages. 


21 Three lustration rites should be performed in the four-monthly 
junctures of seasons, offerings on the junctures of dark halves (should 
be made) to spirits and on the junctures of the bright halves to Senani. 


22 Leaving (a length) double the circumference at the root of the 
tusks, he should cut (these), every two years and a half in the case of 


those from river-banks, every five years in the case of those from 
mountainous regions. 


CHAPTER THIRTY-THREE 


SECTION 49 THE SUPERINTENDENT OF CHARIOTS 
SECTION 50 THE SUPERINTENDENT OF FO )T SOLDIERS 
SECTION 51 TLE ACTIVITY OF THE COMMANDANT OF THE ARMY 


1 The (duty of the) Superintendent of Chariots is explained by (that 
of) the Superintendent of Horses. 2 He should establish factories for 
(the manufacture of) chariots. . 


3 One with ten purusas (of height) and twelve (purusas) interior is 
(the biggest) chariot. 4 Less than that by one (purusa) interior space 


This measure is not mentioned is 2.19. — anyatra cikitsakebhyah : apparently the physi- 
cians came from vegetarian classes. . 


19 yavasasya agrahanam refers to the attendant’s failure to receive the quota from 
the stores. — abhiimau : .Cp supplies ydnam after it; Cs construes it with the preceding 


yanam; a vd should be understood after the word. — tarusanda is nominative (Mcyer) 
rather than locative (Cs). 


21 cdturmdsyartusamdhigu : Cs reads -syrtu- and explains ‘on the full roon nights 
coming every four months (cdturmdst), which stand at the juncture of seasons.’ This seems 
forced; ‘junctures of seasons coming every four months’ is sufficient. These are the full 
moons of Karttika, Phalguna and Asadha (Cb Cs) at the end of rains, the season of frost 
and summer. — sendnyah, i.e., of Skanda or Karttikeya. 


22 The Brhat Samhita, 79.20, has a close parallel ‘dantasya milanaridhim dvirdyotam 
projjkya kalpayecchegsem, achikamantipacardnam nytinam giricdrindm kimcit.’ Its source 
may partly be the present passage. 


2.88 


The three sections cover ss. 1-6, 7-8 and 9-11 respectively. 


1 Theonlysimilarity betwcen the duties of the two adhyaksas seems to bein the matter 
of equipping their charges for war. : 


3 dasapuruso doddasantaro ‘10 vitastis in height and 12 vitastis in lergth (antara- 
gahvtena Gyamabhichanat) ’ (Cj). The width would rot vary to ary great extert ir the case 
of the different rathas. purusa seems used in the sense of paurusa of 2.20.10, which is the 


2. 88.5 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 180 


successively up to six (purusas) interior space (are smaller ones) ; thus there 
are seven (sizes of) chariots. 


5 He should cause to be made chariots, (such as) temple chariot, festive 
chariot, war chariot, travelling carriage, chariot for marching against an 
enemy’s city and chariot for training. | 


6 He should be conversant with arrangements concerning bows, strik- 
ing weapons, armours and accoutrements, and the employment of chario- 
teers, chariot-attendants and chariot-horses in (various) works, also (look 
after) food and wages till the conclusion of the works of servants hired and 
not hired, giving practice to and protecting them, as well as making gifts and 
showing honour to them. 


7 By this is explained the (duty of the) Superintendent of Foot Soldiers. 
8 He should be conversant with the strength or weakness of hereditary, 
hired, banded, allied, alien and forest troops, with military operations. 
in water or on high ground, with open or tacti al fighting, in trenches or in the 
open, by day or by night, and with the employment or absence of employment 
(of the foot soldiers) in (different types of) work. 


9 The Commandant of the Army, trained in the science of all (kinds 
of) fights and weapons, (and) renowned for riding on elephants, horses or in 
chariots, should be conversant with the same, (and) with the direction of the 
work carried out by the four-fold troops. 10 He should look out for suitable 
ground for one’s side, (suitable) season for fighting, arraying a force against 
(enemy arrays), breaking unbroken ranks, re-forming broken ranks, breaking 


same as vitasti. Cp Cs paraphrase antara by vistdra, which may mean ‘length’ or ‘ width’. 
Meyer, regarding a 9-foot width as strange, proposes ‘for ten men, with accommodation 
for twelve (in case of necessity).’ This is extremely unlikely. 4 ckdntardvardh, i.e., 11 
purugas, 10,9 andsoonupto6. This states the length. Cs understands a corresponding 
diminution in height as well. Meyer’s ‘(with norma] accom:modation for 9, 8, ...4 but) 
with accommodation for 11, 10, ...6 in case of necessity)’ shows the forced character of 
his explanation. 


5 pusyaratha * for coronation, marriage etc.’(Cb). Meyer compares Pali phussaratha. 

6 gvastra ‘ quiver of arrows (isu) and missiles including the bow (astra)’ (com.). 
The word often conveys the single idea of ‘a bow.’ — abhrtandm : this may refer to dasa, 
bondmen, dandapratikarin etc. .It may also imply temporary and work-charped servants. 
— yogyaraksa : Cs has ‘ protection against enemy’s wiles of efficient (yogya) officers ’. 
This is hardly likely. yogyd is practice, drill, training etc. ; cf. 2.80.42. 

7 etena,i.e.,asins.6. The pattyadhyaksa seems concerned with training and care of 
troops. 8 maulabhrta- etc.: see 9.2.1 ff. — nimnasthala- etc.: cf. 7.10.84-7; 10.4.2; 
for ninna * water,’ cf. 2.3.1. — vidydt after -vpydydmarm ca is unnecessary and is dropped.— 


ayogam ‘absence of employment.’ — karmasu: for paddtikarma, see 10.4.16 and for 
pattiuurcdha, 10.5.56. bend : 


9 tadeva: Cb reads tathaiva, which might. appear slightly better. — samghustch is 
from Cb and is understood in the sense of ‘renowned, well-known.’ sampusich is the 
reading of the mss., which is not a happy expression. — anusthanddnisthadnam : Cb has 
“his work during fights and disposition of troops in battle ;’ Meyer * the function of the 
troops and the function of directing.’ ‘ Supervision over the work heing done,’ may he the 
meaning intended. 10 pratyanikam apparently refers to arranging one’s troops according 


181 THE ATIVITTY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [2.34.10 


compact ranks, destroying broken ranks, destroying the fort and the. season 
for an expedition. 


11 Being devoted to the training of the troops, he should arrange 
signals for the arrays by means of musical instruments, banners and 
flags, when halting, marching or attacking. 


CHAPTER THIRTY-FOUR 


SECTION 52 THE SUPERINTENDENT OF PASSPORTS 
SECTION 53 THE SUPERINTENDENT OF PASTURE LANDS 


1 The Superintendent of Passports should issue a sealed pass for one 
madsaka. | | 


2 (Only) a person with a sealed pass shall be entitled to enter or leave 
the countryside. 8 A native of the land, without a sealed pass, shall pay 
twelve panas. +4 Incase of a forged pass, the lowest fine for violence (shall 
be imposed), the highest for one not belonging to the country. 


§ The Superintendent of Pasture Lands should ask for the sealed pass. 


6 And he should establish pasture land in regions between villages. 


7 He should clear low lands and forests of the danger of robbers and wiid 
animals. 


8 In waterless regions, he should establish wells, water-works and 
springs, also flower- and fruit-enclosures. 


9 Fowlers and hunters should go round in the forests. 10 At the 
approach of robbers or enemies, they should produce a sound with conch- 
shells or drums, not allowing themselves to be caught, (either) climbing 
mountains or trees, or riding swift vehicles. 


to the array of the enemy troops. Cs nas ‘enemy’s army,’ which can hardly be the object 
of sendpatih pasyet. 


1l sthdne etc. to be construed with vytihasamjnah prakalpayet, not with vinaye ratah. 
2.34 


Tne two prakaranas are foundinss. 1-4 and 5-12 respectively. 


2 janapadam: even in cities, passes were issued; cf. 2.86.88. 4 tirojanapadasya 
‘for a foreigner.’ The fine is for forging; there is no mention of a fine for a foreigner 
without a pass. Perhaps double the 12 panas is to be understood. 


6 erdmdantaresu is proposed as in 4.13.9 for bhaydntaresu of the mss. With the latter, 
Cb has ‘in places of danger he should employ servants or soldiers to remove it.’ Cp Cs 
have ‘in regions within the range of robhers, enemy-spies etc.’ Neither explanation is 
satisfactory. Breloer remarks ‘ the power of the vivitadhyaksa endsin village territories 
and before the gates of cities and forts’ (III, 512). 


9 lubdhakasvaganinah: cf. 2.29.21 above. 10 -vrksddhiriidhadh from Cb is necessary 
for the sense. 


2.84.11 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 182 


ii And he should convey to the king movements of enemies and forest- 
tribes by means of domesticated pigeons carrying sealed letters or by a series 
of smokes and fires. 


12 He should ensure the livelihood of those in produce forests and 
elephant forests and (secure) the road cess, protection against robbers, 
escort of caravans, protection of cattle and trade. 


CHAPTER THIRTY-FIVE 


SECTION 54 THE ACTIVITY OF THE ADMINISTRATOR 
SECTION 55 SECRET AGENTS IN THE DISGUISE OF HOUSEHOLDERS, 
TRADERS AND ASCETICS 


1 Dividing the countryside into four divisions, the Administrator should 
cause to be entered in a register the number of villages, classifying them as 
best, middling and lowest, (recording) this is exempt from taxes, this provides 
soldiers, this much is (the revenue in) grains, cattle, cash, forest produce, 
labour and produce in place of tax. 2 Under his direction, the revenue 
officer should look after a group of five villages or ten villages. 


8 He should record the number of villages by fixing their boundaries, 
the number of fields by an enumeration of ploughed and unploughed 


11 mudrd-: here it is a sealed communication, tied round their necks. — dhimdgni 
“smoke by day and fire by night ’(Cs). 

12 dravyahastivandjivam: Cp has ‘should receive (kdrayet, i.e., updadadita) income 
from produce forests and elephant forests,’ Meyer regards this not as an item of revenue 
received by the vivitadhyaksa, but only as a duty to be carried out by him ‘ maintenance of 
labourers in the two forests.’ That appears better. — vartanim: this is usually received 


by the antapdlu (2.21.24). — coraraksanam is more likely a duty laid down than ‘a fee for 
protection trom robbers (Cp). In 4.13.9 the vivitachyaksa is made responsible for theft com- 
mitted between villages. — sdrthdlivadhyam : Cp has ‘ charges for escorting’. — goraksyam 


‘a fee for protection of cattle’ (Cp). — vyavaharam refers to trade in the region. Breloer, 
however, understands juuicial functions (111, 514). Thatis far from certain. Some of these 
items appear as duties laid down for the vivitdchyaksa and can hardly be locked upon as 
sources of revenue. That may be true of all, as Meyer understanas it. 


2.85 


The two prakaranas are found in ss. 1-7 and 8-15 respectively. 


1 caturdha etc. ; Brelocr (III, 105-6) remarxs, ‘ jananada was the territory of a people 
or tribe, then the kingdoms of Pafcala, Matsya etc. Panini refers to divisions, two-fold 
or four-fold of these, Purvapaficala, Aparapaficala etc. (7.8.12-8 ; 4.2.125 ; 4.8.7 ; 6.2.103) 
with rules for the formation of a name for a resident of such divisions. This shows that the 
division in four provinces is very old.’ — Gyudhiya ‘ supplying soldiers.’ Exemption from 
land-reyenue may seem implied. Cf. Ghoshal, nev. Sys., etc., p. 48. Breleer (III, 117-1 18) 
secms to understand * village, the revenue of which is set apart for provisions oi the army,’ 
corresponding to provision for gibandi among the Marathas. — pratikara : ‘a fixed tax ‘ 
(com.), It may also mean ‘ produce (or work) in place of a tax.’ — gopah: the name 
suggests a pastoral economy. In the agricultural economy, he has become a revenue 
official, concerned with the keeping ot reccr :is. 

8 simacarodhena : cf. 4.18.11. — simnam ksetrdndm ca: these words are difficult to 
construe with marydadranya-. Meyer regards them as a marginal gloss that has got irto 
the text. That seems possible, _— 2rhadndm ca: supply nivandhdn karayet. 4 karsaka- 
etc. is classification according to occupation over and above that according to varna. —— 


183 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS { 2.35.10 


(fields), dry and wet ficlds, parks, vegetable gardens, (flower and fruit) 
enclosures, forests, structures, sanctuaries, temples, water-works, cremation 
grounds, rest-houses, sheds for drinking water, holy places, pasture lands and 
roads, (and) in conformity with that he should keep records of the size of 
boundaries, forests and roads, and of grants, sales, favours and exemptions, 
concerning village-boundaries and fields, and (keep records) of houses by an 
enumeration of tax-payers and non-tax-payers. 4 And in them, (he should 
record) so many are persons belonging to the four varnas, so many are farmers, 
cowherds, traders, artisans, labourers and slaves, so many are two-footed and 
four-footed creatures, and so much money, labour, duty and fines arise from 
them. 5 And of males and females in the families, he should know the 


number of childern and old persons, their work, customs and the amount of 
their income and expenditure. 


6 And in the same manner, the divisional officer chould look after a 
fourth part of the countryside. 


7 In the head-quarters of the revenue and divisional officers, magis- 
trates should carry out their duties and secure the recovery of dues. 


8 And agents in the guise of householders, directed by the Adminis- 
trator, should find out the number of fields, houses and families in those 
villages in which they are stationed,—fields with respect to their size aud total 
produce, houses with respect to taxes and exemptions and families with 
respect to their varna and occupation. 9 And they should find out the 
number of individuals in them and their income and expenditure. 10 And 


iaam caisu is from Cp and is quite necessary. Cb Cs drop esu. — danda ‘ fine’ rather than 
‘army ’ (Cs); the other items are revenue items. 5 karma is ‘ occupation’, while djiva 
here seems to refer toincome. Breloer (III, 138-140) understands karma as arthamanokarma ~ 
‘honour and gifts ’ by the state to the subjects (as in 5.8.30), cartiva as ‘ private incomes’ 
and @ivavyaya (as a single idea) ‘ payments by the state to those whom it is its duty to 
maintain (in accordance with 2.1.23). The meaning given to cariira is doubtful, also that 
given to karma, in view of the latter’s use in s. $ below. 


6 Breloer (III, 128) insists that the gopa receives his instructions and authority from 
the samdhartr, and not from the sthanthka. But the latter cannot do his work without the 


registers prepared by the gupas, who must be supposed to pass them on to the sthanika 
and not to the samdhartr directly. 


7 pradestarah: see Rook 4. — balipragraham ‘recovery of dues’ (one explanation 
in Cp, Meyer), dyanam grahanum (Cj) ; ‘ suppression of the powerful ’ (another expJanation in 
Cp). Cb has ‘ 1/20th of what is due to him and moreover what is taken from robhers etc.’ 
It seems that dues were ordinarily brought to the treasury by the assessees themselves, but 
the recalcitrant were dealt with by the pracesir, who saw to the recovery of the dues. 
Apparently the gupa and the sthdnika had no executive authority. 


8 This is a check on the gopa’s registers. — grhapatikavyanjanah: cf. 1.11.9-10. 
Rrelocr (III, 145 n. 1) maintains that these are not spies, tnat vyanjana is not disguise, and 
that the activity of these persons was known and honoured. vyarijana, he says, shows an 
indivi lual of a class, like -nigesa, -hheda,ctc. However, 1.11 above leaves little room for 
doubt that these are secret agents. Breloer’s view that ‘ grhapait appears more and more 
like a zamindar ’(III, 152 n.1) is hardly acceptable. — pranthiladh, i.e., appointed for 
duty. — samjdla: Cb reads samjiidta, but explains it as ‘ yield.’ -— bhoga ‘ tax’ (Cb Cs). 
The usual sense of ‘ use,’ i.e., possession, is possible ; but the commentators seem right. 
bhoga and parihara correspond to karada and akarada ir s. 3; cf. Ghoshal, Rev. Sys., etc., 
p. 51. 9 janghdgra: cf. 2.86.3. 10 prasthitdgatandm: Cp understands four cases, 


2.35.10] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 184 


they should find out the reason for departure and stay of those who have 
gone on a journey and those who have arrived (respectively), as also of men 
and women who are harmful, and (find out) the activity of spies. 


11 In the same manner, spies in the guise of traders should find out 
the quantity and price ofthe king’s goods produced in his own country, obtai- 
ned from mines, water-works, forests, factories and fields. 12 And in acti- 
vitie: concerning goods of high and low value produced in foreign lands (and) 
imported along a water-route or a land-route, they should find out the amount 
of duty, road cess, escort charges, dues at the police-station and the ferry, 
share, food and gifts. 


18 In the same manner, agents.in the guise of ascetics, directed by the 
Administrator, should ascertain the honesty or dishonesty of farmers, cow- 
herds and traders and of the departmental heads. 


14. And assistants disguised as old thieves should find out the reasons 
for entry, stay and departure of thieves and brave men of the enemy, in 
sanctuaries, cross-roads, deserted places, wells, rivers, pools, river crossings, 
temple compounds, hermitages, jungles, mountains, forests and thickets. 


- 15 Thus the Administrator, being ever diligent, should look after 
the countryside ; and those establishments -(of spies) should’ also look 
after (it), also other establishments ‘having their-own (different) origin 
(should look.:after it). 


prasthita, dgata, prasthitagata and dgataprasthita. This is unnecessarily elaborate. — 
>. anarthydndm ; cf. 1.7.2 above. Cb has anarthya of three types ‘ those addicted tc sri, dytia, 
madya etc., those whe spend more than their income, and actors, dancers etc.’ After 
stripurusandm we have to supply pravdsdodsakaranam, since a construction with cdarcpra- 
cadram is hardly likely because cf the other ca after the latter. — cara may be state spics or 
enemy spics. Late aan 

12 karmasu ca: these words are not quite necessary. karma is ‘sale, purchase and 
other activity ’(com.). Cb Cs read a stop after ca supplying parimdnam arghom ca vicyth. 
But parabhiimijatandm etc..is to he construcd with gulkavartani- etc. as.shown by 2.16.18 
where these terms recur. It would be better to drop kamasu ca. — panydgdra shoula be 
understood as ‘ gifts ’ to the king etc., as in 7.15.20 etc. 


18 The adhyaksas thus would appear to be under the surveillance of the samdharir. 


14 Sinyapada: Cb reads siinyabhadra ‘a deserted house (sunyogrha) and a deserted 
town (Siinyabhadra, with bhadra as‘ asmalltown’).’ — gatlavanc gehana ; Ch Cs understand 
_ $ailagahana and vunagahana. Tnree separate terms could well have been meant. 


15 samsthds tah, i.e., the agents referred to above, | For samsthd, see 1.11.22. — satn- 
sthaé cényah svayonayah : Cb has ‘ they should find out about enerry spies of the same class.’ 
The enemy spies cculd hardly be understood by samsthd. Cp Cs have ‘ establishments of 
_ the same class should watch over these establishments (sarnsthah as ace. plu.).’ Spyirg over 

spies seems hardly intended here. Tne ‘ other sumsthds’ seem to be uadstnita and kdarattka 
of 1.11 who have not been mentioned here. svayonayah seems to imply the idea of these 
having their own different origin. Ifsva could tefer to the samdahartr, it would yield a better 
idea. Breloer remarks (III, 158) ‘ the smallest station in each village is segnsthg , then stkana 
for gopa, sthanika and pradesy, finally sthaniya for samahartr. All these words may be 
rendered by depot, maguzine.’ xamsthd is haraly an open depot, in view of 1.11.22. 


185 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [2.86.12 


CHAPTER THIRTY-SIX 
SECTION 56 RULES FOR THE CITY-SUPERINTENDENT 


1 The City-superintendent. should look after the city in the manner 
of the Administrator. 2 The section officer (should look after) a group of 
ten families or twenty or forty families. 8 He should find out the number 
of individuals, men and women, in that (group), according to caste, family- 
name and occupation, also their income and expenditure. 


4 In the same manner, the divisional warden should look after a fourth 7 
part of the fortified city. 


5 O*cers in charge of charitable lodging-houses should allow lodging 
to heretical travellers after informing (the section officer), and to ascetics 
and Brahmins learned in the Vedas, after satisfying themselves (about their 
bona fides). 6 Artisans and artists should lodge persons of their own (profes- 
sion) in their own places of work, and traders (should lodge) each other in their 
own places of work. 7 ‘They shall report one who sells goods at an unau- 
thorized place or time, as well as one without a title (to the goods). 


8 Vintners, vendors of cooked meat, vendors of cooked rice, and prosti- 
tutes shall give lodging (only) to one thoroughly known (to them). 9 They 
shall report one who spends lavishly and one who does a rash deed. 


10 The physician, after reporting to the section officer and the ward 
officer, a person who has made him treat a wound secretly and a person who 
does an unwholesome act, would become free, and so would the house-owner; 
otherwise, he shall be (held) equal in guilt. 11 And (the house-owner) shall 
report those who have departed and those who have arrived; otherwise he 
shall be held liable for any offence committed during the night. 12 On 
safe nights, he shall pay three panas. 


2.86 


1 samdahartrvat, i.e., as in 2.35, not as in 2.6. — ndgarikah : Panini (rakgati 4.4.88) 
gives nagarikai in the sense of [ nagarar raksati, while nayaraka is given in the sense of * a bad 


person ’ or ‘ asxilled person ° (nagarat kutsanapravinyayoh, 4.2.128). The former is the only 
correct form here. 


2 gopahk: this is an extension of the name from the ccuntry administration to that 
in tne city ; cf. 2.35.2. — Cb reads trimSatkulim in addition after cimsatikulim. —- dya- 
vyayau : this is for revenue purposes. 


4 sthdnitkah also is an importation from the country administration ; cf. 2.85.6. 


5 dharmdvasatninah are managers 2ppointed by owners of the charitable lodging houses; 
they are nct state servants. — svapratyayas ca, i.e., after satisfying themselves that they 
are really tapasvins etc. They are to be held responsible if they are proved wrong and if 
harmful persons or spies are found to have hzen givenlodging. For svapratyaya cf. 3.14.84 ; 
8.4.88. 7% svakarana ‘ proof of ownership, title;’ cf. 3.1.15; 3.16.17-18 etc. 


8 Separate vegetarian and non-vegetarian eatirg houses are indiccted. 


10 The position of grhasvdii ca is awkward ; the words should come after mucyeta or 
tulyadosah sydt as Cp seems to have read. It is possible that the words have got into the 
text from the margin. 12 ksgemardtrisu,i.e., when no crime is reported during the night. 


2. 86. 13 } KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 186 


18 And agents operating along roads and away from roads should arrest, 
outside the city and inside, in temples, holy places, forests and cremation 
grounds, a person with a wound, one with harmful tools, one hiding behind a 
heavy load,.one agitated, one ir a long sleep, one tired after a journey or a 
stranger. 14 Similarly, inside the city, they should make a search in deserted 
places, work-shops, ale-houses, cooked-rice houses, cooked-meat houses, 
gambling dens and quarters of heretics. 


15 And (citizens shall take) steps against (an outbreak of) fire in summer. 
16 In the two middle quarters of the day, one-eighth (of a pana) is the fine 
for (kindling) fire. 17 Or they should do their cooking outside (the house). 
18 One quarter (of a pana is the fine) for not providing five jars, also a big 
jar, a trough, a ladder, an axe, a winnowing-basket, a hook, a ‘hair-seizer’ 
and a skin-bag. 19 The (City-superintendent) should remove things covered 
with grass or matting. 20 He shall make those who live by (the use of) 
fire reside in one locality. 


21 House-owners should live near the front doors of their own houses, 
not collecting together at night. 


22 Collections of water-jars should be placed in thousands on roads 
and at cross-roads, gates and in royal precincts. 


23 Fo the owner, not running to save the house on fire, the fine (sh:.ll 
be) twelve paras, six panas for a tenant. 


24 In case of (houses) catching fire through negligence, the fine (shall 
be) fifty-four panas. 25 The incendiary should be put to death by fire. 


26 For throwing dirt on the road the fine (shall be) one-eighth (of a 
pana), for blocking it with muddy water, one quarter. 27 On the royal 
highway, (the fines shall be) double. 


18 pathikotpathika: see 2.21.17 above. — udbhdndikrla: see 2.28.20 above. Cj seems 
to have read udbhdndam ‘ trndaiLharapracchaditabhandam.’ 

15-16 The punctuation.adopted is supported by the actual comment in Ch, though not 
its text. We have to supply kuryuh from the last s., with householders or citizens as the 
subject. Cs reads the stop after caturbhdgaych, Meyer proposes itafter ca. 17 bahth ‘ out- 
side’ the houses. Cb understands ‘ outside the city.” 18 pdcah paricaghatinadm to be 
contrued with akarane as in Cb Cj. Cp Cs understand ‘ one-fourth pena fine during five 
ghatikds round mid-day.’ Meyer agrees with this. ghcfi as a measure of time is not men- 
tioned :lsewherein the text. And for this explanation, we should have the locative, not the 
genitive of ghatt. — kacagrahani ‘ a long pole with curved-finger-like iron hocks at the end 
for pulling the enemy by the hair’ (Cp). Cf. 9.2.27. 19 channa ‘ things covered ’ seems 
to refer to the coverings or thatchings themsclves. 20 Cj snows agnijivino na hyatraka- 
sthan dodsiyet. G. Harihara Sastri understands erakd * grass’. The idea of anyone likely 
to be settled on grass would be strange. The reading is an obvious corruption. 

21 asampdtinah ‘not collecting together.” The prohibiton is apparently intended 
to prevent conspiracies, also to ensure the presence of owners if their houses catch fire at 
night. 

22 rdjaparigraha, accordirg to Ch, refers to the kogagrha, kupyagrha, kosthdgara, panya- 
grha and dGyudhdgdra; that seems right. : ? 

23 ’vakrayinah is from Cb ; its correctness is shown by 8.8.24. 


187 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS [ 2. 86. 88 


28 Fines for voiding faeces in a holy place, in a place for water, in a 
temple and in royal property are one puna rising successively by one pana, 
half these for passing urine. 29 If (these are) due to medicine, illness or 
fear, (the persons are) not to be fined. 


80 For throwing the dead body of a cat, a dog, an ichneumon or 9 
serpent inside the city, the fine shall be three panas, for (throwing) the dead 
body of a donkey, a camel, a mule, a horse or cattle, six panas, for a human 
corpse, fifty panas. 


31 In case of a change of route or in case of. taking the corpse out by 
a gate other than the gate for corpses, the lowest fine for violence (shall be 
imposed): 82 (The fine) for gate-kzepers (allowing this, shall be) two hun- 
dred (paras). 23 For «.cpositing and burning (a corpse) elsewhere than in’ 
a cremation ground, the fine (shall be) twelve panas. 


34 The watch-drum (shall be sounded) at both ends of the night ex- 
cluding a period of six nélikis. 35 At the sound of the drum, punishment ; 
for (moving at) the prohibited time, near the king’s palace, is (a fine of) one 
pana and a quarter, in the first and the last watches, double (that) in the 
middle watch, four times (that) inside (the palace-grounds.) 


36 He should question a (person) arrested in a suspicious place or with 
a suspicious mark or because of a previous offence. 87 For approaching 
royal property and for scaling the city’s fortifications, the middle [:ne for vio- 
lence (shall be imposed). 88 (Those moving at night) on account of a woman 
in delivery, for a doctor, on account of a death, with a lamp, in a carriage, at 
the City-superintendent s drum, for a show or on account of a fire, and 
those moving with sealed passports are not to be arrested. 


28 Ch Cs include rdjaméarge here from the last s. and have ‘1 penc on r@jamarga, 2 in 
a punyasthdna and so on.’ This seems haraly tight. Only four pluces are intended. 

33  nydse seems to refer to burial rather than merely leaving the corpse there. 

34 visanndlikam ubhayatordtram, i.e., six ndlikds after sunset and six nalikds before 
sunrise. The latter expression is adverbial) ; the former may :.lso be treated as advetbixl or 
as an adjective to ydmatiiryam. Cj reads 3.nndlikam. Meyer proposes Ccisannalikam and 
tr. * the closing signal instrument (ydmoatiryu) fixcs twice six nalii:ds reckoned from nudnight 
on both sides.’ For this dvi is not neecssary when ubhaycto is there, and rdtra can haraly 
refer to madhyardtra. 35 aksana: ‘ks nah anujidt h kdlch, aksano nisicchah’ (Cp); pro- 
hibited period,’ i.e., movement during the prchibited pe iod ; cf. 3.12.46; 4.9.25. Cj has 
rakgana for aksana-. tddanam ‘dand: hk’ (Cp). — pr tuima- etc.: it is clear that three 
yamas (prothama, machyama and pascima) are thought of between the twe beats.of the arum ; 
in other words the ydma here is a period of 6 ndlikds or 2 hours 24 minutes. Cp Cs, under- 
Standing the usual ydma of 8 hours, have ‘in whit remains of the Ist and list watches ’ and 
machyama, i.e., ‘the 2nd and 3rd watches.’ There is harcly any justification for supplying 
$esa or understanding two watches as constituting the machyamaydma. Neyer, who nas a 
pcriod of 12 ndlikds for restricted moven:ent, has prathama yama as the 1st nalthd, pascima 
as the 12th nalikd and madhyamcyama as the int2rvening 10 ndlikds. This is clearly unlikely. 
— antuhis from Ch for bahih. Thelatteras ‘ outside the city *could harc ly he the ndgartka’s 
concern, and is hy itselfunlikely. 

86 piircdpacdne: apcdana is usec in the sense of ‘ cffence * ; cf. 3.12.85 ; 4.5.11 etc. 
88 -pracipaydna- as two separate iterrs is better as in Ch. Cp does not. show -ydana -. — 
ndgarika-tirya apparently sounded to cal) attention to some danger or threat. — mudrd 
apparently issued by the ndgarika or his subordinates. 


2. 86. 89 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 188 


89 During nights of (unrestricted) movements, those disguised in dress 
or in a dress contrary (to their sex), wandering monks, and men with sticks 
and weapons in hand, shall be punished in accordance with their offence. 


40 For guards preventing what ought not to be prevented and not 
preventing what ought to be prevented, the fine (shall be) double that for 
(movement during) the forbidden watches. 41 For (guards) misbehaving 
with a woman who is aslave, the lowest fine for violence (shall be imposed), 
with one not a slave, the middle fine, with one in the exclusive keeping (of 
some one), the highest, with a woman from a respectable family (the 
punishment shall be) death. 


42 Yor (a guard) not reporting to the City-superintendent an offence 
committed during the night whether by the animate or the inanimate, the 
punishment shall be in conformity with the offence, also in case of negligence. 


~ 


42 Constant inspection of places supplying water, roads, water-courses, 
covered paths, ramparts, parapets (and other) fortifications, and the guarding 
of what is lost, forgotten or has run away (are the duties of the Superinten- 
dent). 


44 And in the prison house, (there should be) a release of children, old 
persons, the sick and the helpless on the day of the (king’s) birth-constellation 
and on full moon days. 45 Persons of a pious disposition or persons bound 
by an agreement may give a ransom for the offence. 


89 pravrajitah: apparently these are suspected enemy spies in disguise. Cp seems 
to understand exiles, djnayd niskrantah. — ausatch: the dosa may be pracchannavesatva 
etc. itself, or taeft etc. that might be committed during the night. 


40 aksanaavigunah, i.c., 2 panas and a half. Cj has raksana- as before. 41 adasim, 
i.e., ‘a courtesan ’(Cs). 


42 asamsatah: weshould supply raksinah and understand ndgartkasya in the sense of 
the dative. Cp supplies nagaravdsijanasya, while Cs understercs ndgartha as ‘ citizen.’ 
Meyer has ‘if the ndgartka does not report,’ apparently, to the kirg. The guard is more 
likely in view of pramddasthane. 


48 bhrama etc.: cf. 2.4.2. 


44 jatanaksaira- etc. : the day on which the moon is in the neksatra in which it was 
at the time of the king’s birth. There would be one such day in esch ronth. With the 
paurnamasi, there would be two days for jail clearance every rrorth. The expression can 
hardly mean ‘ on the full moon day when the moon (or sun) is in the constellation of birth.’ 
There would be only onesuch dayina year. 45 punyasilah those who are charitably dispo- 
sed. -— samaydnubacchah * bound (with the prisoner) by an agrecrrert ’ to be reccrr penscd 
for the ransom they pay now. Itis possible to understand also ‘ who were bound to the 
prisoner to pay ransom for him.’ — doscniskrayam ‘a ranscm in accordarce with the 
crime’ for which they are in prison. The commentators explair the s. : ‘Holy persons 
inadvertently committing an offence should pay 2 ransom after binding themselves for 
fare conduct (samayanubecchah) ; if they do not do this (pa), they must remain in prison.’ 
On extremly unlikely. — For niskraya in place of corpcral punishment, see Chapter 4.10. 

8 available to anyone, not to punyaéila or samaydnubacdha persons only. Ransom 


in place of impri i : aha : 
seribed sneer inthe aos mentioned only here. In fact, imprisonment is scarcely pr¢ 


189 THE ACTIVITY OF THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS  [ 2. 36. 47 


46 Every day or every five days, he should clear out those in 
prison by (getting them to do) work, by (inflicting) corporal punishment 
or by (receiving) the favour of cash (in ransom). 


47 On the occasion of the acquisition of a new territory, on the 
occasion of the installation of the crown prince or on the occasion of the 
birth of a son (to the king), a release of (all in) the prison is ordained. 


Herewith ends the Second Book of the Arthasastra of Kautilya, 
‘Tue ActTiviry oF THE Heaps oF DEPARTMENTS ’ 


46 visodhayct‘ should clear out,’ i.e., set frec. Meyer compares cdragasohana in Jain 
literature. 


Boox THREE 


CONCERNING JUDGES 


CHAPTER ONE 


SECTION 57 DETERMINATION OF (VALID AND INVALID) 
TRANSACTIONS 


SECTION 58 FILING OF LAW-SUITS 


1 Three judges, (all) three (of the rank of) ministers, should try cases 
arising out of transactions at frontier posts, in the samgrahanas, dronamukhas 
and sthéniyas. 


2 They should declare as invalid transactions concluded in absence, 
inside a house, at night-time, in a forest, by fraud or in secret. 8 For one 
who concludes (such a transaction) or induces its conclusion, the lowest fine 
for violence (shall be the punishment). 4 The fines shall be half for wit- 
nesses, each one of them. 5 For trustworthy persons, however, (there shall 
be only) annulment of the object. 


The Third Book, which lays down the duties of judges, gives us, in effect, the entire 
law according to Kautilya. — charmastha ‘ a judge ’ has reference to the enforcement of law 
(dharma). This name is generally unknown to the Smrtis; only the Manusmrti in 
8.87 makes a casual reference to it. 


3.1 

The two prakaranas in this Chapter extend from ss. 1-16 and 17-47 respectively. — 
vyavanara is primarily a transaction between two or more parties, which may form the basis 
of a suit in a court of law. Some transactions are invalid by their very nature. sthapcnd 
refers to a consideration of their admissibility in the court. — vicrdcepaca is a suit concern- 
ingamatterindispute. Ithasno reference to the ‘title oflaw.’ The section deals with the 
filing of a suit and the procedure to be followed thereafter. 


1 trayo’matydh : it is best to regard these as parenthetical as in Meyer, the idea being 
that the three judges (who are to sit in each court) should possess the qualifications of an 
amdatya as mentioned in 1.9.1-2. Cj has ‘ trayah is repeated to show that there are to be three . 
is every place.’ Cb understands three ministers in addition to three judges. Cs renders 
amatya by ‘ sitting together,’ i.e., constituting a bench. N. N. Law (Stucies, p. 118 and 0.) 
supplies a ud ‘ three persons grounded in the sdstra or three ministers.’ This is hardly likely. 
— janapadasam«chi, i.e., frontier towns and forts. For somgrchana etc., sce 2.1.4..— vya- 
vahGrikan arthan = this shows that the judges are to deal with cases involving transactions 
between two parties. These are, therefore. all cases concerning civil law. There is no 
reference to different grades among judgesin smallandlarge towns. Nor is there a reference 
he ee differences of opinion among the three judges or to appeals from one court to 
a , 


__, 2 #trohta, 1.e.,in which a party to the transaction is absent or the object involved in 
it isnot there at the. time. — krtdnis to be construed with antarc Lara or wards. — pratt- 
gechayehuh,i.€., no suit can be admitted on the besis of sucha tiersecticr. 5 sccchcya 
apparently refers to those who are partics to such a transaction in good faith, beir g unaware 


that they are invalid. — dravyavyopanayah, i.e., th ceria : cid; 
no fine is, however, imposed in this re yah, 1.€., the transaction is declaica r.ull a1. VC! 


191 CONCERNING JUDGES [8.1.12 


6 Contracting a debt with a pledge in its absence or transactions in 
absence that are accepted as free from blame shall succeed. 


7 Those concluded inside a house, concerning inheritance, things handed 
over, deposits and marriage, (or) by women who do not stir out (of their homes), 
or by sick persons who are not unsound in mind, shall succeed. 


8 Those concluded at night, concerning forcible scizure, trespass with 
criminal intent, strife, marriage and a royal order, (or) by persons carrying 
on their business in the fore-part of the night, shall succeed. 


9 Those concluded in the forest, by persons moving in forests, from 


amongst caravans, herds, hermitages, hunters and wandering minstrels, 
shall succeed. 


10 And among persons earning a secret livelihood, those fraudulently 
made shall succeed. 


11 And in case of secret association, those concluded in secret shall 
succeed. 


12 (Transactions) other than these shall not succeed, also those concluded 
by dependents, (such as) by a son dependent on the father, by a father depen- 
dent on the son, by a brother excluded from the family, by a younger son 
whose share has not been allotted to him, by a woman dependent on her 
husband or son, by a slave or a person kept as a pledge, by a minor or a person 


G paroksena etc. * contracting a debt by mortgaging one’s property such as a house or 
a field when the property is not seen at the time’ (Cb Cj). For this sdchikarnagrahanam 
would have bzen better. Mz2yer has ‘contracting a debt in addition to one already con- 
tracted (adhika rna),’ which is less likely. — avaktavyakarah ‘ accepted by the people as 
valid, ¢.g., where people say that such and such a property may be dealt with by such and 
such a person even in the absence of the owner ’(CbCs). Mcyer has * where the contracting 
parties need not be named’; Breloer (KSt, II, 133) has ‘ where through witnesses certainty 


is reached (that the agreement was intended by the absent. party). Russ. has ‘ which do not 
deserve consideration, i.c., petty.’ 


7 Yor niksepa, see 3.12.38 ff., for upanidhi, 8.12.1 ff. — aniskdsinindm: see 2.28.12 


above. — amidhasamjria would seem to mean ‘not of unsound mind’ rather than ‘ who 
have not lost consciousness.’ 


8 anupravega: Cb has ‘ entering the house and stealing ’ ; trespass with criminal intent 
seems meant ; cf. 3.19.71. Meyer compares Vasistha, 19.88 and Apastamba, 2.10.26.18. 
—(Cj, reading -vicara- for -vivdha-, explains ‘ virudchag caro vicarah samgrahanam,’ which is 
doubtful. — rdjaniyoga: Cb Cs restrict this to measures for guarding the city, at the kirg’s 


order. Thereseems to be no reason for such a restriction. — purvardtra- etc., i.e. , prostitutes 
vintners, innkeepers etc. 


_ 9 -madhyegu aranyacardnam, i.e., when any of these are at the time moving through 
the forest or staying in it. 


10 giidhajicigu: cf. 4.4 for such persons. Curiously, that Chapter includes corrupt 
judges too in this category. 


11 mithahsamavdya: Cb Cs restrict this to the Gandharva marriage. Any secret 
association would scem meant, its secrecy being regarded as necessary and legal. 


12 pitrd putravatd, i.e., when the father has retired and the son is lookirg after the 


affairs. — niskula, i.e., separated from the family. Cj reads niskalena, explaining it by 
‘impotent’; alam ttt bijaparydyah. — A minor is one under 16 (cf. 3.8.1) and atitavya- 


vahdra is ‘ over seventy '(Cb Cs). — abhigasta: one ‘ accused ’ of some offence by another 


8.1.18 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 192 


grown too old for doing any business, and by a person accused of a crime, 
by a wandering monk, by a cripple or by one overcome by a calamity,— 
excepting by those to whom authority for the transaction has been given. 
18 Even among such, transactions concluded by a person in rage, a person 
in distress, an intoxicated person, an insane person or a person in another’s 
power, shall not succecd. 14 For those who conclude, who induce the 
conclusion of and who bear witness to (such transactions), the fines (shall be) 
as prescribed for each one separately. 


15 All transactions, however, in each respective group, concluded with 
full title at the proper place and time, with all formalities duly observed, 
with admissible evidence, with the appearance, marks, quantity and qualities 
duly noted, shall succeed. 16 And in their case, the last document shall 
be authoritative, except in the case of direction and pledge. 


Thus ends the determination of (valid and invalid) transactions. 


17 After writing down the year, the season, the month, the fortnight, 
the day, the office, the place, the debt, and the country, village, caste, family, 
name and occupation of the plaintiff and the defendant, who have given 
adequate sureties, the (clerk) shall put down the questions (with answers) 
to the plaintiff and the defendant, in due order of the subject-matter. 18 
And he shall look into them when put down. 


person. Cf. 4.8.1,7. — vyasanin is hardly ‘ addicted to vice ’ (Cb Cs) ; cf. s. 34 below. 18 
tatrdpi seems to refer to all valid transactions, not to nisrstacvyavaharas only as in Cs. — 
avagrhita ‘ suppressed, held in power’; cf. 5.6.47. Cs explains it as ‘a convicted person,’ 
Meyer as ‘ possessed by a spirit’ or ‘ become abnormal in some way,’ corresponding to 
aprakrtim gatah of Narada, 1.40. 


15 varge,i.c., community, caste (Cb Cj Cs); an economic group, karsaka, vaidehaka 
etc. may also be thought of. — svakarana: cf. 2.86.7; 3.16.17,18. — samptrndcdrah : 
dcara seems to refer to the customary formalities to be observed when entering into a 
transaction. — dega ‘ witnesses’ (Cb Cj Cs). Ins. 19 below, dega seems distinguisned from 
saksin. It may be understood as evidence in general. Meyer renders it by ‘ a point’ ina 
statement. — riipalaksana- etc. refers to the ohject concerning which the transaction takes 
place. — Yaj.,2.31-32, appear to be a metrical summary of this passage ; so Narada, 1.40-41 
and Intro. 1.48. 16 karana seems to refer to evidence or proof in general (cf. 4.8.18), but 
here a docum+nt may well be thought of. — ddesa: see 3.12.18. It means ‘a direction’ 
or instruction to a person to take a thing entrusted to him to another person. In view of 
that, * recziving a gift or purchase (Cb Cs) seems little likely. They seem to be influenced 
by Y4j., 2.28, and Narada, 1.97. But ‘ purchase’ at least can hardly be on the same foot- 
ing as a pledgein this connection. 


_1t karana here can hardly refer to ‘ evidence,’ so early in the list. Cs refersit to ‘ half 

a tttht called bava etc.’ That is uncertain. Cb does not explain, only mentions charma- 
karana and arthakarana. Probably something like ‘ department. office * is to be understood. 
Jayaswal’s “cause of action’ (Manu and Ydj., p. 121) is doubtful in view of the specific 
mention of rnam. — adhikaranam : the place where the court is situated, then the court 
itself, Jayaswal has ‘ statement of the case’ (loc. cit.). — rnam: this shows that the law 
of procedure is based on the law of debts, the prime cause of action. — It is not certain if 
avedaka OF dvedaka is to be understood in the sense of ‘the defendant.’ — For avastha 
surety.’ cf. 2.8.29 ; 8.18.11. The surety is for ensuring payment of the fine. 18 avehksela: 
though the writing down is done by the lekhaka (cf. 4.9.17), and this examination may be SuP- 


posed to be by the judge, that is not made quite cl : ksela 
may also be lekhakah understood. q ear. Of course, the subject for avex$ 


193 CONCERNING JUDGES [ 3.1. 28 


19 A (party to a suit) who gives up the dispute as put down and changes 
to another dispute, does not corroborate the first statement by a subsequent 
matter, remains (silent) after challenging an unchallengeable statement of 
the other (party), after making an alirmation does not indicate the evidence 
when asked to do so, indicates weak evidence or false evidence, produces 
evidence other than that indicated, when evidence is produced denies a state- 
ment in the matter saying ‘it is not so’, does not accept what is confirmed by 


witnesses, talks secretly with witnesses in a place where no conversation is 
allowed,—these are reasons for loss of suit. 


20 The fine for loss of suit is one-fifth the amount (in dispute). 21 
The fine for one who voluntarily admits is one-tenth. 


22 Wages for the servant shall be one-cighth part (of a pana). 238 
Food on the way (will be) according to the prices (at the time). 24 The 
defeated party shall pay both these. 


25 The accused shall not file a counter-complaint, except in cases of 
strife, forcible seizure and association in caravans. 26 And there shall be 
no suit against the accused (by another party). 


27 If the plaintiff, to whom a reply has been given (by the defendant), 
does not counter-reply on the same day, he shall lose the suit. 28 For, it 
is the plaintiff, who has decided (beforehand) what is to be done, not the defen- 


19 vddam is preferred to pddam, asin the actualcommentin Cb. It is also supported 
by Narada Intro, 2.24 (piircvavddam parityojya and vdaasamkramandd). And as Mcyer 
points out, pdda does not mean ‘a title oflaw.’ Nor can paaam be read as ir Cj, for poca 
in vivddapada does not refer to the 18 titles of law. — defam: sees. 16 akove. Breloer (11,155) 
understands ‘ place ’in the usual sense. — hinadegcm ‘a smaller run ber of witresses than 
those cited ’ (Cs). — adegam ‘ those unfit to be witnesses, such as kinsrren etc.’ \Cb Cs). — 
nirdistad degdd is from Cb and is necessary. Breloer, however, prefers nircistoccesdd, 
understanding uddcega as ‘ a leading statement at the commencement of a discussion, what is 
to be proved ’ as in 15.1.15-16 (II, 155). This is extremely doubtful. anycam cescm that 
follows makes this reading quite unlikely. — arthavacanam: Ch Cs read arthavacane as 
adjective to dege ‘ when he has deposed truthfully.’ Breloer (IJ, 155) understands it in the 


sense Of ‘an official account’. — parokta ‘a person against whom a decision is given 
(pard-ukta).’ Manu, 8.58-57, are clearly based on this passage. 


20 pancabandhah cannot be ‘ five times’ as Meyer translates. For ‘so many times’ 
we have -guna; cf. bandhacaturgunah, 3.11.7. 21 svayamvdcin: this refers to one who 
voluntarily admits what is urged against him. This is principally to be understood 
of the defendant. Cf.s.46 below. Cb implies that the admission is made before the wit- 
nesses have deposed, which seems reasonable. Cs has ‘ who has filed a suit without wit- 
nesses,’ Meyer ‘ who has offered to make a false deposition as a witness,’ Breloer ‘the same 


as tavdhamvddin, i.e., the unfree man’ (III, 247 n. 6). None of these explanations seems 
intended. 


22 purusa as ‘judge’ (Cb) is quite unlikely. The court servant who summons 
witnesses etc. is clearly to be understood. 28 pathibhaktam is in the nature of a travelling 


allowance. — argha- is definitely preferable to artha-. With the latter, Meyer has 
‘according to the peculiarity of the case.’ 


25 sdarthasamavadyebhyoh: Meyer proposes mithahsamavdadyebhyah. That is quite 
unnecessary. Association between members of a caravan Can conceivably lead to com- 
plaints and counter-complaints. 26 abhiyogah, apparently, by a third party. Breloer 


(II, 140), however, understands the same party, the idea being that a suit about a matter 
can only be filed once. 


8.1.29 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 194 


dant. 29 If the latter does not reply, a period of three days or seven (may 
be allowed). 80 After that, the (judge) shall impose a fine of three panas 
minimum and twelve panas maximum. 81 After three fortnights, if he 
does not reply, the (judge) shall impose the fine for loss of suit and indemnify 
the plaintiff from goods belonging to him, excepting the tools of his profession. 
82 He shall impose the same (pen lty) on the defendant who absconds. 
88 In the case of the plaintiff, there shall be loss of suit the moment he 
absconds. : 


84 The statement of a witness who dies or suffers from a misfortune 
is without value. 


85 The (successful) plaintiff may, after paying the fine, make (a poor 
defendant) work (for him). 86 Or, the (defendant) may keep a pledge, if 
he so desires. 87 Or, he may indemnify him by work, guarded by charms 
destructive of evil spirits, with the exception of a Brahmin. 


88 When all laws are perishing, the king here is the promulgator 
of laws, by virtue of his guarding the right conduct of the world consisting 
of the four varnas and four déramas. 


29 Three days or seven would depend on the circumstances of the case. Narada 
Intro., 2.8, hasasimilarrule. 81 pratipaddayet‘ make him receive, ’i.e., pay him. — For 
the rule, cf. Manu, 8.58, Yaj., 2.12, Narad Intro., 1.44-45. 82 Cf. Manu, 8.55, Yaj., 2.16. 


84 The translation follows Meyer, with his proposed -vacanam asdram though saksinah 
outside the compound would have been still better. The idea is, if a witness, after giving 
evidence, dies or suffers Some great misfortune, he is presumed to have given false evidence. 
Cf. Manu, 8.108. In the Nachtrag, Meyer proposes sdksivacanat with a stop after it, constru- 
ing asdram with the next s. ‘a party becomes parokta on the (false) testimony of a witness 
who dies orisincalamity. If the accused is poor (asdra) the complainant shal] pay the fine 
etc.’ Even for this sdksinah outside the compound is necessary. That, however, is Cj’s 
construction. Its explanation of s. 34 is ‘ if after an accusation is made, the complainant dies 
or disappears, (truth should be ascertained and punishment meted out) according to the 
testimony of witnesses.’ A number of things have to be supplied in this explanation. Cb Cs, 
reading sdksivacandah sdram, explain ‘ the sons etc. of a deceased ora suffering party shall] be 
entitled to receive or liable to pay the amount in dispute (sdram) on producing witnesses 
(sdksivacandh).’ It is extremely doubtful if heirs could be so brought in without any 
prior mention. And why should a vyasanin not receive the amount himself? The s. may 
also be understood as ‘if a party to a suit dies or suffers a misfortune, the testimony of his 
witnesses has no value.’ But this is colourless. 


85 dandam dattvd: the state must reccive the danda, if need be from the successful 
party. 86 sa refers to abhiyukta, hardly to abhiyokta. 87 raksoghnaraksitam: perhaps 
abhiyoktaram is to be supplied, hardly ddhim. — pratipddayet: the subject may be dhar- 
masthah as in s. 81, though abhiyuktah is also possible. — anyatra brahmandt is odd, for the 
defendant, of whom alone the brdhmanatva can be thought of, is not specifically referred to 
in thes. It is quite possible that the whole s. is a marginal gloss that has intruded into the 
text. It is unnecessary in view of s. 85. — iti read in the mss. in such places is often 
derived from some commentary. At any rate, a pious Ksatriya cannot be understood on its 
strength as is done in Cs. : 


__38 ayam : usya as going with lokasya would be better. There is little point in ayam 
rdjd. — nagyatam sarvadharmandam is a case of genitive absolute. Meyer objects that 
this construction is unknown to this text and suggests ndgena or ndgandt and sarvadharma- 
ndm, * by destroying all impieties.’ This is unnecessary. Cb Cs construe the genitives 
with pravartakah. — rdja dharmapravartakah: M Gb Cs read rdjadharmah pravartakah. 
But a dharma a8 @ pravariaka of dharma is not a ha py idea. And dcdrarakgana is more 
likely of raja than of rdjadharma. The idea seems to bes ‘because the king gives protection, 
aa nya ene ihe precitionsl laws have become inoperative. The co ne 
£ a king can revive laws ishi ectin 
right conduct of subjects. That are is possible. So ha al : 


195 CONCERNING JUDGES [3.1.44 


39 A matter in dispute has four feet, law, transaction, custom 


and the royal edict; (among them) the later one supersedes the earlier 
one. 


40 Of them, law is based on truth, a transaction, however, on 


witnesses, customs on the commonly held view of men, while the command 
of kings is the royal edict. 


41 (Carrying out) his own duty by the king, who protects the sub- 
jects accroding to law, leads to heaven; of one who does not protect or 
who inflicts an unjust punishment, (the condition) is the reverse of this. 


42 For, itis punishment alone that guards this world and the other, 


when it is evenly meted out by the king to his son and his enemy, accord- 
ing to the offence. 


43 For, a king, giving decisions in accordance with law, transaction, 


settled custom and edict as the fourth, would conquer the earth up to its 
four ends. 


44 He shall decide, with the help of law, a matter in which a settled 
custom or a matter based on a transaction contradicts the science of law. 


89 Compare the paraphrase in Brhaspati: dharmena oyavahdrena cariirena nrpajnaya 
catusprakdro ’bhihitah samdigdhe ’rthe vinirnayah. vyavahara seems to mean only ‘a trans- 
action’ throughout. We may also think of ‘judicial process... — pagcimah pirvatdtha- 
kah: this seems to mean that the later one in the list supersedes the earlier one. Thus Cj. 
According to Cb Cs, only the last supersedes the first three. Cf., however, Narada Intro., 
1.10, uttarah pirot)d thikah. 40 satya seems to refer to truth in the sense of cternal truth, 
that is supposed to be the basis of dharma. Breloer (II, 49-53) thinks that we should read 
smrlydm sthito or smrtisthito *‘ based on tradition.” Though for the sake of uniformity in the 
meaning of dharma in these verses and in 43-44, this is what should be understood by dharma, 
satye sthitah is quite likely and is supported by Narada Intro., 1.11. 


— samgrahe, i.e., 
in the view commonly accepted by men. 


Cb has ‘ unanimity among witnesses.’ 


41-42 These stanzas are out of place and are clearly derived from a different source. 
They belong to 1.4 above. 


43 anusdsad: cf. anugista, 4.9.15. — dharmena: by this dharmasdasrira law is clearly 
to be understood, as shown by s. 44. —- samsthayd: this is probably the same as caritra 
above, as in Cj. Cb has ‘ Jokdcara.” — nydyena: this refers to rdjasdsana. Meyer relates 
the word to niti or naya in the sense of ‘a royul measure.’ It is possible that the difference 
in terminology stems from a difference in sources. 


44 Though with the reading samsthd yd, as proposed by Meyer, we get two relative 
pronouns in the same clause, that appears preferable to samsthayd. It may be that samstha 
vd should be read. The idea is, when samsthd or vyavahara is in conflict with dharma, the 
latter prevails. With samsthayd as the reading there would be a reference to a conflict 
between samsthaé and vyavahara without a solution being offered forit. Thisstanza clearly | 
contradicts s. 39, if the terms in the two places are regarded as identical, unless pascimah 
purvabddhakah is understood asin Cb. — The use of the word Sdsira in connection with 
vyacahdra is strange. Cb seems to understand vydvaharika sdastra as rdjavacana. That is not 


very likely. Cs has ‘ royal edict ($asira) or the evidence of witnesses (vydvahdrika).’ This is 
‘doubtful. 


8.1. 45 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 196 


45 Where (a text of) the science may be in conflict with any edict 
in a matter of law, there the edict shall prevail; for, there the written 
text loses its validity. 


46 A (distinctly) seen offence, a voluntary admission, straight- 
forwardness in questions (and answers) to one’s own and the opposite 
party, reasoning, and oath lead to a decision in a case. 


47 Incase of contradiction between an earlier and a later statement, 
in case of the blameworthiness of witnesses and in case of escape from the 
custody of the prison-guard, loss of suit shall be decreed. 


CHAPTER TWO 


SECTION 59 CONCERNING MARRIAGE 
(1) The Law of Marriage; (77) Rules Concerning Woman’s Property; 
(iit) Concerning Supersession (of a Wife) by a Second Marriage 


1 (All) transacrions begin with marriage. 


2 Making a gift of the daughter, after adorning her (with ornaments) 
is the Brahma form of marriage. 8. The joint peformance of sacred dutics 


45 dharme nyayena of M seems preferable to dharmanydyena, though dharma has then 
to be understood as ‘a matter of law.’ dharmanydya is confusing. Cb understands dharma 
and nydya as two separate things. Cs has ‘ custom which is just in every way.’ Breloer (II, 
181) explains ‘a reflection or judgment (nydya) which follows from the same holy law.’ In 
that case, the conflict between the sdstra and this nydya would hardly arise. — tatra patho 
hi nagyat?: Breloer (II, 131) translates ‘ for the text underlies the change.’ He adds that the 
judge is thus given the opportunity to build up new legal sentences outside of and even 
contrary to the holy law. ; 


46 drstadosah: in view of the predicate arthasddhakah, this should be understood as a 
Karmadharaya rather than as a Bahuvrihi. — svapaksa- etc. is to be construed with 
anuyogarjavam in the second half,asin CbCs. Meyer construes it with svayamvddah, mak- 
ing drstadosah the predicate in the first half ‘ the defect of a voluntary statement by one or 
the other party is seen above (in s. 21?).’ This is hardly possible. Breloer proposes (II, 
182 n. 4) suayamvadasvapaksa- etc. as one ‘ when the guilt is brought to light through his 
own admission or through the evidence of the other party.’ This also seems doubtful. 


47 sdksivaktavyakdrane: vakiavya seems used for vaktavyatva. 3.11.28-9 enumcrate 
persons ineligible as witnesses. Breloer’s ‘when there are witnesses whom the judge has 
brought himself’ (II, 182) is hardly possible. — cdra is obviously the jailor or prison- 
guard ; cf. caraka 4.9.22. It may also refer to the secret agent of the court, who has traced 
the party and is bringing him to the court. For niypdta ‘running away ’ cf. s. 33 above. 
Breloer’s ‘by going over (nispdte) by means of secret police’ is not quite clear. — The 
karikds have clearly a miscellaneous origin. 


8.2 


The 59th prakarana is spread over three Chapters, 3.2-4, and contains a number of 
sub-sections. : The three sub-sections in this chapter are to be found in ss. 1-138, 14-37 and 
88-48 respectively. — Cb Cs quote a mnemonic verse according to which Manu begins 
with the law of debts, Usanas with property, Brhaspati with deposits and Kautilya with 
marriage, Meyer has shown very clearly how Kautilya’s is the most rational arrangement 
of the topics of law. 


1 vyavahara ‘ dealing 1. 1.¢., in effect, civil life. 


197 CONCERNING JUDGES [ 3. 2. 16 


is the Prajapatya. 4 On receiving a pair to cattle (from the bride-groom) 


itis the Arsa. 5 By making a gift (of the daughter) to the officiating priest 
inside a sacrificial altar, it is the Daiva. 6 By a secret association (between 
lovers) it is the Gandharva. 7 On receiving a dowry, it is the Asura, 
8 By forcible seizure (of a maiden), it is the Raksasa. 9 By the seizure 
of a sleeping or intoxicated (maiden), it is the Paigaca. 


10 The first four are lawful with the sanction of the father, the remaining 
with the sanction of the father and the mother. 11 For, those two receive 


the dowry of the daughter, or one of them in the absence of the other. 12 
The woman shall receive the second dowry. 


13 In the case of all (forms of marriage), giving pleasure (to the bride 
by means of gifts) is not forbidden. 


Thus ends the law of marriage. 


14 Maintenance and ornaments constitute woman’s property. 15 


Maintenance is an endowment of a maximum of two thousand (panas); as 
to ornaments, there is no limit. 


16 It is not an offence for the wife to use that for the maintenance of 
her sons and daughters-in-law or if no provision is made when (the husband 
is) away on a journey, (or) for the husband (to use it) for taking steps against 


3 * The manira containing the admonition to practise dharma together is recited in the 


Prajapatya ’ (Cb). — The Smrtis have closely parallel definitions of these forms of 
marriage. 


10 pitrpramdadnadh: apparently the wil] or consent of the mother is unnecessary. 
— dharmy4ah conveys the idea of not only ‘lawful’, but also ‘ holy, pious’. dharmistha or 
dharmavivaha conveys the same idea. — mdtdpitrpramdnah: the consent is obtained 
evidently after the event in three of these four cases. 11 Sulkaharau: evidently sulka 
was received when consent was givenin these cases. 12 duitiyam gulkam: Cb paraphrases 
by ‘ pritiddna’ ; so Cs understands gifts given to the bride at the time of marriage. It is 


possible that the second dowry may be that received when the woman happens to marry 
again, after the first husband’s death. 


13 sarvesdm, i.e., ‘ by all relations of the bridegroom and others’ (Cb Cs) ; Cb in fact 
appears to regard this pritydropana as the second dowry. sarvesadm, however, may refer to 
forms of marriage, in all of which gifts are allowed, though not sulka. And it is possible 
that this pritydropana, e.g., in a Brahma marriage, is the duitiya or secondary gukla. — 
It is proposed to read tit viudhadharmah here and not after s. 18 asin the mss. They are 
clearly misplaced there. 


14 dbandhyam: this form from Cb is more likely (from bandh ‘ to bind’). The lexicons 
show the forms dbaddha and dbandha. 15 paradvisdhasrad: we expect doisahasrapara 
for the sense ‘a maximum of two thousand panas’. — sthdpyd is another name for urtit 
(cf. s. 19 and 3.3.12), ‘ what is set apart, an endowment.’. 


16 dtma- to be construed with putra and snusd. Her own case is covered by the next 
expression. — bhaya ‘danger’ asa separate item is better. — Itis proposed to read a 
stop after prajdtayoh (supplying bhoktum adosah). Ch Cs regard sambhiya.... ndadnuyunjiia 
as constituting a single sentence and restrict the rule to pious marriages and a three-year 
use only. The presence of both ud and ca in the same clause would be strange. And the 
genitive of dampatyoh implies construction with bhoktum adosah like that of patyuh in the 
preceding clause. Meyer has ‘ when the couple has put it together as common property, 
when they have begotten a Son and a daughter and when it is used as common property for 
three years.’. This is reading too much in the words. Kane (HD, III, 786) seems to have 


8. 2. 17) KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 198 


robbers, diseases, famine (and other) dangers and for religious ac‘s, or for the 
couple (to use it) jointly when they have begottenason anda daughter. 17 
And if it has been used for three years, the (wife ) shall not question, in the 
case of the pious marriages. 18 If used in the Gandharva and Asura 
marriages, the (husband) shall be made to return both with interest, if used 
in the Raksasa and Paisica marriages, he shall pay (the penalty for) theft. 


19 When the husband is dead, the (widow), if desirous of leading a life 
of picty, shall forthwith reccive the endowment and oranments and the 
remainder of the dowry. 20 If, after receiving (these), she marries again, 
she shall be made to return both withinterest. 21 If, however, she is desirous 
of having a family, she shall reccive, at the time of remarriage, what was given 
to her by her father-in-law and her (late) husband. 22 We shall explain the 
time for remarriage in ‘Long absence from home.’ 238 If she remarries 
against the wishes of her father-in-law, she shall forfeit what was given her 
by her father-in-law and her (late) husband. 


24 If the (widow) is snatched away from the protection of her kinsmen, 
the kinsmen (by the new marriage) shall return (her women’s property of the 
first marriage) as it may have been recei.ed (by he ) 25 Ii she has ap- 
preached (for remarriag¢) in a kc gitimate manner, the acceptor shall protect 
her woman’s property (of the first marriage). 


26 A (widow) remarrying shall forfeit what was given by her (late) 
husband. 27 She shall use it if desirous of a pious life. 28 If a (widow) 
who has sons marries again, she shall forfeit her woman’s property. 29 The 


read aprajdtayoh ‘so also if there be no children of the marriage and the husband expends 
stridhana without objection by the wife, then also no complaint woula be entertained.’ 
17 trivarsopabhuktam, i.e., ii the husband has used it for three years without complaint by 
the wife. The idea that no complaint shall be entertained after a lapse of three years after 
it was spent is lesslikely. 18 ubhayam, i.e., orttiand dbandhya, haraly Sulka and strichana. 
savrddhikam ddpyeta, i.e., itis treated asaloan. — steyum dacyat, i.e., he has no right at 
all to its use. 


19 sthdpydbharanam is necessary as shown by 3.8.12; 3.4.16 and s. 15 above. — 
Sulkasesam : Cs has ‘ what is left after joint use by the couple.’ But the gulka goes to the 
bride’s parents (s. 11). It may be that the parents who reccive the $ulka hold it in trust for 
the daughter. Meyer understands payment of gulka in instalments, the unpaid instalments 
going to the wife and not her parents. This seems supported by 3.4.15,33. 21 kutumba- 
kamd: she desires a son who would belong to her late husband’s fanily. The husbana’s 
full brother is to be her first preference for remarriage (3.4.88). 22 dirghapravase, i.e., in 
the subsection in 3.4.87-42. 


24 The first jrdti- refers to the kinsmen of the late husband, while the second jridtayah 
refers to those of the new husband. Mcyer understands by both the woman’s father, brother 
etc. and proposes abhisrstaydh, ‘handed over, made over’ in place of abhimrstayah. That 
seems littlelikely. — yathdgrhitam, i.e., as she had received at the time of the first marrl- 
age. 25 stridhunam is evidently that of the first marriage. 


__ 26 patidayam would normally be ‘what she has inherited-from her husband.’ But the 
wife does not appear among heirs in 3.5.9-12. Some kind of inheritance can be understood 
here to distinguish this from patidatta of 8.21. But ‘gift’ appears better. Cb has‘ food and 
clothing given by the husband.’ 


199 CONCERNING JUDGES [ 8.2.40 


sons, however, shall receive that woman’s property. 80 Or, ifshe remarries 


for the maintenance of her sons, she shall augment (the woman’s property) 
for the sake of the sons. 


81 The (woman) shall settle on sons born (to her) from many husbands 
her woman’s property as given by the respective fathers. 


32 A (widow) marrying again shall settle on her sons her woman’s 
property even when she is entitled to do what she pleases with it. 


33 A (widow) without sons, remaining faithful to her husband’s bed, 
shall use her woman’s property in the proximity of elders, till the end of her 


life. 84 For,"a woman’s property is meant for calamities. 85 After (her 
death), it shall go to the heirs. 


36 Ifa woman dies while her husband is living, her sons and daughters 
shall divide her woman’s property among themselves, daughters (only) if 
she had no sons, in the absence of these the husband (shall receive it). 


37 The dowry, the post-marriage gifts and other things given by her rela- 
tions, the relations shall receive. 


Thus end rules concerning woman’s property. 


38 The (husband) shall wait for eight years if the wife does not bear 
offsprings or does not bear ason or is barren, for ten if she bears dead offspring, 
for twelve if she bears only daughters. 89 After that, he may marry a 
second wife with the object of getting a son. 40 In case of transgression 
of that (rule), he shall hand over the dowry, the woman’s property and half 


(that) as compensation for supersession, and (pay) a fine of twenty-four 
panas maximum. 


32 kdmakaraniyam : it is not stated what stridhana can be so described. Perhaps the 


sauddyika of later Smrtis ‘ gifts by brothers and father before or after marriage” may be 
understood. 


83 gurusamipe stridhanam etc.: Kane (III, 708 n. 1857) seems to read sirt dhanam 
and vomments that this passage is probably the first to propound clearly the characteristics 
of the Hindu Widow’s estate. Itis doubtful ifin this section stridhanam can be read as to 
two words, the latter understood as refe-ring to other prcperty as well. The next s. men- 
tions the technical stridhana only, and it gives the reason for the rule in this s. — ddyddam, 
i.e., the husband’s heirs. Katyayana reproduces this rule word for word. 


86 vibhajeran, evidently in equal shares. In the matter of succession to siridhana, 
this text does not make a distinction between the forms of marriage as the Smrtis do (Manu, 
9.196-7 ; Yaj., 2.145; Narada, 13.9). It refers to them in a different connection (ss. 17-18 


above). 87 Sulkam: this is received by the parents (s. 11). — anvddheyam ‘ what is 
given by blood relations after marriage.’ Katyayana includes gifts from the husband’s 
family as well. — YéAj., 2.144, is an echo of this rule. 


88 aprajadyamana ‘who bears a child once and does not conceive again” (Cb Cs). 
It may also mean ‘ who does not bear (because of miscarriages).’ —- aputrdm may mean 
whose son died and who has not borne a child thereafter. 40 ardham ‘hali the strichana’ 
(Cb); ‘ half the $u/ka and stridhana ’ is also possible. Meyer prefers to read artham * money 
as compensation for the second marriage.’ Y&j., 2.148, repeats the rule and has ardham. 


2,2. 41] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA } 200 


41 By paying the dowry, the woman’s property, (and) in the case 
of a wife without a dowry or woman’s property of her own a compensation 
for supersession equal in amount to that, and a suitable maintenance he 
may marry even a number of wives. 42 For, wives are (necessary) for 
having sons. 


48 And in case of simultaneity of the menstrual periods of these, he 
shall approach according to (the time of) marriage, first that (wife) whom 
he had married first, or the wife who has living sons. 


44 In case of concealment of the period or failure to approach at the 
time, ninety-six (panas shall be) the fine. 


45 The (husband) may not approach a (wife) who has sons, who is 
desirous of a pious life, who is barren, who bears dead offspring or whose 
menstruation has stopped, if she is unwilling. 46 And if unwilling, the 
man may not approach a (wife) who is leprous or insane. 47 A woman, 
however, shall approach a (husband) even of this type, for bearing a son. 


48 A husband, who has become degraded or gone to a foreign 
land or has committed an offence against the king or is dangerous 
to her life or has become an outcast or even an impotent one may 
be abandoned. 


41 tatpramdnam ‘ equal to the gulka and stridhana of any of the other wives ’ (Mcyer). 
Cs has ‘ equal to the expenses of the new marriage,’ which appearslesslikely. 42 Ci. Manu, 
9.26 ; Narada, 12.19. 


43 yathavivaham, i.e., according to the form of marriage, first a wife married according 
to the Brahma form and so on (com.). A man only rarely would marry different wives 
according to different forms. Munu, 9.85-87, lays down seniority according to the varna 
of the wives. yathdvivdham can be construed with purvodhdm ‘ married first according to 
the time of marriage’; this appears more likely. 


44 tirthagihandgamane: the commentators understand the two offences by the wife, 
Meyer by the nusband. It is possible also to understand the first as the wife’s offence and 
the second as the husband’s. 


45 dharmakam4am is to be understood independently, not to be construed with vandh- 
yam asin Cs. — Cb Cs remove the stop after upeyat and read it after na cakdmah purusah, 
adding a na before gacchetin the next s. The punctuation haslittle tocommendit. Aman 
could hardly avoid his duties during the rtu merely because he was unwilling. Cf. 3.4.86. 
47 vdhastheforceofapi. — The reason for the discrimination seems to be that the hus- 
band could easily marry again, not s0 the wife. 


48 mnicatvam: construe with prasthitah. It is not stated what makes a man degraded. 
Following some degraded profession or becoming a drunkard or a rake may be understood. 
— rajikilbist: this seems to refer to one committing an offence against the king, i.¢-» @ 
seditious person. Cb has * this is of three kinds, the king’s purohita, the person receiving 4 
gift from the king, and a consumptive person.’ The consumptive is possible, but the other 
two are strange, particularly as there is no reference to their crime. — tyd@jyah: Jayasw? 
(Manu and Y4j., p. 230) says that tydga denotes separation from conjugal intercourse, 9 
opposed to moksa, the technica! divorce. 


201 CONCERNING JUDGES [3.3.6 


CHAPTER THREE 


SECTION 59 (Continued) 


(tv) Marital Duty; (v) Maintenance; (vi) Cruelty; (vii) Dis- 
affection; (vii?) Misconduct; and (iz) Prohibition of Favours 
and Dealings 


1 A woman twelve years of age attains majority, a man when sixteen 
years of age. 2 If after this there is a failure to carry out marital duties, 
there shall be a fine of twelve panas for the woman, twice that for the man. 
Thus ends (the topic of) marital duty. 


8 When Maintenance is not (payable) at stipulated (intervals of) time, 
the (husband) shall give (the necessary) food and clothing according to the 
dependents or more in a generous measure. 4 If (payable) at stipulated 
(intervals of) time, he shall calculate the same and pay in instalments. 
5 And also in case she has not received a dowry, a woman’s property and 
compensation for supersession, (the same procedure shall be followed). 


6 If the (wife) is staying in her father-in-law’s family or has become 


separated, the husband is not to be sued. Thus ends (the topic of) main- 
tenance. 


3.8 


_ 2 The colophon iti §ugrigd is added in conformity with those of the other subsections 
in this Chapter. 


3 bharmanyd seems clearly to mean the allowance given for the maintenance of a wife 
Separated from the husband. —  anirdistukdld ‘ the time for which is not stated ’ seems 
to refer to payment of the alimony in one lump sum, while nirdistakdld seems to be that paid 
in instalments at stated times. — grdsdccnddunam is the usual expression for * inainten- 
ance’ given to a person; cf. 3.5.82; 3.7.19. — vd dhikum: vd is misplaced; it should 
come after adhikum. — purusaparivdpa: see 1.16.5; 2.24.28 etc. — savigegam may 
refer to quality while adhikam relers to quantity. Cb expli:ins the s. thus * when a woman is 
appointed to look after the househuld (vharmanyd@) and there is no restriction on her as to 
time that so much amount is to be spent in so inuch time, she should be given provisions 
for running the household according to the nuinber of persons in it.’ Cs mostly follows. 
The idea is very strange. Russ. hus ‘if one keeps a lady-in-waiting (bharmanya) for an 
indefinite period, then one should give her food and clothing as much as one gives to one’s 
servant-men (yalhdpurusaparivdpam) or even more than that’. 4 Meyer understands 
nirdistukdld as * to be given for a detinite period,’ which appears less likely. — tadeva,i.e., 
grasacchadanam, probably excluding the idea of adhikam. — bandham seems to refer to 
* part, portion ’ of an amount, as in paricabandha, dugabanidha etc.; cl. also 3.9.20; 3.12.16. 
cais unnecessary. Meyer understands bandhaus ‘surety.’ Thatalsoisnotunlikely. The 
commentatotrs have ‘ if the wife takes the matter (of provisions) to the court and fuils, she is 
to give 1/5th or 1/10th part of the provisions (to thestate?).” This appear still more strange. 
5  -ddhivedanikdndm is from Cb and quite necessary for the sense. adhydvahanika ‘ gifts 
received at the time of going from the father’s to the husband’s place” would hardly be 
intended in this context. Since we have to supply bandham dady4i in this s., Cs adds * she 
has to pay even when she has nct received gulka etc., how inuch more would she be liable to 
pay if she has received that?’ The commentators appear to be clearly on a wrong track. 


6 gvasurakulapravistayam : the wife, though having no relations with the husband, 
stays in the family. Meyer thinks that. she may have married the husband’s brother. In 
the alternative, he proposes svasurakuldpravistayam, signifying an appointed daughter (put- 
rikd) who is not a me.nber of her fathe.-in-law’s family. Neither suggestion seeins neces- 
sary. — vibhaktdyam: apparently in this case, she has received some share of the 


perty. — nddshiysjyah: tne claim would be about maintenance, hardly about gulka (as in 
Cb). 


8.8.7] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 202 


7 The inculcation of modest behaviour (shall be done) without the use 
of expressions such as ‘thou lost one,’ ‘thou ruined one,’ ‘thou cripple’, ‘thou 
fatherless one’ or ‘thou motherless one.’ 8 Or, striking on the back three 
times with one of (the three, viz.,) a split bamboo-cane, rope or hand (may 
be done). 9 In case of transgression of this fines half those for verbal and 
physical injury (shall be imposed). 


10 The same (shall be the punishment) for the wife whose offence against 
her husband is well-known. 11 On occasions of (her) enjoying herself out- 
side (the home) out of jealousy, the penalty shall be as laid down. Thus 
ends (the topic of) cruelty. 


12 Awife disliking her husband (and) not adorning herself (for fulfilment 
of marital duty) during seven menstrual periods, shall forthwith set down 
her endowment and ornaments and consent to her husband lying with 
another woman. 


18 A husband disliking the wife shall consent to her staying alone in 
the family of one of (the following, viz.,) a female mendicant, a guardian 
or a kinsman. 


14 One who speaks a falsehood, when indications are clear, when 
there is a refusal of intercourse or when an approach is made to a person 


7 naste vinaste is from the actual comment in Cb. vinagne at least is suspicious. 
— 4anirdesena ‘ without using these expressions, but using other words of admonition ’ 
(Cb). Cs nas * addressing h2r with these abusive expressions.’ That is lesslikely. 8 Cf. 
Mauau, 8.233-300. 9 vdjlsada-etc.: asiiad.18anu 3.19 below. 


10-11 It is proposed to read prasiluhadogdyah with a stop after it and irsyayd at the 
beginning of the next s. — tadceva, i.e., the ardaadandJadh. —  dosa woula be abuse or 
beating o: the husband. — ddjy2zviidregu dudresu: i.e., when the wife goes away from 
home to enjoy herseli; dudra is ‘an occasion’. — yathdnirdistuh, i.e., as laid down in 
8s. 20-22 below or 3.4.1-23. Cb Cs explain ‘the same amount ol cruelty (musta or nagna 
etc. and frir Gghdia) is allowed to a chaste (adosd) wile when her jealousy is aroused by such 
occasions (dodresu) for harsh treatment towards the husband as his wandering outside (for 
prostitution etc.). In case of transgression she pays full fines (not hali like her husband).’ 
With irgyaydm, Mcyer tr. ‘the same holds good in case of jealousy by tue wife towards 
the husband when there is no open offence (prasiddhdyam adusdyam). Punishment for 
wandering outside the house or at the doors, as prescribea in each case.’ 


12 sthadpyabharanam : see 3.2.15. — anuSayita ‘should sleep nearby on a lower 
level’ (Cb), ‘shoula wait upon the husband full of remorse’ (Cs). Mere consent would 
seem ineant, without the idea of claiming ddhivedanika. 


13 anvadhi : Cb understands ‘a trustee of the stridhana’. It may simply mean 

& guardian’. — -kuldnadm: in the case of the bhikgsuki, this implies only staying W ith 
her. — dvisan, as quilifying bharid, is necessary. Because of vd, Meyer would find here 
something new about th: disaffected wife ; hence, he proposes a stop alter vd ‘ or, (she shall 
give freedom) wh2n she stays with bhiksuki, etc. The husband, hating, shall give freedom 
if he has only one wife in her.’ ekdm need not be so understood. It merely refers to her 
Staying separately from her husband. 


14 drstalinge maithunap.zhare ‘who denies or conceals intercourse (with another woman) 
when signs of such are distinctly visible ’ (Cb Cs). It seems better, however, to understand 
the two terms separately a3 in Mayer and to construe mithyadvdadi with each of them. ling 
refers to signs of disaffection or hatred, not of intercourse. — apahara seems to have the 
sense of reiusal (to have intercourse), mithyGvddi ‘ one who speaks a falsehood, ’i.¢-, deo 
these things, hardly, ‘ who falsely accuses’ (as in Meyer). — savarndpusarpopagame 


203 CONCIERNING JUDGES [ 3.3. 25 


of the same varna through a secret emissary, shall pay a (fine of) twelve 
panas. 


15 A disaffected wife is not to be granted divorce from the husband 
who is unwilling, nor the husband from the wife. 16 By mutual disaffection 
(alone) a divorce (shall be granted). 17 Or, if the husband sceks divorce 
because of the wife’s offence, he shall give to her whatever he may have taken. 
18 Or, if the wife sceks divorce because of the husband’s offence, he shall 
not give her whatever may have been received. 19 There is no divorce 
in pious marriages. Thus ends (the topic of) disaffection. 


20 The wife who, (though) prohibited, indulges haughtily in the sport 
of drink, shall pay a fine of three panas. 21 In case she goes by day toa 
show by women or on a pleasure-trip with women, the fine (shall be) six 
panas, for going to a show by men or on a pleasure-trip with men, twelve 
panas. 22 At night, (the fines shall be) double. 


23 For leaving home when the (husband) is asleep or intoxicated and 
for not opening the door to the husband, twelve panas (is the fine). 24 
For going out at night, (the fine is) double. 


25 Ifa man and a woman, with sexual intercourse in view, indulge 
in gestures with limbs or indecent conversation in secret, twenty-four panas 
is the fine for the woman, double that for the man. 


‘when the husband’s misdeeds are found out through a friend sent to him as a spy’ (Cb), 
‘who has approached for intercourse a remale c:nissary who is a friend (of the wie) * (Cs). 
This latter is clearly influenced by classical poetry. Meyer has * when she-hus acknowledged 
(upagama, i.e., abkyupagama) betore a wile of the same caste that she disiikes he: husband.’ 
Perhaps the only idea is ‘approaching a person of the same varna through an intermediary’ 
for shelter or aid, rather than for intercourse, in which case the punishment woula have 
been moresevere. The offence is conceivable more of the wife than of the husband ; mttiuyd- 
vali, however, is masculine. Russ. reads ‘if he makes false statements (:ntihydvdci) that 
he has clear proof (drstalinge) that she refuses intercourse (matthundadpahdre) or that she tells 
hin through a woman siinilar to herself used as an informer (that she refuses intercoutse).’ 
17-18 Itis strange that when the wie is in the wrong, she gets her gulka, striduana etc., 
while she gets nothing if forced to seek divorce through the man’s wrong. Apparently, 
the only test is who seeks divorce. It is not unlikely, however, that asyai and nasyai have 
changed places in the two ss. ; or perhups we should read asau (for asyai) and nasau (for 
nasyti). 19 dharmavivdhandm, i.e., the first four forms. — dvesah is added from Cb 
in the colophon, for uniformity. 


20 darpimadyakridaydm ‘ haughty play (carpakridd) and the sport of drinking’ (Cb Cs 
Meyer). A 3ingleidea might appear preferable. 21 stripreksduihdra: we have to under- 
stand stripreksd ‘ a show put up by women only’ and strivildra. vihdra is *‘ udya@nagamana ’” 
(Ch). — Cf. Manu, 9.84. 


28 suptumattapravrajane: it is necessary to read matia as in Cb, as it describes the 
husband. pravrejanais * leaving home, going out.’ — . acdne,i.e., not opening, when, for 
example, the husband returns home at night. 24 niskasane is the same as pravrajane. 


25 maithundrthendnga-: Ch text shows mcithundrthe ’nanga-, which Cs adopts; the 
actual comment in Cb, however, implies the formerreading. ananga is superfluous, when 
maithunartha is there. For the instrumental case of the latter word, cf. 3.4.21 below. 


3. 8.26 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 204 


26 For touching the hair, the knot of the lower garment, teeth or 
nails, the lowest fine for violence (shall be imposed), double (that) for the 
man, 


27 And in case of conversation in a suspicious place, punishment by 
whipping may be substituted for the fine in panas. 28 To women, the 
Candala shall give five strokes with the lash in the region between the sides 
(i.e., on the back) in the centre of the village. 29 Or, she may free herself 
by paying a pana for each stroke. 


Thus ends (the topic of) misconduct. 


80 When a man and a woman, who are forbidden, make a gift to one 
another of small articles, a fine of twelve panas (shall be imposed), if of big 
articles, twenty-four panas, if of money or gold, a fine of fifty-four panas 
for the woman, double (these) forthe man. 81 Half these same fines (shall 
be imposed) in case the two are unapproachable (for each other), also in cases 
of forbidden dealings with men. 


Thus ends (the topic of) prohibition. 


82 On account of disaffection towards the king, and misconduct, 
and by wilfully runing away, a woman loses ker ownership over the 
woman’s property, what she has brought (from her kinsmen) and dowry. 


26 Cb Cs interpret dlambana as ‘ksatakarana’ when construing it with danta and 
nakha. But danta and nakha would rather appear to be those of the other party, like kega 
and nivi. Meyer proposes hasta for danta, or stanasakthyaca- for dantanokha-. It must be 
admitted that danta and nakha are strange and can only be thought of in the commentators’ 
sense. hasta for danta and sakthyd- for nakhd- might appear better. 


28 strindm: this would imply that males were exempt from this whipping. — jpak- 
gantare is from Cb paksdntaram cannot be properly construed. The expression seems to 
refer to the back. Cb. Cs however explain by ‘on each side’, which would be an unusual 
sense. Mceyer’s suggestion ‘ at intervals of half a month’ (Nachtrag) is hardly acceptable. 
29 panikam: as this comes to a small fine, Meyer thinks that pavi-a has dropped out before 
panikum. For one Jasb as the equivalent of five panas, he compares 2.27.19. That 
appears plausible. — aticdrah: other aticdras are dealt with in 4.18. 


80 ksudrakacravya: see 3.17.6. — sthiilakadravya: see 8.17.7-8. 31 agamyayoh: 
between whom a sexual relationship is prohibited. — pratisiddhapurusavyavaharesu : 
Cs has ‘ dealings between two men between whom dealings are forbidden.’ Itseems that the 
wife’s dealings ( such as-purchasing, borrowing etc.) with a forbidden man are meant. 
Jolly-Schmidt have the curious note * ‘‘in the case of forbidden intercourse with them.”’ 
An apparentallusion to homosexuality.’ That is an aticdra mentioned in 4.13.40, not here. 


82 rdjadvisiais‘ treason.’ — «ticdra, as treated above in this Chapter, does not lead 
to loss of stridhana. — dlmdapakramanena seems to be running away from home. In 
3.4.15, one case of nigpatana is said to lead to loss of stridhana. Cb has ‘stealing the hus- 
band (?).? — The kdrikd is evidently derived from a different source. 


205 CONCERNING JUDGES [ 8.4. 12 


CHAPTER FOUR 


SECTION 59 (Continued) 


(x) Leaving Home; (ai) Going Away (with a Man); (a2) Short 
Absence from Home; and (ziiz) Long Absence from Home. 


1 For a woman who leaves the house of her husband, the fine is six 


panas, except in case of ill-treatment. 2 If she was forbidden (to do s0), 
(the fine is) twelve panas. 


8. If she has gone to a neighbour’s house, (the fine is) six panas. 4 
In case a neighbour, a mendicant or a trader gives her shelter, food or goods 
(respectively), the fine shall be twelve panas. 5 If (these have been) 
forbidden, the lowest fine for violence (shall be imposed). 


6 If she has gone to the house of a stranger, (the fine is) twenty-four 
panas. 7 In case a (stranger ) gives shelter to another man’s wife, a fine 
of a hundred panas (shall be imposed ), except in cases of distress. 8 In 
case he has prohibited (her) or is ignorant (about her coming), he is guiltless. 


9 ‘There is no offence in going to the house of one of ( the following, 
viz.,) @ kinsman of the husband, a trustee, the village headman, a guardian, 
a female mendicant or her own kinsman, if there are on males in it, on account 
of the husband’s ill-treatment,’ say the teachers. 


10 ‘To the house of a kinsman, even if there are malesinit. 11 For, 


how can there be deceit by a chaste woman? 12 This is easy to under- 
stand,’ says Kautilya. 


3.4 


1 viprakdra is clearly by the husband. 


8 atigata is simply ‘ gone to’, not ‘ gone beyond (the neighbour’s house).” 4 It is 
proposed to read -panyadane for -panyddane of the mss. The offence of the neighbour is 
that he gives shelter to the wife, of the bhiksuka that hegives food to her and of the vaidehaka 
that he gives goods to her. Thisin the main is how Cb understands, except that it under- 
stands a pdsanda bhiksu and an evi] trader. There is no reason for the restriction. With 
the reading of the mss. Cs understands ddna with avakdsa and bhiksd, but dddna with 
panya. This appears hardly legitimate. 5 pratisiddhdndm refers to the neighbour, etc. 


% gatyo dandah: the heavy fineisin view of the man being a total stranger, nota known 
neighbour. Meyer has ‘a wife giving an opportunity (avakdga) to another man’s wife,’ 
which is hardly likely. 8 vdrana ‘ preventing,’i.e., prohibiting her from coming in. 


9 sukhdvastha ‘a surety for happiness’ is a sort of trustee for the wife’s happiness. 
He has the responsibility of maintaining her for some time during the husband’s absence 
(s.26). According to Cb ‘ he has brought about the match.” Meyer treats it as an adjective 
to grdmika ‘in affluent circumstances.” — anvddhi: see 8.8.18 above. — apurusam: 
apparently males other than the heads of the families are meant. 


10 jrdltikulam: this excludes sukhdvastha and others. 11 chalam ‘deceit’ rather 


than ‘contention about trifles, word-jugglery ’ (Meyer). The latter meaning, however, 
suits in 3.5.24. 12 etad, i.e., the fact that chaste women would not cheat, or, the deceit if 
practised by a woman. 


8.4. 18) KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 206 


18 Going to the house of a kinsman on the occasion of death, illness, 
calamity or childbed is not atallforbidden. 14 For the (husband) preventing 
her on such an occasion, the fine is twelve panas. 15 If even on such occa- 
sions she conceals heresclf, she shall forfeit -her woman’s property, or the 
kinsmen, concealing (her, shall forfeit) the balance of the dowry. 


Thus ends (the topic of) leaving home. 


16 In case a (wife) leaving the house of her husband, goes to another 
village, the fine is twelve panas as well as the loss of her endowment and 
ornaments. 17 Or, in case she goes in the company of a man with whom 
sex-intercourse is permissible, the fine shall be twenty-four panas and the 
loss of all rights, excepting the giving of maintenance and approaching during 
the period. 18 For the man (the punishment is) the lowest fine for violence, 
if equal or superior (in varna), the middle (fine) if inferior. 19 A blood- 
relation is not to be punished. 20 In case there is prohibition, half the 
(above) fines (shall be imposed on him). 


21 Incase she goes to a secret place midway on her way or if she accom- 
panies on the way, with carnal] intentions, a man who is suspected or forbidden, 
one should know that as adultery. 


22 Accompanying a man on the way is no offence in the case of (the 
women of) dancers, wandering minstrels, fishermen, fowlers, cowherds, vintners 
and others who give frecdom to their women. 28 Or, in case of prohibi- 
tion, for the man taking the woman with him or the woman going with 
him, the fines (shall be) half the same as above. 


Thus ends (the topic of) going with a man. 


13 garbha may, be her own confinement or rather that of some other female relation. 
15 githumand, in effect, amounts toa refusal to return to the husband’s house. — S$ulka- 
$esam implies payment of the dowry in instalments. 


_ 16 sthdpyd-: see 3.2.15. 17 gamyena,i.e., not within prohibited degrees of relation- 
ship. — - sarvadharma-, i.e., al) social and religious rights and privileges. — anyatra 
bharmadanatirthag imanébhydm : this means that she is entitled to these two privileges, both 
of which involve the husband’s duties towards her. Cs has ‘except when she goes for the 
maintenance of the household or for the sake of the period.’ The latter would imply 
freedom to ignore the husband during the riu. Mcyer’s ‘except when she creates (i.e., 
seeks) livelihood or makes a pilgrimage’ is also little likely. In the footnote, Meyer 
suggests bharmdddna as ‘receiving maintenance’, ‘and ‘adultery by the wife during the 
riu’ as the meaning of tirthagamana. Neither is neccessary. 18 tulyagreyasoh: Ch reads 
tulytsreyasah evidently to make it conform with pumsah, and explains ‘one equal in 
varna’ only. Buttwo persons are clearly to be thought of. 20 pratigedhe, i.e., when 
the bandhu is asked not to go with that woman. 


21 vyantare seems to mean ‘in the middle’ while she is on the wav (pathi). Cb has 
‘away from the road.’ Meyer thinks that atavyantare ‘inside a forest’ is to be read. — 
maithundarthena : Cb supplies vidydt after this and understands it with the preceding case. 
Cs follows. It seems better, however, to construe this word with what follows, particularly 
with pathyanusarane. — . pathyanusarane is proposed for pathyanusdrena of the mss., in 
conformity with the next s. and the title of the sub-section. — Besides proposing atavyan- 
tare, Mever also proposes giidhadese vabhizamane for -desabhigamane. His tr. is ‘if she 
approaches with carnalintentions a man on the road, either in the middle of the forest or 
in g secret place, or if she accompanies etc. ’ which is not very happy. — samgrahanam: 
for the punishments Cb refers to 4.12.88. 


22 prasrstastrikadnam, i.e., among whom women enjey a greater freedom of movement 
than among the othercommunitics. 23 ta eva, i.e.,thoseof ss.17-19 above. 


207 CONCERNING JUDGES [ 8. 4, 86 


24 The wives of a Sidra, a Vaigya, a Ksatriya and a Brahmin, who 
are away on a short journey, shall wait for a period (of one year) increased 
successively by one year, if they have not borne children, for one year more, 
if they have borne children. 25 Those who.are proyided for (shall wait) 
for double the period. 26 The trustees shall maintain those unprovided 
for, kinsmen for four or eight years after that. 27 Thereafter, they shall 
release (them) after taking back according as they had given. 


28 The (wife) shall wait for a Brahmin who is away studying, for ten 
years if she has no child, for twelve if she has a child, for a royal servant (she 
shall wait) till thé end of her life. 29 And if she bears a child from a man 
of the same varna, she shall not incur blame. 


30 Or, when the affluence of the family has disappeared, she, being 


released by the trustees, may marry again as she desires, or when she is in 
distress, for the sake of livelihood. 


81 After a pious marriage, the maiden shall wait for her husband who 
has gone away without informing her, for seven periods if no news is heard 
about him, for one year if news is heard. 82 If he has gone away after 
informing her, she shall wait for five periods when no news is heard, for ten 
if news is heard. 383 If he had paid only a part of the dowry, she shall wait 
for three periods if there is no news, seven periods if there is news about him. 
84 If he had paid the dowry (in full), (she shall wait) for five preriods if 
there is no news, ten if there is news. 85 After that, she may remarry as 
she desires, with the permission of the judges. 86 ‘For, frustration of the 
period is destruction of sacred duty,’ says Kautilya. 


Thus ends (the topic of) short absence from home. 


24 samvatsarotiaram, i.e., 1, 2, 8 and 4 respectively. — samcatsarddhikam, i.e., 
2,3,4and 5 years. 25 dvigunam kdlam,i.e., double the twosetsinthelasts, 26 sukhd- 
vasthadh : sees. 9 above. These maintain for the periods stipulatedin ss.24-25. — param, 
i.c., after this stipulated period, the jidtis take upon themselves the responsibility. sukhd- 
vasthadh is understood as an adjective to jrdtayah by Mcyer *‘ kinsmenin affluent circum- 
stances’ which is hardly right. 27 pramuiiceyuxh: i.e., she may then marry again; cf, 
3.80 below. Cb Cs understand ‘ release ’ to go to her parents’ house if she so desires, which 
appears hardly adequate. 


28 rdjapurusam: A Brahmin would seem meant primarily. 29 savarnatag ca pra- 
gata: apparently this applies to the rdjapurusa’s wife only, though Cb Cs make it applicable 


to all cases. Because of ca ‘from a higher varna’ is also to be understood according to 
them. 


30 kutumbarddhilope : in this case, even before the stipulated period is over, she may 
be allowed to remarry. — sukhdvasthair vimuktd : it is obvious that the sukhdvasthas have 


been able to maintain her out of the family funds only. When these dwindle, they give 
her freedom to marry again. 


3] kumdri and parigrahitaram both imply that the marriage has not been consum- 
mated. — sapta tirthdni: the counting may start from the day of departure or from 
the day on which he was expected back. 83 ekadegadattasulkam: payment of fulka in 
instalments is clearlyimplied. Itis to be noted that the reference tc Sulka here is in connec- 
tion with dharmavivdhas. 384 This is naturally a repetition of s. 82. 85 dharmasthair 
visrsta : we may conclude that the permission of the judges is necessary ifa virgin wife in 


the first four forms of marriage wishes to marry again. 86 Apparently the maxim in this 
formis Kautilya’s own. 


8, 4. 87 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 208 


87 The wife of a (man) who has gone away on a long journey or has 
become a wandering monk or is dead shall wait for seven periods, for one 
year if she has borne children. 388 After that she may approach (for marriage) 
a full brother of the husband. 89 If there are many (such brothers, she 
should approach) one who is proximate (to the husband), one who is pious, 
one capable of maintaining her, or the youngest if without a wife. 40 In 
the absence of these, even one whois nota full brother, a sapinda or a member 
of the family who is near. 41 Among these, this alone shall be the order 
(of preference). 


42 In case she marries setting aside these heirs of her husband, 
(or) in case she has a lover, the lover, the woman, the bestower (of the 
woman) and the man who marries her receive the penalty for adultery. 


CHAPTER FIVE 
SECTION 60 PARTITION OF INHERITANCE 


(z) Order of Inheritance 


1 Sons, having fathers, — with the father and mother alive, — are 
not masters (of the property). 2 After the father’s death, there may be a 
partition of the father’s property among them. 


8 What is acquired by oneself is not to be divided, except what is brought 
into being out of the father’s property. 


87 dirghapravdsinah: apparently in the case of a ‘long’ journey no time limit for 
returnis fixed. —- sapta lirthdni: ifthe period of waiting is to start from the day of depar- 
ture in the case of the dirghapravdsin, as is only to be expected, there would be little material 
difference between the short and long journey. It probably lay in the distance from home 
of the intended destination. 389 pratydsanna, i.e., proximate to the husband in point of 
ege. — kanisthamabhdryam: Cs understandstwo distinct brothers. But‘ the youngest 
if anmarried ’ (Cb) is better, since a descending order of preference isintended. Meyer has 
the latter explanation, but offers another, ‘ dharmika bharmasamartha kanistha is the second 
and abhdrya is the third alternative.’ 40 kulyam a member of the husband’s family 
beyond the sapinda-relationship. dsannam is to be construed with this word as shown by 
8.6.22. 41 The Smrtis recommend this order for niyoga, not for re-marriage. Cf. 
Manu, 9.59. 


42 jdrakarmant: Meyer manages to get from jdtakarmani of G the same meaning as 
jarakarmani. A 0d or ca is to be understood ; else vedana itself would bejdrakarma. But 
the second half mentions jaéra as well as vettr ‘one who marries.’ — atyayam: the 
punishment of 4.12.33 is apparently to be thought of. 


8.5 
The 60th prakarana is also spread over three Chapters, 3.5-7. 


1 pttrmantah sthitapitrmatrh Gh: it seems clear that the latter expression is a marginal 
gloss explaining pttrmantah that has gotinto the text. The gloss probably owes its origin to 
Manu, 9.104. To get over the tautology Cs has ‘ pitrmaniah, i.e., having excellent parents,’ 
Meyer ‘ pitrmaniah, who are still under the father’s protection.’ 2 dérdhvam pitriah: 
partition during the father’s lifetime is, however, also thought of in s.16 below. Russ. has 
‘parents directly (i.e., without anyone suggesting it) divide inheritance among them (the 
sons ’). 

3 The Smrtis refer to vidyddhana, gauryadhena, etc. in this connection. 


209 CONCERNING JUDGES [8.5.14 


4 Sons or grandsons up to the fourth generation shall be receivers of 
shares of (goods) come down without a partition from the father’s property. 
5 Till then the (funeral) cake remains unbroken. 6 When the cake is 
discontinued, all shall divide in equal shares. 


7 Those who had received no property from the father or those who 
had divided the father’s property, when they live together, may divide again. 
8 And he, through whom the (property) may arise, shall receive two shares. 


9 Full brothers or those living with him shall receive the property 
of a sonless man, and daughters (shall receive it). 


10 Thesons (shall inherit) the estate of a man with sons, or the daughters, 
born in the pious marriages. 11 In the absence of these, the father if alive. 
12 In the absence of the father, the brothers and sons of brothers. 


18 And a brother’s sons, if without their father, shall receive only a 


single share of the father, even if they are many in number, along with the 
brothers. 


14 Of uterine brothers born of more than one father, the partition 
of inheritance is to be from the (respective) father. 


4 avibhaktopagatdndm : supply dravyadndm, ‘ goods come down without there having 
been a partition before.’ Cs has ‘ of those who died (upagata) without dividing the pro- 
perty.’ This is hardly possible. upagata is not uparata. — d caturthdd, i.e., sons, grand- 
sons and great-grandsons. — amsgaseems to refer to the unequal shares as described i in the 
next Chapter. The idea apparently is that a son, or a grandson would be entitled to the 


preferential share to which his deceased father or grandfather was entitled. 5 tdvad avic- 
chinnah etc.: cf. Manu, 9.186. 


7% apiirdravydh ‘ who had received no property from the father ’ when they had decided 
to live separately, the reason probably being that there was then no property that could 
be partitioned. — sahka jivantah: these are the samsrstins of the Smrtis. They are 
referred toin this text muchtooearly. 8 doyamsam: Meyer would prefer to read rdchyam- 
gam ‘ a portion corresponding to the addition.’ rddhiis not ‘ additicn ’, and we should have 
anuripa for ‘ correspcnding’. — The rule is made applicable in the Smrtis to the case 
where a son through his efforts recovers ancestral property that was mortgaged etc. Cf. 
Vasistha, 17.51. Brhaspati, however, agrees with this text in applying it to samsrstins. 
(Cf. Jolly, ZDMG, vol. 71, p. 288). 


9 sodaryadh: these may or may not beliving withhim. — sahajivinovd: these may 
not be sodarya. — kanyd$ ca: the ca shows that the daughters are to get a share which- 
ever type of brother inherits. Her share would apparently be equal to that of an uncle. 


Cs understands only an amount for marriage. But the prdddnika is mentioned in s. 21 
below. 


10 riktham: it is difficult to find any distinction between riktha and dravya of s. 9. 
Perhaps s. 9 refers to samsrstins, this s. to the first partition. — duhitaro od, i.e., the 
daughters inherit if there are no sons. vd can hardly be understocd as ca. This s. 
places the daughter before the brother, not together with him asins.8. — dharmi- 
sthesu etc. : the implication is that in the case of the last four forms of marriage, the daughters 
are excluded from inheritance even in the absence of sons. 12 bhrdtaro bhrdirpuira$ ca: 

these share jointly. — Contrast Manu, 9.185-7 (daughter not admitted), Yaj., 2.185 (wife 


between sons and daughters), Narada, 18.50-51 (father, brothers and their sons not 
mentioned). 


18 apitrkd bahavo ’pi goes primarily with bhrdtrpuirdh and pitur ekam amsgam has refer- 
ence to them only. A deceased brother’s sons, even if many, receive, amongst them, only 


the share which their father, if alive, would have received along with his brothers. ‘This 
is partition per stirpes. 


8. 5.15 } KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 210 


15 As between the father, the brother and the son, so long as the earlier 
one is alive, they do not depend on the later one, and so long as the eldest 
is alive, on the youngest even if he had received wealth. 


16 In the case of partition during his life-time, the father shall not show 
special favour to any one. 17 And he shall not, without ground, exclude 
any one from inheritance. 


18 When there is no property of the father, the eldest shall support 
the younger brothers except those who are wrongly behaved. 


19 There is partition only among those who have attained majority. 
20 They shall deposit with the mother’s kinsmen or with village elders, 
the share of those who have not attained majority, clearing it of debts, till 
they come of age, also the share of one who Is away on a journey. 


21 To (brothers) who are not established (in life) they shall give an 
amount for their marriage, equal to that of those already settled, and to 
daughters an amount for bestowal in marriage. 


22 There is to be an equal division of debts and property. 


238 ‘Those without any property shall divide even water-vessels,’ say 
the teachers. 24 ‘This is play with words,’ says Kautilya. 25 There 
is division of an object that exists, not of one that does not exist. 


26 He should cause partition to be made in the presence of witnesses, 
declaring with specific mention, ‘so much property is joint, of that so much 
is each one’s share.’ 


27 They shall divide again what is wrongly divided, what is robbed 
by one from the other, what is hidden, or what, being unknown, comes to 
light (later). 


15 Apprently this s. refers to the manager in a joint family. Seniority determines it. 
Ch, reading arthagrahinah, explains ‘ those who had given the loan (arthagrdhinah) should 
demand it of the father, the brother and the son of the debtor in this order.’ Cs makes this 
clear by understanding rnaddtdarah as the subject and explaining arthagrdhinah as gen. sing. 
‘of the man who had taken the debt.’ The idea seems out of place here and does not 
agree with therulein 8.11.14. — arthagrdhinam ‘ who had received wealth ’ apparently by 
his own endeavour. The force of api is to be understood with this. 


17 akdranat: a valid kdrana would be patitatva etc. of s. 80 below. 

20 The dis necessary before vyavaharaprapandt. — Baudhéayana, 2.2.42, is an exact 
parallel (cf. Kane, HD, III, 578 n. 1077). 

21 natvesanikam: the expenses for marriage would be over and above their regular 

share. 

22 riktha is understood by Cb Cs as debt owed to the family by strangers. This can 
hardly be right in the context. Cf. Yaj., 2.117; Manu, 9.218. 

28 The dcdryas seem to be rather keen on formalities to avoid future trouble. 24 cha- 
lam ‘ play with words’ as in the Nyaya system (Meyer). Cs has ‘contradiction in terms: 
if they are nigktmcana, they cannot have water-jugs.’ 

26 anubhdsya, i.e., specifying the share. — kdrayet: the subject seems to be dhar- 

masthahk. A village elder or an elderly kinsman is also possible. 


211 CONCERNING JUDGES [ 8.6.6 


28 The king shall take that to which there are no heirs, excluding 
maintenance for the wife and what is needed for funeral rites, with the excep- 


tion of the property of a Brahmin learned in the Vedas. 29 He shall bestow 
that on those well-versed in the three Vedas. 


80 An outcast, a son born to an outcast and an impotent person are 
not entitled to a share, also an idiot, a lunatic, a blind and a leprous person. 
81 If these have a wife, their progeny, not of the same kind (as the father), 


shall receive a share.. 82 The others (shall receive only) food and clothing, 
excepting the outcasts. 


83 And if, after they have been married, their potency is lost, 


the kinsmen shall beget sons (for them, and) he shall assign shares to 
them. 


CHAPTER SIX 


SECTION 60 (Continued) 


(77) Division into Shares 


1 Among sons of the same wife, the (special) share of the eldest (is 
to be) goats in the case of Brahmins, horses in the case of Ksatriyas, cattle 
in the case of Vaigyas and sheep in the case of Sudras. 2 One-eyed orlame 
among them (are to be) the share of the middlemost (and) those of mixed 
colours the share of the youngest. 8 In the absence of animals, the eldest 
shall receive one part of every ten articles, with the exception of jewels. 
4, For, he has the fetters of (the duty of offering) oblations to the manes 
tied round him. 5 This is the partition recommended by USanas. 


6 From the personal belongings of the father, the carriage and ornaments 
(are to be) the share of the eldest; the bed and seat, and bell-metal dishes 


28 striurtti: only the wife seems meant. — pretakdrya from Cb is distinctly prefer- 
able to pretakadarya of the mss. which hardly yields a sense. Meyer proposes to emend it to 
pretakarmadeya. Kane (III, 763 n.1469 and 810-1 n.1586 and 1587) would understand 
kadarya in the sense of bhrtya ‘a dependant’ as in Katyayana (yogidbhrtyaurdhvadehikam). 
That would be a very unusual meaning for the word. 


81 sati bhdryarthe tegdm refers to jadonmattandhakusthinah only. 82 patttavarjak : 
the patiia is not entitled to maintenance ; his son, however, would be entitled. 


83 bdndhavadh : for this niyoga, the order of 3.4.88-40 would apparently operate ; cf. 
above 3.7.6. 


8.6 


1 bradhmandndm ajah ‘ because the goats are useful in sacrifices ’ (Cs). Baudhayana, | 
2.2.8.9, assigns cattle to Brahmins and goats to Vaisyas. 2 kdnalangah: Cb comment 
implies this reading though its text shows -lingdh, which is adopted by Cs and explained 
‘ characterised by one-eyedness,’ which is quite unsatisfactory. — The question whether, 
when there are none of such animals, the junior sons are to go without them, is not 
answered. 5 auganaso vibhdgah: Cb Cs state that as this view is not contradicted, it is 
acceptable to Kautilya. But the following ss. mention an alternative arrangement, and, as 
is often the case, the last mentioned view may well be that of the author. 


6 krsnam dhdnydyasam : Cb reads krgnadhdnya-. Apastamba, 2.6.14.7-8, mentions 
krsna bhauma in the share of the eldest. 7 ekadravyasya: such as the work of a single 


8.6.7 } KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 212 


used for meals, the share of the middlemost; black grains, iron (objects), 
household furnishing and the bullock-cart, the share of the youngest. 7 
Of the remaining articles or of a single article (there is to be) an equal division. 


8 The sisters do not inherit, receiving (only) a share of the bell-metal 
dishes used for meals and ornaments from the mother’s personal belongings. 


9 The eldest, if devoid of manly qualities, shall receive (only) a third 
of an eldest son’s share, one-fourth (only) if he behaves in an unjust manner 
or has given up religious duties. 10 If he behaves wantonly, he shall for- 
feit the whole. 


11 By that are explained the middlemost and youngest sons. 12 
Among these, he who is endowed with manly qualities shall receive a half 
of an eldest son’s (special) share. 


18 In the case of sons of different wives, however, seniority (is to be) 
in accordance with priority of birth, in the absence of one wife married accord- 
ing to the sacrament and another not married according to the sacrament, 
and in the absence of one wife married while a virgin and another married 
when she had lost her virginity, (also) among two sons born of the same wife 
or among twins. 


14 Inthe case of the Sita, the Magadha, the Vratya and the Rathakara, 
partition (is to be) in accordance with mastery (in the profession). 15 The 
rest shall live under him. 16 If (all are) without mastery, they shall receive 
equal shares. 


slave, the water of a single welletc. (Jolly-Schmidt). Csinterprets vdasapi. Meyer prefers 
eladdravyasya ‘ ofthis whole property.’ Theideaof sarva can hardly be brought in in this 
way. — Therule about the rest of the property would also apply to USanas’s scheme. — 
For special shares, cf. Manu, 9.112 ff., Srestarbas 2.6.14.10-11. They are among kali- 
varjyas later. 

8 addyddd bhaginyak: this can be reconciled with 8.5.10 if we suppose here that 
daughters do not inherit when there are sons. Meyer thinks of special shares being denied 
tothem. Thatisnot unlikely. Manu, 9.118, Yaj., 2.114, allow 1/4th of a son’s share toa 
daughter. 

9 mdnuga, i.e., capacity to earn, to manage the household etc. — jyesthamsad: 
he loses a part of the special share ; his regular share is not affected. — anydyaurttih is 
from Cb. andycorttth of the mss. could mean ‘living without earning an income,’ but doe 
not appearalikelyreading. 10 sarvam refers to jyesthaméa only. . 


12 jyesthamsad ardham: this would come from the estate, or from the eldest son’s 
special share, if the latter is n.dnugahina. 


13 samskrtdsamskriayoh (abhdve): i.e., the son of a samskrid wife would be senior to 
that of an asamskrtd, irrespective of age. asamskrtd ‘one married by the Gandharva and 
other forms’ (Cb). — -krtakgatayor is from the commentin Cb for -krtakriyayor. Cs 
understands by the latter the same as krtaksatd. But in 8.7.4, krtakriyd is ‘ one married in 
the proper way.’ Meyer proposes kanudkrtdkrtakriyayor, i.e., kanydkrtakriyd and krtakrta- 
kriyd (krid meaning ‘ violated’). This is hardly satisfactory. The idea, of course, is that 
the son of a wife who was a virgin at the time of marriage is senior to that of a wife not virgin 
at the time, irrespective ofage. —- yamayor: cf. Manu, 9.125-6. 


14 aifcaryato, i.e., according to proficiency in the profession. 


218 CONCERNING JUDGES [8.7.8 


17 Among (a Brahmin’s) sons from wives beloning to the four varnas, 
the son of the Brahmin wife shall receive four shares, the son of the Ksatriya 
wife three shares, the son of the Vaisya wife two shares, the son of the Sidra 
wife one. 18 By that is explained partition among sons from wives belong- 
ing to three and two varnas of a Ksatriya and a Vaisya (respectively). 


19 A Brahmin’s son born of a wife belonging to the immediately next 
varna is to have an equal share. 20 That of a Ksatriya or a Vaisya is to 
have half a share, or an equal share if endowed with manly qualities. 


21 The only son among two wives, one of the same varna (as the hus- 


band) and the other of a different varna, shall receive everything, and shall 
maintain the kinsmen. 


22 In the case of Brahmins, however, the son born of a Sidra wife shall 
receive (only) one-third (of the property) as his share, a sapinda or a proxi- 
mate member of the family (shall receive) two-thirds for the sake of 

“offering the funeral oblations. 28 In the absence of these, the father’s 
teacher or pupil (shall receive the two-thirds). 


24 Or, a person appointed, either a mother’s kinsman or a person: 


of the same gotra, may beget on his wife a ksetraja son; to him he shall 
allot that property. 


CHAPTER SEVEN 


SECTION 60 (Continued) 


(222) Classification of Sons 


1 ‘Seed, dropped in the property of another, belongs to the owner of 
the field,’ say (some) teachers. 2 ‘The mother is (only) a leather-bag (for 
holding the seed); who owns the seed, to him belongs the child,’ say others. 
8 ‘Both are to be found,’ says Kautilya. 


18 ksatriyavaigyayoh: the ratios would be 8: 2:1 and 2 : 1 respectively. Cf. Manu, 
9.152-3, Yaj., 2.125. . 

19-20 This seems to be an alternative to ss. 17-18. In this arrangement a Kgatriya’s 
son from a Vaisya wife gets less than in the preceding arrangement. According to Cs, this 
arrangement operates when there are no sons from the other wives. There is nothing to 
indicate this. Cb seems to refer am$a to jyesthamsa. 


22 pdragavah: see 8.7.21. Cb states that according to others this rule applies by 
upalaksana also to a Ksatriya’s son from a Sidra wife. 28 dcdryo’ntevdstvd: the Smrtis 
mention these in the regular list of heirs before the king; cf. Manu, 9.187, Yaj., 2.185. 
Their mentionin the present context is more appropriate. 


24 asya,i.e., the Brahmin who has only a sidrdputra. — mdatrbandhuh : this is because 
a sapinda orakulyaisnotthere. — tad dhanam,i.e., the 2/8rds share. 


8.7 


8 vidyamanam ubhayam : Cb has ‘ since both ksetra and bija are necessary, the offspring 
belongs to both.’ The idea rather is, in certain circumstances, it belongs to the owner of the 
ksetra, in others to the bijin. By agreement, he belongs to both, when he is called doyamu- 
sydyana ; cf. s.'7 below. Cf. Manu, 9.82 ff., for a full discussion. 


8.7.4] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 214 


4 A (son) begotten by oneself on a duly married wife is the legitimate 
son. 5 Equal to him is the son of the appointed daughter. 


6 A(son) begotten on the wife (of a man) by a person appointed, whether 
of the same goira or of a different gotra, is the ksetrajason. 7 If the begetter 
has no other son, he belongs to both fathers or both gotras and offers funeral 
offerings to and inherits property from both. 8 With the same duties and 
rights as he, is the (son) secretly born, who is, however, secretly begotten in 
the house of the kinsmen. 


9 One abandoned by the kinsman is the cast-off, a son to him who 
performs the sacraments for him. 10 The offspring of a maiden is the 
“maiden’s son.’ 11 The (son) of a bride married when enceinte is ‘ brought 


with the marriage.’ 


12 The (son) of a woman remarried is ‘the remarried woman’s son.’ 18 
If begotten by oneself, he becomes an heir to his father and kinsmen. 14 
If begotten by another, (he is an heir) only to him who performs the sacra- 
ments for him, not to the kinsmen. 15 With the:same rights is the adopted 
son, given with water by the parents. 


16 One who himself or through his kinsmen has offered to be a son is 
the son who has approached. 17 One appointed to the position of a son is 
the son made. 18 One purchased is the son bought. 


19 When, however, a legitimate son is born, (the others), if of the same 
varna, receive a one-third share, if not of the same varna, receive only food and 
clothing. 


4 krtakriyd is one who is duly married. Cf. 8.6.18 above. 5 putrikdputrah: cf. 
Manu, 9.127 ff. 

6 anyagotrena: this would refer to mdirbandhus ; cf. 8.6.24, also 1.17.50. 7 dvigotro 
vd: vdhas thesenseofca(Cs). This is the dvuyamusydyana of thelatertexts. — Cf.Manu, 
9.182, Yaj.,2.127. Baudhayana, 2.2.21, is an exact parallel and Katyéyana has a metrical 
rendering of thisrule. 8 bandhiindm: Meyer proposes bandhund ‘ by a kinsman,’ which is 
not necessary. — {fu has no significance. 


9 samerkariuh: the upanayana samskara is primarily meant. 10 kdninah: cf. Manu, 
9.172 (he belongs to the man who marries the mother), Y&j., 2.129 (he belongs to the mother’s 
father). 


18 svayamjata, i.e., begotten by the second husband, and parajaia, i.e., a son by the 
first husband, who is accepted by the second husband. Cb Cs refer them to the aurasa, 
and ksetraja and others respectively. There is no reason why these should be understood here. 
Two kinds of paunarbhava are clearly to be understood. — pttur bandhtinam ca is as pro- 
posed by Meyer. Itis obviously the originalreading. 15 tatsadharmda: Cb Cs refer tai to 
goayamjata. Normally it should refer to parajdta. On this view, the rights of the adopted 
son would appear restricted. 


16 bandhubhir vd: because he has no parents he is given by the kinsmen. — Forthe 
_ sons, cf. Manu, 9.158-179, Yaj., 2.128-182 (closely agreeing with this text), Narada, 18.45-47, 


19 Baudhayana, 2.3.11, agrees, using the same words (cf. D. R. Bhandarkar, Some 
Aspects etc., p. 59). 


215 CONCERNING JUDGES [ 8. 7. 86 


20 The sons of a Brahmin and a Ksatriya born of a wife belonging to 
the immediately next varna are of the same varna (as the father), of a wife 
belonging to the next but one varna, are not of the same varna. 21 A 
Brahmin’s son from a Vaisgya wife is Ambastha, from a Sidra wife a Nisada 
or a Paragava. 22 A Ksatriya’s son from a Sidra wife is Ugra. 28 A 
Vaigya’s son (from a Sidra wife) is nothing but a Sidra. 24 And of these 
(three varnas) sons begotten on wives of the same varna by those who have 
not practised the vows, are Vratyas. 25 ‘These are the ‘right order’ sons. 


26 From a Sidra (are born of a Vaigya, a Ksatriya and a Brahmin wife 
respectively) the Ayogava, the Ksatta and the Candala. 27 Froma Vaisya 
(are born) the Magadha and the Vaidehaka (of a Ksatriya and a Brahmin 
wife respectively). 28 From a Ksatriya (is born) the Sita (ofa Brahmin 
wife). 29 The Sita and the Magadha mentioned in the Purana, however, 
are different, a special type from the Brahmin and the Ksatriya. 


30 These are the ‘reverse order’ sons, who come into existence because 
of the transgression of his own duties by the king. 


31 From an Ugra on a Nisaida wife is begotten the Kukkuta; in the 
opposite case, the Pulkasa. 32 From an Ambastha on a Vaidehaka wife 
is born the Vaina; in the opposite case, the Kusilava. 83 From an Ugra 


on a Ksatta wife is born the Svapaika. 84 These and others are the inter- 
mediate castes. 


35 A Rathakara is a Vaisya, (so called) because of his profession. 


36 Among them, marriage (is to be) in their own (caste of) origin, 
there is to be the observance of precedence and the pursuit of the hereditary 


20 Manu, 10.6, considers all three anantardputras as sadrga. Yaj., 1.91 ff., differs and 
gives names for the mixed castes so formed, which are unknown to Manu, Narada and Kau- 
tilya. 21 mnisdduh padragavo vd: Meyer says the former is an offspring of a regular marri- 
age, the latter is a bastard, and refers to Baudhayana, 2.2.29-30, for support. 24 acarita- 
vratebhyah: the vrata is principally upanayana. Manu, 10.20, also seems to derive ordtya 
from vrata ‘ vow, sacred rite’. Meyer would derive it from trdta ‘a group,’ either as 
‘those wandering in groups’ or ‘ those fallen from their group.’ 


26 This text does not specifically prohibit pratiloma marriages, though s. 30 implies 
that. The women are likely to be wives, not mistresses. 29 paurdnikas tvanyah etc.; Cs 
understands by Sita Sauti Romaharsana, the narrator of the Mahabharata, whois said to 
have sprung from a sacrificial altar ; so was Magadha, according to the Vignu Purana, 1.3. 
They are superior to Brahmins and Ksatriyas respectively(Cs). Thisisverydoubtful. In 
fact the s. is suspicious. wigesuh or vigesatah cannot be properly construed in the sentence. 
The s. appears to be a late marginal comment that has got into the text. Cb seems to 
understand the Sata as springing from a Brahmana and Magadha from a Ksatriya. 


$5 vaisyo is from Cb from vainyo of the mss. The latter cannot be right because the 
Vainya and the Rathakara follow different professions. As Cb remarks ‘ according to some 
Rathakara is an antardla community, but he is only a Vaisya called by this name because 
of the profession.” — This theory of the origin of mixed castes is, of course, open to many 
serious objections. 


36 piurvdparagamiitvam seems to refer to precedence in social matters, in accordance 
with the origin of the mixed castes. Cb Cs, reading pérvdvara-, understand the tule of hyper- 
gamy, a man of a higher community marrying a woman of a lower one, If this is meant, 
we should have a vd after it, showing an option to svayonan vivdhah. — It is proposed 


8. 7. 87 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 216 


occupation. 87 Or, they are to have the same special duties as the Sidra, 
expecting the Candala. 


88 Only the king, behaving in this manner, obtains heaven, otherwise 
hell. 


89 In the case of all intermediate castes, partition is to be in equal 
shares. 


40 Whatever be the customary law of a region, a caste, a corporation 
or a village, in accordance with that alone shall he administer the law 
of inheritance. 


CHAPTER EIGHT 


SECTION 61 CONCERNING IMMOVABLE PROPERTY 


(*) Concerning Dwelling-places 


1 Disputes concerning immovable property (are to be decided) on the 
testimony of neighbours. 


2 A house, a field, a park, an embankment, a tank or a reservoir is 
immovable property. 


8 Along the house (is to be) a boundary, fixed with iron wires in pillars 
at the corners. 4 He should cause the house to be made in conformity with 
the extent of the boundary. 5 Or, he should cause a new fixing of the 
boundary to be made two arainis or three padas away from the wall of a neigh- 
bour’s house. 


to omit svadharmam sthdpayet read after ca in the mss. Those words require rdjd as the 
subject, whichc an be understood neither in the preceding nor the following clause. 
These clauses show that pirvdpara- etc. are in the nominative, not accusative. 87 
anyttra canddlebhyah, i.e., a Candala is not to follow the professions of a Sidra. Cf. 
Manu, 10.51-56. 

88 This also is a spurious s., obviously a marginal comment by the same hand that 
added svadharmam sthdpayet above. No reference is made to the king’s conduct in this 
Chapter to justify the words evam vartamanah. 

89 Cb seems to imply that males and females all get equal shares. Meyer pcints out 
the contrast with 3.6.14-15 above. But the antardlas are probably only those in ss. 31-38, 
which do not include those of 3.6.14. 

40 Manu, 8.41, makes the rule applicable to all matters, not to inheritance alone. 


3.8 

The 61st prakarana is also spread over three Chapters, 8.8-10. — 

8 karnaktlayasasarmbandho: Cb has ‘having a fixing of durable substances with 
copper wires in the pillars (ktla) at the corners (karna).’ Cs has iron instead of copper 
(dyasa). Meyer has ‘an iron joining with pegs (ktla) that have ears (karna, i.e., barhs ?).” 
‘Pointed iron pegs’ is possible, but the commentstors may be right. Perhaps -sambaditho 
is to be read for -sambandhc. — setuh here is ‘a boundary’ or ‘ boundary-mark ’ as in 
8.9.10 ff. 4 bhoga is here ‘expanse, extent’ (Cs). & For pada and aratnt, sec 2.20.11 
and 12. — degahandha is evidently ‘fixing of the limit or boundary *, Cb reads padde 
bandham, paraphrased by ‘ nemibandha, fixing of the circumference’. Cs understands 

pade bandham as * foundation.’ That reading, however, is uncertain. 


217 CONCERNING JUDGES [3.8.17 


6 (He should make) the dung-hill, the water-course or the well, not ina 
place other than that suited to the house, except the water-ditch for a woman 
in confinement till the end of ten days (from delivery). 7 Incase of transgres- 
sion of that, the lowest fine for violence (shall be imposed). 


8 By that are explained the work of cutting fire-wood and channels for 
water used for rinsing on festive occasions. 


9 -He should cause to be made a deep-flowing water-course or one falling 
in a cascade, three padas away (from a neighbour’s wall) or one aratni anda 
half (away). 10 In case of transgression of that, the fine is fifty-four panas. 


11 He should cause to be made a place for carts and quadrupeds, 
a fire-place, a” place for the large water-jar, the grinding mill or the pounding 
machine, one pada away or one aratni (from a neighbour’s wall). 12 In 
case of transgression of that, the fine is twenty-four panas. 


13 Between all two structures or two projecting rooms, (there is to be) 
an open lane one kisku (wide) or three padas. 14 Between them, the distance 
between the eaves of roofs (is to be ) four a7igulas, or one may over-lay the 
other. 


15 He should cause to be made a side-door in the intervening lane, 
measuring one kisku, for making repairs to what is damaged, not (allowing) 
crowding. 16 For light, he should cause a small window to be made high up. 
17 When the dwelling is occupied, he should cause it to be covered. 


6 vdnzis from Cb, so is the additional anyatra ; but grhociidd is proposed for its grho- 
citam. The ablative is clearly necessary for the sense. The grha is more likely that ofa 
neighbour. The idea is that the dung-hill etc., are not to cause nuisance to the latter. — 
anyatra silikakipdd ;: i.e.,the neighbours have to put up with the nuisance of waste water 
from a lying-in chamber for a period of ten days from delivery. 


8 tena, i.e., ‘ by the rule of the sitikdkiipa’ (Cb Cs). It seems, however, that tena 
would refer to the principal rule rather than to the exception toit. Perhaps, indhandvagha- 
tana corresponds to the principal rule, while kalydnakriyesu to the exception. -kriam after 
-ghdtana is not necessary. M2yer would look upon it as a separate word and construe it with 
kalydnakrtyesu ‘ arrangements for joyous festivities.” That is not very happy. — dcd- 
modaka: Meyer has ‘ water strained after rice is cooked.’ That is one of the meanings of 
adcdma ; but ‘ water used for rinsing the mouth after meals’ seems better. 


9 It is proposed to omit pravegya after arainim vd. That is supported by its absence 
in the parallels. 11. The word seems to have got in from some comment in the margin. 
prasravaniprapatam from Cb is an alternative to giidiaprasriam, hardly to udakamdargam 
itself as in Cs. It would mean ‘ which flowsina cascade.’ Cb, however, has * where 
everything falls and flows,’ Cs ‘a place where all water-streams can fall.’ udakamérga is 
for drinking water as distinguished from bhrama which is for waste water ; see 2.4.2. 


11 cakricatuspada ‘ carts and quadrupeds.’ Cf 10.2.16. The quadrupeds can hardly 
be ‘clephants, etc.’ (Cb). ‘Goats and bullocks (cakrin) and elephants, etc.’ (Cs) is 
improbable. Meyer’s ‘with a foundation of four circular (cakrin) padas* as adjective to 
agnistham is altogether unlikely. 


18 prdksiptaka seems to mean ‘ projecting ’ beyond the area of the house ; by such 
$alds are meant cakricatuspadasthana etc. 


15 khandaphullartham asampatam ‘ for making repairs to what is damaged and for not 
allowing people to move in and out easily ’(Cb). Meyer has ‘ causing no knocking together 
when opened wide,’ which appears lesslikely. asampdta may mean * where there can be no 
crowding.’ 17 avasiia, lit., ‘ finished, completed,’ conveys the sense of ‘ occupied ’; cf. its 
opposite anavasita, 8.16.81. — chddayet ‘should cover’ apparently with curtains, as 
Jolly suggests. 


3.8.18 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 218 


18 Or, house-owners, by mutual agreement, may get things done as 
desired, (and) should avoid what is undesirable. 


19 And he should cause that part above the verandah which requires 
protection, to be covered by matting, or a wall touching (the roof), for fear of 
damage by rain. 20 In case of transgression of that, the lowest fine for vio- 
lence (shall be imposed), also in case of obstruction by doors or windows 
sontrary to natural arrangement, except on royal high-ways and roads. 
21 (The same fine is to be imposed) in case of obstruction outside (the house) 
by parts of a ditch, stair-case, water-channel, ladder or dung-hill and in case of 
prevention of the use (of their rights by others). 


22 For one causing damage to the wall of another’s house the fine is 
twelve panas, double that in case of spoiling it with urine or dung. 


28 A free flow of water (must be allowed) in the channels when it is 
raining, else the fine is twelve panas. 


24 And (the same fine shall be imposed) on one staying on when forbid- 
den and on one ejecting a tenant, except in cases of (verbal and physical) in- 
jury, theft, forcible seizure, adultery and wrongful use. 25 The (tenant) 
leaving of his own accord shall pay the balance of the annual rent. 


26 For one not rendering help in a common dwelling, for one obstructing 
a thing used in common and in case of prevention of (rightful) use (by others), 
twelve panas is the fine. 27 Double that (is the fine) for destroying (what is 
used in common). 


28 Of sheds, court-yards and latrines, of fire-places and pounding- 
sheds, and of all open (spaces), use in common is desired. 


19 vdnalati is the ‘ grhavarandaka’ (Cb, which shows the form vanalati). Meyer 
would understand ‘a stick or pole (lati from yasti) which supports the net-work (vdna) of 


straw-matting ’ or ‘a pole of dried fruit.’ Neither seems intended. — dvdryabhdgam is 
from Cb; adhdryabhoga- yields little sense. Meyer’s suggestion of ahdryabhoga ‘ whose 
use cannot be taken away,’ that is, durable, hardly improves matters. — avamarsabhit- 


tim 04 : Cb Cs understand ‘ a small wall,’supplying katapracchannam with it and treating vd 
asca. The expression may mean ‘a wall touching (the roof)’ which would imply an en- 
closed verandah. Meyerinterprets the reading avamadbhaktim as ‘ not leaking at the joints.’ 
20 pratiloma etc. : i.e., whichimpinge on therights of neighbours. — anyatraetc.: this 
would imply that encroachments (bddha) on rdjamarga etc. are allowed, which is strange. 
Perhaps in their case a higher fine is to be thought of, though that is not specified. 

28 prandlimoksah, i.e., not blocking the free flow in-the cnannels. 

24 avakrayinam: cf. 2.86.28. 25 varsdvakrayagesam: clearly a yearly contract 
of tenancy is implied. 

26 sdadmdnyam, i.e., things shared in common as in s. 28 below. — ca is necessary 
after bhoganigrahe and has been added. The text in Cb has Uhogam ca grhe, but the actual 
comment presupposes bhoganigrahe or bhogam ca nigrhnatah. 

28 kosthaka ‘ door of the house’ (Cb Cs). It may be thesameas vdhanakostha ‘a shed 
for vehicles’ of 8.9.25. —- varcdndm: cf. 2.5.6. The word means ‘a latrine.’ Ch, 
adopting varjandm, renders it by ‘rubbish-heap.’ Meyer’s proposed vrajdndm ‘ cattle- 
herds’ is quite unlikely. 


219 CONCERNING JUDGES [ 8.9.10 


CHAPTER NINE 


SECTION 61 (Continucd) 


(#2) Sale of Immovable Property : (tit-v) Fixing of Boundaries ; 


(vt) Concerning Encroachment and Damage. 


1 Kinsmen, neighbours and creditors, in this order, shal] have the right 


to purchase landed property (on sale). 2 After that, others who are outsiders 
(may bid for purchase). 


3 (Owners) shall proclaim a dwelling (as for sale) in front of the house, 
in the presence of members of forty neighbouring families, and a field, a park, 
an embankment, a tank or a reservoir (as for sale) at the boundaries, in the 
presence of village elders who are neighbours, according to the extent of the 
boundary, saying ‘ at this price who is willing to purchase?’ 4 What has 
been thrice proclaimed and not objected to, the purchaser shall be entitled 
to purchase. 


5 Or, in case of increase in price because of competition, the increase in 
price together with the tax shall go to the treasury. 6 The (successful) bidder 
at the sale shall pay the tax. 7 In case of a bid by one who is not an owner, 
the fine shall be twenty-four panas. 8 Ifthe (bidder) does not come (to take 
possession), the owner whose property was auctioned may sell (again) after 
seven days. 9 Incase of transgression by one whose property was auctioned, 
the fine is two hundred panas in the case of immovable property, a fine of 
twenty-four panas in other cases. 


Thus ends (the topic of) sale of immovable property. 


10 A group of neighbouring five villages or ten villages shall decide a 
dispute regarding boundaries between two villages, by means of boundary- 
marks, immovable or artificial. 


3.9 
1 abhydbhaveyuh : cf. 2.28.26 for the distinction in meaning from abhydoah. 


8 -kulyesu is proposed for -kulydh of the mss. in conformity with the locative in the 
parallel -grdmavurddhesu. Cb understands the sense of thelocative. The subject for srdvaye- 
yuh is suaminah understood. — sdmaniais an adjective to grdmavrddha, and not to grama. 
— setubhoga: cf. 3.8.4 above. — For an exactly parallel procedure, cf. 2.21.7-8. 
4 avydahatam ‘not objected to’ by any one claiming the right of pre-emption, etc. Meyer 
has ‘ without hindrance ’ construing it with kretumlabheta. — Since the saleis by auction, 
Meyer thinks of it as carried out under a court decree. In 2.21.7-9, however, there is no 
question ofa court decree. In fact, allsales are controlled by the state and taxed. 


7% asvdmi-: Meyer thinks of a broker or an agent. Cs has ‘one who has no right to 
land.’ The former seemsintended. 9 pratikrustattkrama is not handing over possession 
to the purchaser. — anyatra, i.e., property other than immovable. Contrast 3.15.1 
(which apparently applies only to traders). 


10 The sub-section simavivdda is to be found in ss. 10-14, ksetravivdda in ss. 15-20, 
marydddsthapana in ss. 21-23, and bddhdabddhika is ss. 24-88. The colophon for maryddd- 
sthadpana alone is found. — sdmantd as an adjective to paricagrami and dasagramt is from 
Cb and quite necessary. — sthdvaraih, i.e., trees, rivers etc. — kririmathi.e., mounds, 
things buried underground etc. 


8. 9.11] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 220 


11 Elders among farmers and cowherds, or outsiders who formerly had 
possessions (there), conversant with the boundary-marks, either many or even 
one, should, after declaring the boundary-marks, point out the boundary, 
putting on a contrary dress. In case the boundary-marks as declared are not 
found, the fine shall be a thousand (panas). 18 He shall impose the same 
(fine) on those who, after the boundary is pointed out, remove the boundaries 
or destroy the boundary-marks. 


14 Or, the king shall fix, according as it may be beneficial, the boundary, 
the extent of the marks of which is lost. 


15 Village elders who are neighbours shall decide disputes concerning 
fields. 16 In case of difference of opinion among them, they shall arbitrate 
in favour of that in favour of which are the majority, the honest or the 
approved, or they shall follow the middle course. 17 The king shall take that 
property to which the claim of both is rejected, also that the owner of which 
has disappeared. 18 Or, he may allot it as it may be beneficial. 


19 Incase of forcible seizure, the fine for theft (shall be imposed) in the 
case of immovable property. 20 In case of seizure on good grounds, he shall 
pay an amount (to the owner) after calculating his labour and profit. 


_ 21 For removing the boundary (marks) the lowest fine for violence 
(shall be imposed). 22 For breaking the boundary, twenty-four panas (shall 
be the fine). 


28 By that are explained disputes concerning penance-groves, pasture 
lands, highways, cremation grounds, temples, sacrificial grounds and holy 
places. 


Thus ends (the topic of) fixing of boundaries. 


11 Cbseems to have read -gopdlakalubdhakadh. — piurvabhuktikd vd bahyah: in view 
of vd, this should be understood as an option to karsaka- etc. Cb, however, reads abdhydh 
and contrues piirvabhuklikah with karsaka- etc. — abhijidh from Cb is quite necessary for 
anabhijnah of the mss. — viparitavesdh, i.e., putting on a female dress; cf. 2.86.39. 
12 sahasram: the fine appzars to be rather exorbitant. 13 setucchiddm: trees are pri- 
marily thought of. 

15 Here, too, sdénania is an adjective to gradmavrd‘ha rather than an independent sub- 
stantive. Cfs.3above. 16 bahavah fucayo numatd vd: Cs understands vd as ca ‘ majo- 
rity who are honest and approved by the people.’ Itseems, however, that thereis an option 
between gucayah and anumaiah, the latter being ‘ acceptable to both parties to the dispute ’. 
Cf. 3.11.26-7 in connection with witnesses, also 3.11.39. —- madhyam grhniyuh, i.ec., in 
effect divide the disputed portion equally. 17 wubhayaparoktam is proposed for ubhayam 
paroktam of the mss. As adjective to vdstu, the emendation is obviously necessary, the 
meaning being ‘ to which the claim by both parties is disallowed or lost (pard-ukta).’ Cb 
explains the other reading ‘ if the two parties are unable to come to terms’; Cs has‘ if both 
decisions, viz., the majority and the middle course are rejected by suitors.’ Neither is 
happy. For parokta (used of a party to a dispute), see 3.1.19 ff. 

20 kdranddane, e.g., when received as a pledge for debt etc. — bandham is clearly 
* an amount ’, which is arrived at by deducting from the produce of the field charges for his 
own labour and a legitimate profit on the working of the field. The sense of surety does 
not suit here. See 2.8.4 above. 

21 Whereas siman refers to boundaries between villages, maryddd refers to those 


between fields, etc. 


221 CONCERNING JUDGES [ 8. 9.35 


24 All disputes whatever (shall be decided) on the testimony of neigh- 
bours. 


25 As between a pasture land, dry land, wet-crop field, a vegetable 
garden, a threshing floor, a shed and a stall for vehicles the earlier one may 
suffer encroachment from the later one. 26 Dry regions (are those) with 


the exception of groves for Vedic study and soma-sacrifices, temples and 
holy places. 


27 In case of damage to the ploughing or seeds in another’s field by the 
use of a reservoir, channels or a field under water, they shall pay compensa- 
tion in accordance with the damage. 28 In case of mutual damage to fields 
under water, parks and embankments, the fine (shall be) double the damage. 


29 A tank on a lower level, constructed afterwards, shall not flood with 
water a field watered by a tank on a higher level. 80 A (tank) constructed 
on a higher level shall not prevent the flooding with water of a lower tank, 
except when its use has ceased for three years. 81 For transgression of 


that, (the punishment shall be) the lowest fine for violence and the emptying 
of the tank. 


82 The ownership of a water-work, not in use for five years, shall be lost 
except in cases of distress. 


88 When tanks and embankments are newly constructed, an exemption 
(from taxes) for five years (should be granted), when those that are ruined and 
abandoned are renovated, an exemption for four years, when those that are 
over-grown with weeds are cleared, for three years, when dry land is newly 
brought under cultivation, for two years. 84 He is free to mortgage or sell. 


85 (Owners) may give (water) in return for a share of produce of various 
kinds from sowings in fields, parks and gardens watered by (their ) dug-out 


24 sarva eva vivddah: this has reference to disputes about damage to property which 
are now about to be discussed. 


25 vesma seems to bea shed for storing grains etc., though a residential building is also 
likely. Meyer understands khalavefmaasone. Cf., however,3.10.29 below. 26 Theidea 
apparently is that these sthala regions are not to suffer encroachments by keddra etc. It 
seems likely that the s. is a marginal gloss by some pious hand which has got into the text. 

27% ddharapariodhakeddropabhogath : in view of the plural, three ideas appear better 
than a single idea, viz., ‘ the use of wet-fields receiving water by channels from a reservoir.’ 


80 uparinivistam : pagscdt may be understood with this, but is not necessary. 


83 parihdrah: the exemption would be from land revenue as fixed in 2.24.18. — 
samuparidhanam ‘ overgrown with weeds etc.’ (Cb). It could hardly mean ‘ overflowi 
their banks (and thus damaged)’ (Meyer). — sthalasya: as we have to understand nava- 
pravartane with this also, new land brought under cultivation for the first time is obviously 
meant. 34 svdtmd: ‘ svdmi would have been better’ (Cs). The idea is that the conces- 
sions do not affect rights flowing from ownership. 


85 Thes. seems to refer to lending water from one’s water-works in return for a stipu- 
lated share of the produce. It would be better to read -tatdkodakam or at least -tafdkam. 
— khdtaprdorttima ‘ setin motion by digging ’ evidently refers tocanals. nadinibandhdya- 
tana may mean ‘a structure, i.e., an arrangement dependent on a river (such as a dam).’ 
tataka is a tank. From these, water is given to keddra, Grdma and ganda. sasyavarna ‘var- 


8.9. 86 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 222 


channels, structures based on rivers or tanks, or to others as it may be advan- 


tageous. 


86 And those who use these on lease, on hire, as a pledge, for a share or 
with authorization for use, shal] keep (them) in-repair. 87 In case of failure 
to repair, the fine in double the loss. 


88 For one letting out water from the dams out of turn, the fine 
shall be six panas, also for one obstructing, through negligence, the 
water of others when it is their turn. 


CHAPTER TEN 


SECTION 61 (Continued) 
(vit) Damage to Pastures, Fields and Roads 


SECTION 62 NON-OBSERVANCE OF CONVENTIONS 


1 If one obstructs a customary water-course in use or makes (a new one) 
that is not customary, the lowest fine for violence (shall be imposed), also 
if one constructs in another’s land a dam, a well, a holy place, a sanctuary 
or atemple. 2 If a (person) himself or through others puts to mortgage or 
sale a charitable water-work, continued since old times, the middle fine for 
violence (is to be imposed), the highest on witnesses, except when it is in 
ruins and abandoned. 


8 In the absence of the owner, villages or persons of a pious dis- 
position should repair (these). 


ious kinds of produce’ fromkeddra, drémaand ganda. With the last two, sasya as ‘ grains’ 
is not quite suitable. -uttarika has reference to ‘the return ’ received. Meyer,in the main, 
has this explanation. Cb, however, has ‘ water from a well (khdia), from a river (nadydya- 
tana), from canals from a river-dam (nibandhdyatana), from a tank (tataka), from a field 
(kedara), from a garden (drdma), or from plantations (sanda), may be given in such a way 
that the quality (oarna) and quantity (bhdga) of the crops are improved (uttartka).’ drama 
and $and7 as sources of water are doubtful. And ked@ra, drdma and sanda are hardly on the 
same footing as tataka etc. — anyebhyo, i.e., to owners of fields other than keddra, drama 
and sanda, and others to whom the water would be useful. 

86 prakraya ‘lease’; cf. 2.12.22. In view of that, ‘ purchase’ (Cs) is not right. 
— bhoganisrsta ‘ what is allowed for use’ for the time being. — pratikuryuh, i.e., repair 
any damage caused by them. 

88 avdre and odre from Cb are preferable to apare and pare of the mss. It is doubtful 
if pdra can mean “‘ a sluice-gate’’ (Meyer). vdrais ‘a turn’ for receiving water from a tank 
etc. used in common. 


8.10 

The last sub-section of the 61st prakarana is contained in ss. 1-34, while the short 62nd 
prakarana is found in ss. 5-46. — samayais more of a convention than a consciously made 
agreement between parties, though that also seems included. 

1 The stop after nivegayatah, instead of after sdhasadandch, isasinCb. 2 dharma- 
setu is a tank or other water-work made by some charitable person. 


8 svdmyabhdve: Cb restricts the rule to dharmasetu only. 


228 CONCERNING JUDGES [ 8. 10. 17 


4, The size of roads has been explained in the ‘ Lay-out of the Fort’. 
5 For encroaching on a path for small animals or men the fine is twelve 
panas, on a path for large animals twenty-four panas, on a road for elephants 
or fields fifty-four panas, on a road to a dike or a forest one hundred and six, 
on a road to a cremation ground or a village two hundred, on a road in 
a dronamukha five hundred, on a road in a sthdniya, the countryside or pasture 
land one thousand. 


6 In case of reducing the size of these (roads), the fines are one-quarter 


of the fines (mentioned). 7 In case of ploughing (on them, the fines are) 
as prescribed. 


8 Ifthe owner of the field takes away the field or the tenant leaves it at 
the time of sowing, the fine shall be twelve panas, except in cases of defect, 
calamity or unbearable conditions. 


9 'Tax-payers shall mortgage or sell (only) to tax-payers, Brahmin owners 
of gift-lands (only) to Brahmin owners of gift-lands. 10 Otherwise, the 
lowest fine for violence (shall be imposed). 11 Or, (the same fine is to be 
imposed) on a tax-payer settling in a village exempt from taxes. 12 But 
one settling in a tax-paying village shall have freedom to get all things, 
excepting a house. 18 That also he may give him. 


14 Ifone does not till land that is inalienable, another may use it for five 
years and return it after receiving compensation for his exertions. 


15 Non-tax-payers, living in a different place, may live on the produce 
(of their fields). 


16 Tenants shall accompany, by turns, the village headman journeying 
on village business. 17 Those who do not accompany shall pay a (penalty 
per) yojana of one pana and half a pana. 


4 durganivege: in 2.4.8-5 above. 5 rundhatah: encroachment on the road is to be 
understood. — gatchatah cannot be ‘six hundred,’ in view of its place in the rising scale ; 
‘one hundred and six’ is possible, though unusual. Cb seems to have read gaiyah ‘one 
hundred,’ which might appear better. 


6 atikarsane ‘ reducing in size (from what is recorded in the documents) ’(Cb). Per- 


haps atikargane was the original reading. Meyer proposes abhikarsane ‘ ploughing up close 
to the road’ (Nachtrag). 


8 upavdsa, as distinguished from ksetrika, is clearly ‘a tenant.’ — dosopanipata- 
otyahyebhyah: see 3.15.2-4. Here dosa is defect in the field, tools etc., upanipdta some 
ca:amity and avisahya some unbearable condition of work, such as incapacity, illness etc. 


9 brahmadeyikadh: cf. 2.1.7. 12 prdkdmyam is not a right to first choice, as Meyer 


thinks. It is only a right to obtain things. 18 dadydt: the subject is apparently grami- 
kah, the headman of the village. 


14 Apparently the owner cannot claim it back within five years if he has not been 
. tilling it, nor can the other use it for more than five years. 


15 Theimplication may be that tax-paying farmers cannot be absentee landlords. 
16 grdmikca is clearly the village headman; cf.s.18 below. His duties are not descri- 
bed anywhere. — upavdsdh ‘ tenants ’ are ‘farm labourers’ according to Russ. 17 pan- 


a@rdhapanikam is understood as 1/1/2 panas. It is also possible to understand an option 
between 1 pana and half a pana at the discretion of the headman. 


8. 10.18 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 224 


18 For the village headman ejecting from the village one who is not a 
thief or an adulterer, the fine is twenty-four panas, for the village the highest 
(fine for violence). 19 The entry of one who has been ejected is explained 


by trespass. 


20 He should cause a fence to be made with pillars all round the village 
at a distance of one hundred dhanuses from it. 


21 They shall live on pasture land, intended for the grazing of cattle, by 
cutting (the grass). 


22 They shall receive one quarter (of a pana) per animal in the case of 
camels and buffaloes that have grazed on the pasture and moved away, half a 
quarter in the case of cattle, horses and donkeys, one-sixteenth part in the case 
ofsmall animals. 23 If after grazing, the (animals) sit down, these same fines 
shall be double, fourfold if they stay overnight. 


24 Bulls belonging to village temples or a cow within ten days of her 
calving, and stud bulls are exempt from fines. 


25 In case the (cattle) eat the crops, he shall make (their owner) pay 
double the damage to the crops after calculating it in accordance with the 
harvest. 26 And if the owner allows the (cattle) to graze without informing 
(the owner of the field), the fine shall be twelve panas, twenty-four panas if he 
lets them loose. 27 For herdsmen the fines shall be half (of these). 28 The 
same (fines) he shall impose in case the cattle eat (the produce in) plantations. 
29 (The fines shall be) double if the fence is broken, also if the (cattle) eat 
grains in the sheds or the threshing circle. 


18 Apparently, only a thief or an adulterer could be exiled, and that by the headman 
or the entire village. 19 abhigamena is proposed for adhigamena in conformity with 
4.13.3-4 to which alone the reference in vydkhyditah can be understood. 


20 upasdlais a smallrampart (sdla), a sort of fence ; it provided an open space round 
the village and also served as a defence. 


21 vivitamdlavanena : this is understood as vivitam dGlavanena (by cutting the grass). 
Cb on this s.is missing. Cs has vivita, mala (table-land or wood near the village) and vana. 
So Meyer, who has ‘ they shall provide these for grazing.’ The compound in the singular 
would be strange in that case. — wupajiveyuh: the subject is ‘ grass-cutters’. It is be- 
cause these have an interest in the vivtia that fines are laid down in the following ss. which 
go to the grass-cutters and not to the state. They may be supposed to pay a rent for the 
right to cut the grass in the pasture land. These seem to correspond to the wood-cutters 
of 2.17.8. 


22 ripam: cf. 2.29.4,6. — grhniyuh: the subject is ‘ grass-cutters.. We cannot 
think of any state officers who can be the subject of this plural verb. 


24 uksdno govursadg ca ‘old bulls and stud-bulls’ (Cb Cs). Meyer’s ‘stud-bull’ for 
the whole might appear betterhere. Cf.2.29.8. Manu, 8.242, a close parallel, does not refer 


to old bullocks. 
26 svadminak: the owner of the cattle is more likely thar that of the field. — cara- 


yatah ‘ making them graze ’ (Cb), ‘leading them through the field’ (Meyer). In the context 
the former is better despite 4.9.28. 27 pdlindm: perhaps we should read pdlandm. 


225 CONCERNING JUDGES [ 8.10. 44 


80 He shall take steps against injury (to cattle). 31 Animals from re- 
served parks or those that are protected, if found eating, should, after inti- 
mating the owner, be so driven off as not to cause injury to them. 


82 Cattle should be driven off with a piece of rope ora whip. 33 For 
causing injury to them in other ways, the fines for physical injury (shall be 


imposed). 34 Those that attack or whose offence is clear may be restrained 
by all (possible) means. 


Thus ends (the topic of) damage to fields and roads. 


35 The village itself shall receive the penalty of a farmer who, after 
accepting (residence in) a village, does not do (his share of) work. 386 He shall 
pay double the wage for the work if he does not do work, double each indivi- 
dual’s share if he does not contribute money, and a double share if he does not 
contribute food and drink on festive occasions. 


87 One who does not contribute his share in a stage-show shall not wit- 
ness it with his people. 38 If he listens to or witnesses it secretly, he shall 
perforce give a double share, also in an undertaking beneficial to all. 


39 They shall obey the orders of one who proposes what is beneficial to 
all. 40 For not carrying them out the fine is twelve panas. 41 If, on the 
other hand, they conspire together and beat him, the punishment for each 
severally shall be double the (prescribed punishment for the) offence. 
42 (The punishment shall be) severe for those who injure him. 


48 And seniority among them shall be fixed from the Brahmin down- 
wards. 44 And in their festivities, Brahmins, if unwilling, may not do any 
work and yet receive (their) share. 


30 himsdpratikdram is prevention of injury to cattle, which is a new topic that now 
begins. 81 abhayavana-: cf. 2.2.2, also 2.26.1. — parigrhitah : cf. 2.26.3. — sodminah: 
this, in effect, would be the king in the case of animals in the reserved parks. 


84 prarthayamanah : for the root, cf. 1.17.39. 


35 grdmam abhyupetya: i.e., accepting obligations consequent on his settling in the 
village and becoming a member of the community. — akurvatah: the object is soakarma. 
— grdmaevaand notthestatc. 36 Thercadings and explanations adopted are from Cb. 
addne is necessary with hiranya- and bhaksyapeya- to constitute an offence. 


88 nigrahena: Cb explains ‘for obstructing the work.’ In that case, the locative 
should have been used rather than the instrumental. The word seems used adverbially in 
the sense of ‘ by force, forcibly.” Cf. Manu, 8.220, where we have nigrhya. 


41 hanyuh: the root seems used only in the sense of ‘ to beat, to strike.’ 
hanirsu ‘ those who cause death ’ (Cb Cs). 
are meant. 


42 upa- 
It may be that ‘ those who cause serious injury’ 


44 brahmand ndkaémah, an emendation in the Punjab edition, is necessary instead 
of brahmane ndkamah ; with the latter reading Cs explains ‘in the case of a Brahmin, they 
shall not apportion any share to him without first ascertaining his wishes.’ ‘This is hardly 
satisfactory. ——- amSar ca labheran: Cs explains ‘may contribute, if they are willing.’ 
This is hardly possible. Cbhasnocommentonthiss. Possibly it is a marginal gloss. 


8.10.45 ] KAUTLLIYA ARTHASASTRA 226 


45 By that is explained the non-observance of conventions in the case 
of a region, a caste, a family and a corporation. 


46 The king should do what is agreeable and beneficial to these, 
when they build dikes that are of benefit to the country or bridges on 
roads or carry out works beautifying the villages or defences (of the 
villages). 


CHAPTER ELEVEN 
SECTION 68 NON-PAYMENT OF DEBTS 


1 One pana and a quarter is the lawful rate of interest per month on 
one hundred panas, five panas for purposes of trade, ten panas for those going 
through forests, twenty panas for those going by sea. 2 For one charging or 
making another charge a rate beyond that, the punishment shall be the lowest 
fine for violence, for witnesses, each one of them, half thefine. 8 If, however, 
the king is unable to ensure protection, the (judge) should take into considera- 
tion the usual practice among creditors and debtors. 


4 Interest on grains (shall be) up to a half, on the harvesting of crops ; 
thereafter it may increase being turned into capital. 5 Interest on capital 
(shall amount to) half the profit, to be paid for one year, being set apart in a 


45 samgha is an independent term, not to beconstrued with each ofdega, jattand kula, 
as K. P. Jayaswal (Hindu Polity, II, 65) thinks. Cf. 3.7.40 above. — anapdkarma is 
failure to carry out or observe. 


46 samkrama ‘a bridge, a causeway ’; cf. 2.8.80 above. 


3.11 


Asin the Manusmrit, the question of the evidence of witnesses is discussed in the section 
ondebts. Thelaw of evidence was indeed formulated primarily in connection with debts. 


1 dharmy4. . . vyavahdriki can hardly mean ‘ according to sacerdotal law ’ and ‘ accord- 
ing to secular law ’ as Jayaswal (Manu and Ydj., p. 15) thinks. — kdntdragandm from Cb 
seems supported by Y4j.,2.38. 38 caritram,i.e., practices usual among the two parties. 
These are to b2 taken into consideration because the traders venture into regions where the 
king’s protection cannot be assured. Cb has ‘insuch a manner as to suit the debtor and the 
creditor.’ Mzyer proposes to read apaksiyeta ‘ the whole relationship between creditors and 
debtors breaks down ’i.e., creditors charge exorbitant rates and debtors hardly repay. This 
is unlikely. Russ. follows Meyer. Breloer (II, 49-53) renders rdjanit ayogaksemavahe by ‘ so 
far as it is useful to the king’s fiscus or treasury,’ i.e., local usage in the matter is to be taken 
into consideration only if the king’s treasury does not suffer thereby. This seems hardly 
possible. Cf. 1.18.7-8 above. 


4 wup4ardha: i.e., half the amount of grains lent as interest. Cb Cs have ‘one anda 
half times.’ That would include the grains lent. — param, i.e., if at harvesting time the 
loan in grains is not returned. — miilyakrtd, i.e., the loan in grains with the interest is 
turned into a money loan. Meyer, reading updrdhdvaram and a stop after sasyanispattau, 
has ‘interest in grains willbe due when crops ripen. It may, after the fixing of the price, 
increase atleast tohalf.’ Breloer has‘ up toa halfofthe ripening field. After the crops 
haye ripened, the interest is half the produce ’ (II, 85-7). Neither seems meant. 5 prak- 
gepa is capital or investment ; cf. 4.2.36 etc. In this case money is lent to the farmer, the 
interest being half the produce. —- samnidhdnasannd ‘ accumulated in a store ’ (Breloer, 
who compares samnidhatte.svavesmani in 2.9.25). Meyer’s ‘if capital is sunk in the vicinity ° 

is less likely, as the expression describes vrddhi, not praksepa. Cb, reading samnidhanasan- 


227 CONCERNING JUDGES [ 3.11. 16 


store. 6 One away on a long journey or become obstinate (in making pay- 
ments) shally pay double the capital. 


7 For one recovering interest without fixing it or increasing its rate or 
claiming through witnesses the capital with interest added to it, the fine shall 
be four times the (one-fifth or one-tenth) part. 8 For claiming through 
witnesses a small amount (that was never lent), the fine shall be four times the 


non-existent (amount). 9 Of that, the receiver shall pay one-third, the rest 
he who helped him to receive it. 


10 Debt shall not increase in the case of a person confined in a long 


sacrificial session or by illness or in the preceptor’s house, or in the case of a 
minor or an insolvent. 


11 For one not receiving back the debt being paid off, the fine shall be 


twelve panas. 12 If (it is done) by pleading a valid reason, it shall remain 
in another’s custody with (further) interest stopped. 


13 A debt not taken notice of for ten years shall be irrecoverable, except 
in the case of a minor, an aged person, a sick person, a person in a calamity, 


@ person away on a journey or in case of migration from the country or disorder 
in the kingdom. 


14 Sons shall pay the debt with interest of a deceased person, or heirs 
inheriting the property or co-debtors or sureties. 15 (Thereshall be) no other 
suretyship. 16 The suretyship of a minor is void inlaw. 


nd vdarsiki deyd as an independent s., has ‘if interest is not taken for a number of years 
it should be calculated for one yearonly.’ vdrgiki ‘ for one year ’ may, however, imply yearly 
interest, so long as the capitalis not paid. 6 stambhapravistah : stambha refers primarily to 
haughtiness which may lead to obstinacy in the matter of paying the debt. Cf8.4.80. Cb, 
reading samstambha, seems to understand ‘ paralysis’ by it. Meyer has ‘ (money) absorbed 
(pravista) in frozen capital,’ which is little likely, since with dadyat as the predicate, arthah 


can hardly be understood as the subject. —- miulyadvigunam : according to Cb, this is the 
maximum even if many years have elapsed. 


7 $rdadvayatah: in view of Srotr ‘a witness,’ this obviously means ‘ claiming with the 
help of witnesses.’ — bandha is the usual one-fifth or one-tenth, the fine for loss of suit 
(3:1.20-1). Four times that is meant. Cf. 3.12.6. Breloer (II, 87) who follows G1 in not 
reading vardhayato, has ‘ if one deposes that the capital (vd miitya) or the interest (ud urddht) , 
is higher than is actually the case (dropya, i.c., having enhanced) he is fined four times the ' 
enhanced amount (bandha).? That appears doubtful. 8 -catura- is omitted asin Cb. -It 
may convey the idea of fraud, but docs not appear genuine. tuccha ‘insignificant ’ conveys 
the idea of a non-existent loan, in view of abhiita that follows. $rdvand is a claim with the 
help of witnesses. 9 dddldis obviously the false claimant, while pradatd is the witness who 
would have helped him to gct it. Thus Breloer (II, 88). Cb has the debtor and creditor 
respectively, and curiously has 1/4th and 3/4th (for tribhdgam and gesam). 


10 asdram ‘indigent,’i.c., aninsolvent. Breloer (II, 85) scems to render it by ‘anold 
man.’ — narnam anuvardheta, i.e., interest shall cease during that period. 

12 anyatra,i.c., with so ne reliable person as a deposit. 

18 dagavarso-etc.: cf. 3.16.30. 


14 Breloer (II, 85) treats sahagrdhinah as an adjective to pratibhuvah. 


15 anyat,i.e., suretyship for producing the debtor etc. Cf. Yaj.,2.58. 16 asdram: 


cf. 3.1.34. Cbhas ‘ifthe surcty is insolvent he need not pay when the debtor dies.’ Itis not 
easy to see how this meaning is possible. 


8.11.17) KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 228 


17 Butsons, grandsons or heirs inheriting the property shall (be liable to) 
pay a (debt about the repayment) of which the place and the time are not fixed. 


18 Sons or grandsons shall bear liability for suretyship concerning life, 
marriage or land, to which no restriction as to place or time applies. 


19 In case many debts become due at the same time, two (creditors) 
shall not simultaneously sue one (debtor), except when he is about to leave 
(the place). 20 Even in that case, he shall secure payment in the order of 
contracting the debts or first the dues of the king and of a Brahmin learned 
in the Vedas. 


21 The debt mutually contracted between a husband and a wife or a 
father and a son or between undivided brothers, is irrecoverable (through a 
court of law). 


22 Agriculturists and the king’s servants are not to be held at the 
time of their work. 28 And the wife (shall not be held liable) for the debt 
incurred by her husband, if she has not assented to it, except in the case of 
cowherds and farmers tilling for half the produce. 24 The husband, however, 
shall be held liable for the debt incurred by the wife, if he has gone abroad with- 
out providing for her. 


25 In case of admission (of the claim), it is best. 26 In case of non- 
admission, however, witnesses shall decide, those who are trustworthy, honest 
or approved, three at leastinnumber. 27 Or, two (will suffice) if both parties 
agree, but never a single witness in the case of debt. 


28 Not allowed (as witnesses) are a wife’s brother, an associate, a depen- 
dent, a creditor, a debtor, an enemy, a cripple, and a convicted person, also those 
mentioned before as unfit for transactions. 29 The king, a Brahmin learned 
in the Vedas, a village servant, a leper and a wounded man, an outcast, a 
Candala, a person following a despised profession, a blind, deaf, dumb or self- 
invited person, 2 woman and a king’s officer (shall not be cited as witnesses) 


17 asamkhydta- etc.: the substantive is rnam (Cb) rather than prdtibkhavyam (Meyer). 
With the former, dadyuh is used, with the latter vaheyuh as ins. 18. — This is different 
from s. 14 in that here grandsons are also made liable, and sahagrdhinah and pratibhuvah are 
excluded. 

18 jivitapratibhi seems to bc a guarantor of a man’s life, while vivdhapratibhi seems to 
be the same as sukhdvastha of 3.4.9,26. bhimipratibhi may be a guarantor for the return 
ofland by tenants. — Thes.impliés that rnaprdatibhdvya does not pass onto sons and 
grandsons. 

22 agrahyadh: grah is primarily ‘ to seize, to arrest’; but liability to pay the debt is 
intended in the following ss. 23 anyatra etc. : i.e., the wives of these become liable even if 
their assent was not sccured. 

25 uttamah: supply paksah (Cb), updyah(Cs.) Meyer proposes uttamam, which is not 
necessary. 26 gucayo ’numatd vd: the option is between gucayah and anumatah, pratyayi- 
katva being compulsory. Cf. 3.9.16 above. 

28 anvarthin seems to mean ‘a dependent.’ Cb has ‘ one who says that such and such 
a person has taken a loan.’ — pirve etc.: a reference to 3.1.12. 29 ahamvddin: who 
offers to give evidence without being cited. — svavargebhyah, 1.¢., a grotriya for a srotriya 
and so on. 


229 CONCERNING JUDGES [ 8.11.42 


except in the case of their own groups. 380 In cases of (verbal and physical) 
injury, theft and adultery, however, (all may be cited as witnesses) except an 
enemy, a wife’s brother and an associate. 31 In the case of secret trans- 
actions, onc woman or man, who has heard or witnessed it, may be cited as a 
witness, excepting the king or an ascetic. 


32 Masters may bear testimony for servants, priests and preceptors for 
disciples, and parents for sons, without being forced, or the latter (may do so) 
for them. 838 And in case of their suing each other, the betters, if defeated, 
shall pay one-tenth (as fine), the inferiors, one-fifth. 


Thus ends the topic of witnesses. 


34 ‘The (judge) should exhort witnesses in the presence of Brahmins, 
a water-jar and fire. 35 In that connection, he should say to a Brahmin 
(witness), ‘Speak the truth.’ 386 Toa Ksatriya or a Vaisya (he should say), 
* Let there be no fruit of sacrificial and charitable deeds for you (if you speak 
untruth) ; you would go, potsherd in hand, begging for alms to the house of 
your enemy.’ 87 To the Sidra (heshould say), ‘ Whatever the reward of your 
merit between birth and death, that would go to the king and the king’s sin 
come to you in case of a false deposition, and punishment will also follow ; even 
afterwards facts as seen and heard would be found out ; being of one mind, 
bring out the truth.’ 88 For those who do not bring out (the truth), the fine 
shall be twelve panas after seven days ; after three fortnights, they shall pay 
the (amount of the) suit. 


89 In case of differences among witnesses, the (judges) should decide in 
favour of that party in whose favour are the majority, honest or approved, or 
should follow the middle course. 40 Or, the king should take that object. 


41 If witnesses testify to an amount less than (that claimed in) the suit, 
the plaintiff shall pay a part of the excess (claimed, as fine). 42 If, on the 
other hand, they testify to a larger amount, the king should take that excess. 


32 anigrahena, i.e., without being forced. 33 For the terms, see 3.1.20-21. — 
Breloer (II, 90) seems to understand by uttama and avara higher and lower classes in general, 
not only those in s. 82. That is unlikely in view of esam. 


37 vah... yusman; the plural may show that the Sidras are exhorted jointly, while 
the others are abjured individually. —- anubaddhah as an adjective is clearly necessary, 
not anubandhah. — upaharata is from Mcyer which is better for sense than avaharata. 
The prepositions ava and upa are often interchanged due to scribalerrors. #8 anupaharu- 
tam refers to refusal to bear testimony. False testimony is mentioned later. — saptard- 
trad airdhvam : Cb Cs add that the 12-pana fine is for each day after the seventh. — abhi- 
yogam ‘ the amount of the suit plus 1/10th as fine * (Cb), apparently because the state must 
receive its charges. 


39-40 sdksibhede etc.: cf. 3.9.16-17. 
41 bandham seems to be one-fifth; one-tenth is inapplicable in this case. 


8.11.48 } KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 2380 


48 What was badly heard or badly written through the folly of the 
plaintiff, or the affidavit of a person (since) deceased, shall, after investigation, 
be decided only on the testimony of witnesses. 


44 ‘In case of divergent (replies to) questions through the folly of wit- 
nesses themselves, they shall be fined the lowest, middlemost and highest fines, 
with regard to (testimony about) place, time and the matter (respectively),’ 
say the followers of USanas. 45 ‘ False witnesses who bring into being a non- 
existent thing or ruin an existing thing, shall pay ten times that (thing) as fine,’ 
say the followers of Manu. 46 ‘Or, if through folly they lead to a wrong 
judgment, death by torture (is to be the punishment),’ say the followers of 
Brhaspati. 47 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 48 For, witnesses have to testify to 
what is the truth. 49 For those who do not testify (to the truth) the fine is 
twenty-four panas, half that for those who do not speak out. 


50 The (plaintiff or defendant) shall produce witnesses who are not 
at a great distance in place or time. He may secure those who are at a 
distance or are unwilling to come, with a summons from the king. 


CHAPTER TWELVE 
SECTION 64 CONCERNING DEPOSITS 


1. The law of deposits is explained by that of debts. 


2 If the fortified city or the countryside is pillaged by enemy forces or 
forest tribes, or the village, the caravan or the herd is plundered by robbers, 


43 duhsrutam durlikhitam by the writer when the document (the promissory note) was 
prepared. —  pretabhinivegam : this is clearly a statement by a person since dead. Chb’s 
* distraction of the writer’s mind by grief caused by death in the family ’ is hardly likely. 

44 anuyoge: questions as well as replics to them. Cf. 3.1.46. 45 The omission of 
kuryur bhitam in the mss. is duc to a scribalcrror. Cf. 4.9.20. 46 visamvddayatdm : be- 
_ Cause of the causal, ‘ causing a false judgment’ is better than ‘ tendering contradictory 
evidence.” 48 Cb Cs read dhruvd hi sdksinah grotavyah and explain dhruva as ‘ a member 
of the neighbouring forty families ’ who are liable to he witnesses, apparently as in 3.9.8. 
Thisis doubtful. ru would mean in the context ‘to bear testimony’. 49 abruvdndndm 
i.c., those who refuse to give evidence. The fine agrees with that in s. 88. Cb Cs read 
adhruvandm ‘those outside the forty families.’ Russ. has ‘ half that if (they emphasize) 
the testimony of unreliable witnesses (adhruvdndm).’ 

50 pratipddayet: the subject would be abhiyokta or abhiyuktah. — Distant in time 
are such, ¢€.g., as are engaged in a long sacrificial session. — aprasdran ‘who do not 
come,’ being unwilling. — svdmi- ‘king’ (Meyer) rather than the ‘judge’ (Cs). The 
summons would presumably be issued by the judge in the name of the king. 


8.12 
Along with upanidhi ‘ deposits’ after which it is named, this prakarana deals with allied 
topics, such as pledge, borrowing etc. All these, like debt, have this common element, 
that they involve the placing of one person’s goods in the temporary possession or charge 
of another. 
1 The rules particularly applicable would seem to be those in 3.11.11-24 concerning 
receiving it back, liability of hcirs etc. 
2 cakrayuktandge is proposed for cakrayukte ndge. cakrayukta means ‘a Carriage’ as 
shown by 4.10.8; 4.18.22. Hence the proposed reading or cakrayukte naste is necessary. 
cakra can hardly be ‘fraud’ (Cs) or ‘army’ (Meyer) here. — It is proposed to omit 


231 CONCERNING JUDGES [8.12.14 


or there is loss of the wheeled carriage, or the (deposit) is enveloped by flames 
or by the current in a calamity of fire or floods in the midst of the villege, 


or the boat has sunk or is plundered, the (depositary), if himself involved, shall 
not be liable for the deposit. 


8 The user of the deposit shall pay charges for use in accordance with the 
place and the time, and a fine of twelve panas. 4 Heshallbe liable for what is 
lost or has perished in consequence of the use and (shall pay) a fine of 
twenty-four panas, or, if the (deposit) runs away for some other reason. 
5 He shall not be liable for a deposit that dies or is in distress. 


6 And incase ofa mortgage, sale or denial of the deposit, the fine shall be 
four times one-fifth (its value). 7 In case of substitution or help ng it to 
run away, (the fine shall be ) equal to its value. 


8 By that are explained the loss, use, sale, mortgage and misappropria- 
tion of a pledge. 


q 


9 A pledge, yielding benefit, shall not be forfeit nor shall its capital 
bear interest, except when allowed. 10 A pledge, not yielding a benefit, 
may be forfeit and its capital shall bear interest. 


11 For one not returning the pledge to (the owner) who has come (to 
redeem it) the fine shall be twelve panas. 12 Or, in the absence of the credi- 
tor, the (debtor) may recover his pledge after depositing the redemption 
amount with village elders. 18 Or, the pledge, with further interest stopped 
and its value at that time fixed, may remain just there or in the charge of the 
office for prevention of loss and destruction. 14 Or, in the absence of the 


kimcid. .. dravye ud read in the mss. between -bddhe and jvald-. It is obvious that grama- 
madhydgnyudakdabddhe and judlavegoparuddhe go together and cannot be understood separa- 
tely. The omitted words cannot be easily construed with these. kupyain them is odd, and 
we have to suppose that irremovable objects could be spared by fire or floods. With ekade- 
gamuktadracye ‘ when fire or floods have spared part of the goods,’ there should have been a 
statement about the depositary’s liability in the form of an exception. This expression 
can hardly mean ‘ when all goods are placed in one place’ (Meyer). Cf 3.4.83 for ekadega. 
The omitted words are clearly derived from some marginal gloss. — abhydvahet: cf. 
2.28.26 for the distinction between this root and abhydabhi. 


4 nispatane implies alive deposit, an animal or a slave. pretam (s. 5) has the same 


implication. — anyathd seems to refer to ill-treatment, which makes the deposit run 
away. 


6 caturgunaparcabandho, i.e., four-fifths of the value of the deposit. Compensation to 
the owner would be distinct from this fine. Cb Cs have ‘four times as reparation to the 


owner and 4/5ths as fine.’ There is no reason for a four-fold restitution. 7 parivartane 
‘ change’, i.e., substitution. 


9 sopakdrah, e.g.,a cow whose milk can be used by the creditor. — sidet: sad seems 
to have the’sense of ‘ to be forfeit, to be lost to the owner,’ if the owner is unable to redeem it 
within the stipulated period. — anyatra nisargat implies a case where the benefit from 


the pledge is not sufficient to cover the expected interest. Cb Cs read these words in s. 
10 where they areinappropriate. G2 and M omit s.10. 


12 niskrayam ‘ redemption amount ’ is, in effect, the capital lent plus interest as it may 
be due. 18 tatraiva, i.e., in the creditor’s house. — andfavindgakarana seems to be 
something like a lost property office. 14 dhdranikdsamnidhdne is an emendation that is 
necessary for the sense. Cf. Yaj., 2.683. —- udgatdrgham ‘with a raised price,’ i.e., 


8.12.15 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 2382 


debtor, the (creditor), if afraid of destruction (of the pledge), may sell it, with 
the judges’ permission, at the highest price, or to the satisfaction of the 
Guardian of Deposits. 


15 But an immovable (pledge) that can be enjoyed after labour or 
enjoyed in its fruits (without labour), may bring in a profit over and above 
the value of the interest on the capital, without causing a reduction in the 
capital. 16 He who enjoys it without authorization shall surrender the 
profit after deducting the value (of the interest due) and a part (as fine). 


17 The rest is explained by the law of deposits. 
18 By that are explained the direction and the commission. 


19 Or, if a person in whose charge is the object to be handed over, does 
not reach the place indicated while going with a caravan, or is plundered and 
abandoned by robbers, he shall not be liable for the object in his charge. 
20 Or, if he dies on the way, even his heir shall not be liable. 


21 The rest is explained by the law of deposits. 


22 They shall return, in the same condition in which they received it, 
a thing borrowed or a thing hired. 28 ‘They shall not be liable for a thing 
given with restriction as to place or time, if it is lost or ruined through deteriora- 
tion or some sudden calamity, 


24 The rest is explained by the law of deposits. 


the highest price obtainable. ddhipdlapratyayo vd: vikrinita is evidently to be understood, 
so that pratyaya refers to his satisfaction that the sale is above board and that a fair price 
is obtained for the pledge. — It is possible that the ddhipdla is also in charge of the 
andsavind$akarana. 


15 praydsabhogyah, e.g., a field. — phalabhogyah, e.g., a rented house, the rent of 
which is received by the creditor asinterest. — praksepa- ctc.: theidea seems to be that 
if the benefit from such an ddhi is more than the interest due, the whole of it may be enjoyed 
by the creditor and the excess may not be calculated towards repayment of the capital. In 
praksepaorddhimilya, milya is ‘ value’, while in amilyaksayena, milya is the ‘ capital’ lent, 
the same as praksepa. Meyer, in the main, has this explanation, though he understands the 
first mitlya also as ‘ capital.’ 16 anisrstopabhokld, i.e., when the debtor does not want him 
to enjoy the whole fruit but only as much as would amount to the interest. — milyasud- 
dham is evidently the same as praksepacrddhimiilyasuddham above. — bandham,i.e.,1/5th 
or 1/10th as fine. — Breloer remarks (II, 113-4) that in ancient India only a mortgage 
was usual, that‘a hypothec in which the debtor remained in possession of the adhi-goods 
was unknown and that hence Megasthenes’ statement that in India no civil hypothec-suits 
took place is quite correct. 


18 ddega seems to be a ‘ direction,’ e.g., to a servant to take a thing to some person not 
far away, while anvddhi is ‘a commission ’ to take a thing to some distant place. Breloer 
thinks that in the latter case, the person commissioned placed an ddhi with the person who 
handed the goodsto-him. These two, he says, are guarantee-contracts (IT, 114-115). 


19 Cs has a single case, plundered etc. by robbers while with the caravan and hence 
unable to reach the destination. This ignores the vd. 

23 bhrega ‘ deterioration’; of. the use of the root in 3.20.18. —- desakdloparodhi ; 
Cb reads degakdldvarodhi. Theideaisthe same. The thing is given for use in a specified 
place and for a specified period of time. . 


2838 CONCERNING JUDGES [ 3. 12. 38 


25 Concerning sale through agents, however, salesmen selling the 
commodity at the proper place and time shall pay (to the owner) the price 
as received and the profit. 26 Or, if (the price is) lower because of their 
missing the proper place and time, they shall pay the price according to the 
rate at the time of giving (the goods to them for sale) and the profit. 27 Or, 
if selling (the goods) as agreed upon they do not make a profit, they should 
pay only the price. 28 Or, if the price is lower because of a fall in prices, they 
should give the lower price as reduced. 29 Or, in the case of dealers, who are 
trustworthy and free from blame so far as the king is concerned, they may 
not pay even the price of what is lost or ruined through deterioration or a 
sudden calamity. 380 But of commodities removed in space or time they 
Shall pay the price and profit after deducting losses and expenses, and a 
separate share in the case of each of the different kinds of goods. 


31 The rest is explained by the law of deposits. 82 With this is 
explained (the topic of) sale through agents. 


33 And the trust (is explained) by the law of deposits. 


34 If he hands it over to one when it was entrusted to him by another, 
it shall be (treated as) lost. 


35 In case of misappropriation of a thing entrusted, a former offence 
(of the trustee) and the persons entrusting it shall lead to decision. 86 For, 
artisans are dishonest. 37 There is no rule regarding trusts prevailing among 
them which requires evidence beforehand. 


88 If he denies a thing entrusted without evidence, the person who had 
entrusted it‘may make witnesses, secretly stationed behind walls, learn about it 


25 For vaiydurtya- see 2.5.18 ; 2.8.22. Wehave here sale through agents, who may be 
receiving a commission on sales. — $esam upanidhind vyadkhydtam after s. 25 is out of 
place and must be omitted. 26 parihinam, i.e., sold at a lower price. 27 yathdsam- 
bhdsitam, i.e., carrying out their part of the agreement as to place and time. 28 arghapa- 
tane which is due to other causes, over which the salesmen have no control. 29 sdmuyd- 
vaharika seems to mean nothing more than ‘a dealer, a trader.’ — ardjavdcyesu suggests 
that the whole section has primarily in view the sale of royal goods. 30 desakdlantarita- 
nam, i.e., those to be sold in foreign lands or those to be sold after a lapse of time. — pan- 
yasamavdaydandm ca pratyamsam : this apparently means that when the agent handles many 
kinds of goods at the same time, he is to render a separate account of each. Meyer thinks 
of a number of agents of the same merchant selling the same kind of goods, each being res- 
ponsible for his share. Such a rule does not seem necessary. 


83 niksepaisa thing givenin trust and primarily refers to raw material given to artisans 
for manufacture into articles. Cf. ‘niksepah Silpihaste tu bhandam samskartum arpitam’ 
(Ksirasvamin on Amara; cf. Kane, III, 454 n. 766). 


34 hiyeta,i.e., itis to be treated as lost and the usual compensation and fine are to be 
given. Breloer thinks that hiyeta means ‘ shall redeem itself, ’i.e., the keeper is not liable. 
This would be so only if the other person is the heir of the entruster, since deceased, as in 
Manu, 8.185-6. 

85 pitrudpaddnam: cf. 2.36.86 and see 1.8.16. 87 karana- ‘evidence’, particularly 
in the form of witnesses. 

38 Itis proposed to read rahasi prani- for rahasyaprani-; the latter can hardly mean 
by making witnesses listen to the secret with a request ’ (Cs) or ‘ by making them enter 
(pranipdta) into the secret ’ (Meyer). The customer entreats the artisan when the lattcr 


2. 12. 89 J KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 284 


by soliciting him in private or in a park by creating confidence on the occasion 
of a drinking party. 

89 Some aged or sick trader should entrust to him in secret an object that 
is marked and go away. 40 At his direction, his son or brother should 
approach and demand the thing entrusted. 41 If he returns it he is honest, 
else he shall give the thing (originally) entrusted and a fine for theft. 


42 Or, some credible person, about to leave home, should entrust to him 
a marked object and then leave. 48 Then returning after some time he should 
ask for it. 44 If he returns it he is honest, else he shall give the thing ent- 
trusted and a fine for theft. 


45 Or, he should (himself) bring him round with a marked object. 


46 Or, a person appearing foolish by nature should, through fear of 
(arrest for) king’s dues or movement at forbidden time, entrust to him at night 
an object of high value and go away. 47 [Being in prison, he should ask him 
for it. 48 If he returns it he is honest, else he shall give the thing entrusted 


and a fine for theft. 


49 And by means of a recognition-mark, he shall demand both of people 
in his house. 50 If either (of the two) is not given, (punishment etc.) as stated 
before. 3 


thinks that there is no one about (rahast), when he may say something implying that he had 
received the article. That the concealed witnesses are spies (Meyer) is quite possible. 
vandnte : vana is up2vana, where picnics are arranged. madyaprahavana is obviously a 
drinking party arranged in the park. Wine might loosen the artisan’s tongue. 


89 apagacchet: Cs has ‘should die’; the artisan is to get this impression, as the 
man was orddha or vyddhita ; the man himself, however, only goes away, i.e., disappears for 
the time being. 


42 pravrajya may refer only to leaving home, not necessarily becoming a monk. 
Cf. pravrajitd 2.28.2 above. — fraddheya suggests that the artisan must believe in the 
bona fides of the man about his intention to leave home or become a monk. 


45 pratydnayet: the subject seems to be the customer. According to Cs he points toa 
mark already there in the original article. Perhaps the reading should be pratydyayet 
*should convince ’ the artisan that it really belongs to him. This presupposes, of course, 
that the article is found when a search is made. 


46 rajidayitadtsinc>hitch is uncertain in meaning. Two things may be understood— 
afraid of dues (ddyika) to the king, and afraid of aksana (as in 2.86.85). Meyer has ‘ fear of 
harm (ak32n72) from the king or inheritors (ddyaka) laying claim to the valuables ’ or ‘ fear of 
king, inheritance orharm.’ With -kdiksana, Cs has ‘ fear of a demand on him (kanksana) by 
a minister, etc. who wants to present it to the king (rdjaddyin).’ Cb has no explanation ; 
its text has -kdnksana. Meyer also suggests rdjadodrikdksana ‘ fear of the forbidden hour 
(aksana) of the royal door-keepers (at the royal gate).’ Thatis not unlikely. 47 bandha- 
ndgara- etc, : i.e., on the plea that he wants to pay for his release. 


49 asya grhe janam: this applies when the artisan is dead (Cs). — Meyer thinks 
that‘the s. is mutilated, a portion stating that an agent should deposit two things, one with 
marks and another without, has got dropped ; that would explain ubhayam. It is also pos- 
sible that ubhaya refers to the niksena and the krialakgana dravya of ss. 39, 42, or the sdra 


ofs, 46. 


285 CONCERNING JUDGES [8 18.5 


51 And the (judge) should question the source of the objects used (by the 
defendant), and inquire into indications of that object being involved in the 
transaction, as well as the capacity of the complainant to (own) the object. 


52 By this is explained association in secret. 


58 Therefore, one should make (a deal), with one’s own people or 
with strangers, in the presence of witnesses, in an open manner, properly 
declaring it with respect to place, time, quantity and quality. 


CHAPTER THIRTEEN 
SECTION 65 LAW CONCERNING SLAVES AND LABOURERS 


1 For one selling or keeping as a pledge a minor Arya individual except a 
slave for livelhood, the fine is twelve panas for a kinsman in the case of a Sidra, 
double that in the case of a Vaisya, three times in the case of a Ksatriya, four 
times in the case of a Brahmin. 2 For a stranger, the lowest, the middle and 
the highest fines and death are the punishments (respectively), also for 
purchasers and witnesses. 


3 It is not an offence for Mlecchas to sell an offspring or keep it as a 


pledge. 4 But there shall be no slavery for an Arya in any circumstances 
whatsoever. 


5 Or, after keeping as a pledge an Arya when the family has bound 
itself in times of distress of Aryas, they shall, on finding the redemption- 
amount, redeem first a minor or one who renders help. 


51 upalinganam : cf. 3.13.87 etc. Meyer’s ‘ circumstantial evidence about the thing 
being connected with the artisan’s business (vyavah@ra) ’ is rather involved. 


52 Thatis, similar tricks are to be used if one party denies a secret agreement. 


53 vibhdsitam ‘declared in words.’ — agra ‘number,’ i.e., quantity, and varna 
‘class,’ i.e., quality. 


3.18 
A part of this section is found in the next Chapter also. 


1 udaraddsa: he is one who, in distress, lives with another person in better circum- 
stances and works as a slave in return for food. A minor may be so handed over for his 
maintenance. There is no actual sale in this case, only stay for the time being. — Grya- 


pranam: a Sidra is clearly included among Aryas. — aprdptavyavaharam: see 8.3.1. 
— parajana, i.c., one not related to the minor. 


3 mlecchandm would seem to refer to foreigners as well as tribals not absorbed in Aryan 
society. Mixed castes would be on a par with a Sidra (3.7.87). Breloer (II, 37-41) remarks 
that this corroborates the fact that the bondmen were of foreignorigin. 4 ‘This means that 
a minor’s ddsabhdva is nulland void. The ddsatva of a major eve is, however, implicit 
in the Chapter. 


5 Whatseems meantis this: there is distress among Aryas (drydndm Gpadi), so a whole 
family pledges itself to some one more happily placed (kulabandhane) ; then a minor may be 
included as a pledge (Gryam Gthdya). That Gryam refers to a minor seems clear from athavd, 
which implies an option to the preceding rule. — sdhdyyaddatdram is probably one who 
has been helpfulin procuring theransomamount. Cs has‘ who has aol to be a pledge.’ 


3.18.6 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 236 


6 A person pledging himself shall be forfeit if he runs away once, one 
pledged by another if (he runs away) twice, both at the first attempt, if about 
to leave for a foreign land. 


7 Or, for one depriving a slave of his Aryahood, when he has stolen 
money, the fine shall be half (the above fines). 


8 The pledger shall be liable for the capital, if the pledge has run away 
or is dead or is in calamity. 


9 Making a pledge pick up a corpse, dung, urine or leavings of food, 
and making women (pledges) give bath to a naked person, giving corporal 
punishment to them and dishonouring them shall result in the loss of the 
capital, and shall result in freedom for a nurse, a female attendant, 2 woman 
tenant tilling for half the produce and a maid. 10 The going away of an 
attendant who has begotten an offspring is valid (in law). 


11 For one approaching a nurse who is pledged, when she is unwilling, 
(the punishment shall be) the lowest fine for violence if she is under his control, 
the middle if she is under the control of another. 12 If one, himself or 
through another, defiles a maiden who is pledged, he shall lose the capital, 
pay (her) dowry and a fine double that. 


18 The progeny of one who sells himself shall be known as Arya. 
14 He shall get what is earned by himself without detriment to his work for 


6 sidet: cf.3.12.9. What seems meant is that he ceases to be a pledge and becomes a 
dasa. The former had a number of rights denied to the latter ; an absconding pledge lost 
these. Cs has ‘i.e., he must return the debt at once.’ But if he could have paid the debt, 
why need he haverunaway?  Breloer (II, 41-43) understands by ‘ running away ’ not only 
returning to the master but also demanding in law his liberation on account of illegal treat- 
ment. If the suit failed he had to go back. A law-suit by the pledge in this form seems. 
hardly implied. 

7 This s. is in the middle of ss. that deal with the dhitaka, not the ddsa. Perhaps 
dhitakasya should, therefore, be read for ddsasya, the idea being, a pledge who steals moncy 
might be reduced to the status of a slave by the pledgec; that makes the latter liable to 
half the fines of s.1. Cb C3 have ‘a slave stealing his master’s money is to pay a fine half 
that for a thief stealing the money (bhdva) ofan Arya.’ Thisis doubtful. Meyer has‘ fora 
slave sterling money, the fine is to be half that for depriving a man of his Aryahood.’ The 
fine would appear too small for the offence. He also suggests ‘ for stealing a slave’s moncy, 
half the fine for deprivation of Aryahood’ or ‘for a slave stealing, half that for an Arya 
stealing.’ Neither seemslikely. The exact meaning of the s. is uncertain. 


8 miulyam bhajeta, i.e., pay off the debt or furnish a fresh pledge. 


9 wupacarika appears to be a more personal attendant than a paricarika. 10 wupaca- 
rakasya abhiprajatasya: despite the gender, a female attendant bearing a child to the 
creditor is to h2 understood. If she leaves, no fresh pledge need be given. A male pledge 
b2getting a child on some female in the creditor’s house is possible, but appears less likely. 
Cb Cs understand the husband of the ddsi, who maintains her and serves her master for the 
same wage; ifhe begetsa child onher,hemayrunaway. Thisisratherinvolved. Mcyer 
thinks of sexual misbehaviour with a male pledge and suggests abhimehttasya as the reading. 
That is quite unlikely. For abhiprajata, cf. 3.15.13. 

11 od is often used only to introduce a newrule. — svavagdm ‘ under his control’ 
as in Meyer rather than ‘ not under her husband’s control’ (Cb Cs). So paravasa is ‘ not 
under his control ’; i.e., a man other than the creditor himself has relations with her. 

18 From thiss. onwards the dasa properisdealtwith. 15 dGryatvamgacchet: contrast 
Narada, 5.87 ‘an Glmavikrayin can never be free.’ 


237 CONCERNING JUDGES ( 8.18.24 


the master, also his paternal inheritance. 15 And he shall become an Arya 
by paying the price. 


16 By that are explained the slave for livelihood and the person pledged. 
17 And his ransom-amount is to be in conformity with the capital. 


18 One on whom a fine is imposed may pay off the fine by work. 


19 An Arya individual captured under the banner should be freed by 
suitable work for a specified period or for half the price. 


20 If one employs in vile work or in a foreign land, a slave less than 
eight years of age, without kinsmen and unwilling (to do that work), from 
among any of the four types, —(a slave) born in the house, received in inherit- 
ance, obtained (as a present) and purchased,—or if one sells or pledges a female 
slave who is enceinte without providing for the nourishment of the foetus, 


the lowest fine for violence (shall be imposed), also on purchasers and 
witnesses, 


21 Ifa person does not make a slave an Arya for a suitable ransom, the 
fine is twelve panas, and confinement (for him) till he does it. 


22 Kinsmen shall inherit the property of a slave, in their absence the 
master. 


23 The offspring begotten by the master on his own female slave shall 
be known as free along with the mother. 24 If the mother is attached to the 


_ house and looks after the affairs of the family, her brother and sister also shall 
be free. 


16 That is, their progeny is Arya, they can earn and inherit and be free by paying 
ransom. 17 asya evidently refers to the adhitaka only, for in the case of an udaraddsa, no 
debt is incurred. — Breloer (I, 70-71; II, 43-5) says that half the wage earned by the 
dasa by working forhis master is counted towards liberation price. The present text shows 


nosuchrule. Butitis clear that the ddsa could earn a wage and from the savings made out 
of his earnings, he could procure his freedom. 


18 This is obviously the dandopakdrin (2.12.21) or dandapratikartr (2.23.2 ; 2.24.2). 
He is a state slave and the whole of his wage goes towards his ransom amount. 


19 karmalkdldnuripena: we have to supply niskrayena. The idea is, after doing work 
assigned for a specific period he becomes free. For the expression cf. s. 27 below. — mil- 
yardhena, i.e., for half the usual price of a dasa. Cb Cs have ‘for half the price fixed in 
conformity with the work and time.’ This ignores the vd. Breloer has (II, 45) ‘ through a 
fixed work or a fixed time or half the cost of the work (provided he can produce this amount 
immediately).’ 

20 grhejata- etc. refer to the caturoarga of Narada, 5.29. — videge: after this a vd 
seems necessary. With this clause nayatahk is to be understood from the following clause. 

21 samrodhag§ cadkaranat is in conformity with 3.14.1 as proposed by Meyer. With 
akd@ranat, Cb Cs have ‘he should be called (a4kdrana) and surrounded by kinsmen (samrodha) 
taunted and thus forced to give freedom.’ This is very doubtful. Russ. (with cdkdrandt) 
has ‘ and the same fine for one who puts obstacles (toliberation) without sufficient cause.’ 

22 Contrast Manu, 8.416 “a slave cannot own property.’ 


23-24 Katyayana has a closely parallel rule. 


8. 18. 25 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 288 


25 If, after ransoming a male or a female slave, a person again sells or 
pledges him, the fine is twelve panas, except in the case of those who themselves 


agree. 
Thus ends the law concerning slaves. 


26 Those who are near shall note a labourer’s engagement in work. 


27 Heshould receive a wage as agreed upon, in conformity with the work 
and time (if the wage is not agreed upon). 28 A cultivator, a cowherd (and) 
a trader should receive one-tenth part of the crops, of butter (and) cf the goods 
dealt in by them (respectively) if the wage is not agreed upon. 29 But if the 
wage is agreed upon, then as agreed upon. 


80 But the group of those who work in hope (of remuneration) such as 
artisans, artists, minstrels, physicians, professional story-tellers, attendants 
and others should get a remuneration as others of that type do or as 
experts fix. 


81 (Disputes) shall be settled only on the testimony of witnesses. 
82 In the absence of witnesses, the (judge) should inquire at the place where 
the work ( was carried out ). 


88 In case of non-payment of the wage, the fine is one-tenth or six 
panas. 84 Incase of denial, the fine is twelve panas or one-fifth. 


85 If a person in distress, overcome by the current of a river or flames 
or robbers or wild animals, calls a rescuer with the promise of all possessions or 
sons arid wife or himself and is rescued, he should give a reward as directed by 
experts. 386 By that are explained retractions of promises made in distress 
in all cases. 


25 punar vikrayddhanam nayatah: Cs thinks that the person who pays the ransom 
price is meant, Meyer that the person who receives the ransom priceis meant. The former 
seems better. Breloer thinks (II, 57 n. 5) that aniskriya is to be read ‘ so long as he or she is 
not freed.’ This does not fitin with the exception in soayamvadin ‘ who himself agrees to be 
sold or pledged.” — ddsakalpah: ddsa includes the adhitaka. They both differ from the 
karmakara. ‘The former are under the sway ef some one; the latter only docs work for a 
wage. YForslavery in ancient India, cf. Brelocr II, 7-60. 


26 dsannah appear to be some sort of foremen, who are on the spot. 


28 The wage mentioned in 2.24.28 for gopdlaka ctc. appears to be for those in state 
service ; here those working for private citizens seem meant. gopdlakah sarpisdm: cf. 
2.29.7 above. 


80 désakdrika is an unusual word ; it seems to mean one who works in the expectation 
of a lump remuneration or reward, nota wage. These persons are not labourers, but belong 
toahighercategory. — yathdnyas tadvidhah,i.e., at the usual rates, these varying accord- 
ing to circumstances. 


83 dagabandho dandah satpano v4, i.e., if 1/10th amounts to less than six panas the 
latter fine isimposed. With his explanation of bandha as ‘ so many times ’ Meyer is forced 
to suggest that dasabandha and paficabandha are to be interchanged in the twoss. 84 apa- 
vyayamane, i.e., denying that any wage is due from him. 


289 CONCERNING JUDGES [3.14.9 


87 A harlot should get a fee in accordance with the indications of 
union ; but she who makes an exorbitant demand shall lose it, also if she 
shows evil-mindedness or lack of modesty. 


CHAPTER FOURTEEN 


SECTION 65 (Continued) 
Duties of Servants 
SECTION 66 UNDERTAKINGS IN PARTNERSHIP 


1 For a labourer not doing the work after receiving the wage, the fine 
is twelve panas, and detention till it is done. 


2 If he is incapable or if the work is vile or if he is ill or in calamity, 
he shall get annulment (of the agreement) or (the right) to get it done by 
another. 8 Or, at his cost, the employer shall have the right to get it done. 


4 If, when there is a restriction * You shall not give this work to another, 
nor shall I do any one else’s work,’ the employer does not get work done by him 
or the labourer does not do the work, the fine shall be twelve panas. 5 If 
the (labourer) has received wages from another person than the employer, he 
may not, on completion of the work, do (additional) work for him if unwilling. 


6 ‘Ifthe (employer) does not give work when the labourer has presented 
himself, the work shall be considered as done,’ say the teachers. 7 ‘No,’ 


says Kautilya. 8 A wage is for work done, not for whatis notdone. 9 If 


after allowing even a little to be done, he does not allow it to be done (further), 
his work shall be considered as done. 


87 pumécali is not mentioned in 2.27. — upalingandt: cf. 3.12.51 above. — The 


stanza is not in keeping with the rest of the Chapter and seems derived from a different 
context. 


8.14 


The rest of section 65 is found in ss. 1-17 and section 66 is found in ss. 18-88. The two 
are closely connected. 


1 samrodhas cdkaranat: see 3.13.21 above. With cdkdérandi Russ. has ‘ if he obstructs 
work without cause.’ 


8 vyayakarman ‘cost, expense’; cf. 2.1.23. 


4 avarodhe from Cb is necessary for the sense. Meyer proposes virodhe ‘ when there is 
prohibition,’ because of 3.15.7. But even in the latter place we have to read avarod::ena fer 
avirodhena of the mss. 5 karmanisthdpanc etc. : the idea seems to be that the employer 
may want the labourer to do additional work after the contracted work in hand is com- 
pleted by him ; ifin the meanwhile the labourer has accepted another man’s work (receiving 
payment beforehand), he may refuse to do the additional work for the first employer. 
Suggesting karmdnisthadpane as the reading, Cs has ‘ when the work is uncompleted, the 
labourer who has received wages from another shall not work for the latter if the first 
employer is unwilling toallow.’ asakdmahis queerly understoodinthis. Meyerhas ‘Ifthe 
master has assigned his work to some other person and if he has also received the wage, then 


if unwilling he may not doit.’ This sense for nigthdpana is uncertain. Cb is missing on 
bhartur akdrayato. .. ndsakdmah kuryat. 


6 krtam vidydt: i.e., a claim for wage can be successfully made. 


8.14.10] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 240 


10 In case the labourer misses the proper place and time or does the 
work in a wrong manner, he may not, if unwilling, allow the work as done. 
11 Im case more work is done than agreed upon, he shall not make the 
effort vain. 


12 By that are explained labourers from unions. 18 The (workman) 
kept (on the work) from among them shall remain for seven nights. 14 After 
that, the (union) shall provide another and secure the completion of the work. 


15 And without informing the employer, the union shall not remove 
any one or bring in any one. 16 In case of transgression of that, the fine 
is twenty-four panas. 17 For the person removed by the union, the fine 
shall be half (that). 


Thus ends the topic of labourers. 


18 Labourers from unions or partners in an undertaking shall divide 
the wages as agreed upon or in equal proportions. 


19 Or, cultivators and traders shall give to a (partner) who has become 
ill in the interval between the commencement and completion of (work con- 
nected with) crops and goods (respectively) an individual share corresponding 
to work as done by him. 20 Incase a substitute is provided, they shall give 
the full share. 21 But if he has fallen ill when the goods put together have 
brought success, they shall give his individual share there and then. 22 For, 
success or failure on the way is common. 


28 But if when the work has begun a (partner) goes away even if in good 
health, he shall be fined twelve panas. 24 Nor shall he have the freedom 
to keep away. ; 


10 -pdtanena: -pdtane locative as usual would have been better. 11 praydsamna 
mogham from Cb is quite necessary. ma seems to have dropped out through a scribal error. 
prayadsam amogham is also possible. 


12 samghabhriadh: obviously these are members of a labour union. They get work 
and also their wages through the union, not directly from the employer. 13 ddhih: in 
effect, this means a workman sent by the samgha to do the work. ‘The similarity with the 
* pledge (ddht) ’ is that like the latter he docs work for another at the behest of a third party 
(viz., the union). — saptardtram: change of workmen every seven days may be to pre- 
vent direct and close relations being established between individual workmen and the 
employer. 14 karmanispdkam : apparently the idea is that the samgha is responsible for 
finishing the work and not any individual member. Russ. renders ss. 18-14: ‘the time 
given to such a union is weekly ; thereafter agreements are allowed with others and work 
given for carrying it out.’ 

17 samghena parihrtasya: the workman is to be fined apparently because he leftn 
without informing the employer when withdrawn (from the work) by the union. The unio 
may be supposed to indemnify him. 


18 Thelabour union is a sort of partnership and hence the easy transition to the new 
section. 
19 sannasya‘* who has becomeill’(Cb). 20 wupasthdne: we expect upasthapane. 


21 samsiddha ‘has succeeded’, i.e., has brought in a profit. Cb, however, has ‘is 
ready to start.’ In that case pratyamga would refer to the man’s goods returned to him 
before starting. However, in the next s. which, withits hi, gives the reason for this rule, 
samstddha seems referred to in pathi siddhi. 


24 naca prakamyam, i.e., he shall be forced to work. Cf. 2.1.22. 


ah 


241 CONCERNING JUDGES [ 8.14.87 


25 But he should cause a misappropriator to be caught by (a promise of) 
a share for the work, preceded by a promise of safety, (and) he should give him 
the share and safety. 26 Incase he steals again, he shall be exiled, also if he 


goes elsewhere. 27 Incase of a very serious offence, however, he should deal 
with him as with a traitor. 


28 Sacrificial priests shall divide the fees as agreed upon or in equal 
shares, excepting objects received for each one’s special duties. 


29 And in the Agnistoma and other sacrifices, a priest falling ill after 
the consecration ceremony shall receive one-fifth (of his share), after the sale 
of soma one-fourth, after the heating of the pravargya-vessel on the middle 
upasad day one-third, after the middle upasad day half the share, after the 
morning pressing on the day of soma-pressing three quarters of the share. 30 
After the mid-day pressing, he shall receive the fullshare. 31 Yor (at that 
time) the fees are carried. 82 Except in the case of the Brhaspatisava, fees 
are indeed given at each pressing. 


38 By that are explained fees for sacrifices lasting for many days. 


34 ‘I'he remaining hired (priests) should do the work of those who have 


fallen ill, up to ten days and nights, or others trusted by themselves (should 
do it). 


85 Should, however, the sacrificer fall ill before the sacrifice is completed, 
the priests should complete the work and receive the fees. _ 


86 But if when the work is incomplete one leaves the sacrificer or the 
priest, the lowest fine for violence (shall be imposed). 


87-88 One owning a hundred cows but not keeping the sacred fires, 
one owning a thousand cows but not performing a sacrifice, a drunkard, 


25 coram: this evidently refers to a partner in a joint undertaking who is suspected 
of stealing the earnings. abhayapirvam karmanah pratyamgena implies a promise when his 
first offence is discovered that no harm would come to him and he would get his share, if he 
agrees to improve. grdhayet is not quite appropriate, as there does not seem to be any 
arrest at thistime. Cs thinks of a guild of robbers, one of them betraying the others. But 
diisyavad dcaret in s. 27 is hardly possible in the case 01 a robber. Some important citizen 
or dignitary can alone be thought of. 26 punahsteye implies a reprieve on the earlier occa- 


sion. — anyaira gamane,i.c., abandoning the work and going away altogether. 27 diis- 
yavat,i.e., asin 5.1 below. 
29 trliyam rom Cbis obviously necessary for dvitiyam of the mss. — madkyamopa- 


sada irdhvam is read in comformity with the actual comment in Cb, though its text shows 
madhyadd uirdhvuam. 82 This s. serves little purpose and seems to be a marginal gloss by 
some one who did not agree withs.31. hiinthes. cannot establish a relationship with the 
preceding. — Fortherules, cf. Manu, 8.210. 


83 Thiss.is unnecessary, and may not be original. Cbhasno comment onit. 


84 ddasdhordtrdi: Meyer thinks of the days of impurity ; that is possible if sanna 
implies actual death. — svapratyaydh: soa may refer to the other priests, who have trust 
in these. Cb refers sva to the yajamdna ‘ according to his own wish.’ Cf. 2.86.5; 8.4.38. 


85 samdpayya : the casual shows that the heir or relation isi nduced to complete the 
sacrifice. 


87 ‘The first half occurs in Manu, 11.14,in another connection. — orsaliisa heretic 
woman, not necessarily a Sidra. Cf. 1.12.5. — The nominatives in this and the follow- 


8. 14. 88 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 242 


one who has married a heretical woman, a slayer of a Brahmin, a 
violator of an elder’s bed, one addicted to receiving gifts from evil persons, 
a thief, a priest working for a degraded person, — (in the case of these) 
there is no harm in abandoning each other, because of the certainty of 
impurity attaching to (such sacrificial) work. 


CHAPTER FIFTEEN 
SECTION 67 RESCISSION OF SALE AND PURCHASE. 


1 If, after selling an article, one does not deliver it, the fine shall be twelve 
panas, except in cases of defect, a sudden calamity or unsuitability. 2 A 
defect in the article is defect. 8 Trouble from the king, thief, fire or water 
isasuddencalamity. 4 Whatis lacking in many qualities or what is done by 
one in distress is unsuitable. | 


5 For traders a period of retraction of one day (may be allowed), for 
agriculturists three days, for cowherds five days. 6 Inthe case of the sale of 
the means of livelihood by (persons of) mixed and the highest varnas, ( a period 
of retraction of ) seven days (may be allowed). 


-% For perishable goods, a retraction may be allowed with the restriction 
‘It shall not be sold elsewhere.’ 8 In case of transgression of that, the fine © 
is twenty-four panas or one-tenth part of the goods. , 


9 If, after purchasing an article, one does not receive it, the fine is twelve 
panas, except in cases of defect, a sudden calamity or unsuitability. 10 And 
rescission of purchase is similar to retraction by a seller. 


“11 Im the case of marriages, however, revocation is valid up to the 
ceremony of clasping the hand in the case of the first three varnas, and up to 


ing stanza cannot be easily construed with the predicate at the end; we should supply 
etesdm withit. 38 samkara is defect, i.e., impurity. 


8.15 


4 bahugunahinam ‘lacking in many qualities’ is according to Cs ‘withits value 
diminished many times,’ according to Meyer ‘ disadvantageous from many points of view.’ 
— 4Grtakrtam may convey the idea of whatis done under duress. — Thesame three condi- 
tions operate for rescission of purchase as well (s. 9 below). Am eS 


6 orttivikraye isfrom Cb. For concern about ortti, cf. 8.1.81. viurtti- of the mss. 
conveyslittlesense. Meyer suggesting niortti- for it and thinking varndnam to be an error 
for panyandm has ‘ for cancellation (niortti) or sale (finally confirmed) of goods mixed or 
of the highest quality.’ This is little likely. ” 2 

7 dtipatika which must be disposed of quickly, perishable goods, such as milk, curds, 
flowers ete. (Cb). — avarodhena is proposed for avirodhena of the mss. Cf. 3-14.4. 
avtrodhena can hardly mean ‘so as to enable the gcods to be preserved ’ (Cs) or ‘ when there 
is no prohibition to sell elsewhere’ (Meyer). Meyer’s other explanation (with aviroahe 
na) * there shall'be.no retraction (na anugayah) "except ‘when there is no prohibition 
(avirodhe)’ is not possible. There is nothing in the text for ‘ except when.’ . 

10 samanah, i.e., asin s. 5. 


248 CONCERNING JUDGES [3.16.2 


consummation in the case of Siidras. 12 Even in the case of those whose 
hand-clasping ceremony is completed, revocation is valid on discovering a 


defect connected with sex. 18 But under no circumstances (will revocation 
be valid ) when they have begotten children. 


14 For giving a maiden in marriage without mentioning the maiden’s 
defect in connection with sex, the fine is ninety-six panas and the return of the 
dowry and woman’s property. 15 Or, for the ‘suitor marrying without 


mentioning the pridegroony s defect, the fine is double, and the loss of the 
oy and woman’s property. 


16 In the case of bipeds and quadrupeds, however, for declaring dull, 
diseased and unclean ones as energetic, healthy and clean (respectively) the 
fine is twelve panas. 17 In the case of quadrupeds revocation (is allowed) 
up to three fortnights, up to a year in the case of human beings. 18 For, it 
is by that time that purity or otherwise can be known. 


+19 The members of the court should so allow revocation in the 


matter of a gift or a purchase that neither the giver nor the receiver is 
harmed. 


CHAPTER SIXTEEN 

SECTION 68 NON-CONVEYANCE OF GIFTS - 
SECTION 69 SALE WITHOUT OWNERSHIP _ 
SECTION 70 THE RELATION OF OWNERSHIP 


1 The non-delivery of gifts is explained by the non-payment of debts. 


2 A gift, not negotiable, shall remain in revocation in one place. 


11 pdanigrahnat: the sense of d is to be understood with the ablative. Cf3.5.20. 
prakarmanak : 


summation. 


again d is to be understood. prakarman is sexual intercourse, i.e., con- 
12 dogam aupasdyikam, e.g., impotency, loss of virginity etc. (Cb). 
14 stridhana could be returned by the parents if it is in their possession. For stri- 
dhana, sec 3.2.14-15. 15 varayituh refers to the bridegroom himself; since it goes with 
vindatah ‘ who marries.’ — Manu also includes marriage-sale under this head. 


16 It is proposed to read kuntha- for kustha- of the mss., as it provides the necessary 
contrast to utsdha. kunthaisfoundin Cb. — We expect sotsdha and svastha, adjectives 
like fuci. 18 saucdSauce is attested by Cb. Physical as well as mental cleanliness is 
implied. — ‘Sale of human beings is clearly mentioned here. 


19 sabhdsadah are apparently the same as kuSalah of 3.16.5, where this rule is. ReECe; 
ted ; experts consulted by the court in technical matters are meant. 


8.16 Nee | . 
- The three short prakaranas are foundin ss. 1-9, 10-28 and 29-42 respectively. 
2 avyavahadryam which cannot be the object of a transaction of gift. —  ekatra anu- 


faye varteta: Meyer has ‘ belongs solely to revocation, (i.e., to the chapter on revocation 


of sale and putchase).’ This seems hardly meant. The idea seems to be, it stands revoked 
‘automatically, with the donor. 


8.16.3 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 244 


3 If, after promising to give his whole property, his sons and wife or 
himself, one revokes, the (judge) shall allow it. 4 And (the judge shall 
annual) a gift of piety to wicked persons or for destructive actions, a gift of 
wealth to those who are not useful or are harmful, and a gift of love to unworthy 


persons. 
5 And experts shall fix revocation in such a way that neither the donor 
nor the receiver is harmed. 


6 For one who accepts a gift made in fear—through fear of punishment 
or fear of abuse or fear of a calamity—the punishment shall be that for theft, 
also for him who makes it. 7 (That applies also to) a gift in anger for injur- 
ing another and a gift made in haughtiness above that of kings. 8 In that 
case the fine shall be the highest. 


9 ‘The son or heir inheriting the property may not pay, if unwilling, 
obligations of suretyship, balance of a fine or dowry, a gambling debt, a debt 
for drinks and a gift of love. 


Thus ends the topic of non-conveyance of gifts. 


10 As to sale without ownership, however, on finding a lost or stolen 
article, the owner shall cause it to be seized by the judge. 11 Or, if the 
place and time are likely to be missed, he should himself seize it and bring it 
(to the judge). 12 And the judge should question the possessor, * Where 
did you getthis?’ 18 Ifhe were to show a legitimate method (of purchase), 
but not the vendor, he shall be acquitted on handing over that article. 
14 If the vendor were found, he shall pay the price (to the pruchaser) 
and a fine for theft. 15 If he were to find a means of exoneration, he 
may clear himself ( and so on) till the means of exoneration are exhausted. 
16 When these are exhausted, the (last person unable to exonerate himself) 
shall pay the price and fine for theft. 


8 sarvasvam etc.: cf. 8.18.85. These are the avyavaharya gifts. — prayacchet: the 
subject seems to be the judge, rather than thereceiver. Inthe nexts., the judge is clearly 
to be thought of as ordering annulment of gifts. 4 karmasuca: the ca should preferably 
have come after dharmadanam. 


5 Cf. 3.15.19. 


6 dkroga *‘ reviling, abusing’ ; cf. 8.18.12; also 4.11.14. 7 rajiam: lural ma 
Suggest inclusion of members of the royal family. race za redress plure J 


9 pratibhadoyam : cf. 8.11.15 ff. — $ulkasesam: cf. 3.4 33 : 
a . M e . o . a 3.2. . din § 
from Cb are obviously necessary. — Manu, 8.1 59, is identical. A Cua 


Reine peowenen the owner finds or comes across his lost article in some one else’s 
delanmnee eer sayet: the object is the article’ lost. 11 desakdldtipattau, i.e., if 
ison ate the article may be Jost sight of. Cf. 7.18.11. 12 svaminam can only 
elias melee Nee possession the articleisfound. The use of the same word for the 
thereading a cane rs e puspect in consecutive Ss. is confusing. 18 dcdrakramam: perhaps 
go to the : acarakrayam, as is shown by vilcr elaram;,. 14 mtilyam would naturally 
suspect, whose bona fides are thus proved. 15 apasara ‘a, of i.e 
& person who makes it possible for another to exonerate himself a 


245 CONCERNING JUDGES {8.17.14 


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN 


SECTION 71 FORCIBLE SEIZURE 


1 Forcible seizure is a deed of force in the presence (of the owner). 
2 Inthe absence (of the owner) it is theft, also in case of denial. 


3 ‘Incase of the forceible seizure of jewels, articles of high value, of low 
value and forest produce, the fine shall be equal to their value,’ say the 
followers of Manu. 4 ‘Double the value,’ say the followers of USanas. 
5 ‘In accordance with the offence,’ says Kautilya. 


6 ‘(In the case) of flowers, fruits, vegetables, roots, bulbous roots, cooked 
food, leather goods, wicker-baskets, earthenware and other trifling articles, 
the fine is a minimum of twelve panas and a maximum of twenty-four panas. 
7 Inthecase of articles of iron, wood and ropes, small animals, cloth and other 
big articles, the fine is a minimum of twenty-four panas and a maximum of 
forty-eight panas. 8 Inthe case ofarticles of copper, steel, bronze, glass and 
ivory and other big articles, the lowest fine for violence, (i.e.) a minimum of 
forty-eight panas and a maximum of ninety-six panas (shall be the punish- 
ment). 9 In the case of large animals, human beings, fields, houses, money, 
gold, fine cloth and other big articles, the middle fine for violence, (i.e.) a mini- 
mum of two hundred and a maximum of five hundred (shall be the punishment). 
10 For one who binds or causes another to bind or releases from bondage a 
woman or a man by using force, (the punishment shall be) the highest fine for 


violence, (i.e.) a minimum of five hundred and a maximum of one thousand,’ 
say the teachers. 


11 ‘He who causes another to commit an act of force, saying “I 
accept (responsibility), ’’ shall pay double (the fine). 12 (He who causes 
it) saying ‘“‘I shall give as much money as will be required,” shall pay 
a fourfold fine. 18 He who causes it by stating the amount in the words 
‘“*T shall give so much money, ”’ shall pay the money as stated as well as the 
fine,’ say the followers of Brhaspati. 14 ‘If he were to plead anger, in- 


toxication or delusion, he shall impose on him the (single) fine as prescribed,’ 
says Kautilya. 


8.17 


sdhasa, derived.from sahas ‘force,’ is primarily a forcible seizure of another’s articles. 

1 anvayavat: anvaya is the presence of the owner when the article is seized. Cf. 
Kullika on Manu, 8.832, which is an exact echo of this s. The idea of connection (anvaya) 
between the article and the person seizing it is possible, but seems less likely. The idea of 
common ownership (Cs, following Y4j. 2.230) also does not scem likely. 

8 mdnavdh: there is no such rulein the Manusmrit. 


10 The worst case of sdkasa involves human beings, and force is used to tamper 


with their condition of liberty or bondage. — ilydcdrydh: Kautilya apparently agrees 
with them, 


8. 17.15 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 246 


15 In all cases of fine one should know that there is an impost of 
eight panas per hundred, but in those above one hundred, a surcharge in 
addition of five panas per hundred. 


16 Because of the large number of crimes by subjects or because 
. of a defect in the condition of kings, the impost and the surcharge, which 
are illegal, (are current) ; but the basic fine is (alone) known to be legal. 


CHAPTER EIGHTEEN 
SECTION 72 VERBAL INJURY 


1 Defamation, vilification and threat constitute verbal injury. 


2 Of (defamation pertaining to) body, character, learning, profession and 
country, in case of defamation pertaining to body, such as one- eyed, lame 
and so on, the fine is three panas if (the defect is) a fact, the fine is six panas 
in case of a false imputation (of the defect). 


8 Incase of censure masquerading as praise of one-eyed, lame and other 
(persons), such as ‘ with beautiful eyes ’, the fine shall be twelve panas. 


4 Andincase of vilification referring to leprosy, madness, impotence and 
so on, when it is true, false and contains ironical praise, the fines are twelve 
panas increased by twelve panas successively (in the three cases, if it is) towards 
equals. 5 If towards superiors the fines shall be double, if towards inferiors 
half the fines, if towards wives of others double, (but) half the fines if it is due 
to a mistake, intoxication, delusion and so on. 


6 Of leprosy and madness, physicians and men staying near are the 
authority, of impotency, women, foam on the urine and sinking of ordure in 
water (shall constitute proof). 


15 riipam: this impost of 8% on the fine is different from the ripa understood as the 
inspection fee of 1/8% in 2.12.28, 30, 85. It corresponds to the riipika of 2.12.25. — 
gatat paresu is proposed for gata! pare of the mss. which show a metrically short pdda. 
The pural is necessary in conformity with karmasu. It is clear that su of paresu got dropped 
out through a scribalerror. Cb reads gatdvaresu and explains ‘ more than a hundred.’ It 
can hardly mean ‘less than a hundred’ (Cs). — vydjim: see 2.6.10 etc. 16 bhdva- 

“nature, condition.’ 


8.18 


1 upavddah ete. ; it is clear that upavdda is reviling a person with reference to some 
defect in body, character etc., while kutsana has reference to some serious malady, like 
leprosy, impotency etc. Thus Cb. 


2 éariropavdde : the Jocative is proposed in peering with the oat practice for the 
instrumental of the mss. 


8 Sobhandksimantah : the plural showsirony. -dantah is clearly out of place. Meyer 
suggests -kranitah ‘ gait ’ for it. 


4 tulyesu,i.e., of the same varna, though ‘ equal in status "is not unlikely. 
& dvigundh etc.: the plurals are necessary as in 8.19.4. 
@ mitraphena: it is the absence of the foam on the urine that shows the kliba. 


247 CONCERNING JUDGES [8.19.4 


7 In case of libel concerning character, among Brahmins, Ksatriyas, 
Vaisgyas, Siidras and the lowest born, the fines are three panas increased by 
three panas successively (if it is) of the earlier by the later, decreasing by two 


panas successively up to two panas if of the later by the earlier, also in case of 
vilification like ‘low Brahmin’ and so on. 


8 By that are explained defamation concerning the learning of pro- 
fessional story-tellers, slander of the profession of artisans and actors, and 
libel of the country of those from Prajjina, Gandhara and so on. 


9 The person who threatens another with doing (something), saying, 
‘I shall do this to you,’ shall pay, in case he does not (actually) do it, a fine half 
that prescribed for the doing of it. 10 Ifhe is incapable (of carrying out the 
threat) or pleads anger, intoxication or delusion, he shall pay a fine of twelve 
panas. 11 Ifhe has feelings of enmity and is capable of doing harm, he shall 
furnish a surety till the end of his life. 


, 12 A person deserves the lowest fine (for violence) for reviling his 
own country and village, the middle fine for reviling his own caste or 
corporation, the highest for reviling gods and sanctuaries. 


CHAPTER NINETEEN 


SECTION 73 PHYSICAL INJURY 


1 Touching, menacing and striking constitute physical injury. 


2 For one touching (another’s) body below the navel with the hand, 
mud, ashes or dust, the fine shall be three panas ; with those same when they 
are impure. and with the foot or with spittle, six panas ; with vomit, urine, 
ordure and so on, twelve panas. 8 (For touching) above the navel (the fines 
shall be) double, on the head four-fold, in the case of equals. 4 (The fines 
shall be) double in the case of superiors, half in the case of inferiors, double in 


the case of wives of others, half if due to a mistake, intoxication, delusion and 
sO On. 


% tripanottarah, i.e., 12, 9, 6 and 3 if an Antavasayin vilifies a Brahmin, a Ksatriya, a 
Vaigya and a Sidra, 9, 6 and 3 if a Sidra vilifies the upper varnas, and so on. —  dvipan- 
Gdharah, i.e.,8,6,4 and 2 ifa Brahmin offends a Ksatriya, Vaigya, Sidra and Antavasayin, 
6, 4 and 2 ifa Ksatriya offends and so on. — kubrahmanddibhis ca kutsdydm : the fines are, 
milder (basis of 2, not 3) because there is no specific reflection on character. 

8 Prajjinaka: Cb reads Pragghtinaka explained as ‘the kingdom of the Candalas.’ 
Cs renders this reading by ‘ the Eastern Huns.’ That seems doubtful. At any rate, finding 
a reference in this to the Huns under Toramana and drawing a conclusion from that as to the 
date of this work (Pran Nath, IA, 60, 121) seem hardly justified. Prajjtina may be Prakrit 
‘for Prarjuna, perhaps related to the Arjunayanas of the inscriptions. 


9 karane dandah, i.e., as laid down in the next Chapter. 11 avastha ‘surety;’ cf. 3.1.17. 

12 devacaityandm: soa may or may not be understood with this. — Cf. Yaj., 2.211; 

3.19 ae 
8 samesu, i.c., tulyesu of 8.18.4 above. 4 Cf. 3.18.5, 


8.19.5] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 248 


5 For holding (another) by the feet, the garment, the hand and the hair, 
the fines shall be six panas increased successively by six panas. 


6 In cases of pressing, squeezing (in one’s arms), bending, dragging and 
sitting on (another), the lowest fine for violence (shall be imposed). 7 For 
going away after throwing down, the fine shall be half. 


8 The (judge) shall cause the limb of a Sidra with which he strikes a 
Brahmin to be cut off. 9 For menacing a ransom (may be allowed), 
for touching the fine is half. 10 By that are explained Candalas and (other) 
impure persons. 


11 For menacing with the hand the fine shall be three panas minimum 
and twelve panas maximum, double (for menacing) with the foot, the 
lowest fine for violence with an object causing hurt, the middle with one 
endangering life. 


12 For one causing hurt without blood with any one of objects made of 
wood, earth, stone, or metal, or a stick or rope, the fine shall be twenty-four 
panas, for causing a bleeding wound double, except in the case of impure blood. 
18 For one beating (another) to the point of death without causing bleeding, 
or causing dislocation of the hand or foot, (the punishment shall be) the lowest 
fine for violence, also for breaking hands, feet or teeth, cutting off the ear or 
nose and opening up wounds, excepting festering wounds. 14 For breaking the 
thigh or neck or piercing the eye and in cases of (hurt leading to) obstruction 
in speech, movement or eating, (the punishment shall be) the middle fine for 
violence and the expenses for treatment and cure. 15 In case of death, he 
shall be taken for trial as a criminal by a magistrate. 


16 Ifa number of persons beat one person, the fine shall be double for 
each one (of them). 


6 -ajicana- ‘ bending’ is proposed for -afijana-, as suggested by Meyer. The latter 
word hardly conveys a suitable meaning. 7 -dandah singular is proposed, as it refers only 
to pirva sdhasadanda. 


__ 8-10 As Meyer argues, these ss. appear to be interpolated. They break the order. 
After sparsana, we expect a discussion of avagirna and then of prahata. Besides, the four 
varnas with the Antavasayin would have been mentioned as in 3.18.7, not only Brahmins 
and Sudras. The animus against the Sidra found here is unknown to this text, which 
looks upon him asan Arya. The interpolation seems derived from Yaj., 2.215 with Manu, 
8.279-84. — Canddldgucayah : an ddi was expected after Canddla in the compound. 


4 nt ateepagaogre doddasapanaparo evidently refers to the four varnas and Antavasayins 


12 anyatra dustagonitdt, i.e.,in this case the fine is not double. 18 } 

: : Disa? : Grancikam seems 
derived from pard-afic ‘ to bend away,’ though the form appears rremnia — vranavi- 
ddrane: this may refer to making a fresh wound or opening an old wound. — anyaira 
dustavranebhyah : this seems to imply that if the wound is very serious, a higher punishment 
pi be aero. P ile s similar idea is to be understood in dugtagonitat in 8. 12. 14 

curing ’ by a ician. asodh ‘apo: ° 
saul asain & Dy physician. 15 kantak andya etc.: apparently 4.11.1 ff 


249 CONCERNING JUDGES [ 8. 19.28 


17 ‘ Anold scuffle or trespass with criminal intent shall not be a cause for 
a suit,’ say the teachers. 18 ‘There is no going scot-free for an offender,’ 
says Kautilya. 


19 ‘Incase of a scuffle, he who comes first (to the court) wins, for (only) 
one unable to put up (with the injury) runs (to the court),’ say the teachers. 
20 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 21 Whether one has approached first or later, 
witnesses (alone) are to help in deciding the case ; if there are no witnesses, the 
injury or the indications of the scuffle (are to decide). 


22 If one does not reply to an accusation of injury, he shall be convicted 
on the same day. 


28 For taking away in a scuffle an object (of another), the fine shall be 
ten panas, for destroying a small object, the same and an equal amount as fine, 
for destroying a big object, the same and double that as fine, for destroying 
clothes, ornaments, money and gold articles, the same and the lowest fine for 
violence. 


24 For one causing the wall of another’s house to shake by striking at it, 
the fine shall be three panas, for breaking or cutting it six panas and (payment 
of the cost of) repairs. 25 For one throwing into another’s house an object 
causing hurt the fine shall be twelve panas, an object dangerous to life the low- 
est fine for violence. 


26 For causing hurt to small animals with wood and other things, 
the fine shall: be one pana or two panas, double that for causing bleeding. 
27 For these same offences concerning big animals, the fine shall be double 
and (payment of) expenses for treatment and cure. 


28 For cutting the shoots of trees in city parks that bear flowers or fruit 
or yield shade (the fine shall be) six panas, for cutting small branches twelve 
panas, for cutting stout branches twenty-four panas, for destroying 
trunks the lowest fine for violence, for uprooting (the tree) the middle (fine). 


17 anupravegah;: see 3.1.8. 

21 ghdtah ‘injury. — wupalinganam: cf. 3.12.51; 8.13.87. 

22 tadahareva: for the period usually allowed, see 8.1.29. pascdtkara ‘ Setting aside’ 
refers to conviction. 

23 dagapano: Cb comment implies the reading dvigatapanah. — tat would apparent- 
ly be restitution to the owner. 

24 Cb Cs add pdlanabhanjane dvddagapanah. It is not easy to see the difference 
between bhafjana of this and chedana or bhedana already mentioned. 25 anyaresmani 
from Cb appears better, though asya of the mss. could refer to para in the last s. 

26 At the end of this s. Cb has a long additional passage, not all of which appears 
genuine. In particular, the distinction in it between sakhdnga and vardnga is suspicious. 
It seems that Yaj., 2.225-6, is responsible for the addition. However, the pluralin sthanesu 
in the next s. suggests that some part of the addition, particularly vranaviddrane caturgunah, 
may be original, 


8. 19. 29 } KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 250 


29 Inthe case of bushes and creepers bearing flowers or fruit or yielding shade 
the fines shall be half, also in the case of trees in holy places, penance-groves 
and cremation grounds. 


80 In the case of trees at the boundaries, in sanctuaries, and of 
trees that are prominent, these same fines doubled shall be imposed, also 
(in the case of trees) in royal parks. 


CHAPTER TWENTY 


SECTION 74 GAMBLING AND BETTING 
SECTION 75 MISCELLANEOUS 


1 The Director of Gambling should cause gambling to be carried on in 
one place. 2 For one gambling with dice in another place, the fine shall be 
twelve panas, in order to find out those who follow a secret profession. 


8 ‘In a suit concerning gambling, the lowest fine for violence (shall be 
imposed) on the winner, the middle on the loser. 4 For, this (latter), being of 
a foolish nature and anxious to win, cannot bear a loss,’ say the teachers. 
5 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 6 If the loser is punished with a double fine, no 
one will approach the king (for justice). 7 Gamblers indeed are generally 


fraudulent players. 


8 Masters (of gambling halls) shall provide for them clean cowrie-shells 
and dice. 9 For substituting other cowrie-shells or dice the fine shall be 
twelve panas, for fraudulent play the lowest fine for violence and confiscation 
of winnings, for cheating fine for theft in addition. 


29 ca clearly implies that punyasthdna- etc. is to be construed with the preceding. 
Meyer, influenced by Y4j., 2.227-9, would construe it with the following stanza. 


80 dlaksita is clearly the same as vigruta of Yaj., 2.228. —- Yaj. often gives only a 
metrical rendering of ss. found in this section. 


8.20 


The two prakaranas are found in ss. 1-13 and 14-24 respectively. Manu, 9.228, 
explains the difference between dyiita ‘gambling’ and samahvaya ‘challenge’ with a bet. 
The former is done with inanimate objects (dice etc.), the latter with living creatures: 
(cocks etc.). 


1 The dyiitadhyaksa is not included among the adhyaksas discussed in Book 2. — 
ekamukham ; cf. 2.16.4; 2.25.1. 2 gidhdajivijidpandrtham: it is obvious that these 
words should have come at the end of s.1, as stating the reason for. gambling being allowed 
onlyin one place. Cf. Yaj., 2.203 dyiitam ekamukham kdryam taskarajnanakaranat, which 
is an exact echo of the present passage. . For gudhdjivin, see 4.4 below. 

8 jetuh: who has won in gambling; if he loses the suit, he is clearly held to have 
cheated at play. That he should get off with a lighter fine is obviously unreasonable, 

9 wupadhau steyadandas ca from Cb is clearly necessary. Cb understands upadhi to 
refer to fraud in making payments, to distinguish itfromhkitakarman. — 4,10,9 prescribeg 
a heavier punishment for these offences. 


251 CONCERNING JUDGES {8.20.15 


10 The master (of the hall) shall take five per hundred of the 
winnings, as well as hire for cowrie-shells, dice, leather-straps and ivory- 
cubes and charges for water, ground and the act (of gambling). 11 He 
shall carry out the pledging and sale of articles. 12 For not prohibiting 
offences concerning dice, ground or (the use of) hand, the fine shall 
be double. 


18 By that is explained ‘a challenge’ except challenges concerning 
learning or art. 


14 As to miscellaneous, however— 


_ For not returning at the proper place and time a thing borrowed, hired, 
pledged or entrusted, for missing the place or time of meeting or staying together 
at a watch (of the night) or shadow (of the gnomon by day), for one making a 
Brahmin pay duty at the police post or fare at the ferry, and for inviting over 
the heads of the immediate and the next-but-one neighbours, the fine shall be 
twelve panas. 


15 For one not handing over an object which he is enjoined (to 
deliver), for one touching the brother’s wife with the hand, for one going to 
@, prostitute in the exclusive keeping of another, for one purchasing goods 
claimed by another, for one breaking open a sealed house, and for one 
doing harm to members from forty neighbouring families, the fine shall be 
forty-eight panas. 


10 ardld is rendered by patta in Cb; Cs understands something like a leather-strap. 
— §alakda ‘ a rod that demarcates the places of the two players ’(Cb), ‘anivory cube’ (Cs). 
Panini 2.1.10 refers to aksa and Saldkdé as implements of gambling. 11 ddhadnam: the 
adhyaksa himself may be the pledgee. 12 dvigunah: apparently double those of s. 9 are 
meant. Cs has‘ double the five per cent,’ which appears lesslikely. 


18 anyatra vidyasilpasamdhvayal : i.e., challenges with bets concerning learning, or 
skillin art, are not subject to state control and may be freelyindulgedin. —- Manu forbids 
gambling as such. 


14 In the miscellaneous section offences are arranged according to the amount of fines 
they carry. Some of the offences mentioned here could well have been included under one or 
the other of the heads discussed earlicr. — ydma,i.e., time by night and chdyd, i.e., time 
by day. — samupavesa and samsthttt seem to refer to meeting or staying in a place at the 
direction of the state. A failure to keep a private engagement could hardly be an offence. 
Cb seems to understand ‘ failure to do work as promised at the time and place. samsthitt 
may also possibly mean ‘regulations, conventions etc.’ regarding meeting (samupaveéa). 
— taradeyam etc. : 2.28.18 shows that Brahmins are not to be charged at ferries. — 
anuvega from Cb is clearly necessary for anupravega. Itseems that according to Cb anuvega 
is the immediate neighbour and prativega the next neighbour. — nimantrana ‘invitation ’ 
for meals etc. on ceremonial occasions. It seems that a list of offences carrying a fine of 
twenty-four panas has dropped out. That has usually a place in the scale of fines. Cf. 
3.17.6 etc. 


15 samdistam has reference to ddega of 3.12.18 ; it hardly means ‘ promised (Cs). — 
paravaktavyam ; this seems to mean ‘ promised to others ' or ‘ claimed by others "; in either 
case, the vendor would be at fault, not the purchaser. Perhaps we have to read vikrind- 
nasya (for krindnasya). The expression could mean ‘blamed or condemned by others.’ 
Even then the vendor would be at fault. 


8. 20. 16 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 252 


16 For the receiver of the family treasure denying it, for one forcibly 
violating a widow living by herself, for a Candala touching an Arya lady, 
for one not rushing to rescue (another) close by in distress, for one rushing with- 
out cause (and) for one feeding Sakya, Ajivaka and other heritical monks at 
rites in honour of gods and manes, the fine shall be one hundred panas. 


17 For one putting questions (to suspects) on oath without authoriza- 
tion, and for one, not an officer, doing the work of an officer, for one castrating 
males used for stud purposes among small animals, and for one causing the 
abortion of a female slave by medicines, (the punishment shall be) the lowest 
fine for violence. 


18 As between father and son, husband and wife, brother and sister, 
maternal uncle and nephew or teacher and pupil, for one abandoning the 
other when not an outcast, (and) for one abandoning another going together 
in a caravan in the middle of a village, the lowest fine for violence (shall be the 
punishment), if in a forest the middle fine, for causing harm to him thereby 
the highest fine ; for others going with the caravan, half the fines (shall be 
the punishment). 


19 For one binding or making another bind a man not deserving to be 
bound or releasing a (man from) bondage, (and) for one binding or causing 
another to bind a child that has not attained majority, the fine shall be one 
thousand panas. 


20 Special fines should be imposed according to the special nature of men 
and offences. 


21 The head of a religious order, an ascetic, a sick person, one exhausted 
by hunger, thirst or a journey, a foreigner, one groaning under a fine, and an 
indigent person should be shown leniency. 


16 drydm: Yaj., 2.234, has uttaman spréan making it an offence of untouchability only. 

— niskdranam, i.e., when there is no dGpad. — Ajivakas are the followers of Gosala 
Makkhaliputta. Obviously this sect was prominent in the author’s day. They are 
mentioned in ASoka’s inscriptions. — orsala: it is clear that this word refers to heretics 
and has nothing to do with Sidras. 

17 vdkydnuyoga: see4.8.1-5. Yaj., 2.235, has ayuktam fapatham kurvan ayogyo yogya- 

karmakrt, which shows a Clear misunderstanding of the present text. 

18 sdrthdbhipraydtam from Chis necessary. svdrtha- has little significance. The fine 

is for the leader of the caravan abandoning a member on the way. — Obhregayaiah, i.e., 
for causing harm to him, either physically or materially. — sahaprasthdyisu: these are 
other members of the caravan who have acquiesced in the leader’s action. 

19 Compare 3.17.10 above. 

20 purusavisesa and aparddhavigega are to be understood. The former are men- 
tioned in what follows. 

21 {tirthakarah seems to be ‘ the head of a religious order,’ rather than ‘a pilgrim.’ Cb 
renders it by ddnaftla ‘a charitable person.’ — tirojanapadah: cf, 2.84.4. Cb seems to 
have read orddhah before vyddhitah. — dandakhedin: danda seems to refer to fines, rather 
than physical punishment, though that is not unlikely. 


258 CONCERNING JUDGES [ 3. 20. 24 


22 The judges themselves shall look into the affiairs of gods, Brahmins, 
ascetics, women, minors, old persons, sick persons, who are helpless, when 
these do not approach (the court), and they shall not dismiss (their suits) under 
the pretext of place, time or (adverse) possession. 


28 And men are to be honoured on account of excellence in learning, 
intellect, valour, noble birth and deeds. 


24 In this way the judges should look into affairs, without resorting 


to deceit, being impartial to all beings, worthy of trust and beloved of the 
people. 


Herewith ends the Third Book of the Arthagastra of Kautilya 
‘CONCERNING THE JUDGES’ 


22 andthdndm : this qualifies the preceding compound as in 2.1.26. — atihareyuh: 
cf. 4.9.15. 


23 This is a direction to the judges concerning persons appearing before them. 
24 bhdvesu, i.c., towards beings or persons. 


Boox Four 


THE SUPPRESSION OF CRIMINALS 


CHAPTER ONE 
SECTION 76 KEEPING A WATCH OVER ARTISANS 


1 Three magistrates, (all) three (of the rank of) ministers, shall carry out 
the suppression of criminals. 


2 Employers of artisans capable of making good an article, those good 
at entrusting materials, (and) artisans working with their own capital should 
accept entrusted material with the guarantee of the guild. 8 Incase of death, 
the guild shall be responsible for the entrusted material. 


The Fourth Book deals with criminal offences of various kinds. kantaka a thorn’ 
refers to criminals who are thorns in the side of the body politic. These include thieves, 
dacoits, murderers etc. as well as artisans, craftsmen, traders and others who cheat the 
public. Only Manu, 9.258-293, among the Smrtis, has a rambling discussion on some of 
these topics. Yajiiavalkya gives many of these rules under steya, sahasa or samgrahana, i.e.5 
under the regular vyavaharapadas. 


4.1 

For raksana ‘ guarding against, keeping a watch over,’ cf. 1.17 above. 

1 pradestarah : as is clear from the contents of this Book these officers are principally 
magistrates who punishcriminals. They are also concerned with the investigation of crimes. 
As 2.35.7 shows they are also authorized to enforce payment of state dues. That they are 
subordinate to the samdhartr is clear from 4.4.1, 4.5.18 as well as from 2.85.7. —  trayo 
*matydh : see 8.1.1 above. 

2 arthyapratikdrahis obscure. Meyer renders it by ‘who can make good anything con- 
nected with the object entrusted.’ That appears possible, though not very satisfactory. 
Cb Cs read arthyaprakdaradh and explain ‘ whose nature (prakdra in the sense of svabhdva) is 
honest.’ Breloer renders that reading by ‘ people from the class. of the rich’ (KSt, IIT, 372). 
This sense, or the meaning of arthyapratikarah as understood by Meyer, would appear suit- 
able, ifthe expression is understood as descriptive of kdrusdsitdrah. .These are apparently 
‘employers of artisans,’ i.e., some sort of master-artisans with assistants working under 
them. — samntkseptdrah : understood literally, this means ‘ who are good entrusters of . 

. materials’; that would be a description of the customers, not of the artisans. Since, 
however, the predicate is nikgepam grhniyuh, the expression must be interpreted so as to 
describe artisans. We may understand some sort of middlemen; who receive material from 
customers and then entrust the work to artisans. In that case, the expression may be 
understood as a further description of kdrusdsitarah. — SCGnillakarabahic ears to refer 
to artisans who work on their own and deal directly with customers ; they eee: started their 
workshop with their own capital. Cb seems to explain the word as follows ‘those who treat 
other people’s gold (with the same care) as their own gold.’ — srenipramandh, i.e., with 
the guild standing guarantee for the artisan’s reliability and honesty. This would seem 
applicable.to all the earlier cases or at least to the last case of svavittakdravah. . Cb Cs under- 

stand all five expressions as describing different traits which are necessary in an artisan. 
But it is doubtful if one and the same artisan can be described as karudasity and svavittakdru 


255 _ THE SUPPRESSION OF CRIMINALS [4.1.17 


4 And they shall carry out the work with the place, time and (nature of 
the) work stipulated, without stipulation as to place or time if the nature of the 
work can be pointed out (as the reason). 5 For exceeding the time-limit, 
(there shall be) a reduction in the wage by one quarter and double that as fine. 
G They shall be liable for what is lost or destroyed except in case of deteriora- 
tion or a sudden calamity. 7 For carrying out a work otherwise than as 
ordered, (there shall be) loss of wage and double that as fine. 


8 Weavers shall increase yarn to the extent of eleven (palas) from ten. 
9. For diminutign in increase, the fine shall be double the diminution. 


10 The wage for weaving (shall be equal to) the value of the yarn, one and 


a, half times in the case of ksauma and kauseya, double in the case of patrorna, 
blankets and dukila. 


11 For shortness in measure, (there shall be) a reduction in wage equal 
to (the value of ) the short measure and double that as fine, for short weight 
the fine (shall be) four times the deficiency, for change of yarn (the fine shall be) 
double its value. 12 By that is explained the weaving of double cloth. 


13 In one tulad of wool, a reduction in carding to the extent of five palas 
(is allowed), and (the same amount of) reduction in the hair (when carded). 


14 Washermen shall wash garments on wooden boards or smooth slabs 


of stone. 15 Those washing on anything else shall pay for damage to 
garments and a fine of six panas. 


15 (Washermen) wearing a garment other than one marked with the 
sign of the club shall pay a fine of three panas. 17 For selling, hiring out or 
pledging the garments of others the fine shall be twelve panas, for change 
of garment (the fine shall be) double the price and the return of the garment. 


at the same time. Breloer finds in the expressions five different categories of artisans. 
That appears doubtful at least in the case of srenipramandah, which has to be understood of 
svavittakdravah. It seems that only two classes are meant, k@rusdsitarah and svavittakdra- 
vah. Russ. has four categories ‘honest leaders of artisans (arthyaprakarah kadrusdsttarah), 
trusted depositaries (samnikseptdrah), independent workmen (svavititakadravah) and those 
having authority in their unions (Srenipramdanah).’ 3 vipaitau,i.e.,in case the artisan dies. 
Cf. s. 56 below and 3.19.15 for this sense. 


4 See 2.14.2, which shows that -kdlam kdaryapadesam is necessary. 5 Cf. 2.14.4. 
6 Cf. 3.12.23. 7 Cf. 2.14.3.. 


8 dasaikddasikam,i.e., the ten palas of yarn are expected to yield eleven palas of cloth ; 
the addition would come from the sizing material used. 9 chedadvigunah, i.e., double the 
value of the short weight in cloth. Meyer, who does not read the stop after dandah, includes 
sitramulyam and vadnavetanam also in the fine. That is quite unlikely. 


12 dvipatavadnam, i.e., weaving with a double yarn: For tbe kinds of weaves; see 
2.11.105. 


18 wtrndluldyah: a tuld is a weight of one hundeea palas ; see 2.19.21. — romac- 
chedag ca: as 2.11.101 shows, the hair of animals wereused for making rugs etc. The 


loss would occur during carding and spinning rather than during preening Gs in so it 
would have been better if we had romatulayds ca instead. 


16 mudgarankad anyad etc. : itis the washermen’s own clothes that are to cary the 


mark. The emblem may stand for the club used for beating the clothes during the washing 
operations. 


4.1.18 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 256 


18 Thcy shall return a garment, which is white like a bud, which is 
cleansed on a slab of stone, which has the colour of washed yarn, and which is 
bleached white, after one day increased successively by one day. 19 One 
with a light red colour (may be returned) after five days, one dyed blue after 
six days, a precious garment dyed in (saffron) flower, lac-juice or maiijistha 
the treatment of which is arduous and which has to be worked upon with 
great care, after seven days. 20 After that they shall lose their wage. 
21 In cases of dispute concerning dyeing, trustworthy experts shall fix 
the wage. 


22 For the most precious (garments) the wage (shall be) one pana, for 
middling one half, for lowest one-quarter, for rough (garments) one mdsaka 
or two mdsakas, double for dyed (garments). 


28 At the first washing there is a loss of one-fourth (of the value of the 
garment), at the second of one-fifth. 24 By that are explained later (losses 
in value). 


25 By washermen are explained tailors. 


26 For goldsmiths purchasing silver (or) gold in the same form from the 
hands of a disreputable person without informing (state officers) the fine is 
twelve panas, if in a changed form twenty-four panas, if from the hands of 
a thief forty-eight panas. 27 In cases of purchase at a low price in secret or 
what is changed in appearance there shall be the punishment for theft, also in 
case of deceit in the article manufactured. 


28 For (the goldsmith) stealing one mdsaka from one suvarna (of gold) 
the fine shall be two hundred panas, for stealing one mdasaka from one dharana 
of silver twelve panas. 29 By that are explained higher (values). 


18 mukuldvaddtam : this and the following expressions seem to convey four kinds of 
whiteness each succeeding one brighter than the preceding one, washermen being allowed 
I, 2, 8 and 4 days respectively for producing the different grades of whiteness. 19 pafi- 
cardtrikam tanurdgam : the dyeing operation makes a longer period necessary. — guru- 
partkarma * the treatment of which (dyeing) is heavy, i.e., long and arduous (e.g., printing 
in various colours etc.) .’ 

28 parcabhagah, i.e., ‘1/5th of 3/4ths’ (Cb Cs). It may also mean 1/5th in addition 
to the 1/4th of the original price. 24 uttaram,i.e.,1/6that the third washing and so on. 

25 Only a few of the above rules would ly t i . 17-20 with 
Be ean apply to tailors, perhaps ss 


26 aguci is a disreputable person with a suspicious character rather than a slave, 
labourer etc. (as in Cb Cs). — riipyam suvarnam : it seems that we should read répya- 
suvarnam asin 2.14.1. Ornaments of silver and gold are thought of. — andakhydya: the 
information is apparently to be given to the sauvarnika of 2.14. The pradesir also may have 
been meant. 27 pracchanna- etc. : Meyer has ‘in secret, in a changed form or at a low 
price, es three ideas. Cs has “at a low price what is secretly changed.’ It seems, how- 
Siro oe ene and vtriipa are unrelated to each other, but muilyahinakrayais to be 


28 For the weights mentioned see 2.19.2-6. 


257 THE SUPPRESSION OF CRIMINALS [ 4.1. 48 


30 For one sccuring an (artificial) enhancement of colour or practising 
removal or mixture (with base metals), the fine shall be five hundred panas. 


81 In case of fraud in connection with these two (metals), he shall treat it as 
(a case of) removal of colour. 


32 One mdsaka is the wage for one dharana of silver, one-eighth part (of a 
pane) for one suvarna (of gold). 33 In accordance with special skill, the wage 
may be increased to double. 34 By that are explained further rates. 


85 In the case of copper, steel, bell-metal, vatkrntaka and brass, the 
wage is five (panas) per hundred (palas). 


36 <A lump of copper has a loss of one-tenth part (in working). 37 In 
case of reduction to the extent of one pala (beyond this), the fine shall be double 
the (value of the) loss. 388 By that are explained furthercases. 39 A lump 
of lead or tin has a reduction of one-twentieth part. 40 And one kdkani 
is the wage for one pala of it. 41 A lump of iron has a reduction of one-fifth. 


42 And two kdkanis is the wage for one pala ofit. 43 By that are explained 
furttier cases. 


44 For the Examiner of Coins rejecting an established currency of panas 
which does not deserve to be rejected or not rejecting one deserving to be 
rejected the fine is twelve panas. 45 The currency of panas is effective when 
cleared of the payment of surcharge. 46 For one accepting one mdsaka 


on a pana (sent into circulation) the fine is twelve panas. 47 By that are 
explained further cases. 


48 For one causing a counterfeit coin to be made or receiving it or sending 


it into circulation the fine is one thousand panas, for inserting it in the treasury 
(the penalty is) death. 


30 varnotkarsam refers to an artificial glitter given to gold and silver ornaments. — 
apasaranam is proposed in accordance with a suggestion by Meyer for apasadranam of the 
mss. and asdrdndm of Cb Cs. apasdrana is described at length in 2.14.20-24. Cb under- 
stands asdra in the sense of an inferior alloy ;_ this is given a polish (varnotkarsa) to make it 
appear as gold or silver ; or it is mixed with gold or silver (yoga). This explanation also 
appears possible. 31 tayuh, i.c., of gold and silver. — rdgasya apahdram: as 4.4.22 


shows, this is a very scrious offence. It would seem then that apacarana implies a complete 
substitution of gold or silver by a base metal. 


32 astabhdgah is onc-cighth of a pana, not of a magaka (as in Cs Meyer). Cb under- 
stands one-cighzh of a gold mdsaka. No such coin is known to the text. 


41 kdldyasa is not mentioned in the Chapter on metals, 2.12, but is known to the text; 
cf. 3.17.7. 


44 riipadargaka: see 2.12.25. —- akopyadm: the root kup in the causal has the 
sense of ‘ to cause to be shaken, to disturb,’ i.e., to find fault with, to reject. 45 cydji: 
this is 5% as laid downin 2.12.26. Jtseems that the rupika of 8% and the pariksika of 1/8% 
mentioned there are also to be understood. 46 pandn mdsakam upajivatah : this appears 
to be a bribe of one mdsaka for every pana certified. The trader pays 1/6th, i.e., 64% and 
escapes 5 plus 8 plus 1/8, i.e., 18%. Cb Cs think that it is the laksana@dhyaksa who mis- 
appropriates a mdsa of silver from 1 pana at the time of minting. That officer, however, 


is not mentioned here. Moreover, that would be a counterfeit coin for making which the 
fine is very heavy (s. 48). 


4.1. 49] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 258 


49 Attendants and dust-washers should receive one-third of articles of 
high value (found by them), the king two-thirds and gems (when found). 
50 For stealing a gem, (the punishment is) the highest fine (for violence). 


51 In cases of information about mines, gems and buried treasure, the 
informant shall receive one-sixth part, one-twelfth part (if he be) a servant 
(of the state). 52 A treasure-trove over one hundred thousand (panas) shall 
gototheking. 53 Ifless, he shall give one-sixth part (to the finder). 54 A 
native of the land, who is upright, shall receive the entire treasure-trove buried 
by his forefathers after producing proof of ownership. 55 In the absence of 
proof of ownership, the fine is five hundred (panas), one thousand for appro- 
priating it secretly. 


56 For the physician undertaking treatment involving danger to life 
without informing (the authorities), the fine is the lowest fine for violence in 
case of death, the middle fine in case of death through a mistake in treatment. 
57 In case of injury to a vital part or causing a deformity, the (magistrate) 
shall treat it as (a case of) physical injury. 


58 Actors shall live in one place during the rainy season. 59 They 
shall avoid excessive gifts of love by one person and excessive praise of one. 
60 For transgression of t’:at, the fine is twelve panas. 61 They may, at will, 
entertain by making fun of the (customs of ) countries, castes, families, schools 
and love-affairs. 


62 By actors are explained wandering minstrels and mendicants. 
63 For them the punishment shall be as many lashes with the whip as the 
number of panas the (judges) may pronounce as the fine, to be inflicted with 
an iron rod (i.e., mercilessly). 


49 caraka-is proposed in conformity with 2.13.38. Cf. Breloer, III, 870 n.8. Cb Cs 
rcad saraka which means ‘a jewel.’ That meanirg does not fitin the context. The actual 
comment in Cb contains no reference to any jewel. 


58 sastham amgam dadydt: according to Cs it is the finder who gives one-sixth to the 
king. Thatis due to Yaj.2.35. But Yaj. presupposes that the treasure-trove belongs to the 
finder, which is not the case here. 54 svakaranena: cf. 2.86.7; 3.1.15 etc. — Manu 
(8.85-37) allows only the Brahmin to take the whole ; the rest are to give one-sixth to the 
state. 


57 marmavadhavaigunyakarana may be understood as a single idea ‘causing a 
physical deformity through injury to a vital part’ or as two separate ideas, marmavadha 
and vaigunyakarana. -vecha (Cb Cs) for vadha- is perhaps better. — dandaparusyam 
vidydt, i.e., the punishments of 3.19:12-14 would operate. 


58 This is in order to prevent their disturbing agricultural operations (Cs). Cf. 2.1.34. 
59 kdmaddnam : this would be received by the kusilavas from some patron, hardly given 
by them to someone. 60 duddagaguno of the mss. would apply to kdmaddna, but not to 
ativdda. We should read dvuddagapano with Cb. 61 The mss. read -avabhdsena ; Meyer’s 
suggestion to read -avahdsena is adopted as being preferable to it. Cb Cs read -apahdne 
* by avoiding (the ridicule of).’ In 8.18.8 we have upavdda ‘reviling’ which is different 
from avahdsa ‘joking about, making fun of’ here. And the form apahdna is not convincing. 


zs 63 ayah$silena * with an iron rod’; but since iphd is there, this has to be understood 
figuratively. Cf. dyahgilika in Kavyaprakdga, 10. Cb explains ‘if any one pierces the 
vitals of kugilavas and cdranas and takes money from them he is to be punished with lashes.’ 
This is doubtful. Cs has ‘in case they wound the feelings of others which is like piercing 
the vitals with an iron dart,’ which seems little likely. 


259 THE SUPPRESSION OF CRIMINALS [ 4. 2.12 


64 In the case of the remaining kinds of work, he shall lay down wages 
for artists in accordance with what they produce. 


65 In this manner the (king) should prevent thieves who are not 
known as thieves such as traders, artisans, actors, mendicants, jugglers 
and others from oppressing the country. 


CHAPTER TWO 
SECTION 77 KEEPING A WATCH OVER TRADERS 


1 The Superintendent of Markets should set up the pledging or sale of 
old wares which are furnished with proof of ownership in the market-place. 


2 And he should inspect the weights and measures because of (likely) fraud 
in the standard of weights and measures. 


8 In the case of the parimani and the drona, half a pala less or more is 
no offence. 4 Forone pala less or more the fine is twelve panas. 5 By that 
is explained the increase in fine for each successive pala. 


6 In the case of a 
tulad, one karsa less or more is no offence. 


7 For two karsas less or more the 
fine is six panas. 8 By that is explained the increase in fine for each succes- 


sive karsa. 9 In the case of an ddhaka, half a karsa less or more is no offence. 
10 For one karsa less or more the fine is three panas. 11 By that is explained 
the increase in fine for each successive karsa. 12 From this, he should form 
an estimate of (the fines for deviations in) other types of weights and measures. 


64 The idea scems to be that in the case of the work of artisans not mentioned in the 
Chapter, their remuncration should be fixed in accordance with the type of work they do. 
Cs has $esa as ‘ additional work ’ for which remuneration is to be according to work done. 
This meaning for ¢esa seems hardly likely. According to Breloer (III, 370 n.2) we should 
read a ca after karmandm and understand ‘ for the classes of artisans not mentioned in this 
Chapter, the wages should be as given to artists.’ He adds that artists (silpin) do not belong 
to this Chapter and artisans not mentioned here should be treated like artists, i.e., their 
wages are not fixed by rules, but according to the object. It is not certain that such a dis- 


tinction between two sets of artisans is really intended. What seems meant is only that 
artists’ wages depend on the type of work they do. 


65 Breloer (III, 371) considers it noteworthy that wood- and leather-workers, clay- 
workers and house-builders are missing in this Chapter. According to his reasoning on the 
last s. these would be treated on a par with artists. It is likely that these are not men- 
tioned because fraud or cheating is not measurable in their case, also because their mis- 
demeanour does not quite constitute a social crime. The fact that they belong to a more 


primitive economy seems to havelittle to do with their non-mention in this Chapter. — 
kuhaka is a ‘ magician ’ according to Cb. 


4.2 


1 samsthddhyaksah : this officer’s duties are not described in the Second Book. Itis 


notclearifheistoworkunderthe panyadhyaksa (2.16) who appears towards the end of this 


Chapter. samsthd refers to the panyasamsthd ‘ the market-place.” — purdnabhadndanéam : 
this does not mean that the officer is concerned with old or second-hand goods only. He 


supervises the whole market, where old goods (that are likely to be stolen goods) may alsa be 
onsale. 2 pautava-: see 2.19.1. 


3 parimGni and drona each measures two hundred palas (2.19.17-18 and 29). So the 
deviation allowed is to the extent of 1/400th. 6 tulad is one hundred palas and a karsa is 


1/4th of a pala (2.19.12-15 and 4) ; so the same deviationisallowed. 9 ddhakais1/4thofa 
drona (2.19.81). 


4,2.138 } KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 260 


18 For the trader, purchasing with larger weights and measures and 
selling with smaller ones, these same fines are to be doubled. 14 lor one 
robbing to the extent of one-eighth part of the price of the goods in the case 
of goods sold by counting, the fine is ninety-six panas. 


15 For the trader effecting the sale or pledging of an article made of 
wood, metal or gems, or made of ropes, leather or clay, or made of yarn, 
bark or hair, which is not genuine by declaring it to be genuine, the fine is 
eight times the price. 16 For the trader effecting the sale or pledging of an 
article not of high value as an article of high valuc or of an article not of a 
particular class as an article of that class or of an article which is given a false 
shine or in which there is fraud or the container of which is changed, the fine 
is fifty-four panas if the price is trifling, double if the price is one pana, two 
hundred (panas) if the price is two panas. 17 By that is explained the increase 
in fine in case of increase in price. 


-18 For artisans and artists who by conspiring together bring about a 
deterioration in the quality of a work or (increase in) profit or a hindrance to 
purchase or sale, the fine is one thousand panas. 


19 For traders, too, who by conspiring together hold back wares or 
sell them at a high price, the fine is one thousand panas. 


20 As to difference in weight or measure or difference in price or quality, 
for the weigher or measurer who by a trick of the hand brings about (a differ- 
ence to the extent of) one-eighth part in (an article) priced at one pana, the fine 
is two hundred (panas). 21 By that is explained the increase in fines by two 


18 atiriktabhydm kritvd etc. ; the purchase is made with a weight larger by more than 
1/400th, while the sale is made with a weight smaller by more than 1/400th,i.c., the difference 
in weight is more than double the deviation allowed and therefore the fires are doubled. 
14 panyamiilyesu astcbhdgam : perhaps in confornity with s. 20 below, panamilyesu may 
have been the original reading ; however, we have no reference in this case tc a rising scale of 
fines as we have there. 


15 Y4j.,2.24Gisanexact paraphrase. 16 tajjatais‘ ofa particular class ’ rather than 
‘made at a particular place ’(Cs Breloer). Cf4.6.83. — samucgaparivartimam, i.c., given 
from a different container. The reading samutpari- meaning ‘ changed in appearance ° is 
less likely. Cf Yaj., 2.247-8. — hinamilyum, i.c., valued at less than one pana. 


18 kdrusilpindm etc.: evidently the samsthdcnyaksa was also responsible for pre- 
venting craftsmen and artists whose shops were in the market from joining together for 
exploiting customers. Meyer thinks that traders inducing craftsmen etc. to join togcther 
may also be understood. But that does not seem right. Cf. Yaj., 2.249. From 4.1.64 and 
this s. Brelocr (III, 382) concludes that the separation of artisans from traders was not usual 
before Kautilya. For djiva ‘ profit’ cf. s. 28 below. 


19 YAj., 2.250 is an exact reproduction. 


20 The expression tuldmandntaram arghacarndntaram vd at the beginning are under- 
stood as something like adhikaraSabdas introducing the topic. This is how Cb apparently 
understands it. It explains antara by ‘special gain (made through tuld ctc.).? The two 
words could have been understood with astabhagam in the s.,but though the former is possible 
with hastadosena, it is dilficult to conceive of arghantara or varndntara being brought about 
by hast.dosa. And the case of varndntara is separatcly mentioned in s. 22. Cs supplies 
* should be written down ina book’ after theexpression, byt it is not easy to sce the purpose 
of such records. — dharakasya etc.: as Breloer (IIT, 396-400) says these arc servants in 
the royal store-houses, where these offences are to be understood as being committed. Cf. 
2.15.68. That explains the heavier fine. 21 dvigatottard dandavyddhih: this may mean 


261 TH}]E SUPPRESSION OF CRIMINALS [ 4. 2. 82 


hundred (panas) successively. 22 For mixing things of a similar kind with 


objects such as grains, fats, sugars, salts, perfumes and medicines, the fine is 
twelve panas. 


23 The Merchant should fix, after calculating their total earnings for 
the day, what the (sales-agents) should live on with permission. 


24 What falls in between the purchaser and the seller becomes different 
from what is received. 25 With that they may make stores of grains and 
commodities, when permitted to do so. 26 The Director of Trade should 
confiscate what is accumulated otherwise by them. 27. With that he should 
trade when selling grains and commodities to the advantage of the subjects. 


28 And he should fix a profit for them of five per hundred over and above 
the permitted purchase-price in the case of indigenous commodities, ten 
(per hundred) in the case of foreign goods. 29 Jor those who increase the 
price beyond that or secure (a profit beyond that) during purchase or sale, the 
fine shall be two hundred panas for (an additional profit of) five panas in one 


hundred panas. 30. By that is explained the increase in fine in case of in- 
crease¢ in price. 


31 And in case of the joint purchase by them remaining unsold, he shall 


not allow another joint purchase. 32 In case of damage to commodities, 
he should show them favour. 


thatin the case ofan article valued at two panas, the fine is four hundred panas and so on or 
that if the difference is to the extent of 1/4th of the price the fine is 400 andsoon(Cs). The 
former is obviously intended. 22 samavarnopadhdne: this literally implies mixing 
with goods of the same or similar quality. Mcyer thinks we should read asamavarno- ‘ not . 
of the same quality,’ which seems supported by hinam praksipan in Yaj.’s paraphrase of 
this s. (2.245). But the smallness of the fine seems to indicate only a mixing with similar 
quality goods. The finc is prescribed because goods in royal stores are tampcred with. 


23 yan nisrstam ctc.: it seems that from this s. onwards we have to think of the 
panydadhyalksa as the officer concerned and not the samsthachyaksa. The former is mentioned 
in ss. 26 and 33. Moreover, upajiveuuh could have for its subject sales-agents, referred to 
as panydchisthatarah in 2.16.14-16, who work under the panydadhyaksa. It is he who fixes 


their day’s remuneration. vanthk, therefore, seems to be the panyddhyaksa ; he is the state 
Tradcr-in-Chicf as 2.16 shows. 


24 kretrvikretor antarapatitam is an cdd expression. What seems meant is ‘ the differ- 
ference between purchases and sales,’ i.e., goods remaining unsold. krayavikrayayor would 
have been better. — dddyddanyad ‘ other than, i.c., different from what is received (as com- 
mission or profit).’ The idea seems to be that unsold goods cannot be treated as remunera- 
tion or profit and the agent deprived of the latter with that excuse. It must be admitted 
that this sense for adddya would be unusual. It is not unlikely that ss. 24 and 25 formed 
a single sentence and we originally had antarapatitam adadua yad bhavatt tena dhanyapanya- 
etc. Cs reads addyddanyam ‘ not liable to be divided among heirs (but to be taken by the 
king alone),’ which is extremely doubtful. Meyer proposes dddya adainyam bhavati ‘no 
difficulty would arise by taking it,’ i.c., it would be useful in times of distress. There seems 
little point in such a statement here. 26 anyathdnicitam, e.g., by setting aside a part 
of the goods given to them for selling and making up the price by charging more for the 
rest. 27 anugrahena prajadndm : cf. 2.16.5 above. : 


28 -krayais clearly ‘ purchase-price’. 29 bhdvayatam: the objectis ‘ gain or profit.’ 
— panasate parcapanad, i.e., for an additional 5%. 


31 ndnyam sambhiyakrayam: Cb Cs understand ‘to other merchants.’ However, 
‘to the same merchants ’ is also likely. A sort of monopoly in sale is thought of here, care 
being taken to see that there is no cornering of the commodity. 


4. 2. 88] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 262 


88 If there is a glut of commodities, the Director of Trade should sell all 
goods in one place. 84 So long as these are unsold, others shall not sell (those 
goods). 85 The (agents) shall sell those for a daily wage for the benefit of the 
subjects. 


86 In the case of commodities distant in place and time, however, 
the (Director of Trade), expert in fixing prices, shall fix the price after 
calculating the investment, the production of goods, duty, interest, rent 
and other expenses. 


- CHAPTER THREE 
SECTION 78 REMEDIAL MEASURES DURING CALAMITIES 


1 There are eight great calamities of a divine origin: fire, floods, dis- 
ease, famine, rats, wild animals, serpents and evil spirits. 2 From them he 
should protect the country. 


8 In summer, the villages shall do the cooking outside (the houses) or 
being protected by a collection of ten fire-fighting implements. 


4 Prevention of fire is explained in ‘Rules for the City Superin- 
tendent’ and in connection with royal possessions in ‘Rules for the 
Royal Residence.’ 


5 And on parvan-days, he should cause worship of the fire to be made 
with offerings, oblations in fire and recitals of benedictions. 


82° panyabdahulydt: Cs reads this with the preceding gs. ; but the construction is far 
fromhappy. The commentin Cb supports the other construction. — ekamukhdni : cf. 
2.16.4. 34 anye, i.e., other independent traders. 35 anugrahena prajdndm: cf.s. 27 
above. 


36 The prose is to be construed with the following stanza, showing a common author- 


ship. — panyanispatiim refers to the amount of goods produced. Cs has ‘time taken 
for production.” — arghavit is clearly the panyddhyaksa, as 2.16.1-8 show. He can 
hardly be the samsthddhyaksa as Cs and Breloer think. 

4.8 


The inclusion of this Chapter in this Book is rather strange. Perhaps kaniaka stands 
for everything causing trouble to subjects. The pradesirs may be concerned with some 
of the measures recommended, but often the king appears to direct the operations himself, 

8 grisme etc.: cf. 2.86.15-17 above. — dasgamilisamgrahena achisthitah : this is far 
from clearin meaning. The translation follows a suggestion by N. N. Law (Studies, p. 101) 
that dagamili refers to the fire-fighting tools of 2.86.18, though it must be pointed out that 
we have only nine objects mentioned there, not ten, since kacagrahani is a single item, not 
two as Lawthinks. Cb Cs read dagakuli- ; the idea seems to be that groups of ten families 
hold themselyes responsible for fires in their area and that probably they kept a watch 

by turns while cooking was in progress, This might also appear to be a likely idea. Cb 
seems to imply that the gopa (in charge of ten families) is to look after the prevention of fire, 
4 ndgarika-etc.,i.e.,in 2.86.15-27 above. — nisdntapranidhau,i.e., in 1,20.4. 
§ paroasu,i.e., on the new moon and full moon days, 


263 THE SUPPRESSION OF CRIMINALS [4.38.19 


6 In the rainy season, villages situated near water should live away 
from the level of the floods. 7 And they should keep a collection of wooden 
planks, bamboos and boats. 8 They should rescue a (person) being carried 
away (by the flood) by means of gourds, skin-bags, canoes, tree-stems and rope- 
braids. 9 For those who do not go to the rescue, the fine is twelve panas, 
except in the case of those without canoes. 


10 And on parvan-days he should cause worship of the rivers to be 


carried out. 11 Experts in the practice of magic or those versed in the 
Vedas should use spells against rain. 


12 In case of drought, he should cause worship of the Lord of Saci, 
the Ganges, the Mountains and Mahakaccha to be made. 


13 The calamity of disease, (magicians and others) should counter- 


act with secret means, physicians with medicines or holy ascetics with pacifi- 
catory and expiatory rites. 


14 By that is explained the epidemic. 15 He should cause to be in- 
stituted bathing in sacred places, worship of Mahakaccha, milking of cows in 
cremation grounds, burning of effigies and a night (festival in honour) of gods. 


16 In case of disease or epidemic among cattle, he should order lustra- 


tion rites in connection with the sheds and objects (connected with them) and 
worship of their respective deities. 


17 During a famine, the king should make a store of seeds and food- 
stuffs and show favour (to the subjects), or (institute) the building of forts: 
or water-works with the grant of food, or share (his) provisions (with them), 
or entrust the country (to another king). 18 Or, he should seek shelter with 
allies, or cause a reduction or shifting (of the population). 19 Or, he should 
migrate with the people to another region where crops have grown, or settle 


% wupagrhniyuh is proposed for apa- as being necessary forsense. 8 gandikdis a tree- 
stem, sometimes used as an anvil; cf. 2.13.9. — ventkd is a rope (which has the appear- 
ance ofa braid). Cf.10.2.14. Law (Studies, p. 84) thinks that gandikd is a floating device 
made of the skin of a rhinoceros and that venikd is a float of reeds etc. woven together. 
The former at least is doubtful in this text. 

12 mahdkaccha: see 3.16.88. According to Cb it means ‘ the sea.’ 


18 siddhatdpasah seems to convey asingleidea ‘ ascetics who have attained siddhts.” 
15 mahdkacchavardhanam : sce 3.16.38. 


16 sthdndrtha- is proposed for sthandnyartha- of the mss. sthdndni outside the com- 
pound would be strange. sthdna by itself can hardly mean ‘ keeping in another place’ 
(Cb). Meyer suggests sthandnydartha- ‘ sheds and other (anya) objects,’ which is doubtful. 
He also suggests sendnyartha- or sendnyarchd-, which are hardly likely. — svadaivata 
‘i.e., Subrahmanya of elephants, Asvinau of horses, Pagupati ofcattle, Varuna of buffaloes, 
Vayu of donkeys and mules, and Agniof goats * (Cb Cs). 

17 deganiksepam: this amounts to entrusting the region to the care of another 
king who may be better placed. niksepaimplies receiving back afteratime. 18 kargana 
is reduction in population by inducing migration to foreign lands, while vamana is shifting 


4. 8. 20 } KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 264 


along the sea, lakes or tanks. 20 He should make sowings of grains, 
vegetables, roots and fruits along the water-works or hunt decr, beasts, birds, 
wild animals and fish. 


21 In case of danger from rats, cats and ichneumons should be let loose. 
22 For catching or killing these, the fine shall be twelve panas, also for not 
restraining dogs, except in the case of foresters. 23 He should strew grains 
smeared with the milk of snwhi-plants or such as are mixed with secret mix- 
tures. 24 Or, heshould instituteataxinrats. 25 Or, holy ascctics should 
perform pacificatory rites. 26 And on parvan-days, he should order worship 
of rats. 


27 By that are explained remedies against danger from locusts, birds, 
and insects. 


28 Incase of danger from wild animals, he should leave carcasses of cattle 
mixed with a stupefying liquid or intestines (of cattle) filled with madana- 
kodrava. 29 Fowlers or hunters should busy themselves with concealed 
cages and pits. 80 Armoured men, weapons in hand, should kill wild animals. 
81 For one not going forth to help, the fine shall be twelve panas. 32 The 
same shall be the reward for one slaying a wild animal. 33 And he should 
order the worship of mountains on parvan-days. 


84 By that are explained remedies against herds of deer or beasts, 
swarms of birds and crocodiles. 


85 In case of danger from serpents, experts in poison-cure should act 
with charms and medicines. 86 Or (persons) coming together should kill 
snakes. 87 Or, experts in the Atharvaveda lore should use magic spells. 

38 Andon parvan-days, he should order worship of cobras. 


89 By that are explained remedies against danger from aquatic creatures. 


40 In case of danger from evil spirits, experts in the Atharvaveda 
lore or experts in the practice of magic should perform rites for destroying 
evil spirits. 41 And on parvan-days, he should order worship of caitya- 
trees with offerings of raised platforms, umbrellas, food, small flags and goats. 


population from one region to another in the kingdom itself. Cf. 2.1.1. 20 drambhan in 
the context refers to hunting, catching etc. 

22 tesdm,i.e., of cats andichneumons. — gundm: these might drive away the cats. 
24 misikakaram, i.e., so many dead rats as tax per head. 

28 madanarasa: see 14.1.16-17. — madanakodrava appears to be a poisonous 
variety of the kodrava grains ; or kodrava grains treated with poison may be understood. 
29 kita as an adjective ‘ concealed ’ is preferable to a substantive ‘a snare’ (Meyer) ; 
cf. 2.8.15 ; 4.10.3 etc. 

35 jangulividah: cf.1.21.9 etc. 36 vdpi sarpan is proposed for vopasarpan, which 
is evidently corrupt. 

41 ullopika appears to be a kind of food, asin Cb. The Mahabharata (5.191.21) has 
the form ullapika (from lap * address * to the spirits when offering foodtothem). Utpala on 

Br. Sam. 48.28 has ullapika, but on 46,16 ullopikd. — hastapatdkd is a flag carried in the 
hand. a small flag. 


265 THE SUPPRESSION OF CRIMINALS [4.4.8 


42 In cases of all (kinds of) danger, they should make offerings day and 
night, saying ‘ We offer you the oblation.’ 48 And in all cases, he should 
favour the stricken (subjects) like a father. 


44 Therefore, experts in the practice of magic, (and) holy ascetics, 
capable of counteracting divine calamities, should live in the kingdom, 
honoured by the king. 


CHAPTER FOUR 
SECTION 79 GUARDING AGAINST PERSONS WITH SECRET (MEANS OF) INCOME 


1 In ‘Rules for the Administrator’ the protection of the country has 
been described. 2 We shall (now) explain the weeding of thorns in that 
(country). 


8 The Administrator should station in the country (secret agents) 
appearing as holy ascetics, wandering monks, cart-drivers, wandering minstrels, 
jugglers, tramps, fortune-tellers, soothsayers, astrologers, physicians, lunatics, 
dumb persons, deaf persons, idiots, blind persons, traders, artisans, artists, 
actors, brothel-keepers, vintners, dealers in bread, dealers in cooked meat, 
and dealers in cooked rice. 4 They should find out the integrity or other- 
wise of village-officers and heads of departments. 5 And whomsoever among 
these he suspects of deriving a secret income he should cause to be spied upon - 
by a secret agent. 


6 A secret agent should say to a judge in whom confidence is inspired 
by him, ‘ Such and such a relation of mine is accused (before you) ; save him 
in this misfortune and accept this amount.’ 7 If he were to do so, he should 
be exiled as one given to receiving bribes. 8 By that are explained 
magistrates. 


42 cardmah from Cb Cs seems preferable to carami of the mss. 


4.4 


gidhdjivindm : the genitive conveys the sense of the ablative. — raksd@ is the same 
as raksana in 4.1 and 4.2 above. 


1 samdharirpranidhau : the actual title of the section in 2.35 is samdahartrpracarah. 


8 samaharid: itis clear that this officer is ultimately responsible for the kantakasodhana 
and that the pradesirs work under him. — Russ. renders pracchancaka by * mediators or 
middle-men ’ or (in the Notes) ‘ those who carry secret messages.’ 4 gramdnam obvious- 
ly refers to officers stationed in the villages. 5 gudha@jivinam is proposd for gudhajivinam 
in conformity with the use of the former form found throughout elsewhcre ; cf. 3.1.10 ; 
3.20.2 etc., as wellas the title of this section. The actual comment in Cb shows the correct 
form. — _ sattrindis proposed for satirisavarnenaofthemss. savarna‘ of thesame varna ” 
has little significance in the context ; and its place in the compound is also suspicious. 

6 It is proposed to omit pradesiaram va read after dharmastham is the mss., in view 
of s. 8 which follows. 7 pravdsyeta : the idea is of ‘exile,’ not of ‘execution,’ in the 
present Chapter. 


4.4.9] KAUFILIYA ARTHASASTRA 266 


9 A secret agent should say to a village chief or a departmental head, 
‘Such and such a rogue has plenty of wealth; this misfortune has befallen 
him; by using that, extort money from him.’ 10 If he were to do so, 
he should be exiled as an extortioner. 


11 Or, (an agent) pretending to be an accused should induce those, 
who are known to bear false testimony, with plenty of money. 12 If they 
were to do so, they should be exiled as false witnesses. 138 By that are 
explained those who cause false evidence to be given. 


14 Or, if he considers any one as auser of occult means for winning 
love with incantations or rites with herbs and rites in cremation grounds, 
a secret agent should say to him, ‘I am in love with so and so’s wife, 
daughter-in-law or daughter; make her reciprocate my love and take this 
money.’ 15 If he were to do so, he should be exiled as a user of occult 
means for winning love. 16 By that are explained practisers of black 
magic and sorcery. 


17 Or, if he considers any one who prepares, purchases or sells poison or 
who deals in medicines or food, as an administerer of poison, a secret agent 
should say to him, ‘So and so is my enemy; bringabout his death and take 
this money.’ 18 If he were to do so, he should be exiled as a poison-giver. 
19 By that is explained the dealer in stupefying mixtures. 


20 Or, if he considers any one as an utterer of false coins, (being) a fre- 
quent purchaser of various metals and acids, of coals, bellows, pincers, vices, 
anvils, dies, chisels and crucibles, with indications of hands and clothes smeared 
with soot, ashes and smoke, (and being) possessed of blacksmith’s tools, a 
secret agent should expose him by insinuating himself into his confidence 
as a pupil and by carrying on dealings with him. 21 If exposed, he should 
be exiled as an utterer of false coins. 22 By thatis explained the remover 
of colour (from precious metals) and the dealer in artificial gold. 


9 grdmakiitam: the word does not occur elsewhere. It means probably the same 
as grdmika (3.4.9) and seems to be the village headman. — dhdrayasva: cf. 1.6.7 etc. 
10 wutkocaka is one who extorts money rather than one who takes a bribe. 

18 -srdvanakdrakah: for grotr‘ witness ’ cf.3.1.4,14 etc. 


14 samvadana is how all mss. read the word here and in the next s., also apparently 
in 4.5.6, butin 4.5.1 and 4.13.28 they show samvanana. ‘The Atharvaveda knows samvanana 
(6.9.3) and samvanani (a plant for winning love, 6.139.8). The Mahabharata (3.222.56-57) 
shows. _samvanana in the Critical Edition, though a number of mss. have samvadana; the 
lexicons have samvadana. The latter form has been adopted throughout. 16 krtya 
appears to be connected with spirits, while abhicdra is sorcery. 


19 madanayoga: cf.14.1.16-17. 


20 mustikd appears to be a kind of hand-vice. — bimba the ‘ die’ from which coins 
are made. — -samsargam is read for -samvargam in conformity with (upakarana-) sam- 
sargam in 4.6.2 and18. — samvyavahara: cf.1.9.8. — anupravigya: cf. 1.17.89 etc. 


22 ragasyapaharta kiitasuvarnavyavahart ca: it seems that a single offender is intended, 
one who deals in artificial gold and robs precious metals of their genuineness. vyakhydtah 
also implies a single individual. The ca, therefore, does not scem to be right. 


267 THE SUPPRESSION OF CRIMINALS [4.5.10 


23 But the thirteen (persons), having secret ways of income, when 
engaged in doing injury (to others), should be exiled or they shall 
pay a redemption-amount in accordance with the gravity of the offence. 


CHAPTER FIVE 


SECTION 80 DETECTION OF CRIMINALS THROUGH SECRET AGENTS 
IN THE DISGUISE OF HOLY MEN 


1 After the employment of spies, (secret agents) appearing as holy men 
should entice criminals by means of lores favourite with criminals, (viz.,) 
robbers by means of charms inducing sleep, making invisible or opening doors, 
adulterers by love-winning charms. 


2 When these have been enthused (to see the power of the charms), 
1 they should take a large band of them at night and proposing to go to one 
village should go to another village in which men and women are prepared 
beforehand, and say, ‘ Right here you can see the power of our lore ; it is diffi- 
cult to go to the other village.’ 8 Then opening the gates by means of a gate- 
opening charm, they should say, ‘ Enter.’ 4 By means of an invisibility 
charm they should make the criminals go safely through the midst of wakeful 
guards. 5 Sending guards to sleep with a sleep-inducing charm they should 
cause them with their beds to be moved by the criminals. 6 With a love- 
winning charm they should make the criminals enjoy (harlots) appearing as 
other men’s wives. 7 When these are convinced of the power of their lores, 
the should prescribe the performance of preliminary rites and so on, so that 
they may be recognized. 


8 Or, they should get them to do their work in houses in which goods 
have been marked. 9 Or, they should get them caught in one place after 
winning their confidence. 10 They should get them arrested while engaged 


in purchasing, selling or pledging articles that are marked or when they are 
intoxicated with drugged liquor. 


23 trayodasa: we get the number thirteen only if we understand a single offender in 


3.22. See above. — pravdsydh: this again is exile, not execution, since redemption is 
allowed. 
4.5 


madnava ‘an evil man’ is a criminal, particularly a dacoit or robber. Patafijali on 
Panini, 4.1.161, explains the formation of the word in this.sense. Cf. Sten Konow, Indian 
Culture, III, 3. 


1 mdanavdn is proposed for mdnanvd of the mss. as suggested by Meyer. The accusative 
as the object for pralobhayeyuh is quite necessary. The siddha agents themselves are not 
criminals. Ifthey were former criminals, we should have had purdnamdnavd. Cb comment 
presupposes mdnavan. — samvadana: sce 4.4.14 above. 


2 krtakastripurusam : Meyer proposes krtasamketastripurusam ; that does not seem 
quite necessary. 7% abhtjidnartham: the idea apparently is that while engaged in the 
rites, the dacoits would be off their guard and hence easy to apprehend. It seems quite 
possible that this expression is to be construed with kytalakgana- etc. in the next 8. 


4.5.11 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 268 


11 When they are arrested, he should question them concerning former 
offences and their associates. 


12 Or, (secret agents) appearing as old thieves should, after winning 
their confidence, get thieves to do their work in the same manner and get them 
arrested. 18 When they are arrested, the Administrator should point them 
out to citizens and country people, saying, ‘ The king has studied the lore of 
catching thieves ; 1t is under his instructions that these thieves have been 
caught ; I shall catch others too; you should (therefore) restrain your kins- 
men who may have criminal tendencies.’ 


14 And if he were to come to know through the information of the spies 
that some one among them has stolen a (trifle like a) yoke-pin, goad and so on, 
he should declare (that about) him among them, saying, ‘ This is the king’s 
power.’ 


15 Old thieves, cow-herds, fowlers and hunters, winning the confidence 
of forest thieves and foresters, should induce them to attack caravans, 
herds or villages with plenty of articles made of artificial gold and forest pro- 
duce. 16 When the attack is made, they should get them killed by con- 
cealed soldiers or through provisions for the journey mixed with stupefying. 
liquids. 17 (Or), they should get them arrested while sleeping after being 
tired by a long journey carrying a heavy load of stolen goods or when they are 
intoxicated by drugged liquor at festive parties. 


18 And having caught them, the Administrator should show them 
as before (to the people), causing a proclamation of the king’s omniscience 
to be made among the inhabitants of the kingdom. 


CHAPTER SIX 


SECTION 81 ARREST ON SUSPICION, WITH THE (STOLEN) ARTICLE 
AND BY (INDICATIONS OF) THE ACT 


1 After the practices of holy men comes (the topic of) arrest on suspicion, 
with the articles and because of the act. 


9 anupravistd in the nominative is proposed as suggested by Meyer in place of the 
accusative in the mss., in view of the usual sense of this word. Cf. ss. 12 and 15 below. 
— Thes.is misplaced ; itmay bereadafters.7. Forss.8 and 10 go together. 


ll putroapaddna : see 2.86.86 ; 3.12.35 etc. 
14 pratyddigct: cf. 1.11.4. 


16 pathyadanena is read in conformity with the reading in2.16.24above. All mss. 
read here pathydadanena, as all read pathyadanena in 7.17.59. 


18 sarvajna- stands for sarvajfiatva-. Cf. 1.8.6 for a similar use. 


4.6 
ripa refers to the stolen article found with a person. karma is the act of theft. 


1 siddhaprayogad tirdhoam : the succession is oftopicsonly. ‘The siddhas have nothing 
to do with the contents of this Chapter, 


269 THE SUPPRESSION OF CRIMINALS [ 4. 6. 6 


2 He should suspect as being cither a murderer, or a thief, or one living 
on a secret income by appropriating buried treasure or entrusted article or 
through employment by enemies (the following persons, viz.,) one whose 
inheritance and family (income) are exhausted, one with a small wage, one 
falsely declaring his country, caste, family, name or occupation, one whose 
profession or work is hidden, one addicted to meat, wine, eating of food, per- 
fumes, garlands, clothes and ornaments, one who spends lavishly, one addicted 
to prostitutes, gambling or drinking in bars, one travelling frequently, one 
whose stay and departure are unknown, one moving at an odd time in a solitary 
place or a forest or a house-garden, one holding long consultations and meeting 
frequently in a secret place or in a place with a (likely) victim, one secretly 
getting treatment for recently inflicted wounds, one always staying inside the 
house, one proceeding (stealthily 7), one devoted to a beloved, one making 
frequent inquiries about other people’s possessions (such as) women, goods, or 
houses, one in possession of tools of a condemned occupation or lore, one 
moving stealthily in the shadow of walls at an odd hour of the night, one 
selling at an improper place and time goods that are changed in appearance, 
one who entertains a feeling of hostility, one with a low occupation or caste 
concealing his appearance, one, not a monk, having the marks of a monk, ora 
monk with a different mode of life, one who had formerly committed an 
offence, one shown up by his own deeds, one who, at the sight of the City- 
Superintendent or a big officer, conceals himself, runs away, sits without 
breathing, becomes agitated or has his voice and complexion of the face dry 


and changed, (and) one shying at a crowd of men carrying weapons in hand. 
Thus ends (the topic of) arrest on suspicion. 


3 As to arrest with the article, however, what is lost or stolen and is not 
found, he should communicate to those who deal in wares of that class. 4 If 
they, on coming by the article communicated, were to conceal, it, they shall be 
liable for the oftence of being accessories. 5 If they are ignorant about it, 
they shall be acquitted on giving up the article. 6 And they shall not pledge 
or sell old wares without informing the Market Superintendent. 


2 -sthdnagamanam : panya found in the mss. at the end of this compound is dropped 
asin Cb Cs. It docs not go well with sthadna and gamana. — -prattkdrakdrayiiaram is 
proposed for prautikadrayitaram, in conformity with 2.36.10 above. — abhyadhiganiaram 
is uncertain in meaning. Cb explains ‘one suddenly turning aside when some person is 
coming toward: him.’ Cs follows. It may also mean ‘one.who stealthily approaches 
other people or their houses.’ — kutsitakarmasdstropa-: Cs has -Sasira- for -Sastra-. 
Cb comment presupposes gastra. However, kutstia seems more likely of a lore such as magic 
than ofa weapon. — hinakarmajdatim vigihamdanaripam : the expressions may be under- 


stood together or separately. — lingin is one who has the marks of a monk. — pur- 
vakrtapaddnam ; cf. 4.8.26 etc. — svakarmabhir apadistam: this person is not caught 
in the act; only his actions in general are suspicious. — ndgarikamahdmdlradarsane 


is to be understood right up to -mukhavarnam. — -paraprayoga secms to mean * employ- 
ment by the enemy (as an agent).’ Cb Csreadvaraprayoga. Cbhas ‘ gastrayukta, arnicd * ; 
it is not unlikely that this is corrupt for gatruprayukta. Cs explains ‘ use of a weaponin 
consequence of anger (vara, i.e., krodha).’ Thislatteris doubtful. — apahdara and prayoga 
are the means of giidha djiva or ‘ secret income.’ 


4 sdcivyakara‘ one whorendershelp,’anassociate. 5 Cf.3.16.18. 6 Cf.4.2.1. 


4.6.7] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 270 


7 If the article about which informetion has been given is fcund, 
he should question the person arrested with the article concerning its 
acquisition ‘Whence did you get this?’ 8 If he were to plead ‘I got 
it in inheritance, obtained it as a gift, purchased it, got it made, (or) 
received it as a secret pledge from so and so; this is the place and time 
of its acquisition; this is its price, quantity, marks and value,’ he shall 
be acquitted on his (statements about the) acquisition being corroborated. 
9 If the person who lost the article were also to prove the same, he shall 
hold the article as belonging to him whose possession of it was earlier 
and long or whose title is clear. 10 For, even among quadrupeds and 
bipeds there is a similarity in appearance and marks; how much more 
then would it be in the case of forest produce, ornaments and (other) 
articles produced from materials from the same source and by the same 
manufacturer ? 


11 If he were to plead ‘ This is a borrowed or hired article, a pledge, 
a trust, a deposit or goods given for sale on agency basis, belonging to so and 
so,’ he shall be acquitted on corroboration by the person proving his innocence. 
12 Ifthat person were to say ‘ It is not so,’ the person arrested with the article 
shall justify the reason for the other person giving it, the reasons for his 
accepting it or get the indications corroborated by the giver, the one who causes 
to give, the recorder, the receiver and those who have witnessed or heard 
(the transaction). 


18 In the case of an (article) that is left, has disappeared (or) run 
away -and is (afterwards) found, (there shall be) clearance (from guilt) by 
proof concerning place, time and acquisition. 14 If not cleared, he 
shall pay that and as much again as fine. 15 Otherwise, he shall be 
liable to punishment for theft. Thus ends (the topic of) arrest with 
the article. 


7 For this passage, cf. 3.16.12 ff. 8 ddhipracchannam seems to mean ‘ concealed as a 
pledge,’ i.e., a secret pledge. This is distinguished from dhitaka ‘a thing pledged’ of s. 11 
below. — upasamprapteh is an emendation of Meyer for upasamprdptah ; the genitive is 
quite necessary. — arghais the price fixed for sale, while milya is its cost price. 9 For 
dea ‘title, proof of ownership’, cf. 3.16.29. 10 It seems better to understand ekayont 
with dravya and eka alone with karir. 


Il vatydortyakarma : for sales-agents, see 8.12.25 ff. — apasdra: see 8.16.15. 12 
upalinganam :-cf. 3.12.51 ; 8.12.87. It primarily means ‘a sign or indication that proves 
something.’ In the nexts., it refers to proof or production of proof.— ddyakadadpaka- 
etc. : in 2.7.81 some of these terms are used in connection with receipts in the treasury. 
— upadrastrbhir is an emendation suggested by Meyer for upadestrbhir. That it is 
necessary is shown by 8.11.31. upadestr can hardly mean ‘one who dictates to the 
writer” (Cs). Cb seems to understand ‘one who tells the person that the object is in 
his possession.’ 

13 upalinganena: see s. 12 above. 15 anyathd: the difference between this case 


and that in the last s. seems to be that in this case, the person cannot plead any excuse, how- 
soever invalid, for the possession of the object. 


271 THE SUPPRESSION OF CRIMINALS [ 4. 6. 20 


16 As to arrest because of the act, however, in the case of a house that has 
been robbed, entry or exit otherwise than by a door, the piercing of the door 
with a hole or by uprooting, the breaking of a latticed window or eaves of an 
upper chamber, the crumbling of a wall while climbing up or descending, or the 
digging up (of the ground) as a means of burying or robbing objects secretly, 
he should hold (these) as committed by one inside the house, if (things stolen) 
vould be known through information supplied, end if the cutting, the rubbish, 
the breaking and the tools are on the inside. 17 In the reverse case (he 
should hold these) as committed by an outsider, if (these are) on both sides as 
committed by both (inmates and outsiders). 


18 If the offence is committed by an insider, he should examine a man 
closely related, who may be addicted to vice, may have ruthless associates 
or may be in possession of a thief’s tools, or a woman from an indigent family 
or attached to another {man), or an attendant of a similar conduct, who is 
sleeping excessively, overpowered by sleep, agitated, with voice and face dry 
and changed, restless, prattling too much, with limbs stiffened by climbing 
high up, with body or clothes cut, crushed, broken or torn, with hands 
and feet having scars or stiffened, with hair and nails full of dust or with 
hair and nails cut and bent, or who is thoroughly bathed and anointed, 
with limbs rubbed with oil, or with hands and feet just washed, whose 
foot-prints are similar to those (found) in dust or wet surfaces, or who has 
flowers, wine, perfumes, bits of cloth, unguents or perspiration similar to 


those (found) at the entrance and exit. 19 He should hold (him) to be 
a thief or an adulterer. 


20 The magistrate, along with the village and divisional officers, 
should make a search for thieves outside, and the City-Superintendent 
(should do it) inside the fort, according to indications (just) mentioned. 


16 samdhind bijena vd vedham : since vedha ‘ piercing ’ implies the idea of making an 
opening, samadhi and bija are obviously means to that end. samdhi seems to be ‘ making a 
hole,’ but dija is uncertain; it may signify ‘ uprooting.’ Cb scems to understand the 
removal of some sort ofa wooden latch for opening the door. Cs renders samdhi by 
‘surungd, underground tunnel,’ which is doubtful ; its explanation of bija by ‘vechasddhana’ 
is not helpful. Meyer’s ‘ at the joints (samdht) or at the hinges (bia) ’ is possible ; but the 
locative would have been preferable to the instrumental in that case. Besides, for samdht 
as ‘ making a hole, or, a hole,’ cf. the Mrcchakatika, Act 38. — wupadesopalabhyam: this 
and the next clause are the only indications of the effort being made from theinside. — 
abhyantara- goes with each of cheda, utkara, parimarda and upcharana. 


18 tadvidhdcdrum, i.e., vyasaninam etc. — samrabdha means ‘swollen,’ alto 
‘stiffened’; the latter seems preferable, for gina is used for ‘swollen’ in the next 
Chapter. Cb has ‘sprained.’ — viltinabhugnakesanakham : bhugna ‘bent, curved’ 
does not seem quite appropriate with hair or nails; perhaps bhagna is to be read, 
vilina going with kega and bhagna with nakha. Cb’s explanation is ‘ worn out, cut,’ 


which seems to presuppose bhagna. 19 paradarikam: the adulterer may also break 
into a house like a thief. 


20 sagopasthanikah: cf.2.85.1-Gabove. — nirdistahetubhih refers to the indications 
mentioned in this Chapter for arrest on suspicion etc. 


4.7.1] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 272 


CHAPTER SEVEN 
SECTION 82 INQUEST ON SUDDEN DEATHS 


1 He shall examine a (person) dying suddenly, after smearing (the body) 
with oil. 


2 (One) with urine and ordure thrown out, with the skin of the abdomen 
filled with wind, with swollen hands and feet, with eyes open, with marks on 
the throat, he should hold as killed through the stopping of breathing by 
strangulation. 8 The same, with arms and thighs contracted, he should 
hold as slain by hanging. 


4 (Qne) with hands, feet and abdomen swollen, with eyes sunk in, with 
the navel turned out, he should hold as impaled. 


5 (One) with the anus and eyes closed, with the tongue bitten, with the 
belly swollen, he should hold as dead by (drowning in) water. 


6 (One) bespattered with blood, with limbs broken or dislocated, he 
should hold as slain with sticks or stones. 


7 (One) with limbs shattered and burst, he should hold as hurled down 
(from a height). 


8 (One) with dark hands, feet, teeth and nails, with loose flesh, hair of the 
body and skin, with the mouth covered with foam, he should hold as killed by 
poison. 9 The same, with bloody marks of bite, he should hold as killed by 
a snake or an insect. 


16 (Qne) with clothes and limbs thrown about, with excessive vomiting 
and motions, he should hold as killed by a stupefying mixture. 


11 He should find out if the (person) is killed in one of these ways, 
or, if after being killed, he is hanged or has his throat cut, through fear of 
punishment. 


4.7 


1 tatlabhyaktam : this is in order that injuries, swellings, etc. may become clear. — 
parikseta:; it may be presumed that the inquests were held by the pradesirs in the country 
and by the ndgarika in the city, as suggested by 4.6.20. 

4 avaropitam : this is uncertain in meaning. Cb Cs have ‘impaled’; though for that 
Gropita would be expected, that meaning seems preferable to Meyer’s ‘ choked with a gag’, 
or ‘ asphyxiated by some object being stuck into the mouth ’ of Russ. 

5 nistabdha: Cs has ‘come out, protruding’; Meyer ‘ pressed, closed.’ The latter 
seems more likely. The word also means ‘ paralysed.’ 

6 kdsthair agmabhir va from G1 Cb seems preferable to kdsthat ra$mibhir vd of the other 
mss. For, breaking or dislocation of limbs is more likely with stones than with ropes. 

10 madanayoga : see 14.1.16-17. 

11 wudbandhanikritakantham : it seems necessary to read udbaddha here as a participle 
rather than udbandha as a noun which cannot be properly construed with the other words 
in the compound. Theidea is that the murderer makes it appear as a case of suicide either 
by hanging or by cutting the throat. 


278 THE SUPPRESSION OF CRIMINALS [ 4. 7. 24 


12 He should examine through birds the remainder of the meal of one 
(suspected of being) killed by poison. 18 Or, if what is taken from the heart 
and thrown in fire produces a crackling sound and becomes rainbow-coloured, 
he should hold that as poisoned, or if he sees the heart not burning when the 
body is cremated. 


14 He should seek his servant who may have received a severe verbal or 
physical injury (at the hands of the deceased), or a woman stricken with gr efor 
attached to another, or a kinsman coveting inheritance, livelihood or a woman. 


15 Heshould investigate the same in the case of one (suspected of being) 
hanged after being murdered. 16 Or, in the case of one who has hanged him- 
self, he should find out (if) any improper wrong (has been done to him). 


17 In the case of all, an offence concerning a woman or property, rivalry 
in profession, hostility towards a rival, or association in a market place, or 
one of the heads of dispute in a law-court is an occasion foranger. 18 Murder 
is caused by anger. | 


19 He should investigate, through those proximate, the murder of a 
(person, whether he is) killed by (some persons) themselves or through agents _ 
appointed, or by thieves for the sake of money, or by enemies of some one else 
because of similarity. 20 He should question him by whom he had been 
called, with whom he had stayed or gone, or by whom he was brought to the 
place of murder. 21 And he should question those moving near him at the 
place of murder, each one separately, ‘ Who brought him here? Who killed 
him? Did you see any one with a weapon in hand or hiding himself or agita- 
ted?’ 22 As they might reply, so should he question (further). | 


28-24 Observing the objects used on the. person of the helpless. 
(deceased), his belongings, clothes, dress or ornaments, he should question 
those who deal in those articles, concerning their meeting (with him), 
their residence, the reason for their stay, their occupation and dealings, 
and then carry on the investigation. 


12 vayobhih: see 1.20.7-8. 18 .hrdaydd: Meyer understands this to refer to the 
‘stomach.’ But that does not'seem necessary. The heart also would be affected. 


14 There can be no doubt about vdgdandapdrusyatilabdham being the original reading. 
Cs renders atilabdha by ‘ oppressed ’ ; its literal meaning ‘ who has received in excess or 
severcly ’ is also conceivable. — ddyaurtit- is proposed for ddyanivurtit of the mss., as 
indicated by stridravyaortttkdmo vd in Yaéj. 2.281. ddyanivrtit can hardly mean ‘ reversion 
of inheritance (on somebody’s death)’ (Cs). Cb has no explanation of nicrtttz, — For 
abhi-man ‘ to covet, entertain a longing for,’ cf. 1.6.5 etc. 


15 hatodbaddhasya for hatodbandhasya of the mss.isfoundin Cb. The dot indicating 
a double conjunct in a ms. is often mistaken for an anusvdra. 16 viprakadram: this wrong 
might have been the cause of the suicide. 


17 panyasamsthdsamavdyah : Cb has ‘ disputes in trade and disputes about importance 
in partnerships ’ as two things. Cs follows with ‘ trade (by fraud etc.) and forming groups 
Pp 


by violating seniority (samavdya).’ This is doubtful. Either association or partne 
in trade or rivalry in the market as a single idea seems meant. 


19 ddista ‘ ordered,’ i.e., commissioned or hired to do the murder. 


23 . vesam, as distinguished from vastram, seems to imply some special dress. 24 sam- 
yogam nivdsam ete. ; these are those of the dealers, rather than those of the deceased. 


4.7. 25] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 274 


25-26 If a person, under the influence of passion or anger, or @ 
woman infatuated by sin, were to kill himself (or herself) by means of a 
rope, a weapon or poison, he should cause them to be dragged with a rope 
on the royal highway by a Candala; there is to be no cremation-rite for 
them nor obsequies by kinsmen. 


27 If, however, some kinsman were to perform for them the 
rites in connection with the dead, he should meet with the same fate 
afterwards, or should be abandoned by his relations. 


28 A person having dealings with an outcast loses caste himself 
after one year, by sacrificing for them, by teaching them or by entering 
into marriage relations with them; so does another having dealings 
with these. 


CHAPTER EIGHT 


SECTION 88 INVESTIGATION THROUGH INTERROGATION AND THROUGH 
TORTURE 


1 In the presence of the robbed person and of witnesses, external and 
internal, he should question the accused about his country, caste, family, name, 
occupation, wealth, associates and residence. 2 And he should compare 
these with statements (of others). 3 Then he should question him concerning 
his movements on the previous day, and place of stay during the night up to the 
time of arrest. 4 In case of corroboration by persons proving his innocence, 
he shall be cleared of guilt ; otherwise, he shall be put to torture. 


26 rajjund: Cs remarks that the masculine is archaic and adds that the reading was 
probably rajjud va. — tdm§ Canddlena is proposed for tdm Canddlena of the mss. As 
tegdm in the following line shows, the woman alone is not meant. 

27 -kriydvidhim : kriyd and vidhi both are not necessary. — tadgatim, i.e., having 
their bodies dragged through the streets and absence ofrites. — svajand« vd pramucyate : 
va seems to have the senseof{ca. We expect pramucyeta in the potential n.ooa. 


28 The stanza occurs in Manu, 11.80, with slight changes, also in Vasistha, 1.22, asa 
quotation. The readings here seem original, though the stanza may have been derived from 
some earlier source. 


4.8 


karma is this Chapter has the technical sense of ‘torture.’ It has been suggested that it 
means only ‘corporal punishment ’ inflicted on the guilty, and not tortwe irfictcd for 
getting a confession from a suspect (K. P. Jayaswal, Manu and Yajnavalkya, pp. 86-87). 
But anuyoga ‘ questioning, investigation ’ cannot be understood with karma in that sense. 
The use of secret agents recommended as an alternative to karma (88.15-16,19) and the 
mention of vdkydnuyoga as an alternative to it (s. 18) also imply the sense of torture for the 
sake of securing a confession. 


1 sdkgindm: after this we have to supply samnichau from the preceding cor pound. 
Meyer favours sdksinam or sdksinah ; but it is the suspect who is to be interrogated, not the 
witnesses. 2 apadega seems used in the sense of ‘ statement, declaration,’ as explained in 
15.1.21. 4 apasdrapratisamdhdne: see 4.6.11. 


275 THE SUPPRESSION OF CRIMINALS [4.8.16 


5 After three nights, the suspect shall not be liable to arrest, because 
of the inadmissibility of interrogation (after that interval), except when tools 
(of the crime) are found (with him). 


6 For one calling another, who is not a thief, a thief, the punishment shall 
be that for a thief, also for one hiding a, thief. 


7 One accused of (being) a thief shall be cleared of guilt, if implicated out 
of enmity or hatred. 8 For one keeping under restraint one cleared of guilt, 
the lowest fine for violence (shall be the punishment). 


9 In the case of one about whom suspicion has arisen, he should produce 
tools, counsellers, accomplices, (stolen) articles and agents. 10 And he 
should compare his action by reference to his entry, receiving of goods and 
division into shares (of the stolen goods). 


11 In the absence of corroboration of these grounds (showing guilt), he 
should hold a person, though prattling, as nota thief. 12 For, it is observed 
that even one not a thief, meeting by chance thieves on their way, is arrested 
because of similarity with the thieves in dress, weapons or goods or on account 
of his being found near the thieves’ goods, as for instance Ani-Mandavya 
declaring himself to be a thief though not a thief, because of the fear of the pain 


of torture. 18 Hence he should punish only such in whose case proof is fully 
obtained. 


14 He shall not put to torture a person whose offence is trifling, or who is 
@ minor or aged or sick or intoxicated or insane or overcome by hunger, thirst 
or travel, or who has overeaten or whose meal is undigested or who is weak. 
15 He should cause them to be secretly watched by persons of the same 
character, prostitutes, attendants at water-booths, giversof advice, accom- 
modation and food to them. 16 In this way should he outwit them, or as 
explained in connection with misappropriation of entrusted articles. 


5 anyatra upakaranadarganat can hardly mean ‘ because of the possibility of finding 
tools of theft elsewhere than with a thief ’ (Cs). 


7% corena obviously is used for cauryena. —  apadistakah ‘ about whom a declaration 
is made(thatheisatheif).? 8 parivdsayatah: thisclearly refers to the investigating officer 
continuing to keep the person in custody. 


9 nispddayet, i.e., should. try to find such circumstantial evidence as possession of 
tools,etc. 10 karmana$ca: this refers to the acts of the suspect and his associates, viz., 
pravesa, dracvydddna and amsavibhdga. It would have been better if we had karmabhits ca. 
— pravega ‘entry ’ into the house for theft. 


11 vipralapantam, i.e., though he may himself declare himself to be a thief. 12 In 
view of dr$yate at the beginning of the s., it is proposed to drop drstah found in the mss. after 
grhyamanah. — wupavdsena seems used in the literal sense ‘staying near.’ — Ani- 
Mandavya: Cf. the Mahabharata, 1.101, where, however, there is no mention of the fear 
of torture, only observance of the vow of silence by the sage. 18 karana: cf.3.12.87,38. 


14 dmakdagitam from Cb Cs ‘ whose meal is undigested ’ is preferable to atmakasitam 
of the mss. which can only mean ‘ shining by himself, appearing by himself.’ 15 prapaotke 
is understood as in Meyer, who would, however, read prapdpika. Cb Cs read pravddtka 
* one who wrangles ’ or * cleverin languages,’ which is not convincing. M reads pr ka; 
its meaning is uncertain. — kathd-: with this, too, ddtr is to be understood: that is 
rather unusual. kathd here may be advice or directions orinformation. The text does not 
seem quite all right. 16 niksepdapahdre, i.e., in 3.12.88-50 above. 


4.8.17 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 276 


17 He should put to torture one whose guilt is found to be probable, 
but under no circumstances a pregnant woman or a woman within one month 
of delivery. 18 For a woman, however , there is to be only half the torture, 
or only examination by interrogation. 


19 Fora Brahmin there is to he the use of secret agents if he is learned 
in the Veda, also for an ascetic. 20 In case of transgression of this (rule), 
the highest fine (shall be imposed) on one who gives and who causes him to give 
the torture, also for causing death by torture. 


21 The ordinary fourfold torture is: six strokes with a stick, seven 
lashes with a whip, two suspensions from above and the water-tube. 


22 In the case of very grave offenders, (there may be) : nine strokes with 
a cane, twelve whip-lashes, two thigh-encirclings, twenty strokes with a naktia- 
m4ala-stick, thirty-two slaps, two scorpion-bindings, and two hangings up, 
needle in the hand, burning one joint of a finger of one who has drunk gruel, 
heating in the sun for one day for one who has drunk fat, and a bed of balbaja- 
points on a winter-night. 23 This is the eightcen-fold torture. 


24 He should ascertain the tools, the amount, the (manner of) infliction, 
the determining and the limiting of it from the Kharapatta. 


17 Gptadosam, i.e., when the presumption of guilt is strong, but there is no definite 
proof. 19 Though the text of Cb has satfriparigrahah, the actual comment shows satya- 
parigrahah, i.e., making the Brahmin take an oath. But that would come during vdkydnu- 

oga, which precedes karmdnuyoga and would not be a substitute for the latter as meant 

ere. — It seems that grutavaiah is to be construed with brdhmanasya, and not to be 
understood independently. 20 kdrayiiuh: this would be the higher officer, directing the 
operation. 


21 vydvahdrika seems to convey the idea of ‘normal, ordinary, usual.” — dvau 
uparinibandhau : Cb has‘ tying two hands above ; and tying the head along with the hands.’ 
It seems, however, that suspension from a hcight by a rope twice is allthat is meant. — 
udakandlikd ‘ pouring salt-water through the nose ’ (Cb Cs). 


22 dvddaga kaéah is proposed for duddagakam. The space after -kam in M suggested 
this. — dvdviiruvestau from Cb Cs is obviously the only reading possible. Cb Cs explain . 
* tying the feet with a rope, and tying the head along with that.’ Giving the druvesta twice 
is also possible. — dvau vurécikabandhau ; Cb Cs explain ‘ tying the left hand and foot 
together at the back, and doing the same with the right hand and foot.’ Tying both hands 
and feet at the back and doing this twice is also possible. — wullambane ca dve: the ca 
hereis strange. Cb Cs have ‘ hanging straight with hands tied, and the same with feet tied 
and upside down.’ —  siici hastasya ‘ pricking with a needle under the finger-nails’ (Cb 
Cs). — yavagipitasya: understanding this independently, Cb Cs explain ‘making a 
person drink gruel and then preventing him from passing urine.’ It is not easy to see how 
the latter part of the explanation is arrived at. It seems better to construe the expression _ 
with what follows. — snehapitasya is to be construed with the following (Cb Cs) rather- 
than with the preceding (Meyer). 28 astadasakam: Meyer finds the eighteen in s. 22, 
Cs in 21 and 22 together. The latter is decidedly better. But the fourteen iss. 22 are not 
easy to fix. Cb Cs have navavetralatddvddagakam ‘ twelve strokes with a cane nine hastas 
long’ as the firstitemin thes. Butacane 13} feet long seems unlikely and the reading 
itselfis doubtful. Perhaps, we have to count dvay or dve as two in the three cases (contrary 
to dvauin 8. 21). One cannot be quite certain. 


24 pradhdranam seems to refer to the determination of the suitability of the person for 
the torture. — avadhdranam may refer tolimiting or restricting the torture, — jpjgrg- 
pattad : Kharapatta appears to be the name of a work on torture. According to Cs, it js the 
name ofan author on thescienceoftheft. Meyer suggests that we should read kharangtavad 
adyamayet * should regulate according to the hardness or softness of the culprit.” That does 
not sound convincing. 


277 THE SUPPRESSION OF CRIMINALS [4.9.8 


25 He should cause torture to be given on alternate days and one only on 
one day. 


26 He should cause torture to be used collectively, separately or 
repeatedly in the case of one who is a former offender, who, after confessing, 
retracts, with whom a part of the (stolen) goods are found, who is arrested 


because of the act or with the article, who conceals the king’s treasury or who 
is to be killed by torture at the king’s order. 


27 In all offences, a Brahmin is not to be tormented. 28 On his 
forehead shall be a branded mark of the guilty to exclude him from all dealings, 
—(the mark of ) a dog in case of theft, a headless trunk in case of murder of a 


human being, the female organ in case of violation of an elder’s bed, the 
vintner’s flag in case of liquor-drinking. 


29 Proclaiming a Brahmin of sinful deeds and making the scar of 


the mark on him, the king should exile him from the country or settle him 
in mines. 


CHAPTER NINE 
SECTION 84 KEEPING A WATCH OVER ( OFFICERS OF ) ALL DEPARTMENTS 


1 The Administrator and the magistrates should first keep in check the 
heads of departments and their subordinates. 


2 For’an (officer) stealing an article of high value or a gem from mines 
or factories for articles of high value, simple death (without torture, shall be 
the punishment). 8 (For stealing) an article of low value or an-implement | 


from factories for articles of low value, the lowest fine for violence (shall he 
the punishinent). 


26 piroalrtapaddna : cf. 4.6.2, also 2.36.36 etc. — avastrnantam: this root seems 
to have the sense of ‘ to cover, conceal, i.c., to misappropriate.” Cf4.10.13 below. 


27-28 Moyer thinks that these ss. are likely to be interpolations, suggested by Manu, 
9.237 (where, however, branding is laid down for all varnas, not for Brahmins alone). Itis 
true that these ss., which speak of punishment for offences, are not in keeping with the 
contents of the Chapter which are concerned with the interrogation of a suspect and other 
means of extracting a confession from him. The passage, therefore, may not be original, 


though the idea contained in these ss. and in the stanza that follows appears to be quite 
ancient. — 


4.9 


For raksana, cf. 4.1 above. 


1 Itis clear again that the samahartr with the pradestrs working under him, is ultirra- 


tely responsible for the maintenance of a clean administration. Even the judges are under 
his surveillance. Cf.4.4 above. 


4.9.4] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 278 


4 For one stealing from places (of production) of articles a king’s 
commodity, above one masa in value up to one-fourth (of a pana) in value, 
the fine is twelve panas ; up to two-quarters in value, twenty four panas ; 
up to three-quarters in value, thirty-six panas; up to one pana in value, 
forty-eight panas; up to two panas in value, the lowest fine for violence ; 
up to four panas in value, the middle fine; up to eight panas in value, 
the highest; up to ten panas (and above) in value, death (shall be the 
punishment). 5. For misappropriation of forest produce, goods or tools 
from magazines, ware-houses, stores of forest produce and armouries, these 
same fines (shall be imposed) for articles half in value (of those above). 
6 (For misappropriation) from the treasury, store-rooms and the Goldsmith’s 
workshop, these same fines shall be doubled for articles one-quarter in value. 
7 For thieves, in case of breaking open (the treasury ctc.) death by torture 
(shall be the punishment). 8 ‘hus have been explained offences concerning 


the king’s possessions. 


9 But in the case of other properties, for an (officer) stealing secretly by 
day from a field, a threshing floor, a house or a shop, forest producr, ware or 
tool above one maso in value and up to one-quarter (of a pana) in value, the fine 
is three panas or smearing him with cow-dung and proclaiming his guilt ; up 
to two-quarters in value, six panas (fine) or smearing with cow-dung and ashes 
and proclaiming his guilt; up to three-quarters in value, nine panas (fine) 
or smearing with cow-dung and ashes and proclamation of his guilt or with a 
girdle of potsherds (round his body) ; up to one pana in value, twelve paras 
(fine) or shaving of the head and exile; up to two panas in value, twenty-four 
panas (fine) or driving him’out (of the city) with a piece of brick after shaving 
him ; up to four panas in value, thirty-six panas (fine) ; up to five panas in 
value, forty-eight panas ; up to ten panas in value, the lowest fine for violence ; 
up to twenty panas in value, two hundred panas (fine)’; up to thirty panas in 
value, five hundred panas (fine) ; up to forty panas in value, one thousand 
(fine); up to fifty penas in value (and above) death (shall be the punish- 
ment). 10 For one stealing forcibly by day or at night during the (forbidden) 
watches, these same (shall be imposed) for articles half in value. 11 For 
one robbing forcibly, by day or night, with weapons, these same fines shall 
be doubled for articles one quarter in value. 


4 Cf. 2.5.16, which shows some variations. These may be due to the fact that 2.5.16 
is a very brief abstract of these detailed rules, perhaps also due to a difference in sources. 
7% Thes. is repeated in 2.5.20. It is not necessary to understand, with Meyer, that officers 
instigating robbers to break open stores, etc. are meant. Robbers themselves seem meant. 
8. rdjaparigrahegu, i.e., from kosthdgara, panydgara etc. just mentioned. 

9 bdhyegu: we have to supply parigrahegu, i.e., in the case of property not belonging 
to the state, but to the subjects. — d catuspanamilydd: according to Cs, in this and the 
higher cases, mundana and pravrdjana with brickbats have to be understood, though not 

mentioned. That appears likely. 10 antarydmikam, i.c., during the watches when 
movement is forbidden as in 2.86.84-85. The mss. read dvigund is s. 10 ; it is proposed to 
transfer it to s. 11 in conformity with ss. 5-6 above. 


279 THE SUPPRESSION OF CRIMINALS [ 4.9. 20 


12 For making counterfeit documents and seals of householders, 
superintendents, principal officers and the king, the punishment is the 


lowest, the middle, the highest (fines) and death (respectively), or in 
accordance with the offence. 


13 If the judge threatens, upbraids, drives away or browbeats a litigant, 
he shall impose the lowest fine for violence on him, double that in case of verbal 
injury. 14 Ifhe does not question one who ought to be questioned, questions 
one who ought not to be questioned, or after questioning dismisses (the 
statement), or instructs, reminds or prompts him, he shall impose the middle 
fine for violence on him. 15 If he does not ask for evidence which ought to 
be submitted, asks for evidence that ought not to be submitted, proceeds with 
the case without evidence, dismisses it under a pretext, carries away one tired 
with delays, throws out of context a statement which is in proper order, 
gives to witnesses help in their statements (or) takes up once again a case 
which is completed and in which judgement is pronounced, he shall impose 
the highest fine for violence on him. 16 In case the offence is repeated, 
double (the fine) and removal from office (shall be the punishment). 


17 If the clerk does not write what is said, writes what is not said, writes 
correctly what is badly spoken, writes inaccurately what is well spoken, or 
modifies the sense conveyed, he shall impose the lowest fine for violence on him 
or (punishment) in accordance with the offence. 


18 If the judge or the magistrate imposes a money fine on one not deserv- 
ing to be fined, he shall impose on him double the fine imposed, or eight times 
the shortfall or excess (over the prescribed fine). 19 If he imposes corporal 
punishment (wrongly), he shall himself suffer corporal punishment or pay 
double the (normal) redemption-amount. 20 Or, he shall pay a fine eight 
times the just claim which he disallows or unjust claim which he allows. 


12 mukhya ‘a ptincipal officer.” Cf 5.1.3 etc. Restriction to ‘ village headman’ 
(Cb Cs) is notright. — svdminis the king, hardly the samdhartr (Cb Cs). 


13 abkigrasate ‘ swallows’ is understood in Cs as ‘ receives money from.’ That would 
appear to be a very serious offence, for which a light punishment is not likely. Cf. 4.4.6-7. 
The root may convey the idea of ‘ to over-awe, brow-beat’ or ‘ to silence.’ — prcchyam 
may refer to the person who is to be questioned or the question that ought to be put. — 
visrjati ‘ dismisses ’ the statement made, rather than the person himself. — pirvarm dadati 
gives the earlier part,’i.e., prompts. 15 defam: see 3.1.15,19. — chalena atiharait: cf. 
3.20.22. —- apavdhayati ‘carries him away,’ i.e., prevents his coming to the court. 
— tdrita‘ which is taken to the end,’i.e., completed. Manu 9.283 has the form ttrita. — 
anusista ‘in which judgment is given’; cf. 3.1.43. 16 vyavaropanam: vi-ava appears 
better with ruh than vi-apa, in the sense of ‘ to pull down, remove, dismiss.” 

17 The prepositions upa and ut convey opposite senses with the root likh. 

18 hairanyadandam adandye is proposed for the readings of the mss., as being quite 
necessary for sense. — hindtiriktdstagunam : if the fine imposed is less (hina) or more 
(atirikta) than that prescribed by law, eight times the difference between the prescribed and 
the imposed fines is to be the fine for the erring judge or magistrate. 19 niskraya amounts 
are laid down in the next Chapter, 20 bhitam artham etc.; cf.8.11.45. artha refers to the 
amount involved in the suit. 


6.9. 21 J KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 280 


21 For the hindrance of sleep, sitting down, meals, answering calls of 
nature or movement and for binding, in a judge’s lock-up or in a prison-house, 
the fine shall be three ponas increased successively by three panas for him 
who does it and for him who causes it to be done. 


22 For the (jailor) setting free or allowing the escape of an accused from 
the lock-up (the punishment shall be) the middle fine for violence and the 
payment of the (amount in the ) suit, from the prison-house (confiscation of) 
the entire property and death. | 
28 For the superintendent of the prison-house allowing movement to a 
prisoner without informing (the judge or magistrate) the fine is twenty-four 
panas, for using torture double (that), for making him submit to another posi- 
tion or withholding food and drink ninety-six panas, for tormenting or maim- 
ing him the middle fine for violence, for killing him one thousand (panas as 
fine). : , 
24 For the (jailor) violating a married woman prisoner who is a slave or 
a pledge (the punishment shall be) the lowest fine for violence, the wife of a thief 
or a rioter the middle, an Arya woman prisoner the highest. 25 Or, fora 
prisoner (doing this, there shall be) execution there and then. 26 He shall 
understand the same (punishment for the offence) in connection with an Arya 
woman caught in the prohibited period (of the night), in connection with a 
female slave the lowest fine for violence. 


27 For one helping @ (prisoner) to escape from the lock-up without 
breaking it (the punishment shall be) the middle (fine), by breaking it death, 
from the prison-house (confiscation of) the entire property and death. 


21 It is proposed to read dharmasthiye cdrake bandhandgdre vd for the reading of the 
mss. ; nihsdrayatah occurring in that reading is quite unlikely in this s. which refers to the 
offences of gayydrodha, dsanarodha etc. And the offence of nihsdrana is far more serious, 
.for which the fines mentioned in this s. would hardly appear adequate. — samcdrarodha- 
-is read as proposed by Meyer. rodha is to be construed with each of the preceding words, 
while bandhana is to be understood independently. The fine for bandhana comes to 18 
panas. — kartuh kdrayituh: the former would be the warder, the latter the prison 
superintendent. — Itseems that cdraka is a sort of lock-up where those convicted oe the 
dharmastha are kept, while the bandhandgara is for criminals convicted by the pradesirs. In 
either case, the convicts are kept there mostly because of their inability to pay the money fine 
or the redemption amount. - 


22 abhiyogaddnam seems to mean the payment of the amount in dispute including 
the fine imposed. — bandhandgdrdi etc. is repeated in s. 27 below. 


23 Cb Cs (also Mcyer) construe andkhydya with bandhandgarddhyaksasya and under- 
stand the offences as committed by the warders. — cdrayatah seems to refer to allowing 
‘freedom of movement short of setting the prisoner free. Cb understands ‘making him 
render service.’ -—- karma as in 4.8.21-28 above. — sthdndnyatvam: this seems to 
imply not merely a change of place (for which sthdndntaram would have been sufficient) but 
also a difference in status or class to which the transfer is made. —utkotayatah has the sense 
of * one who breaks or maims ’; thatis preferable to the reading utkocayatahin Cb Cs, 


24 ddmarika: cf. damaragataka in 2.6.20. 25 tatraicva ghdtah: it seems that this 
would apply only in case of violation of an Arya woman prisoner, not of a ddsi etc. 26 
akganagrhttayam : for akgana see 2.86.84-85. Cb reads  adhyaksena grhitayam, but its. 
commentisnotclear. — Similar punishments arelaid down for guards misbehaving with 
women in 2.36.41. , 

27 Cb comment presupposes uttamah for vadhah. This s. seema to apply to outsiders, 

-while s. 22 refers to prison officers. | : 


281 THE SUPPRESSION OF CRIMINALS [4.10.6 


28 In this manner the king should first correct those (officers) 
who deal in money matters by means of punishment; and they, being 
corrected, should correct the citizens and the country people by means of 
punishments, ; 


CHAPTER TEN 


SECTION 85 REDEMPTION FROM THE CUTTING OF INDIVIDUAL LIMBS 


1 In case of the first offence of thieves at holy places, pick-pockets and 
those with raised hands, (the punishment shall be) the cutting off of the middle 
finger and thumb or a fine of fifty-four panas; in case of the second, the 
cutting off of five fingers or a fine of one hundred ; in case of the third, cutting 
off of the right hand or a fine of four hundred ; in case of the fourth, death as 
desired (by tht magistrate). 


2 In cases of theft of cocks, ichneumons, cats, dogs or pigs less than 
twenty-five panas (in value) or in case of killing (any of these, there shall be) 
a,fine of fifty-four panas or the cutting off of the tip of the nose ; half the fines 
for Candalas and forest-dwellers. 


8 For carrying away deer, beasts, birds, wild animals or fish, caught in 
snares, nets or concealed pits, (the punishment shall be) that and an equal 
amount as fine. 4 In case of theft of deer or objects from deer-parks or 
produce-forests, (there shall be) a fine of one hundred. 


5 In case of theft of deer or birds (intended) for show or pleasure or in 
case of killing these, the fine shall be double. 


6 In case of theft of small articles belonging to artisans, artists, actors 


or ascetics, (there shall be) a fine of one hundred ; for theft of large articles, - 


two hundred, also for theft of agricultural goods. 


28 arthcardn: of.2.9.82. 
4.10 


. niskrayah : it appears that the various types of corporal punishments prescribed for 
theft and similar offences came to be replaced by money fines, which are called ‘ redemp- 
tions’ from the corporal punishments. 


1 tirthaghdta ‘ who lifts articles at sacred places on festive occasions ’ (Cb Cs) is more 


likely than ‘ cash-chest-breaker ’ (Meyer). tirthaas‘ cash’ is doubtful. —granthibheda: ~ 


money was often tied in a corner of the upper garment ; one who cuts open that and steals 
seems meant. — dirdhvakara: Cs has ‘ who breaks the upper part or roof ofa house.’ This is 
uncertain. Meyer suggests urdhvahara in the sense of a ‘ pick-pocket’. The ,basic idea 
may well be that of lifting up things ‘ with a raised hand.’ — samdamsa ‘the thurrb and 
the middle finger ’ as in Cp on 2.28.15. ‘The thumb and the index finger’ (Cb Meyer) is 
supported by the Mitdksard on Yaj.,2.274. — pana refers to the five fingers of the hand. 


Cf. 2.14.14. _— Manu, 9.277 and Y4aj., 2.274 are exact paraphrases of thiss. — yatha- ~ 


kami vadhah, i.e., simple death or death by torture as the magistrate may wish. 
2 himsd is ‘killing’ rather than mereinjury. — ardhadanddh: the singular would 
have been better; ardha does not apply to ndsdgracchedana. 
8 dddne,i.e., theft by one, other than the person who set the trap etc. 5 bimbavi- 
hdara- : Cs renders bimba by ‘ the variegated krkaldsa or chameleon,’ which is very doubtful. 


Meyer suggests the idea of ‘a show’ in some sort of a zoo. That appears better. vihdra’ 


should be understood independently of that. —- Thereis no comment on this s. in Cb. 


4.10. 7] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 282 


7 For one, who is not given permission to enter, entering a fort, or one 
going out through a hole in the city-wall taking an entrusted article with him, 
(the punishment shall be) the cutting of the sinews (of the feet) or a fine of two 


hundred. 


8 For one stealing a cart; a boat or a small animal, (the punishment shall 
be) the cutting off of one foot or a fine of three hundred. 


9 For one cheating with false cowrie-shells, dice, leather-straps, ivory- 
cubes or by sleight of hand, (the punishment shall be) cutting off of one hand 
or a fine of four hundred. 


10 Incase of aiding a thief or an adulterer, and for a woman caught in 
adultery, (the punishment shall be) the cutting off of ears and nose or a fine of 
five hundred ; for a man double (that). 


11 For one stealing a big animal or one male or female slave, or for one 
selling articles from a corpse, (the punishment shall be) the cutting off of both 
feet or a fine of six hundred. 


12 In case of striking with hands or feet persons of the highest varna 
and elders, and in case of mounting the royal carriage, riding animal and so on, 
(the punishment shall be ) the cutting off of one hand and one foot or a fine 
of seven hundred. 


18 For a Sidra calling himself a Brahmin, for one concealing temple 
property, for one ordering what is treasonable and for one blinding both eyes 
(of another, the punishment shall be) blindness by means of poisonous collyrium 
or a fine of eight hundred. 


14 For one setting a thief or an adulterer free, for one writing a royal 
edict with omissions or additions, for one kidnapping a maiden or a female 
slave together with money, for a fraudulent dealer, and for one selling unclean 
meat, (the punishment shall be ) the cutting off of the left hand and both feet 
or a fine of nine hundred. 


% akrtapravegasya: cf. 2.28.19 for kriapravega used of foreigners allowed to enter. 
— niksepam: Meyer thinks of what is stolen and buried near the city-wall, to be taken 
away at night-time. That is possible, but the usual idea of what is entrusted to a person. 
may also have been meant. — kdndard: the lexicons give kandard as the form in the 
sense of ‘sinew, tendon.’ Cb does show ‘ two tendons at the back of the foot.’ 

8 cakrayuktam: the reading cakrayukta@m (Cb Cs) would be an adjective to ndvam 
which isimpossible. For cakrayukta ‘ cart,’ cf. 3.12.2. 

10 samgrhitdyah: ‘ whois caught in adultery,’ though in 4.12.80,31 the word seems to 

have the sense of ‘kept under guard.’ 

12 varnoitamdndm: Meyer thinks that this word isinterpolated. Yaj. 2.803 has only 
guru. That seems possible. — larghana is obviously ‘ striking with.’ Yaj., has tddayituh. 

18 avastrnatah: cf. 4.8.26. — yogdiijanena: sec 14.1.15 for collyrium causing 
blindness. 

14 sahiranyam : thisis adverbial. It is not necessary to read sahiranydm as proposed 
by Meyer. hiranya is ‘money’, not ‘ gold’in this text. Cf. 4.12.24. kitavyavahdrinah : 
on the authority of Yaj. 2.297 Meyer thinks that we should read kijtasuvarnavyavahdarinah. 
But all dealers who indulge in fraud may well have been meant. Yaj. is derived from this 
text ; sometimes it adds, at other times it misunderstands. -—- vimdrmsam as described in 
2.26.12. 


288 THE SUPPRESSION OF CRIMINALS [4.11.8 


15 In case of sale of human flesh, death (is the punishment). 


16 For one stealing cattle, images, persons, fields, houses, money, gold, 
gems or crops belonging to a temple, (the punishment shall be) the highest 
fine or simple death. 


17-18 After taking into full consideration the person and the 
offence, the motive, seriousness or lightness (of the offence), the conse- 
quences, the present (effects), and the place and time, the magistrate shall 
fix the highest, the lowest and the middle in the matter of punishment, 
remaining neutral between the king and the subjects. 


CHAPTER ELEVEN 


SECTION 86 THE LAW OF (CAPITAL) PUNISHMENT, SIMPLE AND WITH 
TORTURE : 


1 For one killing a person (on the spot) during a scuffle, (the punishment 
shall be) death with torture. 2 In case of death within seven days simple 
death (shall be the punishment), within a fortnight the highest (fine), within a 
month five hundred, and the cost of treatment. 


3 For one striking (another) with a weapon, the fine shall be the highest 
(for violence). 4 If (that is done ) in intoxication, the hand shall be cut off ; 
if through delusion, a fine of two hundred (shall be imposed). 5 In case of 
death (resulting), death (shall be the punishment). 


6 For one causing abortion with a blow the fine shall be the highest, 
with medicine the middle, by causing suffering (to the woman) the lowest fine 
for violence. 


7 They shall impale on the stake those who beat a man or a woman 
with force, who rush upon them, who hold them down, who threaten (to kill), 
who attack them and who pierce them, also robbers on highways and house- 
thieves, and those who kill or steal an elephant, a horse or a chariot belonging 
to the king. 8 And if any one were to cremate or remove them (from the 
stake), he shall receive the same punishment or the highest fine for violence. 


16 manusya, i.e., slaves attached to temples. 


17 anubandha can hardly mean ‘ motive’ as in Manu, 8.126 (as Jayaswal Manu and 
Yaj., 88-84, thinks). Cf. 9.7.14 ff. 


4.1] 


The citra vadha involves some sort of torture accompanying or leading to death. 


2 samutthdnavyayah; the expenses for treatment would have to be borne whether the 
man dies within Beit days or a fortnight or a month after the fight. For the expression 
Cf. 3.19.14,27. 

% phdtaka: considering the other terms in the compound which show different forms 
of oot ghdtaka seems to mean simply ‘who beats up,’ not actually * who slays.” — 
abhisaraka from Cs is certainly preferable to adhisGraka which hardly yields any sense. The 
former seems to mean ‘ who rushes at’. -— mnigrdhaka: Cs has ‘ who cuts ears and nose.’ 
That appears to be Cb’s explanation of avaghosaka;; it does not show an explanation of 
abhisdraka. Perhaps it simply means ‘ who holds down or reetrains ’ by force. — avagho- 


4.11.9] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 284 


9 For supplying murderers or thieves with food, accommodation, tools, 
fire, or giving counsel or rendering service (to them), the fine shall be the 
highest ; reprimand (only) in case ofignorance. 10 MWHeshould let go the sons 
and wives of murderers or thieves if not in concert, should seize them, if in 
concert. 


11 He shall cause to be slain by setting fire to hands and head one who 
covets the kingdom, who attacks the king’s palace, who rouses foresters or 
enemies, or who causes rebellion in the fortified city, the country or the army. 
12 He shall make a Brahmin (in such a case) enter darkness. 


18 He shall cause to be slain by setting fire to the skinless head one who 
has killed his mother, father, son, brother, preceptor or an ascetic. 14 For 
reviling these, (the punishment shall be) the cutting of the tongue; for 
wounding a limb, he shall be deprived of the (corresponding) limb. 


15 Forkilling a person by accident, and in case of theft of a herd of cattle, 
(the punishment shall be) simple death. 16 And he should know a herd to 
contain ten (heads of cattle) at least. 


17 For one breaking a dam holding water, drowning in water at the 
same spot (shall be the punishment), the highest fine for violence if it was with- 
out water, the middle if it was in ruins and abandoned. ; 


18 He shall drown in water a man giving poison (to another) and a 
woman slaying a man, if not pregnant; if pregnant, at least a month after 
delivery. 19 He shall cause to be torn by bullocks a woman who kills her 
husband, an elder or her offsprings or who sets (a house etc.) on fire or gives 
poison or breaks into a house. 


20 He shall cause to be burnt in fire one who sets on fire a pasture, a field, 
a threshing ground, a house, a produce-forest or an elephant forest. ) 


gaka: the word does not seem right. Cs has ‘ who threatens that he would kill.’ Meyer 
suggests avagoraka * who threatens ’ or avaghotaka‘ who hurlsdown.’ The formeris possible ~ 
(cf. 3.19) but not quite certain. The different forms of attack cannot be clearly distinguished 
from one another. — pathiveéma: Cb understands ‘a shed by the road-side for giving ~ 
water, 


11 antahpurapradharsakam: as antahmira refers to the royal apartments, the offence 
is political, not sexual. 12 tamah pravegayei seems to mean ‘should make blind ’ (Meyer) 
rather than ‘confine in a dark cellar for good’? (Cs). Cf. Apastamba, 2.10.27.16-17. It is 
possible that this s. is a marginal gloss due to Apastamba. ? 


18 atvakchirahprddipikam is understood as in Cb'Cs. The head is skinned first and 
then set on fire. Meyer has ‘burning the skinned hands tied over the head.’ There is 
nothing to show the hands. 14 abhiradana is ‘ wounding’ or ‘ breaking.’ 


17 bhagnotsrstakam ; cf. 8.9.88 ; 8.10.2. : 


19 pftayet: Cb Cs read pddayet explained as ‘ should cause to be trampled underfoot.’ 
— Y4j., 2.278-279 reproduce these rules, but include dam-breaking with offenccs of s.19, 
so that only females breaking dams can be understood, which is absurd and shows up the 
character of Yaj. A 


20 Cf, 2.86.25. 


285 THE SUPPRESSION OF CRIMINALS [ 4.12.9 


21 He shall cause the tongue to be rooted out of one who reviles the king 
or divulges secret counsel or spreads evil news (about the king) and one who 
licks anything in a Brahmin’s kitchen. 


22 He shall cause to be slain with arrows the stealer of weapons or 
armours, if he is not a soldier. 28 For the soldier, the highest fine (shall be 
the punishment). 


24 Of one injuring the generating organ or testicles (of another) he shall 
cause these same (limbs) to be cut off. 


25 For injuring the tongue or the nose, the cutting of the middle finger 
and the thumb (shall be the punishment). 


26 These painful punishments have been laid down in the texts of 
high-souled (authors) ; but in the case of crimes that are not painful, 
simple death is prescribed as lawful. 


CHAPTER TWELVE 
SECTION 87 VIOLATION OF MAIDENS 


1 For one violating a maiden of the same varna who has not attained 
puberty, (the punishment shall be ) the cutting off of the hand or a fine of four 
hundred. 2 In case she dies, death (shall be the punishment). 


3 Of one violating a maiden who has attained puberty, the middle and 
index fingers shall be cut off or a fine of two hundred (imposed). 4 And he 
shall make good the loss to her father. 5 And he shall not have the right 
(to marry her) if she is unwilling. 6 Ifshe is willing, (there shall be) a fine of 
fifty-four panas ; half that, however, for the woman. 7 If she has been 
reserved by the dowry of another, (there shall be) the cutting off of the hand 
or a fine of four hundred, as well as the payment of the dowry. 


8 Abride-groom not receiving the bride after the betrothal, when she has 
had seven menstrual periods, shall have the right (to her) by having relations 
‘with her, and he shall not make good the father’s loss. 9 The (latter) forfeits 
his ownership by (his acts) making her periods vain. 


21 brakmanamahdnasdoalehinah : Meyer thinks that this is an interpolation, since 
even Y4j., 2.802 does not reproduce this offence. That seems likely. 


25 samdamga: see 4.10.1 above. 

26 mahdtmandm : these are the author’s predecessors, from whom he has derived his 
material. 
4.12 


prakr has obviously the sense of ‘ to violate, to deflower, to have sexual relations with.’ 

4 pitu$ cadvahinam : this refers to the dowry. 5 prdkdmyam refers to the freedom or 
right to marry her. 

8 alabhamdnah: Cs reads alabhamdndm and explains ‘if the girl does not find the man 

who wooed her, another man may have relations with her and do what he pleases.’ This 

appears less likely. It is the groom-elect who would be given the liberty, because.the girl’s 


4,12. 10] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 286 


10 It is no offence for a maiden having menstruation for three years to 
approach a man of the same varna, after that even a man notof the same varna 
provided. she goes without her ornaments. 11 For taking her father’s 
property, she shall be liable for theft. 


12 Ifa man intending (a maiden) foranother, secures her (for himself), 
the fine shall be two hundred. 18 And he shall not have the right (to her) if 
she is unwilling. 


14 For showing one maiden and giving another, the fine shall be one 
hundred if she is of the same varna, double (that) if she is of a lower varna. 


15 For a (bride) not a virigin at the time of consummation, the fine 

_ Shall be fifty-four panas, and (she) shall return the dowry and (marriage) 

‘expenses. 16 If after maintaining that kind (of condition) she fails, she shall 
pay double. 17 For substituting other blood, the fine shall be two hundred, 
also for the man falsely accusing (the bride of loss of virginity). 18 And 
he shall lose the dowry and the expenses. 19 And he-shall not have the right 
(to her) if she is unwilling. : 


father is postponing the marriage. prdkdmi refers to the right to marry, even if the father is 
unwilling. prakdmi (Cb) appears to be a more likely form. 9 jstupratirodhibhih: supply 
karmabhith. ‘In consequence of robbers (pratirodhin) in the form of menstrual periods ’ (Cs) 
is fanciful. Cf. Manu, 9.93, which reproduces this s. in full. 


10 tulyogantum adogah: we excepttulyam. —. tatah param: howlong she is to wait _ 
for tulya is not stated. — Cf. Manu, 9.90-92, which reproduce these rules, omitting, how- * 
ever, the reference to aiulya. 


18 na ca prakamyam akdmayam, i.e., the marriage would be void and the girl free to 
marry 8 different person altogether. ns 


15 prakarmani etc.: this is understood as in Meyer, the idea being that if the girl 

is found not to be a virgin at the time of the consummation of marriage (prakarmant), 
she is to be fined 54 panas, and the husband is to get back the gulka and the marriage 
expan Cb Cs include avasthdya in this s. and explain ‘ for violating a virgin maiden who 
is betrothed (akum@r?, i.e., datid), the fine is fifty-four panas, and he shall give the dowry to 
the first groom and the marriage expenses to the marriage-negotiator or surety (avastha).’ 
The difficulty is that the fine is obviously meant for the girl, as is shown by the genitive of ~ 
akumaryah ; if the violator were intended, we would have had as usual akumdrim prakur- 
vatah. Moreover, pratidadydt implies that one who received the dowry is to return it ; the 
girl’s father is more likely in that case to be the person who would be asked to do that. 
Again in the next s. the double fine seems intended for the girl herself as is shown by the sub- 
ject krid. All of which shows that the offence thought of is one committed by the girl. 
Such an offence could be her being not a virgin. The fines, of course, may ultimately be 
supposed to be paid by the father. 16 Thiss. is understood to mean that if the girl main- 
tains that she is a virgin, but if, on investigation, she is found not to be a virgin, she is to be 
fned 108 panas. pascatkrid is one who has failed to prove her case; cf. pascdthdra in 
8.9.22. tajjatam ‘ of that kind’ may be understood to-refer to the condition of virginity. °- 
avasthaya may be understood in the sense of ‘having maintained,’ though perhaps avasthapya 
in the causal would have been better. Meyer has ‘if she makes herself a virgin again (pdé- 
cat krtd) with blood from that (tajjatam, tat being the female organ).’ This is extremely 
doubtful. Cb Cs explain ‘if she is afterwards (pasgcat) accepted (kytd) by another person, 
then a double fineis be to paid.’ Itis not clear whois to pay the fine. There appears to be 
no reason why tnis third person who accepts the girl should be penalised. And the girl can- 
not be supposed to be fined in this s., whenin the last s. the fine, according to Cb Cs, is meant 
for the violator. 17 anyagonitupadhane : this apparently refers to the girl’s attempt to 
prove her virginity by soiling her garment with blood from another source (to indicate the 
rupture of the hymen). According to Cs, she does this to prove that she is violated and is 
not a virgin. — mithydbhigamsinah pumsah : this is obviously the husband who falsely 
accuses the wife of not beinga virgin. 19 na ca prakdmyam, i.e., she shall be free to leave 
him and marry some one else; cf. s. 18 above. 


287 THE SUPPRESSION OF CRIMINALS [ 4. 12. 85 


20 A (maiden) deflowered bya woman shall pay a fine of twelve panas, 
if a willing party and of the same varna; the violating woman (shall pay) 


double. 21 If(the maiden was) unwilling, she shall pay a fine of one hundred 
and her dowry, for (the satisfaction of) her passion. 


22 A maiden deflowering herself shall become the king’s slave. 


23 In case a maiden is violated outside the village and in case of a false 
accusation, the fine shall be double. 


24 For one abducting a maiden by force, (the fine is) two hundred ; 
if with gold (ornaments), the highest. 25 For many (persons) abducting a 
maiden, the fines shall be as prescribed for each one separately. 


26 For one deflowering a courtesan’s daughter, (the punishment shall be) 
a fine of fifty-four panas (and) a dowry to the mother sixteen times the rate for 
a visit. 27 For one deflowering the daughter of a male or a female slave, 
who is not a slave (herself), the fine is twenty-four panas and the payment of 
dowry and ornaments (for her). 28 For one violating a female slave due for 
redemption, the fine is twelve panas and the payment of clothes and ornaments. 


29 For giving help or accommodation, the punishment shall be the same 
as for the offender. 


30 The husband’s kinsman or his servant should keep under guard the 
wife who misbehaves when the husband is away on a journey. 81 Kept 
under guard, she should wait for the husband. 382 If the husband were to 
tolerate, both should be set free. 88 Im case he does not tolerate, (the 


punishment shall be) the cutting off of the ears and nose for the woman, and 
the lover shall meet with death. 


34 For one making out a paramour as a thief, the fine shall be five hund- 
red ; for one releasing him with money, eight times that (as fine). 


85 Adultery (shall be understood as committed ) when there is mutual 
caressing of the hair, or from indications of bodily enjoyment, or from (the 
‘opinion of) experts, or from the woman’s statement. 


21 The fine is for the prakariri, to whom the dtmardga refers. — Cf. Manu, 8.869- 
870, which prescribe severe corporal punishment. 


24-25 Cf. Yaj., 2.287, which varies the punishment according to varna. 


26 bhogah: cf. 2.27.10 ff. Sixtcen times the rate for a visit is to be the amount of 
the gulka. 27 dbandhya: see 8.2.14,15. 28 nigkrayadnuriipam ‘ who is worthy of, i.e., 
due for redemption,’ a rather unusual expression. For niskraya, see 3.13.17, 21. 


80 samgrhniydat: this obviously implies holding in confinement. Even the paramour 
is so held as shown by ubhayamins. 82. — YéAj., 2:801 is an exact reproduction. 


34 abhiharatah ‘ carrying off,’ i.e., trying to save him; as a thief he would get a lighter 
punishment. Perhaps we have to read abhivydharatah, ‘ calling, declaring.’ — tadasgta- 
gunah: tad refers to the hiranya offered, not the fine of five hundred. 


35 upalingandd: cf. 3.18.87. — tajjdtebhyah ‘ experts,’ who know how to interpret 
gestures etc. (Cb), rather than ‘ marks produced by the act’ (Meyer). The latter would 
not be different from upalingana. — strivacandd: sirt is the woman concerned herself. 


4. 12. 86) KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 288 


86 After rescuing a stranger woman, who was being carried off by enemy 
troops or foresters, or carried away by a current, or was abandoned in a forest 
or during a famine, or was left under the impression of her being dead, a man 
may enjoy her as agreed upon. 87 If she is superior in caste (to him) or is 
unwilling, or has children, he shall give (her back) for a ransom. 


88-40 After having rescued a woman belonging to others from the 
hands of robbers, from the current of a river, from a famine, from a 
disturbance in the country, from a forest, or when she is lost or left as 
dead, a man may enjoy her as agreed, but not one who is saved through 
the power of the king or by her kinsmen, nor one higher (in caste) nor one 
unwilling, nor again one who already has children ; such a one, however, 
he should restore (to her kinsmen) in return for a suitable ransom. 


CHAPTER THIRTEEN 
SECTION 88 PUNISHMENTS FOR TRANSGRESSIONS 


1 For one making a Brahmin consume drink or food which is unfit for 
human consumption the fine shall be the highest, the middle for (making) 
a Ksatriya (do so), the lowest for making a Vaisya (do so), a fine of fifty-four 
panas for making a Sidra (do so). 2 Those consuming (such things) of their _ 
own accord shall be exiled from the country. 


8 Incase of trespass in another’s house by day (the punishment shall be) » 
the lowest fine for violence, by night the middle. 4 For one entering with a 
weapon by day or by night, the fine shall be the highest. 5 A mendicant-and 
@ trader, an intoxicated and an insane person, very close neighbours when 
threatened by force or in a calamity, and those whose entry is customary, are 
not to be punished except when prohibited. 6 For ane climbing the enclosing 
fence of his own house after midnight (the punishment shall be) the lowest fine 
for violence, that of another’s house middle, also for one breaking the hedge of 
a village park. 


86 yathdsambhdsitam : according to Cb Cs, the agreement is to make her the wife or 
slave. That need not necessarily be understood. 


82-40 The stanzas repeat the ideas of ss. 86-87, adding the line na tu rdjapratdpena 
etc. Thelineimplies that if the rescuer happens to be a state servant or the woman’s 
kinsman, he cannot claim this privilege. The stanzas seem derived from an earlier 
source and 8s. 36-87 seem to be a prose rendering of the same. — apavdhayet ‘have her 
carried away (by her kinsmen),’i.e., restore her to them. 


4.18 


1-2 apeyam abhaksyam does not seem to refer to food etc. forbidden in the Smrtis on 
sacramental grounds. That has mostly to do with Brahmins only. Y4j., 2.296 is an exact 
reproduction. 

8 abhigamana obviously conveys the idea of trespass. 5 baldd dpadi ca are to be 
construed with atisamnikrstah, which refers to very close neighbours rather than close rela- 

tions. 6 virdira here is obviously ‘midnight’. Cf. 4.6.2. 


289 THE SUPPRESSION OF CRIMINALS [ 4.18. 21 


7 ‘Traders in caravans may stay inside the villages when their valuables 
are made known (to village officers). 8 What is stolen or killed from among 
these, the master of the village shall make good, if it has not gone out at night. 
9 What is stolen or killed between villages, the Superintendent of Pastures 
_ Shall make good. 10 In regions without pastures, the officers for catching 

thieves (shall make good). 11 Ifthey are unprotected even then, the 
(villages) shall allow a search according to the boundaries as fixed. 12 In the 


absence of a fixing of boundaries, a group of five or ten villages (shall allow 
the search). 


18 In case of Injury (caused) by making a rickety house, a cart with the 
pole at the head unsupported, a weapon without covering, an uncovered hollow 
or well or a concealed pit, he shall hold it to be a case of physical injury. 


14 One shouting ‘ get out of the way ’ when cutting a tree, leading by the 
rope an animal under training, using or riding the untamed among quadrupeds, 
throwing about pieces of wood, clods of earth, stones, sticks, arrows or arms, 
and in a collision in a carriage or with an elephant, is not to be punished. 


15 One (desiring to be) killed by an enraged elephant shall give one 
drona food, a jar of wine, flowers and unguents and a piece of cloth for wiping 
the tusks. 16 Death by an elephant is equal to a bath at the end of the horse 
sacrifice ; hence this washing of the feet. 17 In case of death of one not 
desirous (of such a death), the highest fine (shall be imposed) on the driver. 


18 For the owner not rescuing a person being injured by a horned or 
tusked animal of his, the lowest fine for violence (shall be the punishment) ; 
the middle if he was called to come to the rescue. 19 For one allowing 


horned or tusked animals to kill one another, the fine shall be that and as much 
again. 


20 For one riding a temple animal, a stud bull or a cow not yet calved 
the fine shall be five hundred, for killing (these) the highest. 21 In case of 
theft of small animals useful for their hair or milk or for riding or stud-purposes, 


the fine shall be that and as much again, also for killing these, except for rites 
in honour of gods and the manes. 


% There can be little doubt about grdmesvantah being the correct reading, those in M 
and G1 being corruptions of the same. 8 pravdsitam ‘killed’ rather than ‘ driven out,’ 
as is shown in Y&aj., 2.271. That seems also the meaning in ss. 20, 21 below. — grdma- 
sudmi : evidently some onc like a jagirdar or sardar is to be thought of. ‘ The village head- 
man ’ is possible, but for that the usual word is grdmika. 9 grdmantaresu : this is the pro- 
vince of the vivitidhyaksa ; scc 2.34.6. 10 corarajjuka is evidently some officer operating 
in regions outside villages and pasture-lands, i.c., in forest lands etc., his duty being the 
rounding up ofrobbersetc. 11 simdvarodhena: cf. 2.35.8. — pancagrami dasagrami vd : 


this is the jurisdiction of the gopa; cf. 2.35.2. It seems that we have to supply vicayam 
dadyuh rather than mustiam dadyuh. 


14 ydne hastind ca samghattane: this docs not seem quite right. We expect ydnena 
like hastind. — Cf. Yaj., 2.298. 


15 drondnnam madyakumbham is emended from the readings of Mand Gl. 16 pdda- 
praksdlanam is an offering to a guest, of which water for washing the feet forms the starting 
point. 

20 rsabham uksdnam: cf. 2.29.8, also 3.10.24. 21 anyatra deva- etc.: this means 


that the taking or killing of small animals not belonging to oneself is to be condoned, if that 
is done for religious purposes. 


4, 13.22] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 290 


22 In case of injury when the cart has the nose-strings (of the bullocks) 
cut or the yoke broken or when it moves crosswise towards (some one) or re- 
cedes backwards, or when there is a crowd of animals and men, the driver is not 
to be punished. 28 Otherwise he shall be liable to punishment as prescribed 
in case of injury to men and animals. 24 And in case of death of non-human 
animals, the payment of the animal (as well shall be enforced). 


25 When the driver is a minor, the owner if in the carriage is to be fined ; 
if the owner is not there the person in the carriage or the driver if he has 
attained majority. 26 The king shall confiscate a carriage in charge of a 
minor or one without a man in it. 


27 What a (magician) brings about to another by witchcraft and black 
magic, that shall be meted out to him. 28 The use of love-winning magic 
may be allowed towards a wife who does not like (her husband) or towards a 
maiden by a suitor or towards the husband by the wife. 29 Else, in case of 
injury, the middle fine for violence (shall be imposed). 


80 For one carnally approaching the sister of his mother or father, his 
maternal aunt, his preceptor’s wife, his daughter-in-law, daughter or sister, 
(the punishment shall be) the cutting off of the generating organ and testicles 
and death (thereafter). 81 The woman, if willing, shall receive the same, 
also a woman who has had relations with a slave, a servant or a pledged man. 


82 Fora Ksatriya (having relations) with a Brahmin woman, not guarded, 
the fine shall be the highest, for a Vaisya (confiscation of) the entire proerty ; 
a Sudra shall be burnt in a fire of straw. 


88 For having relations with the king’s wife, the (punishment) in all 
cases (shall be) cooking in a big jar. 


84 For having relations with a Svapaka woman, the man shall go to 
another land, with the mark of the headless trunk branded (on his forehead), 
or shall become a Svapaka himself if he isa Sidra. 35 Fora Svapaka having 
relations with an Arya woman there shall be death, for the woman the cutting 
off of the ears and nose. 


22 Itis proposed to read ydtd pagu- for yatapasu- or yanapasu-. cakrayuktam cannot 
properly; be construed with adandyahk which requires a subject like ydtd. The yoke etc. 
reaks and injury is caused while the cart is being driven and the driver has no control over 
the happening. 23 abhydvahet: sce 2.28.26. This verb also requires yatd as the subject. 


25 praptaoyavahdro vd yald is superfluous when bdle ydtari is there. Perhaps it is a 
marginal gloss. 


28 ddrarthino in the genitive singular is proposed to correspond to bhdryayah. -In the 
alternative, we should have d@rdarthind and bharyayd in the instrumental in both cases. 


80 trilinga-: Yaj., 3.282-3 has only linga. 31 tadeva apparently refers only to the 
punishment of death. Cs, however, includes trilingacchedana as well, understanding by it 
‘cutting of the organ and the two breasts.’ That appears highly questionable. — -bhuktia 
secms to imply the woman’s consent. 


82 agupiaydm: Meyer thinks that guptdydm alone would be correct. However. \ 
8.874-878, shows that the former is quite likely. er, Manu, 


34 $vapakatoam vd Sidrah: this implies that there is no branding for the Sidra. but 
there'is a fallin the social scale for him. . ? 


291 THE SUPPRESSION OF CRIMINALS [ 4.18. 48 


86 For having relations with a woman who has left her home, the fine is 
twenty-four panas. 87 If willing she shall receive the same. 


88 For enjoyment of a prostitute by force, the fine shall be twelve panas. 


89 For many (men) enjoying (forcibly) one (prostitute), the fine shall be 
twenty-four panas for each one separately. 


40 For one approaching a woman elsewhere than in the female organ 


the lowest fine for violence (shall be imposed), also for one misbehaving with a 
man. 


41 A fine of twelve panas is prescribed for the senseless wretch 


who carnally approaches lower animals, and double (that) for misbeha- 
ving with images of gods. 


42 In case punishment is inflicted on those not deserving to be 
punished, thirty times that as a fine for the king shall be placed in 
‘water for Varuna and given to Brahmins after that. 


48 Thereby the sin of the king arising from the mistake in 
inflicting punishment is purified. For Varuna is the chastiser of kings 
who behave wrongly towards men. 


Herewith ends the Fourth Book of the Arthagastra of Kautilya 
‘THE SUPPRESSION OF CRIMINALS’ 


86 pravrajita: as the punishment is too light, the word can hardly refer to ‘a nun’; 
it seems to mean ‘ who has left her home’ as in 2.23.2. 


89 adhicaratém: we have probably to understand prasahya from the preceding s. with 

42 tatah param shows that the Brahmins are to be the real recipients, the offering to 
Varuna being ceremonial. — . 

48 rdajidmisfromChbCsforrdjdofthemss. Itis true that Varuno rdjdis a conception 


that goes back to the Vedas ; but it seems better to have rdjridm as the substantive for vyd- 
caratam, to be construed with $dstd. 


Boox FIver 
SECRET CONDUCT 


CHAPTER ONE 


SECTION 89 CONCERNING THE INFLICTION OF (SECRET) PUNISHMENT 


1 The ‘weeding of thorns’ from the fortified city and the country 
has been explained. 2 Weshall now explain that from the king and his ruler- 
ship. 

8 The remedy against those principal officers, who live on the king by 
holding him in their power or who are in league with the enemy, is the employ- 
ment of secret agents or winning over of seducible parties, as explained before, 
or secret instigation or spying, as we shall explain in (the section on) the 
capture of an enemy’s town. 


4 But against those treasonable principal officers, who cause harm to the 
kingdom, (and) who, being favourites or being united, cannot be suppressed 
openly, he should employ ‘ silent punishment,’ finding pleasure in (doing his) .. 
duty. 

5 A secret agent, after inciting a brother of the treasonable high officer, 
not honoured by him, should show him to the king. 6 Theking should induce 
him to fight against the treasonable officer by granting the use of the treason- 
able man’s property. 7 When he has acted with a weapon or poison, he 
should cause him to be executed on that very ground, declaring ‘ He is a mur- 
derer of his brother.’ 8 By that are explained the pdraégava and the son of 
a female attendant. 


The secret conduct (yogaurtia) describedin this Book is that of the king in the first two 
Chapters and that of the servantsin Chapters 4to 6. Chapter3 doesnot fitin. Cb remarks 
that the title really is true of the First Chapter (5.1), butis applied to the whole adhikarana, 
because that is the most important Chapterinit. Breloer (I, 77-78 n.) relates yoga to 
yogaksema and understands the whole state mechanism as intended, Ch. 2 referring to state 
income and Ch. 8 to expenditure. The other chapters, however, hardly fit in. 


5.1 


_ 2% rdjardjyayoh: the offenders, viz., traitorous persons are like thorns to the king and 
his rulership. For rdjya see §.2.1. 

8 avagrhya: cf. 1.8.21 etc. — giidhapurusapranidhih is describedin 1.12, and krtya- 
paksopagrahah in 1.18. — yatha ca pdragrdmike vaksyamah: the ca is unnecessary 
and itis proposed to dropit. wupajdpa and apasarpa are in fact some of the ways recom- 
mended in the parogradmika section ; see 18.1 and 18.3. 


4 This s. refers to rdjyakantakas, as the preceding one referred to rdjakantaxas. — 
dusuah literally * who can be spoiled,’ is used of treasonable persons Or suspected traitors. 
Cs understands the idea to be * who are to be somehow destroyed.’ Russ. refers to Malli- 
natha’s paraphrase by tydajya ° who ought to be eliminated ’on Magha’s Sisupdlavadha, 2.56. 


5 asatkriam by his brother, the traitorous Officer. Cb reads satkriam, but the actual 
comment implies the reading asatkriam. 6 atisargena, i.e., by promising thé grant of his 


293 SECRET CONDUCT [5.1.22 


9 Or, a brother, instigated by a secret agent, should demand inheritance 
from the treasonable officer. 10 As he lies down at the door of the treasonable 
man’s house at night, or when he is staying elsewhere, an assassin, slaying him, 
should declare, ‘ This claimant of the inheritance is killed.’ 11 Then, giving 
support to the slain man’s party, the (king) should suppress the other. 


12 Or, secret agents, staying near the treasonable officer, should threaten 
the brother claiming inheritance with death. 18 As he at night and so on, 
as before. 


14 When of two treasonable officers, a son has relations with the father’s 
wife or a father with the son’s wife or a brother with that of a brother, a fight 
between the two started by a sharp pupil is explained by the preceding. 


15 Or, a Secret agent should instigate a son of the treasonable officer 
thinking highly of himself, (suggesting) ‘You are really the king’s son, kept here 
through fear of the enemy.’ 16 When he believes that, the king should hon- 
our him in private, ‘ Though the time for installing you as the crown prince 
has come, I am not crowning you through fear of the officer.’ 17 The secret 
agent should induce him to murder the officer. 18 When he has acted, 
the (king) should cause him to be executed on that very ground, declaring 
‘He is a parricide.’ 


19 Or, a female mendicant (agent), having won the confidence of the wife 
of the treasonable officer by means of love-winning potions, should cheat 
(them) by the use of poison. 


20 Thus end the stratagems through kinsmen. 


21 He should despatch the treasonable high officer with a weak army 
containing assassins, for destroying foresters or an enemy’s town or for estab- 
lishing a district officer or a frontier officer in a region separated by a wilderness 
or for suppressing the domain of a city-officer that has risen in revolt or for seiz- 
ing a caravan-route on the frontier along with land easily recoverable (by the 
enemy). 22 In the fight, taking place by day or night, assassins or agents 


property after the officer’s death. 7% {atraiva, i.e., on the charge of fratricide. 8 pdra- 
g§avah: see 3.7.21. 


10 wupasaydnam seems to include the idea of fasting also besides staying at the door till 
the demand is granted. 11 upagrhya is quite necessary for the sense ; rz after upa- in the 
mss. has evidently got in through a scribal error. For upagrah, cf. 7.2.19 etc. Cb shows 
parigrhya which also yields the sense required. 


18 itisamdnam,i.e.,asinss. 10-11: 


14 adhicarati: cf. 4.18.80 etc. — kdpatika: see 1.11.2-4. — piirvena vydkhydtah, 
a tiksna kills one in the name of the other, who is then charged with murder. 


15 wupajapet is preferable to upacaret. The former is commonly used with sattrt. 

19 sdmvadanikibhih is necessary in view of the form samvadana adopted elsewhere ; 
see 4.4.14. — samudsya, literally ‘having made her live with herself,’ refers to winning of 
confidence. — rasena : the poison is administered to the husband in the belief that itis a 
love potion. : 

20 dpyaprayogah a trickin which use is made of a kinsman of the suspected traitor. 

21 sdrthdtivdhya is usually the escorting of caravans and the fee charged for it ; cf. 
2.84.12. Here the caravan-route seems to be meant. — pratyddeya is territory which, even 
if seized by one, can be easily recovered by one’s enemy ; cf. 9.4.5-6, 


5.1.28 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 294 


Sppesrine as highway robbers should kill him, announcing, ‘ He was killed 
during the attack.’ 


28 Or, when he has gone to a fair or on a pleasure-trip, the (king) should 
invite treasonable officers to see him. 24 These, entering together with 
assassins with concealed weapons shall allow a search of their persons in the 
middle hall for being allowed to enter inside. 25 The assassins, seized by the 
door-keepers, should say, ‘ We are engaged by the treasonable officers.’ 26 
After proclaiming that, they should kill the treasonable men. 27 In 
place of the assassins, others (i.e., criminals) should be executed. 


28 Or, going on a pleasure-trip outside (the city), he should honour 
the treasonable men by giving them quarters nearhim. 29 A woman of bad 
character, appearing as the queen, should be caught in their quarters at night 
and so on, as before. . 


80 Or, he should request the treasonable officer for food by praising 
* Your cook or food-preparer is good,’ or for a drink, when out ona journey 
sometime. 81 Mixing both those with poison, he should urge the two them- 
selves to taste them first. 82 Having announced that, he should cause them 
to be slain as poison-givers. 


88 Or, an agent appearing as a holy man should make the (officer), if he 
is given to black magic, believe ‘ You will attain your desires by eating one of 
the following : a lizard, a tortoise, a crab or an ox with broken horns, which is 
endowed with auspicious marks.’ 84 When he agrees, he should get him 
killed in the course of the rite by poison or iron clubs, announcing, ‘He was 
killed by a mishap in the rite.’ 

85 Or, an agent appearing as a physician, after establishing a malignant 
or incurable disease for the treasonable person, should cheat him with poison 
in the preparations of medicine or food. 


86 Or, agents employed as cooks or food-servers, should cheat the trea- 
sonable person by means of poison. 


87 Thus ends (the topic of) suppression by secret means. 


88 As to suppression of two treasonable persons, however: 89 He 
should despatch one treasonable person himself accompanied by a weak army 
and assassins to where the (other) treasonable person is to be suppressed, (say- 
ing) ‘ Go, raise an army or money in that fortified city or region ; or extract 


- 28 wydird may be a religious fair or a military expedition. The former seemsintended 
ere. 

29 devivoyatijand 0d duhstri: od is unnecessary. Meyer suggests prdduskrta stri ‘a 
bad woman’ or ‘a decorated woman ’, or kdcit sirt ‘some woman ’ in place of vd stri — 
samdnam puroena, i.€., he should he slain as devikdmuka. 

83 -prdganena is from Cb Cs ; though it is not altogether satisfactory, it is preferable 
to -prakdganena of the mss. Tye latter may mean ‘exhibiting’, i.e., placing at the cross- 
roads orsome such thing. Cb explnins prdasana by ‘eating the remnants Of the meat offered 

in a sacrificial fire in the cremation ground.’ - 


85 daurdtmika ‘ malignant ’asadj.to vyddhiis unusual. 


295 SECRET CONDUCT [5. 1. 54 


money from the favourite; or, kidnap the favourite’s daughter; or, carry 
out any one of the undertakings, viz., building a fort or an embankment, 
making a trade-route, settling on new land, starting mines, raising material- 
forests or elephant-forests ; or, carry out the work of a provincial officer or 
frontier officer ; and whoever prevents you or does not give you help should be 
imprisoned.’ 40 Inthe same way he should send word to the others, ‘ The 
transgression of so and so should be prevented (by you).’ 41 When he may 
be disputing on these occasions, for strife or on account of hindrances in his 
work, assassins should secretly kill him by bringing down their weapon (on 
him). 42 Tor that offence, the others should be punished. 


43 Or, when strife ensues or is raised by assassins on occasions of injury 
to property, inmplements, crops or vehicles in connection with boundaries 
of villages, fields, threshing-floors or houses in treasonable cities, villages or 
families, or on occasions of shows, ceremonies or festivals, the assassins should 
bring down their weapons and say ‘ Thus are dealt with those who dispute 
with this person.’ 44 For that offence the others should be punished. 


45 Or, assassins should set fire to the fields, threshing-floors or houses, 
or bring down their weapons on the kinsmen, relations or draught-animals of 
those treasonable persons whose mutual quarrels are deep-rooted, and say, 
‘We were engaged by so andso.’ 46 For that offence the others should 
be punished. 


47 Or, secret agents should induce treasonable officers in the fortified 
city and in the country to be one another’s guests. 48 There poison-givers 
should give poison. 49 For that offence the others should be punished. 


50 Or, a female mendicant (agent) should suggest to a treasonable chief 
in the country, ‘ The wife, the daughter-in-law or the daughter of (that) trea- 
sonable chief in the country is in love with you.’ 51 When he consents, she 
should take his ornaments and show them to the master, saying ‘ That chief, 
puffed up with youth, has designs on your wife, daughter-in-law or daughter.’ 
52 (In) the quarrel between the two at night and so on, as above. 


58 As to treasonable (vassals) surrendering with troops, however, —the 
crown prince or the commander-in-chief should do some wrong and, after 
going away, show fight. 54 Then the king should despatch (against him) 


¢ 


48 disyadndm qualifies ‘puradnam etc. Cs makes out the dispute to be between disya 
on the one hand and pura etc. onthe other. That appearsless likely. — simdisa boundary 
between villages, while maryddd is a boundary between fields, houses etc. Cf. 3.9.10-28. 


45 sambandhin, as distinguished from bandhu, is a relation by marriage. 


47 aveganika ‘ who livesin the residence,’ is obviously ‘a guest.’ durgadisya as guests 
of rdstradiisya and vice versa are to be understood. 


51 svdmine, i.e., to the husband, father-in-law or father as the case may be. — 
abhiman ; cf. 1.6.5 etc. 


53 dandopanata ordinarily would mean * who has submitted to force * ; but 7.3.28-26 
show that dandopanata involves the surrender of one’s troops. — apakrtya from Cb Cs is — 


5.1. 55] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 296 


the treasonable vassals themselves with.a weak army containing assassins and 
so on,—all the stratagems as above. 55 And among their sons surviving 
them, he who is not disloyal should get the patrimony. 


56 In this way, the kingdom continues in the succession of his sons and 
grand-sons, free from dangers caused by men. 


57 He should employ ‘silent punishment ’ towards his own party or 
that of the enemy, without hesitation, being possessed of forbearance in 
respect of the future and the present. 


CHAPTER TWO 
SECTION 99 REPLENISHMENT OF THE TREASURY 


1 The (king) without a treasury should collect a treasury, when diffi- 
culties concerning money have arisen. 


2 Heshould demand a third or a fourth part of the grains from a region, 
whether big or small in size, that is not dependent on rains and yields abun- 
dant crops; from a middling or inferior one, according to yield. 3 He 
should not make a demand on (a region) useful for building a fort or embank- 
ment or trade-routes or new settlements or mining or material forests or ele- 
phant forests, or on (a region) small in size which is on the frontier. 


clearly necessary for upakriya of the mss. 55 anuksi here is ‘to survive,’ but in 18.5.17 
it seems to have the sense of ‘ to brood over (the death of), to think constantly of.’ 


56 asya refers to the king, hardly to the vassal of the preceding ss. 


57 dyatyam ca tadaloe ca ksamao4an, i.e., showing forbearance, bearing in mind future 
consequences and immediate results. 


1 pratyutpannarthakrcechrah ‘ who is in difficulties in respect of money or some object 
to be achieved (artha).’ Cf. 7.8.5. Breloer (I, 78-81), arguing that this Chapter describes 
only normal sources of revenue, not special levies, considers this s. as without any signi- 
ficance for the rest of the Chapter ; in the alternative, he proposes to translate ‘in times of 
peace, he should provide for a treasury against times of distress (with -krcchram as adjective 
to kogam).’ Tie translation appears quite unlikely, as is the reading -krechram. To his 
question, how can the king collect treasury when there is general distress, the answer is that 
there is no reference to any general distress here. The king’s treasury is depleted because 
of some undertaking like war etc., and it has to be replenished for some other undertaking. 
Itis not only money that constitutes the koga ; it consists of ratna, sdra, phalgu and kupya, 
as 2.11.1 shows, where there is no mention ofcash. Stores, in fact, from anintcgral part of 
the treasury. It is true that ss. 4-7 mention monetary help given by the king; that is 
possible because the king, though lacking in kegain the full sense of the term, may have 
some cash with him. And arthain arthakrcechra need not refer to cash only. In any case, 
itis not possible to agree that the Chapter refers to normal sources Of revenue. The various 
dubious ways of making collections described in ss. 31-68 can hardly be regarded as normal 
ways of collecting revenue. 


2 Itis better to read adevamdtrkam (with the avagraha) asin 6.1.8 — trtiyam caturtham 
v4: 25 E. H. Johnston (JRAS, 1929,97) has pointed out, we have to think of levies from the 
stocks with the cultivators, not a share of the crops asland revenue. The latter is bhaga ; 
here we have ama, besides ydccta. — sdra,i.e., quality of the soil and the amount of its 
yield. 3 pratyzntam...na ydceta: the reason is, the frontier people, if disgruntled 
because Of the levy, may go over to the neighbouring king. 


297 SECRET CONDUCT [ 5. 2.16 


4 He should provide one making a new settlement with grains, cattle, 
money and other things. 


5 Heshould purchase for money a fourth part of the grains after allow- 
ing for seeds and livelihood. 6 He should exempt forest produce and the 
property of a Brahmin learned in the Vedas. 7 Even that he may purchase 
so as to favour them. 


8 Or, in case that does not serve the purpose, officers of the Administra- 
tor should cause preparation of the fields for sowing to be made by farmers in 
summer. 9 At the time of (sowing) seeds, they should make a decd of (the 
grant of ) seeds, laying down a penalty double that which may be lost through 
negligence. 10 When the crops have ripened, they should prevent the taking 
of green or ripe (grains), except handfuls of vegetables or grains plucked by 
hand for the purpose of worship of gods and manes and for charity or for the 
sake of cows. 11 And they should leave remnants of the heap for mendicants 
and village servants. 


12 For one appropriating his own crops, compensation for loss shall 
be eight-fold. 18 For one stealing another’s crops, the penalty for grains 
shall be fifty-fold, if he is of the same class ; death, however, if he is an out- 
sider. 


14 They should take a fourth part of grains, a sixth part of wild produce 
and of goods made of silk-cotton, lac, linen, barks, cotton, wool and silk, 
medicines, perfumes, flowers, fruits and vegetables, also of wood, bamboos, 
meat and dried meat, one half of ivory and skins. 15 For one selling these 
without permission, (the punishment shall be) the lowest fine for violence. 


16 Thus ends (the topic of) making demands on farmers. 


4 Cf. 2.1.13 above. The purpose of the new settlements is to increase agricultural 
revenue. The state is not absolutely bankrupt and is in a position to provide cven cash 
for the purpose. 


8 tasya akarane, i.e., when these measures do not bring in the necessary grains in the 
stores. Theidiomis unusual. — samdharitrpurusdah, i.e., the gopas and the sthadnikas. See 
2.35.1-6. Cb has stfddhyakasaand others. Breloer (I, 78-89), holding that allland belongs 
to the state, thinks that the sttadhyaksa works under the samaharir. — udvapam: as John- 
ston (JRAS, 1929, 99) says this refers to preparation of the land for sowing. He thinks 
that clearing fresh land is also intended; that, however, seems doubtful. 9 bijakdle 
bijalekhyam kuryuh : Breloer explains ‘ when seedlings appear, the Officers of the samaharir 
are to make a survey.’ This appears doubtful. bijalekhya only shows that the state has a 
record of the amount of seeds given and has thus an idea of the crops expected. — kata- 
bhanga ‘corn plucked by the hand.’ 11 Cf. 2.24.30. 


12 pratipdatah: cf.2.26.8. . The compensation is for loss suffered by the state which is 
entitled to a larger share of the crops than the usual one-sixth. 18 stldiyayah: cf. 2.22.14, 
which has reference to normal times. — svavargasya, i.e., if he is himself a farmer. 


14 grhniyuh: the subject may be samaharirpurusah, though some of the items 
mentioned are unconnected with farming. 15 tad may refer to dantdjinam only; the 
inclusion of the other itemsis, however, also possible. 


16 For pranaya as a special levy, cf. Rudradaman’s Junagadh Inscription, where it is 
used beside kara and visfi. 


5. 2.17 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 298 


17 Dealers in gold, silver, diamonds, gems, pearls, corals, horses and 
elephants shall pay a tax of fifty. 18 Dealers in yarn, cloth, copper, steel, 
bronze, perfumes, medicines and wines shall pay a tax of forty. 19 Dealers 
in grains, liquids and metals and those carrying on trade with carts shall pay 
a tax of thirty. 20 Traders in glass and major artisans shall pay a tax of 
twenty. 21 Minor artisans and keepers of harlots shall pay a tax of ten. 
22 Dealers in articles of wood and bamboo, stoneware, earthenware, cooked 
food and green (vegetables), shall pay a tax of five. 28 Actors and prosti- 
tutes shall pay half their wage. 


24 They shall recover a tax in cash from those skilled in work, and shall 
not overlook any offence of theirs. 25 For, these might sell (something) by 
representing it as not belonging to them. 


26 Thus ends (the topic of) making a demand on dealers. 


27 (Owners of) cotks and pigs shall give half; small animals one-sixth ; 
cows, buffaloes, mules, donkeys und camels one-tenth. 


28 Keepers of harlots should replenish the treasury through female 
servants of the king, possessed of great beauty and youth. 


29 Thus ends the making of demands on breeders of animals. 
30 The (demand) is to be made once only, not twice. 


81 Or, in case that does not serve the purpose, the Administrator, 
pointing to some work to be done, should ask citizens and country people 
for contributions. 82 And secret agents should then first give large amounts. 
88 Referring to that, the king should ask the citizens and country people (for 
corresponding contributions). 34 And sharp pupils should reproach those 
who give little. 


17 paricdgatkaradh seems to mean ‘ paying a tax of fifty (panas).’ Meyer understands 
50% of the profit astax. There is, however, no reference to profit or percentage. Cb Cs 
have ‘1/50th (of profit ? or of commodities ?) ’ under the influence of Manu, 7.180, which, 
however, refers to normal times. 21 bandhakiposakadh from Ch Cs secms neccessary. Cf. 
8. 28. vardliakiposakah of the mss. is unlikely. Meyer suggests vardhakiicksakdh ; but either 
would beincludedin mahakaru or ksudrakaru. 23 vetandrdham, i.e., half their monthly 
wage ; half the annual income is hardly conceivable. 


24 hiranyakoram karmanyan, the reading proposed, alone yields a reasonable sense. 
The idea is, those skilled in work or efficient (karmanya, cf. 5.3.6) are likely to cheat the 
state ; so they must be made to pay the cash tax; d-hr to make one pay, to extort. With 
akarmanyan Cs (following Cb) explains ‘ should make those not engaged in work (i.e., living 
by selling grass, water etc., — Cb) pay a levy in cash, viz., one vardta (one kdna—Cb) 
per head.’ This coin is unknown to the text. And s. 25 with its ht csnnct be uncerstood 
with this explanation. 25 aparigrhitam ‘ not possessed or owned by themselves (but Lelcng- 
ing to some One else).’ Cf. parigraha ‘ possessions’. Cb Cs read aparagrhitam ‘taken b 
others.” — an itt before abhiniya would be better. Pleading that the goods do not belong 
to them, they evade the tax. 

27 ardham, i.e., half the stock of fowl etc. 

28 bandhakipogakadh: in s. 21 these contribute from their own income, while here 
they help indirectly in raising money.’ 

29 yonipogaka: Meyer comparer asatiposana in Hemacandra’s Yogasdstra, 8.111, 
which: inclu.tes the keeping of animals as well as of prostitutes. Cf. asatjanaposanayd in 

the Jaina Canon. 


81 tasydkarane: see 8. 8 above. 


299 SECRET CONDUCT [ 5. 2. 44 


85 Or, he should ask money of the rich according to their wealth, or 
according to benefits (conferred on them), or whatever they may offer of their 
own will. 86 Heshould bestow on them position, umbrella, turban or decor- 
ations in consideration of money. 


87 Administrators should bring (to the treasury) the property of heretical 
corporations or the property of temples not intended for use by a Brahmin 
learned in the Vedas, declaring that it was deposited with a person who is dead 
or whose house is burnt. 


88 The Superintendent of Temples should collect the treasures belonging 
to temples in the fort and in the country in one place, each separately, and 
bring them (to the treasury) in the same manner. 


89 Or, after raising at night a god’s temple or a sanctuary of a holy 
person as a miraculous happening, he should live on fairs and festive gather- 
ings (at the-place). 40 Or, he should proclaim the presence of a divinity by 
means of a tree in a sanctuary-park endowed with flowers and fruits out of 
season. 41 Or, agents appearing as holy men after showing danger from an 
evil spirit in a tree demanding the tax of a human being, should ward it off 
for the citizens and the country peoplefor money. 42 Or, ina well connected 
by a subterranean passage, he should show a cobra with a number of hoods 
in return for a gift of money. 48 In a sanctuary hole or an ant-hill hole, 
(he should point to) the manifestation of a snake in an image of a cobra con- 
cealed inside, and after ‘ arresting its consciousness ’ by means of food, should 
show it to the credulous. 44 To those who do not believe, he should adminis- 
ter poison when they are sipping water or washing themselves and declare it to 
be a curse of the divinity, or should cause a person condemned to death to be 
bitten. 


86 sthdna ‘ position ’is evidently in state service. A mere title does not seem meant. 


87 kriyakarah: the context suggests the obvious meaning of‘ administrators.’ These 
appear to be state Officers, or at least amenable to state influence. — dagdhagrhasya: 
the idea is, the property was supposedto have been keptin the house and burnt along with 
it, being of course secretly removed to the treasury. The reading dagdhahrdayasya is impos- 
sible. ‘There is no question of a man’s heart burning in torture, as Meyer thinks. 


38 yathdsvam ekastham, i.e., the property of durgadevatds in one place and that of 
rdstradevatds in another. — tathaiva, i.e., as in s. 87, which makes upaharet necessary in 
place of apaharet ofthe mss. Cb reads dharet. 


89 aupapddikam ‘that has suddenly arisen.’ The vd should have come before instead 
of after this word, for the optionis between daivatacatiya and siddhapunvasthana, either of 
which could be aupapddika. Cs, with bhaumavddikam, explains ‘ associated withthe rumour 
that it has appeared out of the ground at the holy place.’ This is hardly satisfactory. 
Cb has the same reading, butits explanation contains no reference to bhiimi. 41 manusya- 
karam,i.e., demanding the tax ofone human being perday. 42 suruvigdis fora person who 
remains concealed there for manipulating the many-headed cobra to show that it is alive. 
48 It is proposed to read antaschannaydm for antaschidréyam. The ndgapratimd is 
concealed in a hole in the caitya Orin an ant-hill hole. There is little sense in making the 
image of the cobra have holes inside (antaschidrad). Cs, however, has “in a cobra image 
sufficiently hollow inside (antaschidra) to allow a real snake to remain inside,’ reading the 
words at the end of the last s., instead of at the beginning of thiss. Cb reads the wordsin 
this s. and understands that a live serpent is shown in the hollow of the ndga-image. There 
seems little point in keeping a snake image as well as a live snekein it. — sarpadarganam : 
Meyer proposes to read sarpam Only ; that <loes not seem necessary. Even with the former 
we may understand répayiftd or the like. — dhdrena: Cs understands some magical rite. 
‘Food’ might also do. — pratibaddha ‘ arrested, stopped.’ 


5.2.45 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 800 


45 Or, he should replenish the treasury by (offering) remedies against 
occult manifestations. 


46 Or, an agent appearing as a trader should trade with plenty of goods 
and assistants. 47 When he has amassed wealth by entrusted deposits and 
loans against the value of goods, he should get him robbed at night. 48 By 
this are explained the Examiner of Coins and the Goldsmith. 


49 Or, an agent appearing as a trader, with well-known dealings, should 
secure on loan or hire a large number of gold and silver articles on the occasion 
of a festive party. 50 Or, in a festive gathering he should obtain plenty of 
money and gold as a loan by a display of his entire goods, and also (collect) 
the price of each article. 51 Both these, he should cause to be stolen at night. 


52 Or, after infatuating men suspected of treason with women appearing 
as pious ladies, and catching them in the houses of those same women, they 
should confiscate their entire property. 


58 Or, when a dispute has arisen between members of treasonable famil- 
les, poison-givers, who are employed there, should give poison. 54 For that 
offence, the others should be deprived of their property. 


55 Or, a person condemned to death should demand of a treasonable 
person, on a credible pretext, a commodity or entrusted money or a loan given 
oraninheritance. 56 Or, he should address the treasonable person as a slave, 
or his wife, daughter-in-law or daughter as a slave or as wife. 57 Ashe lies 
down at the door of the treasonable person’s house or when he stays elsewhere, 
an assassin, slaying him, should declare ‘ This fellow, longing for property, 
has been killed.’ 58 For that offence, the others should be deprived of 
their property. 

59 Or, anagent appearing as a holy man, after luring a treasonable person 
with magical lores, should say to him, ‘ I know the rite for inexhaustible wealth, 
for opening the doors of the king’s palace, for winning a woman’s heart, for 
causing disease to the enemy, for securing a long life or for getting a son.’ 
60 When he consents, he should cause him to make an offering of plenty of 


45 yogadarsana ‘an occult or miraculous manifestation.’ Thes.is repeated in 18.2.88. 


47 panyamilye : this seems to provide the security for the deposits and loans secured ; 
it does not appear to be another means of becoming upaciia, as Meyer thinks. In that case 
it would have been in the instrumental, like niksepaprayogaih. 48 The riipadargaka 
collects coins for inspection, and gets himself robbed; so does the Goldsmith with the 
citizens’ gold and silver. 

50 sarvapanyasamdohena : this again provides security for the loan. — pratibhdnda- 
milyam can hardly mean ‘capital for counter-wares (to be brought from foreign lands),’ 
as Meyerthinks. 51 wubhayam.i.e., the rna and the milya. 

52 sddhvimay convey theidea ofa nun. 

54 parydddtavyah: cf.2.9.24. 

57 arthakaémukah is an emendation from Meyer for tttham kadmukah of the mss. The 
latter would not include the cases mentioned in s. 55 ; and even &. 56 does not slow kamu 
katvain all cases. artha as ‘ object, property ’ would doin all cases. Cf. 5.1.10 above. 

59 aksayahiranyam is also an emendation by Meyer; it is necessary as an adiectiv 
to karma. 61 ekaripam: Meyer thinks that this is a false coin. That is possible, Besaien 
the person is to be arrested while making purchases with that coin. Meyer, in fact, suggests 


301 SECRET CONDUCT [ 5.2. 70 


wine, meat and perfumes in a sanctuary at night time. 61 And froma place, 
where money consisting of a single coin is buried beforehand (and) where a limb 
of a corpse or the corpse of an infant may have been placed, he should show him 
the money and say, ‘ This is too little.’ 62 (He should add) ‘ For plenty of 
money, offering must again be made; hence, with this very money you your- 
self purchase to-morrow plenty of articles of offering.’ 638 He should be 
arrested while purchasing articles of offering with that money. 


64 Or, (a treasonable person) should be charged by a female agent 
appearing as a niother, saying, ‘ You have killed my son.’ 65 During his 
night sacrifice or a sacrifice in a forest or when sport in a forest has started, 
assassins, killing a condemned man due for execution, should smuggle him in. 


66 Or, an agent working as a servant of the treasonable person should 
throw in a false coin in the money received as wages and point that out. 


67 Or, an agent appearing as a workman should, while working in the 
house, place the implements of a thief or a maker of false coins there, or an 


agent appearing as a physician (should place) poison there in the guise of 
medicine. 


68 Or, a secret agent close to the treasonable person should communicate 
through a sharp pupil (the presence of) articles for coronation and a letter from 
an enemy (secretly) planted there and should mention their purpose. 


69 Thus he should behave towards treasonable and unrighteous persons, 
not towards others. 


70 He should take from the kingdom fruits as they ripen, as 
from a garden; he should avoid unripe (fruit) that causes an uprising, 
for fear of his own destruction. 


the reading kiitaripam. Russ. has ‘money of one particular type.’ — pretdngam etc. is 
there only to mark the place where the coinis buried before. 63 grhyeta: the arrest may 
be because of the false coin or perhaps also because the purchases are supposed to show that 
the person is engaged in the practice of black magic (which is an offence ; cf. 4.4.14-16). 


64-65 The readings of Cb Cs with mdiruyarijanayd in the instrumental and avaripiiah 
in the sense of ‘shown up, i.e., accused’ are adopted. samsiddham is to be understood 
as an adjective to abhityaktam in the sense of of * ready ’ for execution. — It seems that 
vanaydge is due to dittography and is not original. — atinoyeyuh, i.e., secretly plant the 
corpse in the sacrifice, to make it appear as the ‘son’ killed by the disya. The‘son’is 
supposed to beintended as a victimin the occult rite. 


67 garam agadadpadesena, which is shown by Meyer’s translation, is clearly necessary. 


gadam agadd- or garam agard- are both unlikely. The poison implicates the disya as 
@ poison-giver. 


68 abhisekabhadndam : this is supposed to be for the coronation of the enemy, with 
whom the désya is to be charged with beingin league. In all these cases, the confiscation 


of the property of the disya is to be understood. That would help in replenishing the 
treasury. 


69 Thisis an important safeguard against arbitrary extortions. 


70 almaccheda- from Cb Cs is clearly preferable to dmaccheda- of the mss. The danger 
is of the king himself being destroyed in a possible revolt (Kopa). 


5.8.1] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 302 


CHAPTER THREE 


SECTION 91 CONCERNING THE SALARIES OF (STATE) SERVANTS. 


1 In accordance with the capacity of the fortified city and the country- 
side, he should fix (wages for) the work of servants at one quarter of the 
revenue, or by payment to servants that enables the carrying out of works. 
2 He should pay regard to the body (of income), not cause harm to spiritual 
good and material advantage. 


8 The sacrificial priest, the preceptor, the minister, the chaplain, the 
commander-in chief, the crown prince, the king’s mother and the crowned 
queen should receive forty-eight thousand (panas). 4 With this much 
remuneration, they become insusceptible to instigations and disinclined to 
revolt. 


5 The Chief Palace Usher, the Chief of Palace Guards, the Director 
(of labour corps), the Administrator and the Director of Stores should receive 
twenty-four thousand: 6 With this much, they become efficient in their 
work. 


7% The princes, the mothers of princes, the commandant, the city-judge, 
the Director of Factories, the council of ministers, the provincial officer and 
the frontier officer should receive twelve thousand. 8 For, with this much, 
they help in strengthening the entourage of the master. 


9 Heads of banded troops, commandants of elephants, horses and chariot 
corps, and magistrates should receive eight thousand. 10 For, with this 
much, they are able to carry their groups with them. | 


11 Superintendents of infantry, cavalry, chariots and elephants and 
Guardians of material and elephant forests should receive four thousand. 


. 


1 samudayapddena is from Cb Cs for -vddena, which makes little sense. — -ldbha 
is what is received by the servant; cf. 2.6.28 and Breloer referred to there. 2 $ariram, 
i.e., dyasariram, (2.6.1-9). Theidea of ‘ body politic ’ (Meyer) does not seem intended. 


8 astacatudrimsatsdhasrah : this is obviously a year’s salary in panas. N. Ne Law 
(IHQ, V, 780 ff.) thinks of monthly salaries. Thatis possible only if a copper panais under- 
stood ; but a copper pana is not known to this text.— It seems better to understand 
bharanena instead of bharane. With thelatter, ndndsvddyatvam is left, explained as ‘having 
many kinds of tasteful dishes ’ (Cs). That does not appear a happy idea. The expressions 
seem to have in view the advantage to the state rather than to the recipients. andspadyatvuam 
(andspadat vam might perhaps have been better; cf. paresam aspadabhaydt, 1.13.21) refers 
to these persons being not susceptible to enemy instigations, just as akopakam refers to 
their being not likely to risein revolt. andsvddya (with its passive sense) cannot be under- 
stood in the sense of * not given to misappropriation’ as suggested by 2.9.32. And persons 
mentioned here in s. 8 could not have been meant in 2.9.82. 


5 prasastr : for this and other officers mentioned in these ss., see 1.12.6. The rdstra- | 
pala, mentioned only here, seems to be an officer in charge of a province-or a district - 
cf. 5.1.21,39. 8 paribandha seems to mean ‘entourage, retinue.’ as - 


10 svavarganukarsinah, i.e., able to secure the loyalty and obedience of their subordi- 
nates. . 


7 


3038 SECRET CONDUCT [ 5. 8. 21 


12 The chariot-fighter, the elephant trainer, the physician, the horse- 
tamer and the carpenter and breeders of animals should receive two thousand. 


18 The fortune-teller, the soothsayer, the astrologer, the narrator of 
Puriinas, the charioteer and the bard, the chaplain’s men and all superinten- 
dents should receive one thousand. 


14 Foot-soldiers trained in the (fighting) arts and the groups of account- 
ants, clerks and others should receive five hundred. 


15 But actors should receive two hundred and fifty, and makers of musi- 
cal instruments should receive double the wage of these. 


16 Artisans and artists should receive one hundred and twenty. 


17 Servants, valets, attendants and guards of quadrupeds and bipeds 
and foremen of labourers should receive a wage of sixty, also riders, bandits and 
mountain-diggers supervised by Aryas, as well as all attendants. 


16 Teachers and learned men should receive an honorarium as deserved, 
a minimum of five hundred and a maximum of one thousand. 


19 The average envoy should receive ten panas per yojana, a double 
wage beyond ten (yojanas) up to one hundred yojanas. 


20 The ‘ king’ should receive three times the fee of those equal in learn- . 
ing at the Rajastiya and other sacrifices. 


21 The king’s charioteer should get one thousand. 


12 rothika: cf. 2.83.6. Cb here has ‘ chariot-fighter.’ — vardhaki seems to be the 


officer mentioned in 10.1.1,17. — yoniposakdh: cf. 5.2.29. These here appear in state 
employ ; 5.2.29 does not visualise that. 


14 Silpavantah should be understood with padatah, since $ilpins are separately men- 
tionedins. 16 below. 


15 tiryakara seems to be the maker of musicalinstruments, though a player on musical 


instruments is not unlikely. Cb comment shows ‘ chief (pradhdna) ’ in explanation of this 
word. 


17 It is proposed to add a ca after sarvopasthdyinah and read a stop here. The 
upasthadyinah, who can only be attendants, cannot be brought into relation with pijaveta- 
nam ; Only the dcdryadh and vidydvantah can be thought of as receiving it. Nor can sarvo- 
pasthdyinah be brought into relation with dcdryah. — dGryayukta seems to mean working 
under the supervision of Aryas, drohaka etc. being themselves non-Aryans. Russ. has 
dryayukta ‘ those in the service of Aryas.’ drohaka may mean ‘a rider’ or‘aclimber.’ — 
mdnavaka : see 4.5 above ; here these are to be supposed as being in state service. 


19 dasapanika etc.: if dita is an ordinary messenger, the rates, as Meyer says, would 
appear exorbitant. He proposes to read dasayojane for yojane, i.e., 10 panas for the first 
10 yojanas and 20 up to 100 yojanas. This also is unlikely. Perhaps the diia is the envoy 
of 1.16, madhyama being the parimitdartha of 1.16.3. The rates given here would cover the 
travelling expenses for the envoy and his retinue. The envoy is usually of the rank ofa 
minister ; itis possible that he would be entitled to his regular salary, over and above these 


expenses. — 4G yojanagatdad : evidently a distance of 100 yojanas or about 900 miles was the 
maximum that was considered likely. 


20 raja is the adhvaryu priest who deputises for the ruler during a long sacrificial 
session, as shown by Apastamba Srauta Sitra, 20.2.12.8 and Baudhdyana Srauta Siira, 15.4. 
Cf. Kane, HD, ITT, 28. | 


21 sdrathih: this does not seem to have anything to do with the kratus of the last s., 
as Cb Cs think. 


5. 8, 22 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 304 


22 Sharp pupils, monks fallen from vow, and agents appearing as house- 
holders, traders and ascetics should get one thousand. 


23 Village servants, secret agents, assassins, poison-givers and female 
mendicants should get five hundred. 


24 Those moving about for spying should get two hundred and fifty or 
should have their wage increased according to their efforts. 


25 Supervisors of groups of one hundred and one thousand (troops) 
should carry out the payment of food and wages to them, give directions 
and order their dispersal. 26 ‘There is to be no dispersal in the case of 
royal property and guarding the fortifications in the city and the country. 
27 They shall have permanent heads and many (such) heads. 


28 Of those dying while on duty, the sons and wives shall receive the food 
and wages. 29 And their minor children, old and sick persons should be 
helped. 80 And he should grant them money and do honour on occasions of 
death, illness and birth ceremonials. 


31 If he has a small treasury, he should give forest produce, cattle and 
fields and a little money,. 382 Or, if he has undertaken the settlement of new 
lands, he should give only money, not a village, in order that transactions that 
have taken place in the village may be stabilised. 


88 In this manner he should fix different (amounts of) food and wages for 
regular and casual servants according to their skill and work. 


84 Fixing one ddhaka for a (servant with a) wage of sixty, he should fix 
food in accordance with the cash wage. 


35 Infantry, cavalry, chariots and elephants should carry out practice in 
their arts outside (the city) at sun-rise, except on juncture-days. 86 The king 
should constantly attend to that, and should frequently inspect their arts. 


28 gramabhriaka, i.e., washerman, barber, etc. (Cb). 
24 cdrasamcdrinah, i.e., the lower staff of the spy establishment. Cf. 1.12.7-14. 


25 vikgsepam * dispersal ’ seems co refer to discharge, not to transfer to another place. 
Cf. especially 7.9.22 ff. Troops are to be thought of even here. Cb has ‘viksepa, i.e., 
assigning suitable work.’ 26 Cb has aviksepe‘ whenthereis no work.’ 27 Cf.2.4.29,80. 


30 pretavyddhita- etc.: this also seems to refer to thosc of the karmasu mrta, hardly 
to those of all state servants. 


82 gradmasamjdta- ctc.: Tie idea is to prevent old established dealings from being 
disturbed by the new owners. Money is given, so that new villages may be founded 
instead. Cb seems to mention as the reason the possibility that if the village were required 
to give something (to the new owner) business in it might come to a stop. 


83 abhria are those not in regular service. 


84 sastivetancsya adhakam krivd: this seems to mean that to aservant entitled to a 
wage of 60 panasa year, a ration of one ddiiaka of grainsis to be given as part payment per 
day, the cash wage being correspondingly reduced; cf. 2.24.28. And apparently this is 
restricted to menials entitled to this wage only, hardly to those with 48,000 a year, for 
example. Onecould understand 1 ddhaka of grains per day as paymentin lieu of the entire 
60 panas per year. But bhakta alone without some cash payment is unlikely. Itis not 
possible to regard 1 ddhaka of grains as the equivalent of a wage of 60 (copper) panas a 
month (Kane, HD, III, 124 ff). Thereisno copper panainthistext. Moreover, 1 Gdhaka of 
grains would just about suffice for only four meals of a single individual. Cf. 2.15.43. 


35 Ss. 35-44 and 47 are not relevant to the topic of this Chapter. 


805 SECRET CONDUCT [5.4.8 


37 He should allow weapons and armours that are stamped with the 
king’s insignia to be brought into the armoury. 


88 (People) shall move about unarmed, except those permitted with a 
sealed licence. 89 He shall pay double what is lost or destroyed. 40 And 
he shall keep an account of what has perished. 


41 Frontier officers should seize the weapons and armours of caravan 
traders or allow them to pass after sealing them. 


42 Or, when deciding on an expedition, he should make the army ready. 
48 Then agents appearing as traders should give all goods to the soldiers at the 
time of the expedition to be recovered double (later). 44 Thus is made the 
secret sale of the king’s goods as well as the recovery of wages. | 


45 Looking after income and expenditure in this manner, he does not 
suffer a calamity of the treasury and the army. 


46 Thus (are explained) different rates of food and wages. 


47 And secret agents, prostitutes, artisans and actors as well as 
elders of the army should ascertain, with diligence, the loyalty or 
disloyalty of soldiers. 


CHAPTER FOUR 


SECTION 92 CONDUCT (PROPER) FOR A DEPENDENT 


1 One, conversant with the ways of the world, should seek service 
with a king, endowed with personal excellences and the excellences of material 
constituents, through such as are dear and beneficial (to the king). 2 Or, he 
should have recourse to even one lacking in material constituents, if he thinks, 
* Just as I am desirous of service, so is he desirous of training and is endowed 
with qualities of one easily approachable,’ but never one lacking in personal 
excellences. 3 For, one lacking in qualities of the self, comes to an end even 
after receiving mighty sovereignty, as a result of contempt for the political 
science or as a result of association with harmful persons. 


37 This s. should have beenincluded in 2.18. — pravegayvel: the subject is Gyudhd- 
garddhyakgah. 

88 agasiradh: this apparently refers to ordinary citizens, not to soldiers. 389, 40 
The subjectis again Gyudhdagdradhyaksah. 

43 ydtrdkdle is to be construed with dadyuh. — dvigunapratyddeydni: the agree- 
ment is to receive double the normal price of the article at the end of the expedition. The 
soldiers would apparently agree because they want to provide for their families during their 
absence, and payment is not to be made immediately. Evidently, if the soldiers were to 
diein the expedition, their relatives would be heldliable for the double charge. 44 vetana- 


pratyddanam : this is in the form of the extra price charged, which could come only from 
the soldiers’ salaries. 


46 -vikalpah: perhaps we should read -kalpah ‘the law of, rules about.’ 
5.4 
anujivin is principally an aspirantto ministership. 


1 For dimasampad see 6.1.8-6, and for dravyaprakrtisampad 6.1.8-11. 2 dbhigaémi- 
kaguna: see 6.1.8. 3 anarthya: see 1.7.2, also 8.8.15. 


5.4, 4] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 306 


4 After securing an audience with a (king) endowed with qualities of the 
self, he should give a test in the (political) science. 5 For, he attains stability 
of position by not contradicting (the science). 6 Questioned about matters 
requiring intelligence, he should state what is associated with spiritual and 
material benefit in the present and in future (and) what is possible (of achieve- 
ment), like an expert, without being afraid of the assembly. 


7 If approved, he should stipulate, ‘ You should not question those, 
who are not distinguished, concerning spiritual and material well-being, nor 
inflict punishment on those who are associated with powerful (persons) nor 
inflict punishment on the instant on those associated with me ; you should not 
harm my party, my livelihood and my secrets ; and by signs I shall prevent 
you from inflicting punishment under the influence of passion or anger.’ 


8 If appointed, he should, with permission, enter the place indicated, 
and should sit at the (king’s) side neither very near nor far, on another seat. 
9 He shall not indulge in bellicose talk, nor make statements that are un- 
cultured or not based on personal knowledge or untrustworthy or untrue, nor 
indulge in loud laughter when there is no joke nor break wind or spit with a 
sound. 10 MHeshould avoid a secret talk with another, a quarrelsome remark 
during a discussion among men, a dress fit for a king or that of gaudy men or 
clowns, an open request for some jewel or a special favour, contracting one eye 
or lip, knitting of eye-brows and cutting short a remark when (another person 
is) speaking, opposition to those associated with the powerful, association, 
working for a common objective and union with women, persons (frequently) 
meeting women, envoys of neighbouring princes, persons belonging to the 
party of the inimical, persons dismissed and harmful persons. 


11 He should declare without loss of time what is in the king’s 
interest, in the company of those dear and beneficial (to the king) what is 
in his own interest, at the proper place and time what is in the 
interest of another, (always) what is connected with spiritual and 
material well-being. 


5 avisamvddat: the avisamudda is with the gdastra (Cs) rather than with the king 
(Meyer). 6 samartham, i.e, capable of being carried out. Cb comment shows ‘ samban- 
adhértham, whatis relevant.’ : 


7 avigista ‘not distinguished ’ for learning or experience and hence not competent 
to advise On dharma and artha. — balavatsamyuktesu dandadhadranam: we have to 
supply a kuryah. Meyer supplies kurydh and proposes abalavat- ‘you must punish 
criminals before thoy attain prominence (avisistesu), before they are associated with the 
mighty.’ Thisis quite unlikely. — mcetsamyoge taddtve ca etc.: thisis to be understood 
together “no punishment for my people at once’; ‘no punishment for my associates and 
no instantaneous punishment ’ is possible, but seems less likely. 


8 Cb reads Gyuklapradistayam. It seems that dyuktah should be read instead of 
igiah. — samnikrstaviprakrstah is from Cs for samnikrstah viprakrstah of the mas. 
In fact the sense requires asamnikystah aviprakrsiah ‘not too near nortoo far,’asinCb. — 
pardsanam : Cs reads vardsanam and places it at the beginning of the next s. But then 
it has to be construed with na kurydt, which is far from happy. Cb has the same 
punctuation with pardsanam ‘a seat intended for some one else.’ 10 dcvandvakathanam 


807 SECRET CONDUCT [5.5.2 


12 When asked, he should declare what is agreeable and beneficial, 
should not declare what is harmful but agreeable; or, he may, with 
permission, declare in private what is disagreeable but beneficial, when 
the (king) is prepared to listen. 


18-14 Or, when making a reply he should remain silent and should 
not mention enemies and others. Those cast out from his affection may, 
though competent, become even disagreable (to him), and harmful persons 
are known to have become favourites as they act according to their 
knowledge of his inclinations. He may laugh at laughable things, and 
avoid frightful laughter. 


15 He should turn away from another frightful (words by the 
king), and should not himself use frightful words to another, and should 
tolerate (such words) addressed to himself, being full of forbearance 
like the earth. 


16 For, self-protection must always be first secured by the wise 
(person) for, the conduct of those serving a king has been stated to be 
like (remaining) in fire. 


17 Fire, whenit reaches another, may burn a part or (at most) 
the whole body ; but a king might kill one along with sons and wife or 
might cause one to prosper. 


CHAPTER FIVE 
SECTION 98 CONCERNING PROPER BEHAVIOUR (FOR A COURTIER) 


1 When assigned work, he should show income cleared of expenses. 
2 And he should specify a business that is inner or outer, open or secret, urgent 
or brooking delay, by saying ‘ This is of this nature.’ 


* quarrelsome talk,’ rather than ‘ talk between two’; cf. doandvin 1.18.2. — atigsaya seems 
to refer to some special favour as Meyersays. — avaksipia: cf.1.10.2,5. — sarmghdia 
‘union ’is more intimate than ekdrthacaryd ‘ working for a common object.’ All three, 
pratisamsarga etc., are to be construed with each of stribhth, stridarsibhih etc. The stris 
would appear to be thosein the harem. 


18-14 The second half of st. 18 and the first half of st. 14 from a single loka and are 
quoted as such in the Dasakumdaracariia, VIII. It is possible that there has been some 


disarrangement of the linesin the text here. — pratiodkye ‘ when giving a reply ’ rather 
than ‘ when a reply is being given by the king.’. — abhihdsyesu is from Cb Cs for alihd- 


syegu, which yields little sense. 
15 ghoram, i.e., ghoravacanam by the king. 
(a 17 , param gaiah ‘when it reaches another’ may also mean ‘ whenit reaches its maximum’ 
eyer). 
5.5 


2 dbhyantaram, i.e., pertaining to the city or the palace and bah i.e., pertainin 
to the outlying regions. See 9.5 below y P yam, 1.) & 


5.5. 8) KAUTLLIYA ARTHASASTRA 308 


8 He should not humour him by (false) praises when he is addicted to 
hunting, gambling, wine or women. 4 And remaining near, he should 
endeavour to wean him from the vice, and should guard him from enemy’s 
instigations, cheating and fraud. 


5 And he should observe his gestures and expressions. 6 For, a wise 
man shows, with his gestures and expressions, a reversal of the pairs of feelings 
viz., liking and hatred, joy and distress, resoluteness and fear, for concealing 


his secret counsel. 


7 The (king) is pleased at his sight, accepts his statement, gives him a 
seat, gives an audience in private, does not over-suspect on an occasion of suspi- 
cion, takes pleasure in his talk, pays regard to him in matters that are to be 
communicated, tolerates wholesome words spoken, appoints him to a task with 
a smile, touches him with the hand, does not ridicule him in a praise- 
worthy matter, speaks of his virtues in his absence, remembers him during 
_ Meals, goes with him on a pleasure trip, helps him in a calamity, honours those 
devoted to him, tells him his secret, increases his honour, does. what is ad- 
vantageous to him, wards off what is harmful, — thus is known when the king 
is satisfied (with him). 


8 These same reversed (are signs ) of a dissatisfied (king) ; and we shall 
state more (such signs): 9 Anger at sight of him, not listening to and prohi- 
bition of his statements, not giving him a seat and not looking at him, change 
in complexion and voice, contraction of one eye, eye-brow or lip, appearance 
without cause of sweat, sighs or smile, consultation with another, going away 
suddenly, making another prosper, scratching the ground or limbs, goading 
another (against him), showing contempt for his learning, varna or country, 
censure of those with a like offence, censure of every single offence, praise 
of those against him, not paying regard to his good deeds, mentioning his evil 
deeds, paying attention at the back, extreme indifference, telling him a false- 
hood, and a difference in the behaviour towards him of those who frequently 


see the king. 


3 nainam anuvarteta is proposed for catvam onuvarteta or caivdnuvarteta. Considering 
the next s. and the general spirit of this section, itis little likely that advice would be 
given to humour the king in his vices ; the reverse is far more likely. And evam or evdin 
the other readings has no significance. 

5 ingitdkdrau : sec 1.15.7-9. 6 vyavasdya has almost the sense of ‘ courage,’ being 
the opposite of bhaya. — prdjriahis as suggested by Meyer. The reading of the mss. is 
obviously corrupt. 


7 ésldghye nopahasati: Cs reads glaghyena upahasati ‘when a praiseworthy thing 
ig done by the minister, he jokes in his presence’; this appears to be Cb’s explanation too. 
But it appears lesslikely. Meyer proposes aslaghye nopahasati or slaghye $laghate marmani 

asati; neither seems necessary. — abhyupapadyate is readin place of abhyava- ; 
cf. 2.10.24 above. — tadbhaktin, i.ec., those loyal to the minister. 


9 paramantranam is from Meyer for parimantranam, though Cs gets the same meaning 
‘talking with another’ from thelatter. Meyer also suggests aparimaniranam ‘ not talking 
with bim,’ as supported by the Kdmasiira. — pratidosanindd seems to be due to ditto- 
graphy. There is no comment on itin Cb. — prsthdoadhadnam ‘ paying attention at the 
back (and not in front where the minister is).’ -— atitydgah, i.e., having nothing to do 


with him. 


809 SECRET CONDUCT [5.6.1 


10 And he should observe the change in behaviour even of non-human 
beings. 11 ‘He is sprinkling (water) from on high,’ with this (thought) 
Katyayana left (his king’s service) ; ‘ The heron (is flying) towards the left,’ 
with this Kaninka Bharadvaja (left); ‘ Ah, grass,’ with this Dirgha Carayana 
left) ; ‘ The garment is cold,’ with this Ghotamukha (left); ‘ The elephant has 
sprinkled water,’ with this Kifjalka (left) ; ‘He has praised the chariot and 


horse,’ with this Piguna (left) ; at the barking of the dog, the son of Pisuna 
(left). 


12 Andin case of deprival of emoluments and honour, leaving (the service 
of the king is recommended). 18 Or, knowing the master’s character and his 


own offence, he should remedy it. 14 Or he should approach his ally who 
may be close to him. 


15 And staying there, he should, through friends, carry out the 
removal of his offence towards the master ; then he should return again 
while the king is alive or when he is dead. 


CHAPTER SIX 


SECTION 94 CONTINUANCE OF THE KINGDOM 
SECTION 95 CONTINUOUS SOVEREIGNTY 


1 The minister should take steps in case of a calamity of the king in the 
following manner : 


1l ayam uccaih sificali: according to Cb, followed by Cs, the minister found the 
gardener watering from on high instead of from the usual low level and thus making him 
wet ; that served as a warning that the king wanted to kill him, because he thoughtthat the 
minister had divulged a secret. This sounds plausible though the warning may Only be 
about the king’s displeasure. — ‘raufico’ pasavyam : this is even Ordinarily an evil omen ; 
the detailsin Cb Cs need not be necessarily accepted. — kaninko bhdradvdjah : itis possible 
that this Bharadvaja is the same as the author of a work on the Arthaégastra frequently 
quoted in this text. Kaninka Bharadvaja’s discourse on politics is found in the Mahd- 
bhdrata, 12.188. — trnam iti Dirghas Carayanah: it seems that grass appeared in a place 
where it was not expected and that set the minister thinking. According to Cb Cs, the 
king sent a plateful of food covered with grass ; that would be too obvious an indication of 
displeasure. The story narratedin the Nandi Sitra does not appear intended here. — stt@ 
Sali: a cold garment when a warm One was expected apparently set the minister thinking. 
— hast? pratysuksit: the unusual occurrence of an elephant sprinkling him with water 
set the minister thinking. — rathdsoam prasamsit: the praise of the chariot and horse by 
the king is understood as a hint that the minister should depart. — pisunah: cf. 1.8.11. 
Piguna is the name of Dusyanta’s minister in the Sakuntala. — pratiravane Sunah: the 
barking of the dog is taken as a hint of the king’s displeasure. — pisunaputrah : he may be 
the son of the PiSuna mentioned earlier. 


12 Thiss. is not to be construed with the preceding s., and hence the emendations in 
the Punjab text are unacceptable. — aoaksepa ‘ deprival’ rather than mere * diminution.’ 
14 wupakrstam ‘near (to the king)’ both figuratively and literally. 


15 jiva as adjective ‘living’ is known to the Rgreda (jivd jyotirasimaht, 7.32.26). 
Cb Cs read jived for jive. Thelatter, however, appears better. 


5.6 


The two sections are closely related ; the dividing line between them, which is not 
quite distinct, may be found at s. 22. 


1 rdjavyasanam,i.e., a seriousillness or death ofthe king. Mostly, death is thought of. 


5. 6. 2] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 310 


2 Even before there is fear of the danger of (the king’s) death, he should, 
by winning the support of those dear and beneficial (to the king), establish 
audience (with the king) at intervals of one month or two, under the pretext 
that ‘ The king is engaged in a rite for removing the troubles of the country 
or for destroying enemies or for securing long life or for getting a son.’ 8 He 
should show, at a time when the appearance cannot be distinguished, a person 
appearing like the king to the subjects and to the envoys of allies and enemies. 
4 And he should hold suitable conversation with them through the minister. 
5 And through the Chief Usher and the Chief of Palace Guards, he should 
cause the king’s daily duties to be carried out as described (before). 6 And 
towards those who do harm, he should cause disfavour or favour to be shown as 
it may be pleasing to the subjects, favour only towards those who have confer- 
red benefits. 

7 Heshould cause the treasury and the army to be collected in one place, 
in the fortified city or on the frontier, in charge of trustworthy men, also (bring 
together) members of the (royal) family, princes and principal officers under 
some pretext. 

8 And if any principal officer, with a (strong) party, stationed in the fort 
or a forest, were to show hostility, he should get him won over. 9 Or, he 
shouldzend him on an expedition full of dangers or to an ally’s family. 


10 And he should cause that vassal, from whom he apprehends danger, 
to be brought under control under the pretext of a festival, a wedding, an 
elephant hunt, a horse-sale, or grant of land, or through his own ally. 11 
Then he should enter into a treaty that would be inviolable. 12 Or, he 
should bring about enmity (of the vassal) with forest chiefs or enemies. 
18 Or, he should win over a pretender from his family or a prince in disfavour 
by (the promise of) a part of (his) territory. 

14 Or, winning the support of members of the (royal) family, princes and 
principal officers, he should show a prince as already crowned. 


15 Or, he should cause the administration to be carried on by weeding 
out the thorns of the kingdom in the manner described in (the section) ‘ Inflic- 
tion of (secret) Punishment.’ 


2 upagraha ‘winning Over,’ i.e., securing the support of. 3 rdjavyaijanam, i.e., 
some One who is the king’s double. — aripavelayaémis proposedin conformity with 7.17.11; 
the actual comment in Cb supports the emendation. The meaning is ‘at a time when the 
form cannot be clearly seen,’i.e., whenitisdark. 4 He,i.e., the person appearing like the 
king. 5 For dauvdrika and dntarvamfika, see 1.12.6. — yathoktam, i.e.,as described in 
1.19. 

7 kulyaisindependent of kumdra, not an adjective to it. 

8 upagrdhayet: this seems to mean ‘should have him won over’ as ins. 18 below, 
hardly ‘should have him seized or imprisoned ’ as in 2.28.20. 

11 adisyam scems to mean ‘ which cennot be violated’; it may also mean ‘ which 
would not make him treasonable.’ 18 takulinam aparuddham vd: cf. 1.10.8.. These 

cannot be members of the dying king’s family as Meyer thinks. 

14 abhisikiam eva , i.e., already crowned before the news of the king’s death is 


announced. 
15 ddandakarmikavcat,i.e.,asin5.1 above. 


311 SECRET CONDUCT [ 5. 6.81 


16 If, however, any principal officer or any one of the vassals were to rise 
in revolt, he should invite him, saying, ‘Come here, I shall make you the king,’ 


and get him killed. 17 Or, he should get rid of him by (using) ‘ Remedies 
against Troubles.’ 


18 Or, after gradually transferring the burden of the kingdom to the 
crown prince, he should announce the calamity of the king. 


1¢ In case the calamity has befallen the king in enemy territory (during 
war), he should secure a treaty with the enemy through an ally posing as a foe 
and retire. 20 Or, he should place one of the vassals in his fort and retire. 
21 Or, after crowning the prince, he should fight back. 22 Or, if attacked 
by the enemy, he should use ‘ Remedies against Troubles ’ as described. 


28 ‘In this way the minister should secure continuous sovereignty,’ says 
Kautilya. 


124 ‘Not so’, says Bharadvaja. 25 ‘When the king is dying, the 
minister should make members of the family, princes, and principal officers 
fight against one another or against (other) principal officers. 26 When 
any one fights, he should get him slain by a rising of the subjects. 27 Or, 
getting rid of members of the family, princes and principal officers by silent 
punishment, he should seize the kingdom himself. 28 For, for the sake 
of the kingdom, the father fights with sons and the sons with the father, what 
to say then of the constituent, namely, the minister, the one support of the 
kingdom? 29 He should not disdain that when it has come to him of its . 
own accord. 30 ‘A woman approaching of her own accord curses if discar- 
ded,”’ such is a saying among the people. 


31 ‘Time comes but once to a man waiting for an opportunity ; 


that time is difficult for that man to get again when he wants to do 
his work.’ 


16 A vd would seem necessary after anyatamah. 17 Gpatpratikdrena, i.e., as in 9.5 
below. 


18 rdajyabhdram dropya: this is without crowning him as king. 


19 mitrena amitravyafijanena ;: such an ally is able to secure better terms from the 
enemy. 20 asya,i.e., atroh. This implies that a fort of the enemy was captured before 
the king’s death. 21 kumdaram abhisicya : thisis done in the enemy’s fort. 


28 evam ekaisvaryam etc. shows that the preceding ss. are also Concerned with ‘ con- 
tinuity of sovereignty’, and the two prakaranas can hardly be separated. 


24 bhdradvdjak: he is a ruthless and cynical teacher; cf. 1.17.4-6. 25 pramriya- 
mane vd: Meyer suggests that vd may be understood as ena, or that mrle may be suposed 
to have dropped out before it or that ud shows an alternative in Bhaéradvaja’s work, from 
which we have here an extensive quotation. The last suggestion seems reasonable. — 
kulyakumaramukhydan ; it seems that the original reading was kulyakumaran Only, as is 
shown by mukhyesu that follows. 28 abhidruhyanti, i.e., become enemies and fight. — 
ekapragrahah: cf. 1.10.8. The amdtya thought of in this Chapter is the chief minister. 
29 tat, i.e., rdjyam. 80 stiri: rdjyasri is figuratively a woman. 81 ‘This stanza marks 
the end of the quotation from Bharadvaja’s work ; an iti after it would have been better 
Cb mentions the stanza as a éloka of Brhaspati. It is found with slight variationsin the 
Mahdbhdrata, 12.104.20 and in the Tantrdkhydyika, 3.74. 


5. 6. 82 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 312 


82 ‘This incites subjects to revolt, is unrighteous and uncertain as to 
result,’ says Kautilya. 88 He shculd place on the throne a prince possessed 
of qualities of the self. 84 In the absence of one so endowed, he should 
call together high officers and, introducing a prince not addicted to vice or a 
princess or the queen enceinte, should say, ‘This is a trust with you; pay regard 
to his father as well as to your goodness and noble birth ; he is only an emblem, 
you alone are masters ; or, what (else) should be done?’ 85 When he says 
this, secret agents (among them) should say, ‘ Who else but this king, with 
you to guide him, would be able to protect: the four varnas?’ 36 Saying 
“So be it,’ the minister should invest with authority the prince or the princess 
or the enceinte queen and should introduce (him or her) to kinsmen and rela- 
tions and to the envoys of allies and enemies. 


87 Heshould cause an increase in the provisions and salaries of ministers 
and soliders, and say, ‘When grown up, this (prince) will again give a rise.’ 
88 Thus he should speak to the principal officers in the fort and the country, 
and to parties of allies and enemies (he should speak) as deserved. 


89 And he should strive to give training to the prince. 


40 Or, after getting an offspring begotten on the princess by a man of 
the same caste, he should crown him. 41 Through fear of change of the 
mother’s mind, he should keep near her a member of the family with small 
spirit and a young boy with auspicious marks. 42 And during the 

(monthly) periods he should guard her. 


48 And he should not cause any excellent object of pleasure to be made 
for his own use. 44 For the king, however, he should cause belongings 
like carriages, riding animals, ornaments, dresses, women and houses, to be 
provided. 


82 The difficulty posed by Bharadvaja saying ‘ not so’ to Kautilya’s opinion (s. 24) 
and Kautilya then refuting the former’s opinion may be eased by supposing that natram 
in 8s. 24is not from Bharadvaja’s work, but is putin his mouth only for emphasis, or that 
naivam has reference to all thatis stated in ss. 1-22 which was there in the works of Bharad- 
v&ja’s predecessors and is not directed against the statementin s. 28. Keith’s supposition 
(JRAS, 1916, 185-187) that this text was producedin Kautilya’s school which was conversant 
with the master’s views does not get over the difficulty of Bharadvaja, a predecessor, refuting 
views attributed to Kautilya. 


84 vyasaninam, which Cb Cs read for avyasaninam, seems hardly likely in the context. 


40 kanydydm etc. : this would operate when there is no prince. 41 mdtuh: this is 
the kanyd of the lasts. The danger is that she may waver and find some lover, ignoring 
the interests of the state and her own young prince. — kulyam alpasattoam, apparently 
as a check on the princess without involving any risk of himself enticing her. — chdtram ca : 
in yiew Of the ca, thisis different from the kulya, being apparently ‘a young boy ’intended 
as @ COmpanion to the young prince. Cb seems to understand a Brahmin boy, the excuse 
for keeping him being worship of the gods. — upanidadhydt is used in the literal sense. 
42 fiau etc. : this is to prevent another Offspring, now that the continuity of the line is 
assured. 


44 parivdpa ‘personal belongings’; cf. 3.6.6. 


813 


SECRET CONDUCT [ 5. 6. 48 


45 And when he has attained youth, he should ask for rest, to find 
out his inclination ; he should leave him if he is not satisfied and continue 
to guard him if he is satisfied. 


46 Or, if he has fallen from favour, he should repair to a forest 
or engage in a long sacrificial session after instructing select secret retinue 
to guard the prince. 


47 Or, if the king is under the influence of principal officers, he, 
well conversant with the science of politics, should enlighten him through 
historical and mythological tales, with the support of those dear (to the 
king). 


48 Or, putting on the appearance of a holy man and resorting 
to secret practices, he should get hold of the king and after getting hold 
of him should employ ‘the Infliction of Punishment’ against the treaso- 
nable. 


Herewith ends the Fifth Book of the Arthaéastra of Kautilya 
*SEcrRET ConDucr’ 


45 yauvanastham from Cb Cs is obviously necessary. 
46 sdra ‘of the best kind, select’; Cb renders it by eae hea 
y 


parigraha clearly is ‘an attendant, servant.’ — arucyatdm gata 


“come to be disliked ’ 


the prince. 


48 siddhavyaiijanaripah : riipa does not seem quite necessary. — yogam, i.e., secret 
practices. 


Boox SIx 


THE CIRCLE (OF KINGS) AS THE BASIS 


CHAPTER ONE 
SECTION 96 EXCELLENCES OF THE CONSTITUENT ELEMENTS 


1 The king, the minister, the country, the fortified city, the treasury, 
the army and the ally are the constituent elements (of the statc). 


2 Among them, the excellences of the king are : 


8 Born in a high family, endowed with good fortune, intelligence and 
and spirit, given to seeing elders, pious, truthful in speech, not breaking 
his promise, grateful, liberal, of great energy, not dilatory, with weak neigh- 
bouring princes, resolute, not having a mean council (of ministers), desirous 
of training,—these are the qualities of one easily approachable. 


4. Desire to learn, listening, learning, retention, thorough understanding, 
reflecting, rejecting (false views) and intentness on truth,—-these are the 
qualities of intellect. 


5 Bravery, resentment, quickness and dexterity,—these are the qua- 
lities of energy. 


6 Eloquent, bold, endowed with memory, intellect and strength, 
exalted, easy to manage, trained in arts, free from vices, able to lead the army, 
able to requite obligations and injury in the prescribed manner, possessed 


The Sixth Book deals with the circle of kings (mandala) and their constituents. Cb Cs 
explain mandalayonih as ‘the mandala, which is the yoni, i.e., basis of the six measures 
(sddgunya).’ That is supported by 7.1.1. The description of the mandala in this Book 
serves as &n introduction to the next Book which deals with sddgunya. The expression, 
as a Tatpuruga compound, might also mean ‘ the source, i.e., the basic elements of the circle.’ 


6.1 


1 Gland M1 both have the faulty -dandadurgani, which shows that the two are derived 
from the same exemplar. 

8 avisamuddakah ‘ one who does not contradict,i.e., is consistent.or actsas he speaks.’ 
— sSakyasémaniah: as 7.10.9-10 show, sakya has the sense of durbala, the point being that 
the neighbouring princes are not a source of trouble. By gakya, Cb understands pidantya, 
kargantya and ucchedantya of 6.2.16. — Cb reads drdhabhaktih for drdhabuddhih.—aksudra- 
seems to refer to the quality of the ministers, hardly their number. 


4 Cf.-1.5.5. 


6 svavagrahah * edsy to control’ is usually used of an enemy Or a servant; cf. 1.9.1. 

In the case of the master, it may convey the sense of ‘ easy to lead or guide (along the right 

path),’ as suggested in 1.7.8. — avyasanah: Cb Cs read ane and construe it with 

dandandyi. But leadership of the army at all times is definitely a better idea. And 

freedom from vvasanas would be an independent qualification. Perhaps avyasani should 
be read. — dandandyt is ‘ able to lead the army ’, hardly ‘inflictor of punishment’ ; in the 
latter sense, the root used is pra-nt. — drgtapratikdrt: as Cb Cs explain, @ysta is Sastradrsta, 
as laid down in the science of politics. Meyer has ‘ who knows how to requite etc.’; but 


315 THE CIRCLE (OF KINGS) AS THE BASIS [6.1.8 


of a sense of shaine, able to take suitable action in calamities and in normal 
conditions, seeing long and far, attaching prominence to undertakings at the 
proper place and time and with appropriate human endeavour, able to dis- 
criminate between peace and fighting, giving and withholding, and (observance 
of) conditions and (striking at) the enemy’s weak points, well-quarded, not 
laughing in an undignified manner, with a glance which is straight and 
without a frown, devoid of passion, anger, greed, stiffness, fickleness, trouble- 
someness and slanderousness, swect in speech, speaking with a smile and with 


dignity, with conduct conforming to the advice of elders,-_these are personal 
excellences. 


7 The excellences ofa minister have been stated before. 


8 Possessed of.strong positions in the centre and at the frontiers, capable 
of sustaining itself and others in times of distress, easy to protect, providing 
excellent (means of ) livelihood, malevolent towards enemies, with weak 
neighbouring princes, devoid of mud, stones, salty ground, uneven land, 
thorns, bands, wild animals, deer and forest tribes, charming, endowed 
with agricultural land, mines, material forests and elephant forests, beneficial 
to cattle, beneficial to men, with protected pastures, rich in animals, not 
depending on rain for water, provided with water-routes and land-routes, 
with valuable, manifold and plenty of commodities, capable of bearing fines 
and taxes, with farmers devoted to work, with a wise master, inhabited mostly 


by the lower varnas, with men loyal and honest,—these are the excellences 
of a country. 


for this drstapratikarah would be necessary. With the suffix-in, drgia can only be an adje- 

ctive to pratikdra in a Karmadharaya compound. — dpatprakrtyor viniyoktaé ‘ who makes 

iwppropriate use Of, i.e., takes suitable action in calamities and normal times.’ — degakdla- 

ctc.: Cb Cs understand importance attached to each of dea, kdla, purusakara and karya 

separately. It seems better, however, to understand importance given to karya, which is 

done at the proper place and time, with requisite human effort. — samdhivikrama- etc. : 

Cb Cs regard samyamapana as asingle idea, ‘ collection of treasury asin Chapter 5.2 (pana 

6 Coins?) without creating disaffection among the subjects (scmyama as absence of trouble- 
someness?).’ Thisis doubtful. As Meyer says, there are three contrasted pairs, the second 
heing tydga and samyama, and the third pana and paracchidra ; between each pair, the king 
must be able to distinguish or discriminate (vibhdgin). _ tyaga refers to giving something to 
the enemy etc., samyama to withholding it. pana refers to the terms of a treaty, i.e., the 
observance of the terms, and paracchidra implies the idea of striking at the enemy’s weak 
point, even by violating the terms of a treaty. — samorich refers primarily to the guard- 
ing Of the mantra. — ajihma- etc.: we have to understand ajiima and abhrukuit as describ- 
ing the tksana. Cb understands ajihma as describing bhrukuti. That also is possible. —- 
upatadpa is harassment of the subjects, asin Cb Cs. — Saklah outside the compound, asin 
Cb Cs, is better, though the compound smitodagrabhibhdsi is a bit odd. Meyer suggests 
Saktah smitavddi agrabhibhasi. But neither saktah nor agrdbhibhdst appears likely. 

7 purastdt: in 1.9.1 above. 


8 sthdnavadn: sthéna obviously refers to positions of strength, such as a fort etc.— 
dpait is to be construed with the preceding (Meyer) rather than withthefollowing sudrakgah 
(Cb Cs). — kantaka may be understood in the figurative sense of the Fourth Book orin the 
literal sense. — adevamdirkah ‘not depending on the god (of rain)’, having perennial 
sources of water supply, such as rivers etc. — dandakara-etc.: danda can hardly be ‘ army’ 
(Meyer). Cf. 1.18.8,8. — abaligsasu@mi: on the strength of Kamandaka, 4.54, Meyer 
would read bdligasvami ‘ having foolish lords.’ But scémin clearly refers to the king himself 
and not to other landlords (Kamandaka has né@yaka) ; and even foolish landholders would 
bey be an excellenceina janapada. Cf'7.10.28-25. — avaravarna primarily refers to the 

sudras. Cf. 2.1.2. 


6.1.9 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 316 


9 The excellences of a fort have been stated before. 


10 Acquired lawfully by the ancestors or by oneself, consisting mostly 
of gold and silver, containing various kinds of big jewels and cash, (one) that 
would withstand a calamity even of a long duration in which there is no in- 
come,—these are the excellences of a treasury. 


11 Inherited from the father and the grandfather, constant, obedient, 
with the soliders’ sons and wives contented, not disappointed during marches, 
unhindered everywhere, able to put up with troubles, that has fought many 
battles, skilled in the science of all types of war and weapons, not having a 
separate interest because of prosperity and adversity shared (with the king), 
consisting mostly of Ksatriyas,—these are the excellences of an army. 


12 Allied from the days of the father and the grandfather, constant, 
under control, not having a separate interest, great, able to mobilise 
quickly,—these are the excellences of an ally. 


18 Not of royal descent, greedy, with a mean council (of ministers), 
with disaffected subjects, unjust in behaviour, not applying himself (to duties), 
vicious, devoid of energy, trusting in fate, doing whatever pleases him, without 
shelter, without a following, impotent, ever doing harm (to others),—these 
are excellences in an enemy. 14 For, an enemy of this type becomes easy 
to exterminate. 


15 Excluding the enemy, these seven constituent elements have 
been described with each one’s excellences manifest ; those, when they 
operate, become subordinate to the excellences of the king. 


9 purastdt: in 2.8 above. 


10 andyatim: thisis an:adjective to dpadam. For dyati ‘income, revenue ’, cf. 2.9.10, 
11 etc. 


11 bhrla are the hired soldiers; cf. bhriabala 9.2.8 etc. — pravdsegsu avisamvdditah 
not contradicted in long marches,’i.e., not frustrated or disappointed during such marches. 
Cf. 10.8.88. This appears to be the explanation in Cb, though its text shows the reading 
pravdsesvapi sampdditah. Cs explains this as ‘receiving its customary. comforts even 
during marches.’ — advaidhya may mean ‘ having no separate interests of its own ’ or ‘ not 
resorting to duplicity or double-dealing ’; the former seems meant. Cf. 5.12 below and 
7.9.43. 


12 Cf.7.9.88 and 7.9.9 ff. 


13 ayuktah seems ‘one not applying himself’ diligently to his duties (utthanahina,— 
Cb), rather than ‘one without servants’ or ‘improperly behaved.’ — agatih ‘ without 
support when being exterminated’ (Cb). — ananubandhah: this may mean ‘having no 
following ’or‘ havingnoconnections.’ anubandhain this text usually refers to what follows 
from sOmething, a consequence. Cf. 9.7.14. 


15 It seems best to look upon uktdh as the predicate for the first half, as in Cb Cs; 
in the second half pratyangabhiitah may be regarded as the predicate, with prakridh in the 
sense Of * which function or operate ’ understood as descriptive of the constituent elements. 
The idea seems to be that the other constituents are dependent on the king andhis qualities. 
Russ. renders the second half: ‘they appear as composite parts On which is dependent the 
well-being of the state ;’ andin the Notes it is suggested that we should read rdjyasampadah 


for rdja-. 


f 


317 THE CIRCLE (OF KINGS) AS THE BASIS [6.2.12 


16 A king endowed with personal qualities endows with excellences 
the constituent elements not so endowed. One not endowed with 
personal qualities destroys the constituent elements that are prosperous 
and devoted (to him). 


17 Then that (king) not endowed with personal qualities, with 
defective constituent elements, is either killed by the subjects or subju- 
gated by the enemies, even if he be ruler up to the four ends of the earth. 


18 Butsone possessed of personal qualities, though ruling over a 
small territory, being united with the excellences of the constituent 
elements, (and) conversant with (the science of) politics, does conquer 
the entire earth, never loses. 


CHAPTER TWO 
SECTION 97 CONCERNING PEACE AND ACTIVITY 


1 Peace and activity constitute the source of acquisition and security. 
2 Activity is that which brings about the accomplishment of works under- 
taken. 3 Peace is that which brings about security of enjoyment of the 
fruits of works. 


4 The source of peace and activity is the six-fold policy. 5 Decline, 
stability and advancement are the consequences of that (policy). 


6 (Acts) of human agency are good policy and bad policy ; of divine 
agency good fortune and misfortune. 7 For, it is acts of human and divine 
agency that make the world go. 8 That caused by an unseen agency is the 
divine (act). 9 In that, the attainment of the desired fruit is good fortune; 
of undesired (fruit), misfortune. 10 That caused by a seen agency is the 
human (act). 11 In that, the coming into being of well-being is good policy ; 
(its) ruin, bad policy. 12 That can be thought about ; the divine is incal- 
culable. 


16 Breloer (III, 269 n.2) thinks that the word dimavan indicates that the verses are 
derived from Brhaspati. 


17 dustaprakrith: in the context, prakyti is a constituent element (Cs), rather than 


‘nature ’ (asin Meyer) or ‘subjects’, though in prakriibhih in the second half, subjects are 
clearly to be thought of. — cdturaniah: cf. 1.6.4. 


6.2 


The Section, though named samavyayamikam, actually describes the nature of the 
circle of kings. That is because peace and activity in a state, which are necessary for its 
well-being, depend On its relations with the circle of neighbouring states. 


2 yogarddhanah: this can hardly mean ‘exertion and making it fruitful (Meyer) ; 
it seems to mean ‘ what secures the acquisition or accomplishment (of the works).’ So 
ksemarddhanah is hardly ‘peacefully making it fruitful’ (Meyer). 

5 wudaydh ‘ fruits,’ i.e., consequences. 

6 mdnusam: supply karma. 7 ydpayati, i.c., keeps it going. 9 aya as ‘good 
fortune ’ seems restricted to this science. Cf. Raghuvaméga, 4.26. 


6. 2. 18 } KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 318 


18 The king, endowed with personal excellences and those of his material 
constituents, the seat of good policy, is the would-be conqueror. 14 Encircl- 
ing him on all sides, with territory immediately next to his is the constituent 
called the enemy. 15 In the same manner, one with territory separated 
by one (other territory) is the constituent called the ally. 


16 A neighbouring prince possessed of the excellences of an enemy is 
the foe ; onein calamity is vulnerable ; one without support or with a weak 
support is fit to be exterminated ; in the reverse case, fit to be harassed or 
weakened. 17 These are the different types of enemies. 


18 Beyond him, the ally, the enemy’s ally, the ally’s ally, and the enc- 
my’s ally’s ally are situated in front in accordance with the proximity of the 
territories ; behind, the enemy in the rear, the ally in the rear, the rear enemy’s 
ally and the rear ally’s ally (one behind the other). 


19 One with immediately proximate territory is the natural enemy ; 
one of equal birth is the enemy by birth; one opposed or in opposition is the 
enemy made (for the. time being). 


20 One with territory separated by one other is the natural ally ; one 
related through the mother or father is the ally by birth; one who has sought 
shelter for wealth or life is the ally made (for the time being). 


21 One with territory immediately proximatc to those of the enemy 
and the conqueror, capable of helping them when they are united or disunited 
and of suppressing them when they are disunited, is the middle king. 


22 One outside (the sphere of) the enemy, the conqueror and the middle 
king, stronger than (their) constituents, capable of helping the enemy, the 


14 samantato mandalibhitad : this would imply not one king, but all those whose terri- 
tories are contiguous to that of the vijigigu ; they are his aris. — Itis to be noted thatin 
15.1.51-52, where this passage is quoted, we have prathamd prakrilih, dvitiyd and trtiyd in 
place of vijigisuh, ariprakrtih and mitraprakrtih here. What is more, those terms are there 
called svasamjridh ‘one’s Own technical terms.’ Apparently, the numerical terms were 
first thought of by Kautilya. But he has used them only on a few occasions, asin 7.6.1 
and 7.7.1. Cf. also 7.18.1-2. 

16 anapdsrayah: the shelter is either a fort or an ally. — viparyaye, i.e., when he has 
a strong support. 

18 pdarsnigradhah ‘the heel-catcher’, who attacksin the rear when One is fighting in 
front. — dkranda may containa reference to ‘ crying out for help’ on the part of the vijigtsu 
So dsara ‘ally ’ has reference to ‘ moving forward ’ for helping or rescuing. 

19 Cb Cs regard prakriyamitra and tulyabhijana as two types of sahaja enemy ; that is 
doubtful in the absence ofa ca oravd. And the literal sense of sahaja would restrict the 
term to the tulydbhijana only. This term seems to refer to some member of the same royal . 
family asthe vijigisu. 

20 As before, Cb Cs regard prakrtimitra also as a type of sahaja ally. 

21 For the madhyama and uddsina, cf. N. N. Law (IHQ, IX, 770-788). As he points 
out, these two are powerful rulers who could easily upset the balance of power in the circle 
of kings. 

22 -madhydnam bahih prakriibhyo balavatiarah : the comment in Cb omits the reference 
to madhyama and understands dands and koga by the prakrtis. Cs understands ‘ outside the 

constituents of’; for this, bahthk should have come after prakrtibhyah ; and ‘outside the 


‘ 


319 THE CIRCLE (OF KINGS) AS THE BASIS [ 6. 2, 37 


conqueror and the middle king when they are united or disunited and of 
suppressing them when they are disunited, is the neutral king. 


28. , These are the constituents (of the circle of kings). 


24. Or,.the conqueror, the ally and the ally’s ally are the three consti- 
tuents of this (circle of kings). 25 They, each individually united with its 
five constituent elements, the minister, the country, the fort, the treasury and 
the army, constitute the eighteen-fold circle. 26 By that is explained a 
separate circle (for each of) the enemy, the middle and the neutral kings. 
27 Thus there is a collection of four circles. 


28 There are twelve constituents who are kings, sixty material consti- 
tuents, a total of seventy-two in all. 29 Each of these has its own peculiar 
excellences. 


80 Power and success (are to be explained). 381 Power is (possession of) 
strength. 82 Success is (obtaining) happiness. , 


33 Power is three-fold: the power of knowledge is the power of counsel, 
the power of the treasury and the army is the power of might, the power of 
valour is the power of energy. 


34 In the same way, success is also three-fold: that attainable by the 
power of counsel is success by counsel, that attainable by the power of might 
is success by might, that attainable by the power of energy is success by energy. 


35 Thriving with these, the (king ) becomes superior ; reduced (in these), 
inferior ; with equal powers, equal. 86 Therefore, he should endeavour to 
endow himself with power and success, or, if similar, (to endow with power 
and success) the material constituents in accordance with their immediate 


proximity or integrity. 37 Or, he should endeavour to detract (these) 
from treasonable persons and enemies. 


constituents ’ does not make much sense. Meyer has ‘stronger than the outer prakrtis’ ; 
but such a description of the prakrtis is uncertain. Outside the sphere of the three kings 
is what scems meant. Russ. has ‘standing independently away from ari, vijigigu and 
madhyama and stronger than these On the basis of his own state (prakrtibhyah) ’. This render- 
ing of prakrtibhyah is extremely doubtful. ud-dsina seems to contain a reference to his 
being Outside the group of kings. Heis the most powerful monarch thought of. 


24 In these ss. we have a different arrangement of the twelve kings forming the circle. 
The text follows the earlier arrangement; pdargnigrdha, dkranda, etc. are frequently men- 
tioned, the allies etc. of the madhyama or uddsina hardly ever. 


80 gaktih siddhig ca: these are adhikdragabdas in as Cs; they cannot be construed 
with sampadah (regarded as genitive singular) asin Meyer or with tdsdm of the preceding s. 


85 jydyadn etc.: the comparison is with the enemy, the vizigisu’s rival. 86 sddhd- 
rano vd: this refers to the vizigisu and his enemy being both endowed with personal 
excellences. The sense of ‘common, mediocre’ is possible but seems less likely. 37 
apakrastum : the object is saktim siddhim ca. 


6. 2. 38 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 320 


88 Or, if he were to see, ‘ My enemy, possessed of power, will injure his 
subjects with verbal or physical injury or appropriation of their property, 
or, when endowed with success, will become negligent because of (addiction to) 
hunting, gambling, wine or women, thus with subjects disaffected or (himself) 
become weakened or remiss, he will be easy to overpower for me; or, being 
attacked in war, he will remain in one place or not in his fort, with all his troops 
collected togther, thus with his army brought together, (and himself) separated 
from his ally and fort, he will be easy to over-power for me ; or, he will render 
help to me when I am attacked by a strong king, (thinking) “ the strong 
king is desirous of exterminating my enemy elsewhere; after exterminating 
him, he might exterminate me,” or (help me) when my undertakings have 
failed;’ and when seeking to seize the middle king (the enemy’s help is needed); 
—for these and other reasons, he may wish power and success even to the 


enemy. 


89 Making the kings separated by one (intervening territory) the 
felly and those immediately proximate the spokes, the leader should 
stretch himself out as the hub in the circle of constitutents. 


40. For, the enemy situated between the two, the leader and the 
ally, becomes easy to exterminate or to harass, even if strong. 


Herewith ends the Sixth Book of the Arthasastra of Kautilya 
‘THe Crrcie (or KINGS) AS THE Basis’ 


88 There are three situations visualised in the thoughts of the vijigisu, the fourth 
madhyamalipséyam being added after that. — odgdanda- etc.: these are kopaja vyasanas; 
cf. 8.8.28. — mrgoyd- etc.: these are kdmaja oyasanas; cf. 8.8.88. — sarvasamdoha 
refers to collecting the whole army together in one place. — ekastho ’durgastho vd: the 
avagraha is clearly necessary as in Meyer’s translation ; that is shown by -durgaviyukiah 
that follows. — balavdn v4 etc. contain the enemy’s thoughts in his own words, which the 
vijigigu can surmise. balavdn rdjdis a third king, the Satru in the enemy’s thoughts being 
the vijigisu. — mam ucchindydt is as proposed by Meyer. With na before these words as 
in the mss. we may have ‘he may not exterminate me.’ But without na the sense 
becomes more emphatic. — madhyamalipsdyadm ca: it is the vijigitsu who wishes to over- 
come the madhyama king; for that he would require the enemy’s help ; hence he wishes 
gakti and siddhi to the enemy. The expression cannot be construed with vipannakarmd- 
rambhasya 0a etc. in the preceding clause, asin Cs. lipsdis not ‘ expectation of help from’; 
it is desire to seize or overcome ’ ; cf. 7.1.82, also 7.18.5ff. For madhyamalipsd see 7.18.26. 


39 neta is the same as the vijigisu. — nabhim: Cf. Raghu. 9.15. 
40 madhye hyupahitah from Cb Cs is obviously the only correct reading. — 


Boox SEVEN 


THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY 
CHAPTER ONE 


SECTION 98 ENUMERATION OF THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY 


SECTION 99 DETERMINATION OF (MEASURES IN) DECLINE, STABLE CON- 
DITION AND ADVANCEMENT 


1. The circle of constituent elements is the basis of the six measures 
of foreign policy. 


2. ‘ Peace, war, staying quiet, marching, seeking shelter and dual policy 
constitute the six measures,’ say the teachers. 


8. ‘ There are (only) two measures ’, says Vatavyadhi. +4 ‘For, out of 
peace and war the six measures come into being.’ 


5. ‘ These are really six measures, because of differences in the situations,’ 
say Kautilya. 


6 Among them, entering into a treaty is peace. 7 Doing injury is war. 
8 Remaining indifferent is staying quiet. 9 Augmentation of (powers) is 
marching. 10 Submitting to another is seeking shelter. 11 MResorting to 
peace (with one) and war (with another ) is dual policy. 12 These are the 
six measures of foreign policy. 


13 When in decline as compared to the enemy, he should make peace. 
14 When prospering, he should make war. 15 (When he thinks) ‘ The 
enemy is not able to do harm to me, nor I to him,’ he should stay quiet. 


The Seventh Book deals with the use of the six measures that can be adopted by a 
stateinits relations with foreign states. guna has the technical sense of a measure to be 
adopted asa policy. 


7.1 
The two Sections are to be found in ss. 1-19 and 20-88 respectively. 


1 prakrtimandalam, i.e., the twelve kings and their constituents as mentioned in 
6.2.18-29. 

Valavyddhih: see 1.7.20. 4 Theideais that peace and war are the basic policies, 
the others being only variations ofthese. Thereis some truth in this point of view. 

5 avasthdbhedadt, i.e., the different situations warrant a six-fold division. Cf. 
Kamandaka, 11.40. 

G panabandhah ‘the framing of terms or conditions,’ i.e., entering into a formal treaty 
with specific clauses. 9 abhyuccayah: the cause is used in place of its consequence 
(marching). 11 samdhivigrahopddanam: as is clear from the text, thisis peace with one 
king and war with another; cf. s. 87 below. See K. Nag (Les Theories Dip . 
etc., p. 78). Cs has in this s. ‘peace outwardly, but war secretly’, but has the former ~ 
explanation in s. 87. Meyer accepts the view that duaidhibhdva is duplicity, making peace 
for the time being with a view to making better preparations for war against the same 
enemy. The text does not seem to support that explanation. 


7.1.16] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 322 


16 When possessed of a preponderance of excellent qualities, he should marcel. 
17 Depleted in power, he should seek shelter. 18 In a work that can be 
achieved with the help of an associate, he should resert to a dual policy. 
19 Thus are the measures established. 


20 Of them, he should follow that policy by resorting to which he may 
be able to see, ‘ By resorting to this, I shall be able to promote my own under- 
takings concerning forts, water-works, trade-routes, settling on waste land, 
mines, material forests and clephant forests, and to injure these undertakings 
of the encmy.’ 21 That is advancement. 22 Perceiving ‘My advance- 
ment will be quicker or greater or leading to a greater advancement in the 
future, the reverse (will be) that of the enemy ’, he should remain indifferent 
to the enemy’s Advancement. 23 In case the advancenient takes the same 
time or bears an equal fruit (for both), he should make peace. 


21 He should not follow that policy by resorting to which he were to 
see the ruin of his own undertakings, not of (those of) the other (party). 
25 Thisisdeclinec. 26 Percciving ‘I shall decline after a longer cime or to a 
lesser extent or in such a way that I shall make a prcater advancement, the 
enemy (will decline) in the reverse manner,’ he should remain indifferent 
to his decline. 27. In case the decline lasts for the same period or leads to 


equal results (for both), he should make peace. 


28 The policy, following whieh he were to sec neither the advancement 
nor the decline of his own undertakings, constitutes stable condition. 
29 Perceiving ‘ I shall remain stable for a shorter period or in such a way that 
I shall make a greater advancement, the enemy (will do so) in the opposite 
way, he should remain indifferent to his stable condition. 80 ‘In case the 
stable condition lasts for the same period or leads to equal consequences (for 
both), he should make peace,’ say the teachers. 31 This is not disputed, says 


Kautilya. 


18 saha@yasadhye karye: the help sought is from one who is Ordinarily the vijigisu’s 
enemy ; but his help is necessary for getting the better of another enemy ; hence the treaty 
with the former and war with the latter. Cf. 7.7.1-2 below. 


20 durgasetu- ctc.: Meyer thinks that agriculture is missing here from the usual list of 
the eight-fold karma. He would therefore read Akarsa for karma or add.krsi after setukarma. 
Despite Manu, 7.154, however, that is unacceptable, because karma, as fully described in 
7.12, does notinclude Arsi. 22 vurddhyudayatorda (adjective to urddhih) ‘which brings about 
3 greater advancement (for the vigigisu) in the future.’ For urddhyudaya, see 9.4.20. 23 
tulyakdalaphalodaydyam vd: it seems that vd shows the option between tulyakdld and 
lulyaphalodaya in the compound. A single idea ‘which requires the same time for the 
uppcearance of the result ’ (asin Meyer) does not seem meant in view of dsutard and bhiiya- 


stard used separately above. 
26. orddhyudayataramis adverbial. 


31 vibhdsitam: Cb Cs have ‘ visesena bhdsitom’,i.c., stated with « special distinction. 
K. Nag (op.cit., p. 78) has ‘unreasonable.’ Meyer has ‘ option, alternative ’ asin grammar, 
the idea being, sthadnam upeksela and somdhim upeyat come practically to the same thing. 
vibhdsita may also mean ‘ contradicted, disputed.’ } 


3238 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [ 7.1.88 


32 Or, if he were to sec, ‘ Remaining at peace, I shall ruin the enemy’s 
undertakings by my own undertakings bearing abundant fruits ; or, I shall 
enjoy my own undertakings bearing abundant fruits or the undertakings of the 
enemy ; or, by creating confidence by means of the peace, I shall ruin the 
enemy’s undertakings by the employment of secret remedies and occult prac- 
tices ; or, I shall easily entice away the persons capable of carrying out the 
enemy’s undertakings by (offering) a greater remuneration from my own 
undertakings, with facilities of favours and exemptions; or, the enemy, in 
alliance with an extremely strong king, will suffer the ruin of his own under- 
takings ; or, I shall keep prolonged his war with the king, being at war with 
whom he is making peace with me; or, he will harass the country of the king, 
who is in alliance with me (but is ) hostile to me; or, his country, laid waste 
by his enemy, will come to me, so that I shall achieve advancement in my 
undertakings ; or, the cnemy, with his undertakings ruined (and himself) 
placed in a difficult situation, would not attack my undertakings ; or, 
with my undertakings started elsewhere, I shall achieve advancement in 
my undertakings, being in alliance with both; or, by making peace with the 
enemy I shall divide from him the circle (of kings) which is attached to the 
enemy, (and) when divided, I shall secure it (for myself) ; or, by giving support 
to the enemy by favouring him with troops when he seeks to seize the circle, 
I shall create hostility towards him, (and) when he faces hostility I shall get 
him destroyed by that same (circle),’ he should secure advancement through 
peace. 


38 Or, if he were to see, ‘My country, consisting mostly of martial 
people or fighting bands, or secure in the protection of a single entrance 
through a mountain-fort, a forest-fort or a river-fort, will be able to repulse the 
enemy’s attack ; or, taking shelter in an impregnable fort on the border of my 
territory, I shall be able to ruin the enemy’s undertakings ; or, the enemy, 


32 yogopanisalpranidhibhih: Meyer understands pranidhi in the sense of ‘a spy’ 
(so Nag, p.79). But the word by itself does not convey that sense. It is to be construed 
With yoga and upanisad in the sense of ‘employment, use.’ — -saukaryam is adverbial. 
Cs treats it as an adjective to -janam. Meyer proposes to join this expression to the follow- 
ing compound phalalabha- etc. — balind, timdtrena : Cs has ‘ with a very rich king, by offer- 
ing him excessive tribute (atimdtrena).’ But atimdtrena seems to be adverbial, going with 
balind (or balavata, the other v. 1.). — paratah pravrttakarma@rambho vd: this describes 
the vijigisu, who wants to start some undertaking away from the enemy’s territory, but 
near the territory of some other king. tabhyam samhiiah has reference to peace with the 
enemy and this other king (near whose territory the vijigisu is active). Meyer construes 
paratah pravrita- etc. with the preceding (karmasu na me vikrameta) and translates tabhyam 
by ‘in either eventuality.’ This is far from happy. Nag (op. cit., p. 80) has ‘ with the 
two adversaries of my enemy’ ; but it is difficult to see who these two adversaries of the 
enemy could be. — danddnugrahena cannot mean ‘by favours or punishment’ (Nag., 
op. cit., p. 80). This is lending of troops to the enemy s0 as to encourage him to fight the 
mandala to his own ultimate ruin. — lipsd ‘ desire to seize, dominate or control.’ 


88 The difference between dyudhiya and greni seems to be that the former do not form 
a close-knit group or band like the latter. — sailavana- etc.: the fort itself constitutes the 
one entrance into the country (eka-dvdra). — apavdhayitum : cf. 2.1.1; 8.2.8 etc. It 
can hardly mean ‘to attack’ (Cs). : 


7.1. 84] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 324 


with his energy sapped by the troubles caused by a calamaity, has reached a 
time when his undertakings face ruin ; or, when he is fighting elsewhere, I shall 
be able to carry off his country,’ he should secure advancement by resorting to 


war. 


34 Or, if he were to think, ‘ The enemy is not able to ruin my undertakings 
nor am I able to ruin his undertakings ; or, (when) he is in a calamity, or 
(engaged) as in a conflict between a hound and a boar, I shall advance (myself), 
being intent on carrying out my own undertakings,’ he should secure advance- 


ment by staying quiet. 


85 Or, if he were to think, ‘The ruin of the enemy’s undertakings 
can be brought about by marching, and I have taken steps to secure the 
protection of my own undertakings,’ he should secure advancement by 


marching. 


86 Or, if he were to think, ‘I am not able to ruin the enemy’s under- 
takings nor to avert the ruin of my own undertakings,’ he should seek shelter 
with a strong king and by carrying out his own undertakings, should seek to 
progress from decline to stable condition and from stable condition to 


advancement. 


37 Or, if he were to think, ‘I shall promote my own undertakings by 
peace on one side and ruin the enemy’s undertakings by war on the other side,’ 
he should secure advancement through a dual policy. 


88 Situated in the circle of constituent elements, he should, in this 
manner, with these six measures of policy, seek to progress from decline 
to stable condition and from stable condition to advancement in his own 


undertakings. 


34 vyasanam asya and kalahe are the two occasions when the vijigigu can carry out his 
Own works and augment his Own power. The kalaha is between his enemy and some other 
king ; itis a life and death struggle, but whatever its outcome, the vijigisu stands to benefit. 
Cf. 9.2.6. The kalaha is not between the vijigigu and the enemy (asin Cs). How can the 
vijigtsu carry out his works if he is engaged in a life and death struggle? Meyer proposes 
to read kalaho ‘a calamity which I cause to him (vyasanam asya) is like a hound and boar 
fight.’ But if the vijigigu were to be active in causing such a calamity, that would not be 
in consonance with the advice to stay quiet. — vd (after -nusthdnaparo) shows the option 
to the situation in na me gakiah parah etc. 

86 balovantam : some mss. show the faulty balavatiam ; Meyer therefore thinks that 
balavattaram is more likely. balavantam, however, seems all right. 

87 ekatah...ekatah,i.e., with one enemy and with another. This is not duplicity 


or double-dealing with the same king. 


325 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [7.2.14 


CHAPTER TWO 
SECTION 100 CONDUCT WHEN SEEKING SHELTER 


1 If there is equal advancement in peace or war, he should resort to 
peace. 2 For, in war there are losses, expenses, marches away from home 
and hindrances. 3 By that is explained (preference for) staying quiet, as 
between staying quiet and marching. 


4 As between dual policy and seeking shelter, he should resort to dual 
policy. 5 For, he who resorts to the dual policy, giving prominence to his 
own undertakings, serves only his own interests, while he who takes shelter 
(with another) serves the interests of the other, not his own. 


6 He should seek shelter with one whose strength is superior to the 
strength of the neighbouring (enemy). 7 In the absence of one superior in 
strength to him, he should seek shelter with the (enemy) himself and, remain- 
ing out of sight, should try to serve him with any one of the (three): treasury, 
army and territory. 8 For, union with one superior in strength is a great 
danger to kings, except when he is at war with an enemy. 


9 Ifthis be impossible, he should behave like one submitting with troops. 
10 And when he sees that the enmy is afflicted by a fatal disease or is facing 
an internal revolt or a growth in power of his enemy or a calamity of his ally 
and (sees) thereby his own advancement, he should go away under a plausible 
pretext of illness or the performance of a religious duty. 11 Or, if he is in 
his own territory, he should not go to him. 12 Or, if near him, he should 
strike in his weak points. 


13 Or, if situated between two stronger kings, he should seek shelter 
with one capable of protecting him, or with one whose intervening weak neigh- 
bour he may be, or with both. 14 He should resort to the potsherd-treaty, 


7.2 
The 100th Section really begins ats.6. The earlier ss. dealing with relative superiority 
among the six measures form a sort of an introduction. 


2 -pratyavdyah: Meyer regards ksaya, oyaya and pravdsa as three ‘hindrances.’ 
pratyavaya may, however, be understood independently of the three. — Cf. 7.8.2. 


6 sdmaniah is the neighbouring enemy, whose growing power makes the vi7igisu seek 
shelter. 7 adrstah, i.e., himself remaining away from the enemy, not surrendering his 
person. 8 anyatra arivigrhitdt : the idea seems to be that when the strong king is at war 
with some one else, he would remain grateful for the support given by the weak king and not 
treat him with contempt or in a high-handed manner. 


9 asgakye is from Cb Cs for agakyo. For the latter, asakio is conceivable, but asgakye 
is better. The idea is ‘ when the strong neighbour cannot be made to accept danda etc. 
without the surrender of his person.’ Meyer translates ‘towards an enemy who cannot be 
so managed’; but a locative absolute might appear better. — dandopanatavcat, i.e., asin 
7.15.21 ff. 12 chidresucan hardly mean ‘ by means of secret coups ’ (Nag, op. cit., p. 82). 


18 antardhih: 7.18.25 defines this king ; he serves as a buffer to a powerful king, who 
would consequently refrain from totally exterminating him. Cb Cs read anantardhth and 
explain ‘who may he next to him, not separated from him.’ That does not seem very 
likely. 14 kapdlasam$rayah: this appears to be a reference to the kapdlasamdhi of 7.8.80, 


7.2.15 } KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 326 


declaring one (to the other) as plotting to seize his patrimony. 15 Or, he 
should employ dissension between the two by falsely implicating one against 
the other, and (use) silent punishment when they are in discord. 


16 Or, if situated at the side of two strong kings, he should take steps 
against immediate danger. 17 Or, taking shelter in a fort, he should resort 
to the dual policy. 18 Or, he should act on motives for resorting to peacc 
or war. 19 He should give support to the treasonable officers, the enemies 
and forest chiefs of both. 20 Going over to one of these two, he should strike 
in the other’s calamity with these same (treasonable officers, etc.). 


21 Or, if pressed by both, he should resort to the circle (of kings) for 
shelter, or find shelter with the middle or the neutral king. 22 ‘Together 
with him, he should support one and exterminate the other, or (exterminate) 
both. 


28 Or, if exterminated by both, he should find shelter with the justly 
behaved from among the middle king, the neutral king or kings belonging to 
their parties. 24 From among those equally just, (he should resort to that 
king) whose constituents would give him happiness or by staying with whom 
he would be able to raise himself or where his ancestors may have been 
accustomed to go or he may have close connections (or) where there may be 
many or very powerful friends. 


25 He to whom he may be dear or he who may be. dear to him, 
which one among these two (should he approach for shelter)? He should 
go to him to whom he may be dear. This is the best course for seeking 
shelter. 


in which tie weak king is advised to avoid meeting the exorbitant demands made on him 
under the pretext that his undertakings are ruined. The expression can also mean ‘ resorting 
to the begging bowl, ’in which case whbhau vd may be included in this s. from the last, as Cb 
seems to do. — miila- refers to the base, i.e., the kingdom, also the capital. — apadigan 
involves the idea of a false declaration. 15 -apadega again implies a false implication. 


16 parsvasthah, as contrasted with madhyagatah of s.18. 17% doaidhibhitah, i.e., 
making peace with one and fighting with the other. 18 samdhivigrahakramahetubhih : 
the reference isto 7.1.82,88. krama serves little purpose; it seems to stand for dtisthet of that 
passage. Cb comment presupposes samdhivikramahetubhih and that was obviously the 
Original reading. 20 gacchan ‘going to’, i.e., joining hands with. It can hardly mean 
“engaging in fight’ (Cs); anyataram and anyatarasya do not refer to the same king, but to 
the two powerful kings, like itaram and ifarosya in s. 14. Meyer’s proposed yacchan (for 
gacchan) in the sense of ‘ restraining ’ is not very likely. 

21 wupahatah is as proposed by Meyer for upahitah. The latter can hardly mean 
* pressed, harassed ’, which is the sense required. 

28 tatpaksiyandam : tat refers to the madhyama and udasina. 24 bhiydmsyatisakti- 
manti is as proposed by Meyer for bhiydmsiti Saktimanti; the itiin the latter is little likely. 
Perhaps we should read Only bhityamsi $aktimanti. 

25 We have to supply dsrayaniyah at the end of the first half. The questionis, when 

a choice for purposes of samsraya is available between yasya asau priyah and yah asya 
priyah, whom should he prefer? The answer given is, he should go to the former. 


327 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [7.8.14 


CHAPTER THREE 


SECTION 101 ADHERENCE TO POLICIES BY THE EQUAL, THE WEAKER 
AND THE STRONGER (KINGS) 
SECTION 102 PEACE-TREATIES BY THE WEAKER KING 


1 The conqueror should employ the six measures of policy with duc 
regard to his power. 2 He should make peace with the equal and the 
stronger ; he should make war with the weaker. 3 For, going to war with 
the stronger, he engages as it were in a fight on foot with an elephant. 4 And 
(at war) with the equal, he brings about loss on both sides, like an unbaked jar 
struck by an unbaked jar. 5 (At war) with the weaker, he attains absolute 
success, like a stone with an earthen vessel. 


6 Ifthe stronger were not to desire peace, he should resort to the conduct 
of one submitting with troops or measures recommended for the weaker king. 


Ae 


7 If the equal were not to desire peace, he should do harm to him in 
return to the extent that he may have done tohim. 8 For, heat is the means 
of joining together. 9 Metal that is not heated does not become joined 
with metal. 


10 If the weaker were to remain submissive in all respects, he should 
make peace with him. 11 For, heroism born of grief and resentment makes 
one fight bravely like a forest fire. 12 And he becomes the object of favour 
of the circle (of kings). 


13 If, when at peace, he were to see, ‘ The enemy’s subjects, who arc 
greedy or impoverished or rebellious, do not come over (to me) through fear 
of being seized again (by the cnemy),’ even the weaker should make war. 


14 If, when at war, he were to see, ‘The enemy’s subjects, greedy, 
impoverished or rebellious, do not come over, being frightened of war,’ even 
the stronger should make peace, or should allay the fear of war. 


7.3 


The two Sections are found in ss. 1-20 and 21-86 respectively; the latter is entirely in 
verse. 

g samdhiyeta : the passive is without significance. 5 ekdantasiddhim: Meyer justifies 
the reading ekdantah siddhim (‘the exclusive king, i.e., alone, single-handed, attains success’) 
On the ground that the text recommends war only as a last resort. But apart from the 
very unlikely rendering of ekdnteh, the war with hina is actually recommended in s. 2 and 
this s. merely explains why it should be undertaken. 


G dandopanaiavuritam as in 7.15.21 ff. — dbaliyasam yogam as in Book 12. 

13 apacaritah is the only correct reading as shown by 7.5.12-15 and s. 14 below. 
It means ‘disaffected, rebellious.’ prakrti refers to the subjects, particularly to principal 
officers and men. — pratydddnabhaydt : the idea is that these would-be seceders from the 
strong king’s side do not go over to the weak king when there is peace between them, for 
they are afraid that the strong king would easily capture and punish them; in war, 
however, their going Over would strengthen the weak king in his fight with their former 
master. The va after this word has little significance ; a m@m or ma should be understood 
after it, as in the next s. 


14 vigrahodvignd va: here, too, od serves little purpose. 


7.8.15] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 828 


15 Even in case of simultaneity of calamities, if he were to see, ‘I am in 
a greater calamity ; the enemy, in a lighter calamity, will easily overcome his 
own calamity and attack (me),’ even the stronger should make peace. 


16 Ifby resorting to peace or war, he were not to see the weakening of 
the enemy or increase in his own strength, then even the stronger should stay 
quite. 

17 If he were to see the enemy’s calamity to be irremediable, then even 
the weaker should march against him. 


18 Even the stronger, whose immediate calamity is irremediable, should 
seek shelter. 


19 Ifhe were to see success in his work by peace in one place and war in 
another, then even the stronger should resort to the dual policy. 


20 Similar is the use of six measures by the equal. 
21 With regard to that, however, the special points are: 


22 A weak king, over-run by a strong king who has set his armies 
in motion, should quickly submit, seeking peace with (the offer of) his 
treasury, army, himself or territory. 


28 That he himself has to wait upon (the enemy) with a stipulated 
number of troops or according to the strength of the army, this treaty is 
known as ‘one with himself as prey.’ 


24 That the commander-in-chief or the (crown) prince has to wait 
upon (the enemy), this would be ‘ the treaty through another person,’ 
not through himself, hence one in which he himself is saved. 


15 pratikriya vyasanam from Cb Cs is quite obviously necessary for prakriyavyasanam 
of the mss. 


18 apratikarydsannavyasano va: Because of vd we may understand two kinds of 
calamities, apratikdrya and dsanna, in the compound ; or, we may understand the dsanna- 
vyasana to be apratikdrya. Thelatter appears better, ud being then understood as being 
without much significance. It cannot indicate an option to the last s., as the two ss. refer 
to two different kings. 


20 samosya : this can hardly mean ‘ sarvasya ’ (Cs) in view of sama- in the title of the 
Section. Meyer's ‘taking together’ (gerund from sam-as) or ‘briefly’ (Russ.) is also 
unlikely. With evam understood as ‘in this same manner’ there need be no difficulty. 


__ 21 tatra has reference to sadgunyopayoga and has nothing to do with sama. — prati- 
visegah : the special case is that of the weak king forced to surrendcr to the strong king. 


22 -danddlma-: ditmopanatasamdhi is not separately treated in the sequel; it is 
included in the dandopanctasamdhi. 


28 dandasya cibhavena ‘in accordance with the strength of the army ’ implies that a 
large part of the army is to be surrendered. The expression can hardly mean ‘ with the 
entirety of his army ’(Meyer). — wupasthdtavyam implies that the king is to surrender in 
person. Hence the name dfmdmisa ‘ with himself as the prey or victim.’ 


24 purugsantarasamahih: this treaty seems also called purusasamdhi: cf. 12.1.26. 
Cb seems to regard Gilmaraksana as the name of the treaty. 


329 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [ 7.8. 80 


25 Kither himself or the army has to go elsewhere alone; this 


treaty is ‘ with persons unseen ’, in which the army chiefs and he himself 
are saved. 


26 In the first two (treaties), he should bring about a marriage 
alliance of the chiefs ; in the last, however, he should secretly get rid of 
the enemy. These are treaties with troops submitted. 


27-28 The release of the rest of the constituents by handling over 
the treasury would become the treaty ‘ purchase.’ And the same, when 
it is to be delivered in parts many times, at one’s convenience, should be 


known as the treaty ‘support’; the tribute restricted as to time and 
place, would be support. 


29 Tolerable because of payment of a bearable amount in future, 
even because of a marriage alliance, it would be the ‘ golden treaty’, 
bringing about union through (mutual) confidence. 


80 The reverse would be the ‘ potsherd ’ (treaty), so called because 
of excessive payments received. In the first two (treaties), he should 
deliver forest produce, or elephants and horses that are poisoned. 


25 ekena, i.c., either the king alone or the army alone. — anyatra, i.e., not where 
the enemy is stationed or operating, but clsewhere, though that is to serve the enemy’s 
interest. — svayam dandena vd: in the former case, the king in person goes with a small 
army ; in the latter case, the army is sent under the sendpati or the kumdra. — adrstapu- 
rugah, so called because the king in One case and the sendpaii etc. in the other are not within 
sight of the enemy, as they operate elsewhere independently. For adrsta, cf. 7.2.7. Cb 
seems to look upon dandamukhyatmaraksana as the name of the treaty. 


26 mukhyastribandhanam : the mukhya would appear to be the sendpati and kumdra 
of s. 24, hardly the king himself; stribandhana is obviously a marriage alliance with the 
strong king. — sddhayed giidham implies assassination. — dandopanata:in view of 
kofopanata and defopanata that follow, this means ‘in which the army is surrendered,’ 
though the idea of ‘ subdued by force’ is sometimes to be understood by this expression. 


27 saecaca yathdsukhem : thisisto be construed with skandhopaneyahins.28. Meyer 
understands these words of the parikraya samdhi, ‘it can be entered into when it appears 
good to him.’ Thisis hardly likely. 28 skandhopaneyo: this may mean ‘to becarried 
On the shoulder.’ It seems, however, that skandha as ‘ branch’ has reference to parts or 
instalments in which the tribute is to be paid; thus Cb. — atyayah sydd upagrahah : Cs 
regards atyaya as the name of another samdhi. However, there are Only four kosopanata 
samdhis (s.31). Meyer understands two types of upagraha, viz., skandhopaneya and atyaya. 
It seems, however, that the second half only explains the term skandhopaneya, the instal- 
ments being fixed astoplaceandtime. alyaya‘ penalty ’ has here the sence of ‘ tribute.’ — 
upagraha conveys the idea of instalments serving as ‘a support’ or ‘help’ to the weak king. 
Cb looks upon upagraha and atyaya as two varieties of parikraya, referred to by purvayoh 
ins.80. Russ. renders the second half: ‘ concluding such a treaty where the place and time 
are not suitable is a mistake (atyayah).’ This seems hardly possible. 

29 dyatyam ‘in future’ to be construed with visahyaddnat (Meyer) rather than with 
ksamah (Cs). 

80 vipariiah implies not only alydddna, but also immediate payment (as Opposed to 
dyatydsn). — kapdlah evidently has reference to the king being beggared by the payment. 
— atyddindbhibhdasitah : Cb Cs read -dabhdsitch ‘not recommended in the $dstra because 
of excessive levies.’ Thisis unlikely, as the treaty is actually mentioned, and s. 86, which 
is € summing up, makes no exceptions. Russ. renders the former reading by ‘ dictated 


with extreme demands for payment.’ — 24 gardnvitam from Cb Cs is supported by 
12.1.25. 


7.3.81 } KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 380 


31 In the third, he should pay the amount; in the fourth, he 
should tarry telling him of the decline of undertakings. These are treaties 


with treasury submitted. 


82 The saving of the rest of the constituents by the surrender of a 
part of his territory is the ‘ directed’ treaty, desirable in the case where 
one wishes to injure through secret agents and robbers. 


38 The surrender of lands from which all riches have been removed, 
with the exception of his base, is the ‘ exterminated’ treaty, desirable 
in the case where one hopes for a calamity for the enemy. 


34 The saving of lands by the surrender of the produce is the 
‘hire’ treaty ; that with the produce completely surrendered from lands 
is the ‘ruinous’ treaty. 


35 He should resort to waiting in the first two, in the last two, how- 
ever, to ‘ practices of the weaker king’, taking the produce (himself). 
These are treaties with territory surrendered. 


86 These three types of treaties by the weaker king recommended 
for use at the proper place and time in accordance with one’s own under- 
takings, should be entered into as ‘ practices of the weaker king.’ 


31 aritham: Cb Cs have ardham in the sense of ‘some part’. But since the payments 
in this treaty are reasonable, and the relations are cordial, ariha as the whole amount 
appears preferable. — kathayan etc. is to be construcd with tisthet caiurthe as in Meyer, 
and not with the preceding. 

82 gildhasknopaghdtinah: Meyer’s ‘who would secretly destroy robvers’ is little 
likely. As the idea is to harm the enemy to whom the land is ceded, gtidha, i.e., giidha 
purusa and stena would appear to be the means of doing so. 

38 miila- the ‘base’ is the weak king’s capital. — ucchinna may have reference 
to the lands being deprived of riches. 

34 phaldatimukto bhiimibhyah : this seems to mean ‘in which the produce is completely 
given away from thelands.’ Cb Cs read phaldtibhukto and explain ‘in which more than the 
actual produce of the lands is promised’; this is not convincing. Meyer translates, with 
that reading, “bound up with an over-feeding on the produce’; but the enjoyment 
of more than what the lands produce would appear to be a doubtful idea. The former 
reading seems better. Meyer does not find a new samdhi in the second half, only a further 
description of avakraya. Buts.385 implies four degopanata samdhis. — paridiisanah is as 
proposed by Meyer for paradiisanah. The reading is found in Cb. The names of the 
treaties have the weak king’s standpoint in view or mention their effect on him and do not 
refer to the enemy directly. 

35 puroau pascimau: the accusatives are strange, when locatives are expected. 
Perhaps pirve pascime is to be read, as referring to the avakraya and the paridisana only ; 
in the case of ddista and ucchinna, the steps to be taken are already stated in giidhasteno- 
and paravyasana- etc. respectively. — dddya can hardly be ‘ presenting it to the cnemy’ 
(Cs). ddaya phalam is to be construed with the preceding and not with desopantasamdhayah, 
as Meyer does, ° these are degopanata treatics in which the produce is carried away.’ 


36 dabaliyasikah ‘ associated with dbaliyasa, the practices of the weak king’ asin Book 
12 


J 
- 
=t 


381 THE SLX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [ 


CHAPTER FOUR 


SECTION 108 STAYING QUIET AFTER MAKING WAR 
SECTION 104 STAYING QUIET AFTER MAKING PEACE 
SECTION 105 MARCHING AFTER MAKING WAR 

SECTION 106 MARCHING AFTER MAKING PEACE 

SECTION 107 MARCHING TOGETHER (WITH OTHER KINGS) 


1 Staying quiet and marching in peace and war are (now) explained. 


2 Remaining still, staying quiet and remaining indifferent are synonyms 
of staying quiet. 8 The distinction, however, is: when there is (only) a 
part of the excellences present, it is remaining still; staying quiet is for 
attaining one’s own advancement ; non-employment of the means is remaining 
indifferent. 


4 When the enemy and the conqueror, desirous of over-reaching each 
other, are unable to injure each other, staying quiet after making war or after 
making peace (is recommended). 


5 Or, when he were to see, ‘ With my own troops or the ally’s troops or 
forest troops, I can weaken the equal or stronger king,’ then he should make 
war and stay quiet after taking precautions in the outer regions and in the 
interior. 


6 Or, when he were to see, ‘My constituents, full of energy, united 
and thriving, will carry out their works unhindered or will destroy the works 
of the enemy,’ then he should make war and stay quiet. 


7 Or, when he were to see, ‘The enemy’s subjects, rebellious, 
impoverished, greedy, or harassed by (the enemy’s) own troops, robbers or 
foresters, will come to me of their own accord or through instigations ; sources 


7.4 
The five short Scctions are to be foundinss. 1-12, 138, 1-17, 18 and 19-22 respectively. 


1 uydkhydlam : the sense required is that of vydkhydlavyam ; for the policies state! 
are being explained in this Chapter. 


3 gunaikadese: guna clearly means thie * excellence’ of the constituents, as in 6.1.15 
and 7.1.16. It can hardly mean ‘the policy of dsana ’(Cb Cs); nor can the expression 
mean ‘remaining in One particular kind of political behaviour’ (Meyer). The idea is 
when one is weaker, sthdna is recommended. In dsana, one is equal. 


4, atisamdhadnakdmayoh is as proposed by Meyer for ii (end of s. 3) samdhadnakameyoh. 
The actual comment in Cb presupposes the emended reading. The conqueror and the 
enemy cannot be described as samdhdnakama, when vigrhya dsana is also recommended, 
nor does it fitin with upahantum agaktayoh. The corruption is easily explained. 

5 krtabahyabhyantarakriyah : Cb Cs understand kriya as likely seceders asin 1.13 and 
14. But Arta would be unusual with it ; upagrhita would have been used in that case. 

G6 svakarmdni: Mhas svakarmani ; but if the locative were intended, we should expect 
svakarmasu 

7 netaram: tho tiara is the enemy, though we should expect para. Perhaps we should 
read netaratha. — mitram mitrabhavi is defined in 7.9.43. — bahvalpakdlam : Meyer 
has ‘in a longer or shorter time ’; it seems, however, that bahu goes with artham, though we 


7.4.8] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 382 


of livelihood in my state are flourishing, those of the enemy ruined, (hence) 
his subjects stricken by famine will come to me; sources of livelihood in my 
state are ruined, those of the enemy flourishing, my subjects will not go over 
to him (only if there is war), and after making war I shall plunder his grains, 
cattle and cash; or, I shall keep out the enemy’s goods that are harmful to 
my own goods, or highly valuable goods will come to me from the enemy’s 
trade-route, when he is at war, (and) will not go to the other; or, when at war, 
he will not suppress his traitors, enemies or forest-tribes, or will be involved in 
war with these same; marching against my ally having the nature of a true 
ally, he will obtain abundant wealth in a short time, with small losses and 
expenses or excellent land which can be easily seized ; or, wishing to march 
with all troops mobilised in disregard of me, he must not somehow be 
allowed to march,’ then in order to hinder the advancement of the enemy and 
to affirm his valour, he should make war and stay quiet. 8 ‘Turning back, 
he might swallow him up,’ say the teachers. 9 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 10 He 
would only cause a weakening of the (conqueror, if he is) not in a cala- 
mity, but when augmented by the (acquisition of the) enemy’s prosperity, 
(he would cause) extermination. 11 (If he acts) thus, the vulnerable foe of 
the enemy would render help to him, being not destroyed. 12 ‘Therefore, 
he should make war on one acting with all troops mobilised, and stay quiet. 


13 In cases the reverse of the motives for staying quiet after making war, 
he should make peace and stay quiet. 


14 When grown in power on the occasions for staying quiet after 
making war, he should make war and march, except when the enemy has 
mobilised all his troops. 


15 Or, when he were to see, ‘ The enemy is in a calamity ; or, a calamity 
of his constituent cannot be remedied by the remaining constituents ; or, 
his subjects, harassed by his own army, or disaffected with him, are easy to 
entice, being weakened, without energy or divided among themselves ; the 


expect buhum in that case. — gunavatim dGdeyam vd: vd shows the option to artham, not 
an option between gunavatimand ddeyam. For ddeya, see 9.4.5. — katham na ydydatis rather 
awkward as putin the vijigisu’s thoughts. Either katham yayat or na ydyat would have been 
better. — pratdpGrtham is more applicable to the last case than to the others. 8 tomeva 
etc. : the discussion has reference to the last case (sarvasamdohena etc.) only. — grasate : 
we expect grase‘a. Possibly that was the original reading. 10 paravrddhyd: the para 
is the enemy of the vijigisu’s enemy against whom the latter proposes to march with all 
troops. Meyer translates the s. thus, ‘the conqueror should cause only the weakening of 
the enemy, if he is not in a calamity ; if strengthened by complete prosperity (with the 
reading partorddhya) he should exterminate him.’ This is quite unlikely. It constitutes 
no reply to the teachers. 11 evam, i.e., when the vijigisu has declared war. — parasya 
yatavyah is the enemy Of the vijigisu’s enemy. 


18 According to Cb, in vigrhydsana the enemy’s undertakings are to be destroyed and 
one’s own furthered ; in samdhdydsana only one’s own undertakings are to be furthered. 


14 saroasamdohavarjam : this is the last case of s. 7; in that case, there is to be no 
marching, Only staying quiet. 


383 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY ['7. 4. 22 


enemy has his draught-animals, men, stores and fortifications reduced in 
consequence of fire, floods, disease, epidemic or famine,’ then he should make 
war and march. 


16 Or, when he were to see, ‘ My ally in front and my rear ally have brave, 
prosperous and devoted subjects, the enemy, the rear enemy and the rear 
enemy’s ally have subjects the reverse of this, I shall (therefore) be able to 
march after engaging the enemy’s ally in a fight with my ally or my rear 
enemy in a fight with my rear ally,’ then he should make war and march. 


17 Or, when he were to see that the fruit can be attained by a single 
person within a short time, then he should make war on the rear enemy and his 
ally and march. 


18 In the reverse cases, he should make peace and march. 


19 Or, when he were to see, ‘ It is not possible to march alone, but it is 
necessary to march,’ then joining forces with confederates, equal, weaker or 
stronger (than himself), he should march, for a stipulated share if in one place, 
for an unstipulated share if in more than one place. 20 In case there is no 
confederacy with them, he should request for troops from one of them in 
return for a fixed share. 21 Or, (the troops) should be hired by (a promise of) 
marching together (with them), with a fixed share when the gain is certain, 
with a portion of the gain when it is uncertain. 


22 A share in conformity with troops is of the first type, in 
conformity with efforts is best ; or plunder, as obtained (by each), (should 
be the share), or a Share in conformity with the amount lent. 


16 parsnigrdhah etc.: for these kings, see 6.2.18 above. — miirena dsdram: the 
dsdra is the enemy’s dsdra or helpmate ; from the vijigigu’s stand-point he is the arimitra, 
with territory beyong that of the mitra. Even from the enemy’s stand-point, he is really 
his dkranda, not dsdra. But the latter is a general term for an ally. 


17 ekaharyam, i.e., obtainable without the help of the mitra or dkranda. — pargni- 
grahasdrabhydm vigrhya : the reason for not taking the help of allies appears to be to avoid 
any sharing of the spoils of the expedition. 

18 samdhdys yayat: thisis downright duplicity, making peace and then attacking the 
enemy when he is least expecting such an attack. 

19 ekatra seems to refer to an expedition fora single specific objective, while onekatra 
refers to more than One objective requiring fightingin many places. 20 nivisia ‘laid down, 
fixed.’ 21 sambhiiyadbhigamanena vd nirvigyeta: the subject is dandah. The idea in 
sambhiydbhigamana seems to be that when hiring the troops the vijigisu agrees to march 
with them along with his own troops and not to send them alone on the expedition. Cs 
understands a promise to march in future with the other king when the latter wants his 
troops. With the reading nirdisyeta Meyer translates ‘a share should be fixed as the 
price for the joint expedition.’ The reading itselfis doubtful. The difference between ss. 
19 and 21 is that in the former there is no hiring, but a confederacy of kings who join forces 
and receive agreed shares. 

22 ptrvak seems to convey the idea of lowest. — praksepa ‘investment’ is the 


koga or money lent for the expedition. Though the text does not make it clear, itis possible 
that the second half mentions the madhyama kind of améa. 


Sh KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 384 


CHAPTER FIVE 


SECTION 108 CONSIDERATIONS REGARDING AN ATTACK ON A 
VULNERABLE KING AND THE (NATURAL) ENEMY 

SECTION 109 CAUSES LEADING TO DECLINE, GREED AND DISAFFECTION 
AMONG THE SUBJECTS 

SECTION 110 REFLECTION ON CONFEDERATED ALLIES 


1 In case the calamities of two neighbouring princes are alike, (should 
one march) against the vulnerable king or the enemy? -- in such a case, 
he should march against the enemy ; after subduing him, against the vulner- 
able king. 2 For, the vulnerable king might give him help in subduing the 
cnemy, not the enemy in subduing the vulnerable king. 


8 (Should one march) against a vulnerable king in a serious calamity 
or the enemy in a light calamity? ‘He should march against the one in a 
serious calamity, because of ease (in subjugating),’ say the teachers. 4 ‘No,’ 
says Kautilya. 5 He should march against the enemy with a light calamity. 
6 Even alight calamity becomes dangerous to him when attacked. 7 True, 
even a serious (calamity) becomes more serious (in that case). 8 But the 
enemy with a light calamity, if not attacked, might easily overcome his cala- 
mity and go to the rescuc of the vulnerable king, or might attack in the rear. 


9 In case there are many vulnerable kings at the same time, (when 
the choice is) between one in a serious calamity but justly behaved and one in 
a light calamity but unjustly behaved or with disaffected subjects, he should 
march against the one with disaffected subjects. 10 The subjects help the 
king who is justly behaved but suffering from a serious calamity, when he is 
attacked ; remain indifferent to one unjustly behaved, suffering from a light 
calamity ; but if disaffected, exterminate even a strong king. 11 Therefore, 
he should march only against one with disaffected subjects. 


12 (When the choice is) between one with impoverished and greedy 
subjects and one with rebellious subjects, ‘He should march against the one 
with impoverished and greedy subjects ; for, impoverished and greedy subjects 
easily yield themselves to instigations or harassment, not the rebellious who 
can be overcome by the suppression of their leaders,’ say the teachers. 18 
‘No,’ says Kautilya. 14 For, impoverished and greedy subjects, when 


7.3 

The three Sections are to be found in ss. 1-18, 19-37 and 38-39 respectively. 

1 ydlavya is a neighbouring prince who isin a calamity ; cf. 6.2.16. 2 amitrasiddhau 
is not to be understood as a locative absolute, but as meaning ‘in the conquering of the 
enemy. 

8 vd alter parsnim is quite necessary as in Cs. 

9 There are three alternatives, the third viraktaprakrti apparently not suffering from 
any culamity. 11 As between the guruvyosana nydyaovritt and laghuvyasana anydyaortti, 
s. 10 suggests that the latter should be preferred for an attack. ; 

12 apacariia is stronger than virakta; the subjects are not only disaffected but also 
rebellious. — pidaém upagacchanti, i.e., they can be easily harassed. 14 anurdge sdrvagu- 
nyam is apparently 2 maxim quoted in support of the statements made. Cf. 8.2.24 below. 


3395 THE SLX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [7.5.28 


devoted to their master, remain steadfast in what is beneficial to the master 
or make the instigations futile, on the principle, ‘ Where there is love, all 


qualities (are present).’ 15 Hence he should march only against one with 
rebellious subjects. 


16 (When the choice is) between a strong king unjustly behaved and 
a weak king justly behaved, he should march against the strong king unjustly 
behaved. 17 The subjects do not help the strong unjust king when he is 
attacked, they drive him out or resort to his enemy. 18 But the subjects 


support in every way the weak but just king when he is attacked or follow him 
if he has to flee. 


19-26 For, by discarding the good and favouring the wicked, and by 
starting unrighteous injuries not current before, by discontinuing 
customary practices that are righteous, by indulgence in impiety and 
suppression of piety, and by doing acts that ought not to be done and by 
ruining rightful acts, and by not giving what ought to be given and 
securing what ought not to be given (to him), and by not punishing those 
deserving to be punished and punishing those not deserving to be punished, 
by seizing those who ought not to be seized and not arresting those who 
ought to be seized, and by doing harmful things and destroying beneficial 
things, and by failing to protect from thieves and by robbing (them) 
himself, by ruining human exertions, by spoiling the excellence of works 
done, by doing harm to principal men and by dishonouring those worthy 
of honour, and by opposing the elders, by partiality and falsehood, by 
not requiting what is done and by not carrying out what is settled, 
through the negligence and indolence of the king and because of the 
destruction of well-being, — (through these causes) decline, greed and 
disaffection are produced among the Subjects. 


27 Subjects, when impoverished, become greedy ; when greedy they 
become disaffected ; when disaffected they either go over to the enemy 
or themselves kill the master. 


28 Therefore, he should not allow these causes of decline, greed and 
disaffection among the subjects to arise, or, if arisen, should immediately 
counter-act them. ; 


17 nig-pat* to fiec ’is commonin this text. 


19-26 The causes of impoverishment etc. of subjects seem to have been incorporated 
in a metrical form since early days; hence the stanzas in the middle of the Chapter. — 
himsadndm: this refers to injuries in general, not merely actual killing. 22 wupagraha, 
as the opposite of anabhigraha, clearly means ‘ seizing, arresting ’, as pointed out by Meyer. 
Cb has ‘ agrdahya, i.e., thieves etc. and upagraha, i.e., favouringthem.’ 24 gunadisanath: 
dilsana seems to be ‘spoiling , ruining’, not merely ‘censuring.’ 25 Cb has bhytyanam 
vrddhanam. — apratikara conveys the idea of failure to requite (what is done by some onc 
for you). — sthitasya ‘ of a settled custom, such as the Sakra-festival ?(Cb Cs). sthita, how- 


ever, may mean ‘ what is agreed upon’ ; cf. yathdsthitakari, s. 89 below. 26 ca should pre- 
{erably be read for v@ asin Cb. 


7. 5, 29 | | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 336 


29 (Which are worst), subjects that are impoverished or greedy or 
disaffected ? 80 The impoverished, through fear of harassment or exter- 
mination, prefer an immediate peace or fight or flight. 31 The greedy, 
dissatisfied because of greed, willingly respond to the enemy’s instigations. 
82 The disaffected rise in revolt when there is an enemy attack. 


38 Among them, the exhaustion of money and grains is destructive of 
everything and difficult to remedy, the diminution of draught animals and 
men can be remedied with money and grains. 34 Greed, restricted to a part, 
being confined to the principal men, can be directed to spend itself on the 
enemy’s possessions or can be removed. 35 Disaffection can be overcome by 
suppression of the leaders. 36 For, subjects, without leaders, become easy to 
rule, not susceptible to instigations by others, become, however, incapable of 
putting up with troubles. 87 But those divided into many groups by the 
favouring of the leaders of the subjects, become protected and able to put up 
with troubles. 

88 Even among confederated allies, he should consider the grounds for 
making peace or war and march after joining forces with those possessed of 
power and uprightness. 89 For, the powerful king is capable of attacking in 
the rear or rendering help in the expedition, the upright one carries out what © 
is settled, in success as well as in failure. 


40 Among them, as between marching after joining forces with one 
stronger king or two equals, it is better (to march) with two who are equals. 
41 For, with a stronger, he moves over-powered by him; with two equals, 


80 yuddham: this is preferred apparently to escape harassment by their own king. — 
rocayante : the’ sense of the causal does not seem intended. 


84 aikadesiko mukhydyatiah: the idea is, only a part of tke populace is affected by 
greed ; the greed of the mukhyas alone has any bearing On state policy. Meyer would read 
amukhydayatiah ‘not dependent on the leaders, (but a natural tendency of the average 
citizen) ’; that seems hardly likely. — dddtum: this seems to refer to giving satisfaction 
to the greedy by giving them something. Meyer thinks of taking the greedy in service. 
35 andpatsahds tu: Meyer construes these words with the next s. and translates ‘ those 
that are unable to bear calamities would become divided because of the seizure (pragraha) 
of leaders of common people, well-protected and able to bear troubles.’ This is quite 
unlikely in view of another tu after pragrahaih and the meaning assigned to pragraha. Cf. 
also7.11.19. 387 bahudhd bhinnd : each leader with his followersis separately shown favour, 
so that there is no unity among the disaffected parties. — Meyer thinks that of the threc 
troubles, ksaya, particularly of grains and money, is regarded as the worst, the other two 
being remediable. According to Cs each later trouble is more serious than the preceding One. 
Thatis right so far as danger to the statcis concerned. 

88 Jaktigaucayuktaih is proposed for -yuktau of the mss. Cb Cs read -yuktena ; but 
the plural seems necessary in view of the many confederates. 89 pdrsnigrahane: the 
pargni is that of the vijigisu ; by taking him along, a potential threat is averted. pdrsni 
of the intended victim of the expeditionis possible, but that would be includedin ydirdsdha- 
yyadana and would not have been separately mentioned. Cshas ‘in keeping off the enemy 
in the vijigigu’s rear,’ which is hardly likely. — -sthita- is ‘ what is settled, agreed upon’ at 
the start of the expedition, hardly ‘ what is just’ (Cs) or ‘ what is right’ (Meyer). 

41 atisamdhdnddhikye 04: we have to supply carati. The vd serves little purpose. 
Meyer, however, proposes atisamdhdna (=ne) adhikye vd ‘by over-reaching or by becom- 

ing superior.’ This does not seem meant, as in the next s. there is no reference to the 
vijigisu becoming more powerful. Russ. renders ‘over the (two) equals one might gain 


837 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [7.5.49 


with a greater (possibility of) over-reaching. 42 For, they are easy to divide 
from each other, and if one (of them) becomes treacherous, he is easy to 
restrain for the two or to seize through dissensions. 


43 As between one equal and two weaker kings, it is better (to march) 


with two weaker kings. 44 For, they carry out two tasks and remain under 
control. 


45 However when the undertaking has succeeded, 


he should secretly go away under some pretext from the stronger 
who has achieved his object, if he is not upright; in the case of the 
upright, however, he should wait till he is sent away. 


46 Or, from a dangerous situation he should move away with effort, 
after removing his women-folk. For, even from the equal who has 
achieved his object there might be danger to the trusting one. 


47 And even the equal who has achieved his object tends to be 


stronger, and when augmented in power, untrustworthy; prosperity 
tends to change the mind. 


48 Even if he receives a small share or even no share from a superior, 


he should go away with a contented face; then striking at him when in 
his power, he should recover double. 


49 But the leader, when he has himself achieved his object, should 
send away the confederated allies ; he should, if need be, forgo (his dues), 
not score (over them). Thereby he would be liked by the circle (of kings). 


superiority and benefit.’ Cb Cs construe the expression with what follows ‘ or, when he gets 
superiority through resort to subterfuge, the two can be easily divided.’ This ignores the 


hiin the next s. 42 bhedopagraham copagantum seems to refer to the capture of the king 
through dissensions in his ranks. 


45 krlarthajjyaysso from Cb Cs is obviously quite necessary for krtdrtha jydyaso of the 
mss. Cf. 7.8.81. — o$fucch is to be construed with the first half as in Cb Cs. Meyer 
construes it with what follows ‘from the dishonest, who shows himself honestin his 
conduct,’ which is hardly possible. 

46 sattrdd: for saltra ‘ambush’ as a dangerous situation, cf. 10.83.24. 


4? jydyasive capi: etc.: Meyer understands ‘being raised to a superior position 
(jyayastve), he becomes changed in mind (with viparikalpate as the reading).’ But samo 


*pi parikalpate is obviously a better reading, despite the presence of another api in the 
same half. 


48 anke prahriya: pragrhya is an unlikely reading. anka conveys the idea of ‘one’s — 


control, one’s power’ ; cf. ankam upasthita 7.18.40, and anke kurydt 1.17.10. The idea is, 


when the strong king comes under his power some time, he should strike. Cb Cs render 
anka by randhra. ; : 


49 netd is the vijigisu ; cf. 6.2.89. 


7.6.1] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 338 


CHAPTER SIX 


SECTION 111 CONCERNING THE MARCH OF TWO (KINGS) WHO HAVE 
ENTERNED INTO A TREATY OF ALLIANCE 

SECTION 112 TREATIES WITH STIPULATIONS, WITHOUT STIPULATIONS 
AND WITH DESERTERS 


1 The conqueror should over-reach the second member (of the circle of 
kings) in this manner. 2 He should induce the neighbouring king to march 
after entering into a treaty, ‘ You march in this direction, I shall march in 
that ; the gains shall be equal.’ 3 In case the gains-are equal, there should 
be peace, if unequal, fight. 


4 A treaty is with stipulations or without stipulations. 5 ‘ You 
march to this region, I shall march to this,’ this is treaty with stipulations as 
to place. 6 ‘ You operate for this length of time, I shall operate for this 
length of time,’ this is treaty with stipulations as to time. 7 ‘ You carry 
out;this much work, I shall carry out this much work,’ this is treaty with 
stipulations as to objects to be achieved. 


8 If he were to think, ‘The enemy will march against a region, with a 
mountain-fort, a forest-fort or a river-fort, separated by a forest, with supplies 
of grains and men and allied troops cut off, deficient in fodder, fuel and water, 
unknown, far distant, or with natives hostile, or one in which land is not 
available for the operations of the army, (and) I (shall march) against a region 
the reverse of this,’ in such a situation he should enter into a treaty with 
stipulations as to place. 


9 If he were to think, ‘ The enemy will operate at a time when there is 
excessive rain, heat or cold, when there is plenty of illness, when food and 
other articles of use are exhausted, which is a hindrance to the operations of 
the army, which is too short or too long for accommplishing the work, (and) 
I at a time the reverse of this,’ in such a situation, he should enter into a treaty 
with stipulations as to time. 


7.6 

The two Sections may be said to extend over ss. 1-8 and 4-41 respectively; but they are 
really very closely connected. 

1 dvitiyam prakrtim, i.e., arim; cf. 6.2.14. 2 sdmanta is again the ari. — samhita- 
prayane : the vijigisu and the ari make a treaty for a common expedition against some other 
kingorkings. 3 vaigamye : according to Cb Cs, the vijigisu las got more out of the expedi- 
tion ; he attacks because he is now superior. It may also be that.it is the art who has got 
more ; hence the recommendation to fight him. Ifthe vijigisu has got more, he has thereby 
already Over-reached the enemy, and there would be no necd to fight. See, however, 
8. 12 below. 

8 vtvadha stands forsupplies (grains, men etc.) from hisownland ; cf.10.2.6. Accord- 
ing to the Siddhdntakaumudi on Panini 4.4.71, vivadha or vivadha is a contrivance for carry- 
ing loads, a pole with slings at both ends carried on the shoulder. — For dsdra, see 10.2.7. 
— desya ‘natives of the country’ that is to be attacked; these are anyabhdva ‘ with 
different, i.e., hostile feelings’ towards the attacker. 


839 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [ 7. 6. 20 


10 If he were to think, ‘The enemy will achieve an object, easily 
recoverable (from him), causing revolt among the subjects, taking a long time, 
involving heavy losses and expenses, insignificant, bound up with troubles in 
future, unwholesome, unlawful, opposed by the middle or neutral king, or 
ruinous to his own ally, (and) I (shall achieve) the reverse of this,’ in such a 


situation, he should enter into a treaty with stipulations as to objects to be 
achieved. 


11 By the fixing, in this manner, of place and time, of time and object, 


of place and object, and of place, time and object, the treaty with stipulations 
becomes seven-fold. 


12 In the case of that (treaty), he should start and establish his own 
undertakings right in advance and attack the enemy’s undertakings. 


13 Wishing to over-reach an enemy, who is vicious, hasty, contemptuous, 
slothful or ignorant, he should create confidence with a treaty, saying ‘ we 
are in alliance,’ without the fixing of place, time or object, and after finding 
the enemy’s weak point, strike at him ; this is (treaty) without stipulations. 


14 In that connection, the following occurs : 


15 The wise (conqueror), making one neighbouring king fight with 
another neighbouring king, should seize the territory of another, cutting 
off his party on all sides. 


16 Of a treaty, (there are) the desire to make a (treaty) not yet made, 
clinging fast to a treaty made, spoiling a treaty made and repair of what is 
broken. 17 Of war, there is open war, concealed war and silent war. 18 
Thus (we have) treaty and war. 


19 ‘The examination of a new treaty in relation to conciliation and other 
means with their consequences, and the fixing of equal, weaker and stronger 
kings according to their strength, is the desire to make a (treaty) not made. 


20 ‘The observance, on both sides, of a (treaty) made, by means of what 
is agreeable and beneficial, and the carrying out of conditions as agreed upon 
and their safe-guarding (by sceing) that he may not be divided from the other 
party, is clinging fast to a treaty made. | 


10 pratyddeyam: cf. 9.4.5-6 ; for the other terms, too, see 9.4.16-22. 
18 vyasana seems here‘ vice ’(Cb) rather than ‘ calamity.’ 


14-15 These ss. appear to be out of context. They make no reference to samdhi, 
which is the topic under discussion. They might fit in with 7.4.16. It may be that they 
have got into the text at the wrong place. Itis also possible that it is a marginal comment 
which has got into the text. 15 anyasya: this would seem to be the arz, who is attacked 
by another king at the vijigisu’s instance. 

19 paryesanam ‘ thorough investigation ’ of the possible consequences of a treaty and 
of the possibility of using s@man, ddna etc. if the treaty is made. — akrlacikirsd is a preli- 
minary investigation before a treaty is actually made. 


20 nibandhana ‘binding’, i.e., terms, conditions. — kathamm parasman na bhidyeta 
has the appearance of anindircct construction. 


7. 6. 21] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 340 


21 Violation (of the treaty) after establishing that the enemy deserves 
to have the treaty with him broken, by cheating (him) through treasonable 
persons, is spoiling a treaty made. 


22 Becoming reconciled with a servant or an ally who had deserted 
through some fault is repair of whatis broken. 23 In that case, the deserter 
returning is of four kinds : one deserting and returning on good grounds, the 
reverse of this, one leaving on good grounds and returning without such 
grounds, and the reverse of this. 


24 One deserting because of the master’s fault and returning because of 
his virtue, (or) deserting because of the enemy’s virtue and returning because 
of his fault, is one deserting and returning on good grounds, fit to be made peace 
with. 


25 One deserting and returning because of his own fault ignoring the 
virtues of both, is one deserting and returning without ground, unfit to be 
made peace with, being fickle in mind. 


26 One deserting because of the master’s fault and returning from the 
enemy because of his own fault is one deserting on good grounds and returning 
without ground, about whom he should reflect, ‘ Has he come with the inten- 
tion of doing harm at the enemy’s instigation or through his own evilminded- 
ness, or knowing my enemy to be an exterminator of his enemy (returned) 
through fear of reprisal, or leaving the enemy, who is planning to exterminate 
me, returned out of a feeling of compassion?’ 27 On finding out, he should 
honour one with benevolent intentions, should keep away at a distance one 
with different intentions. 


28 One deserting because of his own fault and returning because of the 
enemy’s fault is one deserting without ground and returning on good grounds, 
about whom he should reflect, ‘ Will he make good my weak point? Is he 
accustomed to live here? Do his people not find pleasure at the enemy’s 
place? Is he in alliance with my allies? Is he at war with my enemies? Is 
he frightened of the greedy or cruel (enemy) or of (the enemy) in alliance with 


21 dusydalisamdhanena : it seems that the vijigisu is to encourage his own disyas 
to get in touch with the enemy; if the latter were to entertain any proposals by these, 
his apasamdheyata would thereby be established. 


22 avasirnakriya ‘ repairing what is broken ’ is the same as apasrlasamdht in the title. 


26 parasya uccheltaram amitram me jridiud: the deserter knows that the enemy to 
whom he had gone is severe on his enemies and fears severe punishment from him as he 
himself is at fault (svadosena dgatah) ; hence he returns to his old master. Meyer proposes 
mam for me, his idea being that the deserter realises that the vijigisu would uproot the 
enemy to whom he has gone over; hence fearing reprisals he returns. This is littlelikely. 
The vijigisu in his thoughts would not refer to himself as amitra. 

28 chidram me purayisyati: these are in the form of questions. The explanation in 
Cs ‘he will widen my weak points, so that the enemy may easily strike at them’ is quite 
unlikely. This deserter has returned because of the enemy’s fault; he could not be 

supposed to serve the enemy’s interests. — gatrusamhitdd : the Satru is the deserter’s enemy 
(Cb). 


841 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [ 7. 6. 86 


his enemy?’ 29 On finding out, he should keep him in accordance with his 
intentions. 


80 ‘Destruction of what one has done, diminution of power, treating 
learning as a commodity, despair in hopes, eagerness for (seeing) different lands, 
lack of trust, or conflict with a powerful person are the occasions for leaving 


(the master),’ say the teachers. 81 ‘ Fear, lack of livelihood (and) resentment 
(are the main occasions),’ says Kautilya. 


82 Among these, one who has done harm to him should be abandoned, 
one who has done harm to the enemy should be made peace with, regarding 
one who has done harm to both, he should reflect as before. 


83 In case, however, it is absolutely necessary to make peace with 


one unfit to make peace with, he should take precautions with regard to that 
wherein the (other) has might. 


84 In repairing what is broken, he should station one who belongs 
to the enemy’s party, if (on coming to him) he has conferred benefits, 
away (from himself), guarded till the end of his life. 


85 Or, he should make him fight against his master, or, if completely 
secured, make him a leader of the army against the enemy or forest tribes 
or station him on one side on the frontier. 


86 Or, if not secured, he should sell him as a commodity, or 
(sell) even a secured one concealed by that one, blaming him with the fault 
of that (other one) himself, for the sake of making peace with the enemy. 


30 Saktihdnih: the Sakti seems to be that of the deserter rather than that of the king. 
Cb looks upon all these as defects of the king, not of the deserter. — vidydpanyatvam, e.g., 
a clever minister going over to the enemy for higher emoluments. — degalaulyam : this can 
hardly mean ‘ troublein the country from flies, mosquitoes, etc.’ (Cb Cs). — balavadvigra- 
hah: the vigraha is that of the would-be deserter, hardly that of the king. 


83 The reading asamdheyatvena of the mss. is quite obviously faulty. — yatah 


prabhdoah tatah, i.e., in that (kosa, danda etc.) in which the returning deserter may be 
powerful. 


84 dyuhksaydd iti: iti seems used because of d; Meyer suggests ati or adhi for it ; 
that is hardly an improvement. — aripaksiyam: though ovagirnakriydvidhau indicates 
a prime deserter from the vijigtsu, it seems that in most of these stanzas a deserter from 
the enemy is to be understood. Cs understands an enemy’s servant coming to the 


vijigisu, going back to the enemy and returning to the vijigisu a secondtime. This 
seems hardly intended. 


35 bhartari: thisis clearly the art. — siddham who has been secured, i.e., about whose 
loyalty there is no more any doubt. — amitratavisu : with this we have to construe danda- 
cdrinam : the deserter may be sent to fight enemies or forest tribes. Meyer has * being 
given a command over alien troops or forest tribes.’ Cs construes amiirdtavisu with ksipet 
“should send him against enemies or forest tribes.’ It seems better, however, to look 
upon the last quarter as containing a separate clause. 


36 panyam kurydt ‘should sell him,’ i.e., hand him over to the enemy, the deserter’s 
old master, fora price. Cb Cs, however, explain ‘should send him with goods for selling 
them.’ Tat appears hardly possible in view of the usual meaning of this expression. 
Cf. 9.3.27 etc. — siddham vd tena samortam tasyaiva dosena Gdiisya : this seems to mean 
that even the deserter proved loyal (stddham) may be sold to the enemy, his old master, in 
place of or along with the one proved disloyal (¢ena, i.e., asiddhena and samurlam covered, 
concealed) ; the loyal one is charged with the offence really committed by the asiddha one. 
This is to be done in order that peace may be made with the enemy, who insists On the 


7.6.37 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 342 


87 Or, he should do away with him silently for the sake of the 
future; and finding that the deserter who has returned is desirous of 
killing him in future, he should slay him. 


88 One who has come from the enemy is a danger, caused by his 
staying with the enemy ; being of the nature of staying with a serpent, 
it suffers from the defect of constant fear. 


89 He becomes a cause of constant fear and dangerous even after- 
wards like (danger) to a Sdlmali tree from a pigeon feeding on plaksa 
seeds. 


40-41 Open war is fighting at the place and time indicated ; creating 
fright, sudden assault, striking when there is error or a calamity, giving 
way and striking in one place, are types of concealed warfare ; that which 
concerns secret practices and instigations through secret agents is the 
mark of silent war. 


CHAPTER SEVEN 


SECTION 118 PEACE AND WAR CONNECTED WITH THE DUAL POLICY 


1 The conqueror should accept as ally the second member (of the circle 
of kings) in this manner. 2 He should march against a neighbouring king 
after joining forces with the neighbouring enemy if he were to think, ‘ (Thus) 


surrender of the loyal one (parasamdheyakdranat). The explanation in Cb seems to be, 
‘if the deserter, after making a secret agreement with the enemy, were to kill the désya 
etc. of the enemy and thus show to the vijigisu that he had suppressed (or weakened) the 
enemy (and is therefore an honest deserter), the vijigisu should proclaim this offence (of 
trying to clieat him) and kill him, in order that this may serve us a lesson to other disyas 
of the enemy who mxy think of deserting to him.’ This hardly appears meant. Russ. 
reads * Otherwise if he is unreliable (asiddham) he may be made into a commodity for sale 
or handed over under the supervision of a reliable personso that he may not have contact 
with the enemy, by the way he to whom hc is entrusted can be spoiled by him.’ 


87 hanydt my refer to open execution as against updmsund samayet. 
88 dosah, i.e., a source of danger. 


39 plaksabtjdsat kapotdad : nominatives would have been better, in view of the com- 
parison of the abhydgata with the kapota. plaksaisthe ari of the salmali, which is uprooted 
by the former’s seeds taking root at its base, bcing dropped there by the kapota. 

40 nirdiste dese kdle ca: Cf. 10.83.26. — vibhisanam appears to be the same as vibhisika 
of 10.4.14. 41 ckatra tydgaghdtay : this scems to refer to the tactics of making a show of 
yielding in one place and, when the enemy forces are lulled by a sense of victory or are 
scattered, striking back in force at the same place; cf. 10.3.4,6. Meyer would read ekasya 

‘leaving in the lurch or killing one who is alone (eka).’? Thisis not mentionedin 10.8, the 
Section on kittayuddha. Russ. has ekatra tydgaghdlau ‘abandoning (a bogus ally) and 

_ destruction of him when alone.’ — mdtrkd ‘source, womb,’ i.e., types. — yogagidhopa- 
japartham : artham is rather strange ; we expect the nominative ; we cannot render it by 
‘for the sake of.’ yoga and gitdhop1japz are described at length from 12.2 to 18.4 below. 
The reading giidhdapa- is obviously faulty. 


7.7 


Cb is missing on Chapters 7.7 to 7.18. 


1 dvitiyadm prakrtim : see 7.6.1 above. — upagrhntydt ‘should secure support’ from 
him, by making a pact of alliance with him. 2 sdmaniam: thisis a third king against 


343 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY {7.7.11 


he will not attack me in the rear, will ward off my rear enemy, will not go to 
the help of the king against whom I am marching, there will be double troops 
at my disposal, he will provide me with supplies and reinforcements, will 
prevent these from (reaching) the enemy, will crush for me the thorns on the 
way full of many dangers, will operate with his army against (the enemy’s) 
retreats in forts or forests, will place the king I am marching against in an 
unbearable danger or bring him to terms of peace, or as he receives his 
share of the gain, will create confidence in my other enemies.’ 


8 Or, resorting to the dual policy, he should seek to obtain from one of 
the neighbouring kings troops in return for treasury or treasury in return for 
troops. 4 Among them, from the stronger for a larger share, from the equal 
for an equal share, from the weaker for a smaller share, — this is an equal 
pact. 5 In the reverse case, it is an unequal pact. 6 By receiving a 
special gain in these two, there is over-reaching. 


7 A weaker king may bargain with a stronger king with the offer of a 
gain equal to his troops, when he is in a calamity or is addicted to what is 
harmful or is in trouble. 8 He with whom the bargain is made should 
fight if capable of doing harm to him; else he should make the pact. 


9 A weaker king, when in the same situation, may bargain with a 
stronger king with the offer of a gain greater than what is equal to the troops, 
for the sake of recouping his diminished powers and might or for the sake of 
guarding his base or rear when going after an object which it is possible to 
secure. 10 Efe with whom the bargain is made should help one with 
honourable intentions, else fight. 


11 A weaker king, entrenched in a fort or supported by an ally, may 
bargain with a stronger king on whom a calamity has fallen or who has a weak 
point among his subjects or to whom troubles have come, with the offer of a 
gain less than what is equal to his troops, when intending to march against an 


whom the oijigisu would march in alliance with his enemy (sdmantena sambhiya). — bala- 
dvaigunyam from Cn Cs is absolutely necessary. — durgdlavyapasdresu : a durga or atavi 
would provide a place of refuge (apasdra) for the ydlavya. 

3 dvaighibhitah, i.e., making a pact with his usual enemy in order to make war on 
another king. 5 viparyayc: there are two tiparyayas in each case ; e.g., froma jyaydn, 
a sama amsa or 2 hina amSa, instead of adhika. There are thus six visama samdhis. — 
vigesalabhdd : according to Cn, the vigesa lies in quality rather than quantity, e.g., gain of 
money rather than ofally or ofland rather than of moncy, asin 7.9.1. — atisamdhth * exces- 
sive treaty,’ is over-reaching or cheating, which is what the word usually means. 


% anarthinam: for anartha see. 9.7.7. — balasamena, i.e.,in proportion to the number 
of troops, desired from him. Thisis a visama samdhi as the stronger king is offered not 
adhika, but sama amsa. 8 panitah is the jyayan in difficulties. Advice is given to both 
sides in this text. 

9 evambhiiah, i.e., when he is vyasanin etc. as in s. 7. — sambhdoyartha- is an object 
that can conceivably be achieved. — jyadydmsom visistena ; this thus is a sama samdht. 


1l jdtavyisanaprakriirandhram : this should be understood as containing two ideas, 
jatavyasanam and jalaprakrtirandhram. Thus Cn, which, however, refers randhra to kruddha, 
lubdha etc. who are likely seceders. It is more likely that the reference is to ksina, lubdha 
and virakta (and apacariia) as constituting the randhra of the subjects. Meyerhas a single 
idea ‘in whom 4 weak point in the form of a calamity of a constituent has appeared.’ — 


7.7.12 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 344 


enemy over 8 short route or when intending to secure a gain without a fight or 
(a gain) of which the attainment is certain. 12 He with whom the bargain 
is made should fight if capable of doing harm to him, else make the pact. 


18 A stronger king, (even when) without a weakness or a calamity, 
may accept a lesser gain when intending to make (a weaker king) who made a 
bad start in his undertaking suffer greater losses and expenses, or when 
intending to get his own treasonable troops killed, or when intending to bring 
to his side (the weaker king’s) treasonable troops, or when intending to cause 
trouble to (his own enemy) fit to be harassed or exterminated through the 
weaker king, or if he, attaching importance to peace, has honourable intentions. 
14 Joining forces with one who has honourable intentions, he should seek 
to achieve his object, else fight. 


/ 


15 In the same way, an equal should over-reach or help an equal. 


16 An equal may bargain with a gain equal to the troops, for (troops) 
capable of fighting against the particular kind of the enemy’s troops or against 
those of the ally or forest troops, or for (troops) that would serve as a guide 
in terrains unfavourable to the enemy or for guarding his baseorrear. 17 He 
with whom the bargain is made should help one with honourable intentions, 
otherwise he should fight. 


18 An equal may bargain with the offer of a gain less than equal to the 
troops with one on whom a calamity has fallen or who has a weak point among 
his subjects or who is opposed by many (kings) or when he himself can get help 
from another source. 19 He with whom the bargain is made should fight if 
capable of doing harm to him, else make the pact. 


20 An equal, in this situation himself, should bargain with the offer of a 
gain greater than what is equal to the troops, if his affairs are dependent on 


durgamitrapratistabdho 04: it seems that vd shows the option between durga and mitra 
in the compound. This expression can hardly be understood as an option to what follows 
asinCn. It describes the situation of the hina and not hisintentions. — satrum as another 
ae yatukdmah is rather odd. It is unnecessary. — jydyamsam hinena is a visama 
samdhi. 

13 arandhraoyasano vd: again 04 may show the option between randhra and oyasana. 
This expression is the negative of jatavyasana- etc. in s. 11. — yoktukamah: the sense of 
the causal seems implicit. — pravdsay is here ‘ to kill,’ hardly ‘ to send into exile.’ 


15 evam,i.e., asin ss. 18-14. 


16 pardnikasya pratyanikam, i.e., the kind of troops that would be suitable for use 
against the troops that the enemy would be using. Considerations mentioned in 9.2.26-28 
would seem to apply. — mitrdtavindm: we have to supply pratyantkam. The ally and 
forest troops are those ofthe enemy. — vibhimi ‘terrain which is unsuitable.’ — desika 
seems tO mean “who can point out,’ i.e., able to guide. — balasamena is proposed for 
samabalena in conformity with the reading in ss. 20, 24, 27 and29. samabala isinappro- 
priate with /abha. Similarly, balasamdd is proposed in s. 18. 

18 anyato labhamdno vd: if the king wanting troops can get them from another 
source, the sama, with whom negotiations are going on, may find the vijigisu getting more 
owerful without himself getting any gain; he might therefore prefer a smaller gain. Meyer 
in the Berechtigung) finally prefers alabhamdanah ‘if the vijigisu cannot get help from any 
other source.’ In that case, offering a smaller gain is quite inconceivable. 

20 karlavyabalah: the building up of an army is meant. — This and the last case 

are viparyayas of the second kind of sama samadhi (samat samena). 


845 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [ 7.7. 81 


the neighbouring king or when his strength is to be built up. 21 He with 
whom the bargain is made should help one with honourable intentions, other- 
wise fight. 


22 One may ask for more (gain) from a stronger, a weaker or an equal, 
if intending to strike at him when a calamity has befallen him or his subjects 
show a weakness, or if intending to ruin his undertaking that may have been 
well started or that may be sure of success, or if intending to strike at his base 
or expedition, or if he is getting more from the king against whom (the other) 
is marching. 28 The one, asked for more, may give more for the sake of 
protecting his own troops when intending to crush another’s unassailable fort 
or allied or forest troops by means of enemy troops, or when intending to make 
the enemy troops suffer losses and expenses on a distant or prolonged expedi- 
tion, or when intending to exterminate the enemy himself after growing in 
power through his troops, or when intending to take the enemy troops himself. 


24 A stronger king may bargain with a weaker king with the offer of a 
gain greater than what is equal to the troops, when intending to get him in his 
power under the pretext of the enemy to be attacked, or when {intending to 
exterminate him after exterminating the enemy, or when, after making the 
bestowal, intending to recover it (later). 25 He with whom the bargain is 
made should fight if capable of doing harm to him, otherwise make the pact. 
26 Or, he should enter into an alliance with the king to be attacked (by the 
other), or should give treasonable or alien or forest troops. 


27 A stronger king, suffering from a calamity or a weak point among 
his subjects, may bargain with a weaker one with the offer of a gain equal to 
the troops. 28 He with whom the bargain is made should fight if capable 
of doing harm to him, otherwise make the pact. 


29 A stronger king may bargain with a weaker one who is in this situa- 
tion with the offer of a gain less than what is equal to the troops. 80 He with 
whom the bargain is made should fight if capable of doing him harm, otherwise 
make the pact. 


81 The one to whom a pact is proposed and the one proposing the 
pact should first find out the motives ; then after reflecting on both sides, 
he should follow the course wherein lies his well-being. 


22 bhiyo ydceta: this seems to imply a demand for additional gain some time after 
the pact is made. — ydlavydd bhiyo labhamdno : the threat held out is, if you do not give 
me more, I can get it from your enemy and help him with troops to fight against you. 
23 paradandam ddatukaémah: Cn Cs think that para is the ydtavya. But pora as the enemy 
whose troops are borrowed is definitely better; itis these troops that are to be appropriated. 

24 jydydan vd for jydyadmsam odisfromCs. Thelatteris unlikely as the case of jyayam- 
sam vigistena labhenais discussed alreadyins. 9 — ydlavydpadegena : the idea is, the request 
for troops for fighting a ydtavya is only a pretext ; the real intention is to weaken the hina 
by taking his troops and thus get him in his power. — tydga is that of the higher gain. — 
This and the casein s. 27 are viparyayas of the third sama samdhi (hindd hinena). 

81 ddau: Cnhas ato, Cs dto. But ddau seems better. — kdranam, i.e., motives of the 
otber party. — ubhayaiah ‘on both sides ’ may refer to the two sides of the paniia and the 
panamana, or to the two alternatives of peace and war (Cn Cs), Cn remarks that paniia 
and panamana refer to the different situationsin which the vijigisu may find himself. 


DSL] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 346 


CHAPTER EIGHT 


SECTION 114 CONDUCT (PROPER) FOR THE KING ABOUT TO BE ATTACKED 
SECTION 115 DIFFERENT KINDS OF ALLIES FIT TO BE HELPED 


1 The vulnerable king, about to be attacked, should bargain with one of 
the confederates with the offer of double the gain, with the intention of 
removing the motive of the alliance or of destroying it. 2 Proposing the 
bargain, he should describe to him (likely) losses, expenses, marches, hindran- 
ces, benefits to enemies and danger to his person. 8 If he agrees, he 
should bestow wealth on him. 4 Or, making him entertain enmity towards 
the others, he should divide him (from them). 


5 When intending to make one who has made a bad start in his under- 
taking suffer further losses and expenses, or when intending to obstruct the 
success of his expedition that has begun well, or when intending to strike at 
his base or expedition, or when intending to ask for more again after becoming 
allied with the king to be attacked, one may accept a small gain in the present 
and a large gain in the future, even when difficulties of money have arisen or 
he has no confidence in that (other king). 


6 When he sees a benefit to his ally or harm to his enemy, with a conti- 
nuity of advantage to himself, or when he intends to make the king who has 
helped him before help him further, he should forgo a great gain in the present 
and seek a small gain in the future. 


” When he wants to save a king engaged in a fight with traitors or enemies 
or with a stronger king seeking to seize his kingdom, or when he wants to make 


7.8 

The two Sections are contained in ss. 1-4 and 11-34 respectively. Ss. 5-10 do not belong 
to either, but continue the topic of the last Chapter (Section 113). — ydtavyauritih: Cn Cs 
and Meyer have ‘ conduct of as well as conduct towards the ydtavya.’ Of the latter there 
is little trace. 

1 samdhikdranam ‘the reason why the alliance was made,’ viz., the gain. — dddtu- 
kadmah ‘ to take away,’i.e., to remove it. How to do this is explained in ss. 2-3 (Cn). — 
vihantukdmah: this is explained in s. 4 (Cn). 2 ganamdnah is from Cn for prapanitah 
of the mss. Cf. 7.7.81 above. Cs reads prapanitad. — ksayavyaya- etc.: cf. 7.2.2. 4 
visamuddayet: make him disagree with tke others and thus divide him from them. 


5 svdrabdhdm v4 ydtrasiddhim : strictly sudrabdhda goes with ydtrd, not with siddhi; 
this is an ekadegin compound. Meyer prefers the reading svdrabdham... -siddham and 
understands sudrabdham as an accusative of relation ‘when a thing has well begun.’ That 
is doubtful. — prahartukdmah is read asin 7.7.22 for pratihartukamah. It seems supported 
by Cn. — pratyutpannarthakrcchrah: the sense of api is to be understood with this expres- 
sion, as also with avigoostah. The two expressions do not refer to any ulterior motives like 
the earlier clauses. For the former expression, cf. 5.2.1. — This s. can hardly be regarded 
as describing the behaviour of a confederate towards the ydiavya, asin Cs. ydtavyasam- 
hiioh in one of the clauses precludes that. 

6 arthanubandham: as 9.7.14 shows, this should be regarded as an adjective to 
mitropakdram and amitropaghdtam. — kdrayitukamah: the object upakdram has to be 
understood. bhkiyah should have come before this word, not after. 

7 mitlaharena: see 7.2.14 above. — tathdvidham upakaram, i.e., the saving of himself 

when there may be need foritin the future. — sambandhdveksi : Cs reads -peksiand explains 


847 TIM SLX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [7.8.28 


(that king) render the same kind of help (to himself) or when he takes relation- 


ship into consideration, he should not accept a gain in the present and in the 
future. 


8 When after making a pact he intends to violate it, or when he intends 
to bring about the impoverishment of the enemy’s subjects or the breaking up 
of his alliance with his allies or foes, or when apprehensive of any attack by the 
enemy, he should demand a gain not received or more. 9 With respect to 
that, the other should consider the order (of preference) in the present and in 
the future. 10 By that are explained the earlier (cases). 


11 But when the enemy and the conqueror help each his respective ally, 
a special advantage (results) from an ally whose undertaking is possible or 
sound or productive or who is resolute in his undertakings or who has loyal 
subjects. 12 One with a possible undertaking starts a work capable of 
accomplishment, one with a sound undertaking (starts a work) free from 
defects, one with a productive undertaking what leads to goods results. 18 
One resolute in his undertakings does not stop without completing his work. 
14 Qne with loyal subjects eccomplishes his work even with a little help, 
since he has (already) good helpmates. 15 These (allies), when they have 
achieved their objects, easily and abundantly oblige (in return). 16 The 
reverse of these should not be helped. 


17 In case the two give help to the same individual, he who helps his 
ally or a better ally (of his) over-reaches (the other). 18 For, from the ally 
he attains his own advancement, the other (gets only) losses, expenses, marches 
and beneficence to enemies. 19 And the enemy, on achieving his object, 
becomes hostile. 


20 But when the two help the middle king, he who helps the middle 
king when he is his ally or a better ally, over-reaches (the other). 21 For, 
from the ally he attains his own advancement, the other (gets only) losses, 
expenses, marches and beneficence to enemies. 22 If the middle king, after 
being helped, turns hostile, the enemy over-reaches (the conqueror). 28 For, 


‘expecting a marriage alliance with the ydtavya.’ It is doubtful if the ydalavya comes into 
the picture at all. : 

8 pardbhiyogat: the para appears to be the enemy who is asking for troops. ° To 
prevent an attack on himself with the help of his own troops, a large amountis demanded. — 
gankamdnah : a vd after this seems necessary. — aprdptam implies demand for immediate 
payment of what wasagreed. 9 tamis merely an accusative of reference, * with reference 
to him.’ — kramam, i.e., what would be best to doin the present andinfuture. 10 piirve 
refers to the cases Of ss. 5-7. 


12 drabhate in the indicative is from Cn for Grabheta ; that isin keeping with the verbs 
in the following ss. 16 pratilomdis againfrom Cn. For pratilome of the mss. we should 
expect pratilomye. 

17 mitrataram: though an ally of both, he is more friendly towards one of them. 
19 gatruh: this is the mitra or mitratara of the other party. — vaigunyam has the sense 
of * hostility.’ Cf. viguna in s. 22 below. 


7.8.24 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 348 


he obtains (as an ally) the enemy of the middle king, who had made exertions, 
(but) who has now deserted (him) and come to him with a common goal. 


24 By that is explained help to the neutral king. 


25 In the matter of giving a portion of one’s troops to the middle or 
neutral king, he who gives troops that are breve, skilled in the use of weapons, 
able to put up with troubles or loyal, is over-rcached. 26 The opposite kind 
over-reaches. 


27 Where, however, the troops, when sent, can accomplish that object 
as well as others, he should give any of the hereditary, hired, banded, allied 
or forest troops, when the place and time are known, or alien and forest troops, 
when the place is distant and time long. 


28 But if he were to think of a king, ‘ On achiving his object, he will 
appropriate my troops, or will camp them among alien or forest troops or in an 
unsuitable region or season, or might render them unserviceable,’ then he 
should not help him on the pretext that his troops are engaged (elsewhere). 
29 If, however, he has necessarily to be given help in this manner, he should 
give him troops able to put up with that occasion (only). 30 And till the 
end (of the campaign) he should get them to encamp and fight (in another 
place ?) and guard them from the calamities of an army. 31 And when the 
other has achieved his object, he should, under some pretext, get them removed 
fromhim. 82 Or, he should give him treasonable, alien or forest troops. 33 
Or, making a treaty with the king to be attacked, he should over-reach him. 


84 For, when the gain is equal there should be peace, when unequal 
war is considered (desirable) for the equal, weaker and stronger kings, 
Thus have peace and war becn described. 


23 krlapraydsam etc. : itis the vijigigu who had made the effort to help the madhyama ; 
but since thelatter has turned hostile (viguna), he has become his enemy (madhysmdmitram); 
so he deserts the madhyama (apasria) and makes common cause with his usual enemy, 
who thus scores Overhim. ekdrtha is hostility towards the madhyama. 

25 Cnspecifically adds that this does not apply to troops lent to one’s allies. 


27 dandah prahiiah etc.: the mss. read pratihatah. One may understand that the 
troops given are repulsed, being cowardly etc., and so better troops are demanded of him. 
He may give such, if more objects can be achieved. But in the text there is no mention 
of a fresh demand or a demand for better troops. The idea is simply that when a 
number of objects can be attained by sending troops, good troops may be given. Thisis 
an exception to s. 25 as shown by tu. — tam vd cartham: the vd is unnecessary. — 
upalabdha * acquainted with ’ (Cn) ; rather ‘known’. 

28 aphalam kurydt : cf. 9.2.11, which shows that ‘ might deprive it of the reward due 
after the enemy’s defeat’ (Cn Cs) is notlikely. Whatis meant is rendering them unservice- 
able or useless for fighting by neglecting to take proper care of them, — -degena nainam 
from Cs is quite necessary for the sense. 29 tatkdlasaham may mean ‘capable of fighting 
in that season only ’ or ‘ enabling him to tide over that occasion.’ Meyer has ‘raised at that 
time only ’*,i.e., not seasoned. 30 vdsayed etc. : it seems some such word asanyatra (i.c., 
at a place away from where the other king’s troops are operating) Or dsannam (near himself) 
has dropped out. — balavyasanas are enumerated in 8.5 below. 

34 The stanza forms the conclusion of the discussion in the last Chapter, the two 
Sectionsin this Chapter being only special cases of the Sectionin that Chapter. — xukiah 

samdhivikramah : the plurals are from Cn Cs, supported by the title of Section 113. x 


849 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [ 7.9.16 


CHAPTER NINE 


SECTION 116 PACTS FOR (SECURING) AN ALLY, MONEY, LAND AND 
AN UNDERTAKING 


(i) Pact for an Ally (ii) Pact for Money 


1 When marching after making a pact, of the gains of an ally, money 
and land, the gain of each later one is preferable to that of each earlier one. 
2 For, an ally and money come from the gain of land, (and) an ally from the 
gain of money. 8 Or, that gain, which when secured helps in securing one 
of the remaining two (is preferable). 


4 ‘Let us two secure an ally each,’ this and the like is an equal pact. 
5 ‘You secure an ally (I, one of the other two),’ this and the like is an 


unequal pact. 6 By securing a special gain in these two (cases), there is over- 
reaching. 


7 In an equal pact, however, he who secures an excellent ally or an ally 
in the ally’s difficulty, over-reaches. 8 For, troubles produce firmness in 
friendship. 


9 Even in the case of an ally’s difficulty, (when there is a choice) between 
one who is constant but not under control and one inconstant but under 
control, ‘ The constant, though not under control, is preferable ; for he, though 
not helping, does not do harm,’ say the teachers. 10 ‘No,’ says Kautilya 
11 One under control, though inconstant, is preferable. 12 As long as he 
helps, he becomes an ally; for, the characteristic of an ally is conferring 
benefit. 


18 Even between two allies under control, (when there is a choice) 
between one rendering abundant help but inconstant and one rendering small 
help but constant, ‘ The one rendering abundant help, though inconstant, is 
preferable ; one rendering abundant help, though inconstant, gives great 
help in a short time and provides against large items of expenditure,’ say the 
teachers. 14 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 15 The constant one, though giving 
small help, is preferable. 16 The inconstant, though capable of great help, 


7.9 
Section 116 is spread over the four Chapters 9 to 12. 


4 ivam caham ca mitram: the same king is not sought as an ally by both ; each seeks 
a different king as his ally. — tvam mitram: we have to supply aham hiranyam bhiimim od. 

7% sampannam, i.e., possessed of mitrasampad asin 6.1.12. — mitrakrcchre, i.e., when the 
king whose alliance is sought isin difficulties (Cn Cs). Meyer has ‘ when the vijigtsuis in 
need of anally.’ Thisis unlikely ; the dpad in the next s. is not that of the conqueror, for 
the question of his own firmness in friendship is irrelevant when it is a matter of scoring 
over the rival. 


12 Russ. compares Sisupdlacadha, 2-37 : upakarira "rind samdhir na mitrendpakdrind, 
upakardpaka-au hi laksyam laksanam etayoh.’ 

18 mahabhogam: bhoga ‘enjoyment (of his resources)’ conveys the sense Of help 
received from him. 16 wupakdrabhayad: the fear is that he may really have to give the 
help expected of him. 


7.9.17] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 350 


deserts through fear of (having to render) help or after giving help strives to 
take it back. 17 The constant one, giving a small help, rendering the small 
help continuously, renders great help over a long period of time. 


18 As between a big ally mobilising slowly and a small ally mobilising 
quickly, ‘ The big ally, mobilising slowly, gives great prestige, and when he 
does mobilise, he secures the object,’ say the teachers. 19 ‘No,’ says 
Kautilya. 20 A small ally mobilising quickly is preferable. 21 The small 
ally mobilising quickly does not allow the time for action to pass, and because 
of his weakness becomes fit to be used at one’s will, not so the other, with an 
extensive territory. ? 


22 As between dispersed troops and troops not under control, ‘ Dispersed 
troops can be collected together again, being under control,’ say the teachers. 
28 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 24 Troops not under control are bettcr. 25 For, 
uncontrolled troops can be breught under control by conciliation and other 
means ; the other (kind), being engaged in their work, cannot be collected 
together. 


26 As between an ally giving the help of men and one giving the help of 
money, ‘ The ally giving the help of men is preferable ; the ally giving the help 
of men gives prestige and when he mobilises, he achieves the object,’ say the 
teachers. 27 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 28 The ally giving the help of money 
is preferable. 29 For, the use of money is made at all times, only some- 
times that of troops. 30 And with money, troops and other objects of desire 
are obtained. 


81 As between an ally giving the help of money and one giving the help 
of land, * The one giving the help of moncy, being possessed of mobility, 
enables one to meet all expenses,’ say the teachers. 82 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 
83 That an ally and money come from the acquisition of land has been stated 
before. 84 Therefore, the ally giving the help of land is preferable. 


18 gurusamuttham ‘heavy to rise,’ i.e., taking a long time to get his troops ready. — 
2 satapd, as Mcyer points out, refers to prestige among the kings. — Ss. 20-23 are missing 
in M1 showing thatit was notthe exemplar for G1. — prakrstabhaumam : Cs renders prakrsta 
by ‘clistant’, Meyer by ‘ extensive, wide-flung.’ The latter appears better in the present 
context. Cf., however, 7.6.8. ‘The taddiita form of bhauma has little significance. 


22 viksiplasainyam : though the discussion is about allies, and we can easily supply 
mitram after this, the ss. that follow consider tiie question of troopsas such. The fact that 
the ally’s armies are primarily meant can be easily understood. viksipia ‘ scattered,’ i.e., 
dispersed in more than one placc, not necessarily on different missions (as Cs hasit). Cf. 
9.2.11. 25 kdryavydsaktam: the karya scems to refer to the normal peaceful avocations 
of the soldiers, viksepa thus almost amounts to disbandment. 


29 yogah ‘union with’ refers to the use to which it can be put. 


31 There can beno doubt that gatimativat from Cnis the correct reading. The question 
ofthe ally’s prudence (matimativat, which Meyer prefers) is hardly relevant. Of course, itis 
hirany% that is mobile, the ally only secondarily so. 83 purastdt: ins. 2 above. 


351 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [7.9.48 


35 When help in men (from two allies) is equal, valour, ability to put up 


with troubles, loyalty or the gain of all troops from the side of the ally 
becomes a special advantage. 


36 When the help in money is equal, getting the things asked for, plenti- 
fulness, smallness of exertion and continuity become a special advantage. 


37 With respect to that, the following occurs : 


88 <A perfect ally is said to have six qualities, namely, constant, 


under control, quickly mobilising, hereditary, great and not given to 
double-dealing. 


39 One, that is protected and that protects out of love, without 


(consideration of) money, with relationship grown since old times, is called 
the constant ally. 


40 One under control is said to be three-fold, helping with all, with 
various or with great resources ; giving help on one side, on both sides 
and on all sides is another (three-fold ally under control). 


41 One who, whether receiving or giving (help), lives by doing 
harm to (one’s) enemies, and is possessed of a fort or forest as a place of 
retreat, is a constant ally, (but) not under control. 


42 He who, when engaged in war with another or even when only in 


a light calamity, makes a pact for help, is an ally under control, but not 
constant. 


48 Now one related by a common objective, helpful and never 
changing, is the ally endowed with the nature of an ally, not given to 
double-dealing in times of trouble. 


85 sarvabalalabhah may be ‘ getting all types of troops’ or ‘ getting all the troops the 
ally has.’ — mitrakuldd: Sula does not seem to have much significance. 


86 sdlalyam ca from Cn Cs is obviously preferable to sdtatydc ca. 


87 Itis possible that this passage in ss. 37-49 is not genuine, like the other passage 
(7.6.14-15) introduced with the words tatraitad bhavati. It is not the usual practice of this 
text to introduce quotations in this manner. The stanzas have the appearance of being 
explanatory comments on expressions used in the text, which, however, do not stand in 
need of much explanation. 


38 This is a repetition of 6.1.12. 


40 For the terms see 7.16.10-15 below. — aparam: we have to understand trividham 


vasyam. 
41 durgdatavyopasari: cf. 7.7.2. 
42 upakdraya: a pact for mtualaid seems meant. 


43 It is proposed to read ekarthendtha sambaddham for ekarthenarthasambandham of 
the mss. One arthain the latter is superfluous. For the expression, cf. 7.8.28, also 9.2.17, 


which make ekdrthanartha-, (i.e., with artha and anartha common) of Cn Cs less likely, 
though possible in itself. 


71.9. 44 J KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 852 


44, The ally is permanent because of (exclusive) feelings of friend- 
ship, fickle because of (his feelings) being common to the enemy, 
indifferent when not interested in either, with feelings for both when 
interested in the two. 


45 That ally, (really) an enemy of the conqueror, who has become 
a buffer (between two strong kings), does not help, being not placed under 
obligations or being unable to help. 


46 The ally who, (though) dear to the enemy or deserving to be 
protected or honoured by him or related to him, gives help, is common to 
the enemy. 


47 The (ally) with an extensive territory, contented, strong and 
indolent beeomes indifferent, (also) one disrespected because of a calamity. 


48 One who, because of his weakness, is subservient to the pro- 
sperity of the enemy and the leader and is not treated as an enemy by 
either, should be known as (the ally) with feelings for both. 


49 He, who would remain negligent about an ally who had deserted 
with or without reason and who has returned with or without reason, 
embraces death. 


44 The explanation of Cnis followed in the first half, understanding asddhdranat (with 
mitrabhdvat) in the description of a dhruva ally and understanding mitrabhdvat (after 
Satrusddharanat)in that ofa calaally. Inthesecond half, Cn understands uddsinam as only 
a description of the ubhayabhadvin. However, not only in this stanza but also in 47 and 48 
uddsina seems distinguished from ubhayabhavin. Meyer translates this s. ‘an ally, firm 
because of his friendly feelings, but vacillating because he has common interests with the 
enemy, indifferent to neither of the two, is ubhayabhdavin.’ That the ally can bedhruva and 
cala at the same time is doubtfil. 


45 amitram seems used in the neuter because it isin apposition to mitram. — antar- 
dhitam gatam: cf.7.18.25. Theideais, an enemy of the conqueror, finding himself between 
two strong kings andin the position ofa buffer to the vijigigu, becomes hisally. Such anally, 
of course, is unhelpful. — It is proposed to read an avagraha with nivigtam corresponding 
to’saklamin Cs. With nivigtam, Cs has ‘ resolved on helping, butincapable of doing s0,’ 
which seems little likely. upakdre anivista may be understood in the sense of ‘ not placed 
under obligations’; cf. 7.18.37 for the idiom. Being an amiira, he had not been helped 
by the vijigisu before. 


46 Itis proposed to read pijyam sambaddham. With piijyasambandham, Cn Cs explain 
* related to one worthy of honour (by the vijigisu himself).’ It seems, however, that in view 
of vd, parasya is to be construed with these words, in which case the reading proposed 
would be definitely better. 


47 prakrstabhaumam : see s. 21 above. — Cn Cs understand each single term in the 
first half as making a type of uddsina. — vyasandd: the calamity seems to be that of the 
vijigisu. Cnhas‘in the ally’s calamity ’; for that oyasane would be expected. Cs also has 
“because of the ally’s vice.’ 

48 (Cn Cs regard ubhayabhdavin as the name for all types mentioned in ss. 44-48. It 
seems, howcver,that ubhayabhdavin is restricted only to this s., except for a different descrip- 
tionins. 44. Cf. 7.18.84 ff., where ubhayabhdavin is not mentioned at all. In fact, 7.18.29 
makes the present discussion superfluous and hence suspect. It also seems clear that the 
stanzas are derived from different sources. 


49 kdaranakdrana-: a v4 is implied between kdrana and akdrana. Most mss. show 
kdranakarana- ‘when a cause has not arisen,’ which is not happy. Cf. 7.6.23 ff. 


358 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [ 7.10. 11 


50 As between a small but quick gain and a large gain after a long time, 

‘The small but quick gain is preferable, if in consonance with the undertaking, 

the place and the time,’ say the teachers. 51 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 

52 A large gain after a long time is preferable, if not liable to disappear 
. (and if) of the nature of a seed; in the reverse case, the former. 


58 On thus perceiving the presence of excellence in a gain or a 
portion of a gain, which is definite, he should march after making pacts 
with confederates, being intent on achieving his own object. 


CHAPTER TEN 


SECTION 116 (Continued) 
(iii) Pact for Land 


1 ‘Let us two obtain land,’ this is a pact for land. 


2 Of the two, he who obtains land possessed of | Ee when need — 
for it has arisen, over-reaches. 


8 In case there is an equal acquisition of excellent land, he who obtains 
land after attacking a strong king over-reachers. 4 For, he secures acquisi- 
tion of land, weakening of the enemy and prestige. 5 It is true that in 
obtaining land from a weak king, there is ease. 6 But the gain of land is 
poor and his neighbour, (who was) an ally, becomes an enemy. 


7 In case the strength (of kings overthrown) ‘is equal, he who obtains 
land after uprooting a firmly entrenched enemy, over-reaches. 8 For, the 
acquisition of a fort brings about the protection of his own and and the 
repulsion of enemies and forest tribes. 


9 In case of acquisition of land from a moving enemy, (there is) special 
advantage from a weak neighbour. 10 For, (land) with a weak neighbour 
has its well-being and security quickly augmented. 11 Land with a strong 
neighbour is the opposite of this and becomes ruinous to the treasury and the 
army. 


50 This s. and the following two-ss. refer to hiranyasamdhi. 52 bijasadharmd, i.e., 
yielding abundant gains in the future. — viparyaye, i.e., if it is vinipdtt and not bijasa- 
dharmda. 

58 dhruve is to be construed with ldbhe as well as labhamse. 


7.10 . 

2 sampannam, i.e., possessed of the excellences of a janapeda asin 6.1.8. 

4, $Satrukarganam: Satru is the strong king of the last s., whose land he has conquered. 
6 tatsdmaniah, i.e., the neighbour of the weak king whose overthrow has brought the 
vijigisu into contiguity with him; so by theory, he becomes the vigigisu’s enemy, when 
formerly he washisally, being one state away: 


7 sthitagatru is clearly one who has a fort ; so ccldmitra is an enemy without a fort. 
8 amitrdtavi- from Cn Cs is quite necessary. ‘Cf. 1.18.15. 


9 $akya i is obviously paraphrased by durbala. 10 bhaoatiin the singularis necessary; 
bhiimih is used in the singular throughout. 


7.10.12] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 354 


12 As between excellent land with permanent enemies and one with 
few excellences without permunent enemies, ‘The excellent land with per- 
manent enemies is preferable; for, excellent land enables one to secure 
treasury and army, and these two destroy enemies,’ say the teachers. 13 
‘No,’ says Kautilya. 14 In acquiring land with permanent enemies, there is 
a greater acquisition of enemirs. 15 And a permanent enemy remains an 
enemy whether he is obliged or injured; the impermanent enemy, however, 
ceases to be so through obligations (conferred on him) or by desisting from 
injury (to him). 


16 The land, whose frontiers have many forts (beyond them) and are 
never devoid of robber-bands or Mleccha forest tribes, is one with permanent 
enemies ; in the reverse case, it is one without permanent enemies. 


17 As between a small proximate land and a big land that is distant, 
the small proximate land is preferable. 18 For, it is easy to obtain, to 
protect and to get it to rescue (oneself). 19 The distant one is the opposite 
of this. 


20 Even of two distant lands, as between land held by troops and one 
held by itself, the one held by itself is preferable. 21 For, it is held by the 
treasury and the army produced within itself. 22 That held by troops is 
the opposite of this, (being merely) a station for troops. 


28 As between acquisition of land from a foolish king and from a wise 
king, the acquisition of land from a foolish king is preferable. 24 For, it is 
easy to obtain and protect and cannot be taken back. 25 That from a wise 
king is the opposite of this, being loyal (to him). 


26 As between an enemy fit to be harassed and an enemy fit to be 
exterminated, acquisition of land from an enemy fit to be exterminated is 
preferable. 27 For, the king fit to be exterminated, being without support 
or with a weak support, is deserted by his subjects when, on being attacked, 
he wishes to flee taking with him the treasury and the army, not the one fit to 
be harassed, entrenched in a fort or supported by an ally. 


28 Even of two kings entrenched in a fort, one in a land-fort and the 
other in a river-fort, the acquisition of land from one in a land-fort is preferable. 
29 For, a land-fort is easy to besiege, to storm and to assault suddenly and 
does not allow the enemy to slip out. 80 A river-fort, however, causes 


16 mlecchatavibhih: mlecchais an adjective to atavi, not anindependent substantive. 


18 ‘abhisdrayitum from the causal of abhi-sr ‘to make (the land) go to the rescue of’; © 
as Cs makes clear, ‘to make it a refuge in times of distress.’ 

22 dandasthadnom, i.e., a sort of a place for the camping of the army. 

26 pidaniya: see 6.2.16. } 

29 avamarda is described in 13.4. — anihsrdvi- with the visarga as in Csis to be pre- 
ferred. 30 udakarn ca patavyam ‘ there is water fit for drinking * (Cn Cs Meyer); this does 
not have the look of being a hardship for the vijigisu, whic is what is expected to be men- 
tioned; the whole river could not be enclosed in thefort to prevent the vijigisu from 
using its water. pdlavyam can also mean ‘to be. guarded’, but that seems less likely. 


855 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY maul 2. 


double exertion,.and- water has to be drunk and it yields livelihood to the 
enemy. 


81 As between an enemy in a river-fort and an enemy in a mountain- 
fort, acquisition of land from one in a river-fort is preferable. 82 For, 
a river-fort can be conquered by means of elephants, bridges of wooden posts, 
embankments and boats, itis of varying depth and its water can be made to 
flow away. 838 A mountain-fort, however, is easy to protect, difficult to lay 
siege to, difficult to climb ; and even if one (part) is breached, the destruction 
of all does not follow ; and (there can be) throwing down of rocks and trees on 
those doing great damage. 


34 As between those who fight in water and those who fight on land, 
the acquisition of land from those who fight in water is preferable. 85 For, 
those fighting in water are restricted as to the place and time (of fighting) ; 
fighters on land, however, can fight in all places and in all seasons. 


36 As between fighters in trenches and fighters in the open, acquisition 
of land from trench-fighters is preferable. 27 For, trench-fighters fight with 
both trenches and weapons, those fighting in the open, with weapons alone. 


88 The (king) conversant with the science of politics, acquiring 


land from kings like these, secures a special advantage over confederates 
and enemies. 


CHAPTER ELEVEN 


SECTION 116 (Continued) 
(iiia) Pact for Unsettled Land 


1 ‘Let us two settle waste land,’ this is a pact for unsettled land. 


2 Of the two, he who causes settlement on land possessed of excellences 
as mentioned, when the need for it has arisen, over-reaches (the other). 


Perhaps pdrayitavyam ‘to be crossed’ is to be read? — oyltikaram perhaps because of fish 
in it or because supplies can come along the river. 

$2 stambhasamkrama ‘a bridge of pillars.’ Cf. 10.2.14. Cn Cs understand planks 
fixed on pillars (in the river-bed). Tree-steams thrown across rivers may also appear 
possible. — avasrdvyudakam : cf. 18.4.9. 88 bhagne caikasmin ‘ when a part of the forti- 
fications is breached’ (Meycr) appears preferable to ‘when some warriors are. killed by 
arrows etc.’ (Cn Cs). — duruparodhi: it scems that avarodha and uparodha both mean 
* a siege,’ though the formeris favouredin 12.5.9 and 18.38.37. 

84 nimna obviously means ‘ water’; cf. 2.3.1. 


37 khdlena gastrena ca, i.e., they require not only weapons but also trenches, and there 
may be no time to dig trenches before the fight begins. That would be a handicap to the 
fighters. : 

7.11 

1 anavasita is ‘unoccupied, untenanted.’ Cf. avasita in 8.8.17. The discussion in 
this Chapter is part of bhimisamdhi, and is about qualities necessary in land to be acquired 
for fresh settlement. 

2 pratyupasthitarthah : Cn Cs explain ‘who has all the necessary materials ready at 
hand for the settlement.’ Itseems better, however, to stick to the meaning ‘when a need 


for it has arisen’ asin 7.10.2 above. The need might arise when there is excess population, 
part of which is to be shifted. Cf. 2.1. ae 7 


7.11.3] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 356 


8 Even in that case, as between a dry tract and land abounding in water, 
a small land abounding in water is preferable to a large dry tract, because of 
the continousness and fixity of produce. 


4 Even between two dry tracts, one with plentiful earlier and later crops, 
with crops ripening with a little rain, with undertakings not held up, is 


preferable. 


5 Even between two tracts abounding in water, one with sowings of 
grains is preferable to one not conducive to the sowing of grains. 


6 In the case of the smallness or largeness of these two, a large tract, 
(though) unfavourable to crops, is preferable to a small one favourable to 
crops. 7 For, in a large tract, there are plants growing on land and those 
growing in water. 8 And undertakings like the fort and so on are carried out 
in plenty. 9 For, the qualities of land are such as are-contrived by man. 


10 As between the benefit of mines and that of grains, the benefit of 
mines brings the treasury into being, that of grains brings the treasury and the 
magazine into being. 11 For, the undertaking of works like the fort and so 
on is dependent on grains. 12 Or, the benefit of mines, with an extensive 
sale (of their produce), is preferable. 


18 ‘As between the usefulness of a material forest and an elephant forest, 
the use of a material forest is the source of all undertakings and able to secure 
plenty of stores, the reverse is the use of an elephant forest,’ say the teachers. 
14 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 15 It is possible to plant many material forests 
in many tracts of land, not so an elephant forest. 16 For, the destruction 
of an enemy’s forces is principally dependent on elephants. 


17 As between the use of a water-route and that of a land-route, the use 
of a water-routc is not constant, the use of a land-route is constant. 


18 As between land with people disunited and one with people in bands, 
that with people disunited is preferable. 19 One with people disunited 
becomes easy to enjoy, not susceptible to the instigations of others, is, however, 
unable to bear difficulties. 20 One with people in bands is the reverse of this, 
full of danger when there is a revolt. 


3 sthalam ‘ which gets water only from the rains’ (Cn). — audakam ‘having a river 
with flowing water’ (Cn). 

4 alpavarsapakam : it is not necessary to read karsa or karma for varsa in the com- 
pound, as Meyer proposes to do. Russ. adopts alpakarsapdkam from Meyer. — asakta 
* not sticking,’ i.e., not obstructed, not held. up. 

10 khani- etc. ; the reference to khani, vana and vanikpatha (in ss. 10-17) hereis from 
the point of view of the land, whether it is better to have a mine or fields on the land and so 
on. Their intrinsic merits are considered in 7.12.6-28. 12 mahdvisayavikrayah, i.c., for 
whose sale there are many customers (Cn). Cf. 7.12.25. 

16 hastipradhdno etc. : cf. 2.2.13. 

18 $renimanusyd : the grenit is a compact group following the same profession ; some 
of the groups followed the profession of arms when occasion requiredit. Itis these that are 
meant here. 19 andpatsahd: Cf: 7.5.86. : 


357 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [ 7.11.30 


21 In the matter of settling the four varnas on that (land), one consisting 
mostly of lower varnas is preferable because of its capacity to yield all (kinds of) 
benefits, one with farmers (being preferable) because of plentifulness and 
definiteness of agriculture, one with cowherds because of its starting agriculture 


and other undertakings, one with rich traders because of the benefit of stores 
of goods and loans. 


22 Of the excellences of land, affording shelter is best. 


22 As between land with the support of a fort and one with the support 
of men, the one with the support of men is preferable. 24 For, a kingdom 


is that which has men. 25 Without men, like a barren cow, what could it 
yield ? 


26 But when intending to acquire land, the settlement of which would 
entail heavy losses and expenses, he should first make a bargain with a 
purchaser, who is weak, or not of royal blood, or without energy, or without 


a party, or unjustly behaved, or vicious, or trusting in fate, or who does what- 
ever pleases him. 


27 For, a weak king, (though) of royal blood, settling on land, the 
settlement of which entails heavy losses and expenses, perishes with his 
subjects bound to him by ties, because of the losses and expenses. 28 One 
not of royal blood, (though) strong, is deserted by his subjects not bound by 
ties to him, through ‘fear of losses and expenses. 


29 One without energy, however, not using force even when possessed 
of troops, is broken along with his troops because of the losses and expenses. 


30 One without a party, though possessed of a treasury, does not achieve 


anything, being deficient in conferring the benefit (on the land) of losses and 
expenses, 


21  cdturvarnyanivese is from Cn; -abhinivegein the reading of the mss. is not likely. aaa 
It is proposed to read karsakavati, corresponding to goraksaka- and vanik- in the following 
clauses; these are the practitioners of the three-fold vdrifd. Cnseems to have read karsana-, 
goraksya- and vdnijya-, which refer to varttd directly. But a reference to the inhabitants 
seems betterin connection with cdlurvarnyanivesa, though the four varnas as such are not 
mentioned. — rna: loans by the traders to the state appear also a possibleidea. 


23 purusdpdasrayad ‘having the support of men, ’ i.e., with plenty of men to sustain 
the kingdom, and ensure its security. 25 gauh: there may bea pun on the word, cow 
and ‘earth’; cf. s. 45 below. 


26 pirvam eva: the idea is, the land would be seized from the purchaser by the 
vijigisu after the former is broken in the attempt. Ifthe land remains undeveloped, the 
Only gain of the vijigisu would be the sale-price. 


27 sagandhabhih: this means in effect that the subjects are attached to the dynasty 
forgenerations. Cf. 1.8.16 ff. 


29 dandais‘ army ’as wellas ‘ force.’ 
30 ksayzvyrydnugraha-: the ‘benefit’ of ksaya and vyaya is conferred on the land, 


which only then yields fruits ; and cyaya etc. cannot be made in the absence of people (party) 


to support him in the undertaking. — na kutascit prépnoti, i,e., does not get anything 
out of the land. | 


7.11. 81] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 858 


81 ‘The unjustly behaved would cause even settled land to be laid waste. 
82 How could he cause settlement on unsettled land? 388 By that is 
explained the vicious king. . 


84 One trusting in fate, being devoid of human endeavour, perishes, 
because he does not start undertakings or his undertakings have miscarried. 


85 One doing whatever pleases him does not achieve anything. 36 
And he is the worst-of them all. 87 ‘One undertaking any work whatever, 
may perchance find a weak point of the conqueror,’ say the teachers. 88 ‘As 
(he may find) a weak point, so he may meet with destruction as well,’ says 
Kautilya. 

89 In case he does not find (any of) these, he should settle the land as we 
shall explain in ‘ securing the enemy in the rear.’ 


40 This is a pact for fixing. 


41 When asked by astrong king to sell land which is possessed of excel- 
lences or which can be seized (by him), he should give it after making a 
pact. 42 This is an open pact. 48 When asked by an equal, he should 
give after considering grounds for doing so: ‘ The land is easily recoverable 
by me or under my control ; being tied to it, the enemy will come under my 
control; or, through the sale of the land, I shall get an ally and money, 
which will strengthen my undertakings.’ 44 By that is explained a weaker 
king purchasing (land from him). 


45 Aking knowing the science (of politics), acquiring in this menner 
an ally, money and land with men and without men, over-reaches the 
confederates. . 


87 The hi shows that the dcdryas are justifying a view which does not agree that 
mcanakart is the worst of these. We have obviously a quotation here from an early 

source discussing this point. 868 ‘There is a little sarcasm here. 

89 padrsnigrdhopagrahe, i.e., as described in 7.16.16 below. 

40 abhihita * spoken ’ seems rather to have reference to ‘ fixing ’ or fastening the land 
on some One through the treaty. Russ. renders by ‘ with pre-conditions.’ 

41 For ddeyd, cf. 9.4.5. 42  anibhria, i.e., Open or public; there is no intention to 
over-reach the strong king. 48 mitrahiranyalabhoh : an ally is secured in the sama king, 
and the price realised from the sale is the hiranya that is secured. 


359 THE SCX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [7.12.11 


CHAPTER TWELVE 
SECTION 116 (Continued) 


(iv) Pact for an Undertaking 


1 ‘Let us two build a fort,’ is a pact for an undertaking. 


2 Of the two, he who causes a fort to be built that is nature-made, 
unassailable, (and) requires small expenses in making, over-reaches. 8 Even 
among them, of a land-fort, a river-fort and a mountain-fort, each later one 
is preferable to each earlier one. 


4 Of two water-works, one with naturally flowing water is preferable to 
one into which water has to be brought. 5 Even among two water-works 
with naturally flowing water, one with an extensive region for sowing is 
preferable. 


6 Of two material forests, he who fells (for his use) a material forest, 
which is large, has forest land rich in materials of high value, is on the border 
of his territory and is watered by a river, over-reachers. 7 For, that which 
is watered by a river has easy means of livelihood and becomes a refuge in 
times of trouble. 


8 Of two elephant forests, he who raises an elephant forest, with many 
brave animals, with weak neighbours, causing endless trouble (to enemies), 
on the border of his territory, over-reaches. 9 Even in that case, ‘ As between 
one with many but dull (elephants) and one with few but brave, the one with 
few but brave clephants is preferable ; for, on the brave depends the fight ; 
the few brave rout the many dull, (and) those routed become the destroyers 
of their own troops,’ say the teachers. 10 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 11 The 
many dull are preferable ; because of their use in the army, they carry out 
many tasks, become the refuge of their own troops in battle and unassailable 


a6 12 


1 toam cadham ca etc.: each separately proposes to build his own fort. — Other types 
of karma such as setubandha would be covered by similar pacts. 


8 For forts of different kinds, see 2.3.1-2. 


4 dhdryodaka refers principally to reservoirs for storing rain-water (Cs).- Cf. 2.1.20 
for these tcrms. 


6 chedayati apparently refers to the cutting of trees which is the prime use of these 
forests. We expect, however, a reference to the laying out of these forests rather than to 
their cutting. 

8 durbalapratioesam : this is because if the neighbouring king is strong, he might seize 
the elephant forest. Cs has ‘ where there is less comfortable residence than in the fixed 
stables,’ which seems doubtful. — anantdcaklegi : the troubles would evidently be caused 
to neighbouring kingdoms. Cs has ‘ with numerous exits and entrances’ which again is 
doubtful. Meyer proposes -avakledi ‘having a perennial source of moisture, i.e., water,’ 
which also is unconvincing. Russ. adopts Meyer’s -‘ledi * possessing considerable humi- 
dity.’” 9 kuntha primarily means ‘dull, indolent’ and does not quite meen ‘craven, 
cowardly,’ though it is replaced by agira in the sequel. 11 skandhaviniyogdt: the word 
skandha seems to mean ‘troops, armed forces’ as in 12.83.16; 12,4.20; cf. skandhdodra 
*an enclosure for troops, a camp.’ 


7. 12. 12) KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 360 


and frightful to the enemies. 12 For, to the many dull, bravery can be im- 
parted by means of training, but numerousness cannot be created at all in 


the few brave. 


18 Of two mines, he who causes a mine to be opened, yielding plenty 
of valuable ores, with roads not inaccessible, and operated with small expendi- 
ture, over-reaches. 14 Even in.that case, as between few things of high 
value and plenty of things of small value, ‘ The few things of high value are to 
be preferred, for, diamonds, rubies, pearls, corals and gold and silver ores 

swallow up the many objects of small value by their excessively high value,’ 

say the teachers. 15 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 16 A purchaser for an object 
of high value is rare and found after a long time, while there are plenty for 
objects of small value because of a constant demand. 


17 But that is explained the trade route. 


18 Even as to that, ‘ As between a water-route and a land-route, the 
water-route is preferable, involving little expenditure and exertion and yielding 
plenty of goods,’ say the teachers. 19 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 20 The 
water-route is restricted in movements, not usable at all times, a source of 

_great dangers and without remedies; the land-route is the opposite of this. 


21 In the case of a water-way, however, as between a route along the 
shore and one on high sea, the route along the coast is preferable because of 
the large number of ports, or a river-route, because of perennial use and because 
the dangers in it can be withstood. 


22 Even in the case of a land-route, ‘The route to the Himavat is 
preferable to the southern. route, for the commodities of elephants, horses, 
perfumes, ivory, skins, silver and gold are of very high value,’ say the teachers. 
28 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 24 (These) with the exception of the commodities 
of blankets, skins and horses, besides the commodities of: conch-shells, 
diamonds, rubies, pearls and gold are more plentiful on the southern route. 


25 Even in the case of the route to the south, the trade-route with many 
mines, with commodities of high value, with well-secured movements, or 
requiring little expenditure and exertion, is preferable, or one with commodities 
of small value, with an extensive scope (for sale). 


14 grasate * swallows up ’,i.e., surpassesin usefulness. 16 sdlatydd,i.e., because there 
art always customers for them. 

18 prabhjltapanyodayah ‘in which there is the securing of many commodities,’ appears 
better than ‘in which great profit (udaya) is secured on commodities.’ 20 prakrstabhaya- 
yonth : sea-yoyage is primarily thought of. 

21 samydnapatha is clearly voyage on the high seas. Cf. 2.28.1. — apattana is 
read in conformity with earlier wee 2.6.8 ; Air etc. cece 

_ 22 daksinépatha ‘ route to the south ’ is not the name of a region here. The stand- 
point is that of a person in the midlands, neither a southerner nor a northerner. 24 Appa- 
renbyicrede to the south was more developed in Kautilya’s days than in those of the earlier 

25 prasiddha- seems to have the sense of ‘ well-secured,’ not infested by robbers, etc. 
It may algo mean ‘ well-known,’ i.e., well-established. — prabhilayigayah ; see 7.11.12, 


361 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [7.18.1 


26 By that are explained the trade-routes to the east and the west. 


27 Even in that case, as between a wheel-track and a foot-path, the 
wheel-track.is preferable, as it enables undertakings on a large scale, or the 
path for donkeys and camels in conformity with the place and time. 28 By 
these is explained the ‘shoulder’ path. 


29 The flourishing of an enemy’s undertaking is decline for the 
leader, advancement in the reverse case ; when the course of undertakings 


is equal, that should be known by the conqueror as his own stable 
condition. 


80 Smallness of profit and excess of expenditure is decline, advance- 
ment in the reverse case; equality of income and expenditure in under- 
takings should be known as the stable condition for himself. 


81 Therefore, from among a fort and so on, he should secure an 
undertaking requiring little expenditure and yielding large profit and get 
a special advantage. Thus have been described pacts for undertakings. 


CHAPTER THIRTEEN 


SECTION 117 CONSIDERATIONS REGARDING THE KING ATTACKING 
IN THE REAR 


1 Of the conqueror and the enemy, who, joining together, intend 
attacking in the rear two enemies who have attacked their enemies, he, who 
attacks {n the rear a king rich in powers, over-reaches (the other). 2 For, 

one, rich in powers, might, after exterminating the enemy, exterminate the 
attacker in the rear, nct the one, weak in power, who has not obtained 
any gain. 


27 cakrapatha is obviously ‘a track for carriages’; it can hardly mean ‘ for a wheel- 
barrow carried about by a man’ (Cs). — pddapatha appears to mean ‘a road for draught- 
animals’ as in Meyer. 28 amsapatha seems to be a path for men carrying goods on their 
shoulders ; amsabhara in 2.12.24. The word can hardly mean ‘ path for bullocks etc. yoked 
to carts ’ (Cs). | 

29 karmapathe: perhaps the original reading was karmaphale. 

80 This description is independent of any comparison with a rival enemy. 

81 visistah sudd: this has reference to visista labha that is to be secured. 


7.18 


The question discussed is, when is it profitable to attack an enemy in the rear while he 
is engaged in fighting in front? 

1 The discussion assumes 2 rivalry between the vijigigu and his enemyin the matter 
of parsnigrahana ; each bas an enemy engaged ina fight elsewhere and each can attack his 
Own enemy inthe rear. The situation is likely to occur only rarely in actual life. But for 
purposes of discussion, visualisation of such situations is more convenient and is hence 
availed of in these Chapters beginning with 7.6. — samhatya ‘joining together ’ refers only 
to a common understanding between the two. There is no joining of forces nor a pact bet- 
ween the two. — atisamdhaite : Meyer thinks that here and in some places in this Chapter 
we have to read atisarndhiyate. That is notright. The next s. points out the necessity of 
attacking a powerful kingin the rear; the king who does that definitely gains an advantage. 
The parsnigrahana in this case is preventive in character, to avert a future disaster. 


* 


7. 18.3] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 362 


8 In case of equality of power, he, who attacks in the rear one with an 
extensive undertaking, over-reaches. 4 For, one with an extensive under- 
taking, might, after exterminating the enemy, exterminate the attacker in 
the rear, not the one with a small undertaking, with his army stuck. | 


5 In case of equality of undertakings, he, who attacks in the rear one 
marching with all troops mobilised, over-reaches. 6 For, with his base 
denuded (of troops), he becomes easy to overpower for him, not the one march- 
ing with a part of the troops only, who has made provision for guarding his rear. 


7 In case of equality of troops raised, he, who attacks in the rear one 
marching against a moving enemy, over-reaches. 8 For, one marching 
against a moving enemy might, after easily attaining success, exterminate 
the attacker in the rear, not the one marching against an entrenched enemy. 
9 For, that (king), if he is repulsed by the fort and turns round against the 
attacker in the rear, is checked by the entrenched enemy. 


10 By that are explained the earlier (kings). 


11 In case of equality of the enemies, he, who attacks in the rear one 
attacking a righteous king, over-reaches. 12 For, one attacking a righteous 
king is hated by his own people and by others, one attacking an unrighteous 
king is liked (by them). 


18 By that is explained the attack in the rear of one who squanders 
his patrimony, one living in the present and the niggardly one. 


8 vipuldrambha refers to a military operation on an extensive scale. That being likely 
to yield results, a preventive pdrsnigrahana is recommended. Here too Meyer has olisam- 
dhiyate. Russ. follows Meyer in this case. 4 saktacakrch ‘whose army is stuck (i.e., 
being small, is unable to achieve its object).’ Tlereis thus no future danger for the king 
inthe rear. Cs has ‘ whose army is dispersed (viksipta),’ which is doubtful. 

6 sinyamilo etc.: this is an aggressive pdarsnigrahana. 

7 calémitram, i.e., an enemy without a fort. — Meyer has atisamdhiyale here. 9 
pratinivritah sthilena is as proposed by Meyer for pratinivrttasthitena. Cs explains the latter 

if the rear is attacked (pdrsnigrahe, i.e., padrsnigrahane kriyamane sati), the heel-catcher is 
suppressed by the enemy who has turned hack, being foiled by the fort.’ Thisis unlikely. 
The subject for avagrhyate cannot he different from asau durgapratihatah. The idea here 
seems to he, there is no future danger that needs to be averted by the preventive action of 
parsnigrahana ; it is, therefore, unnecessary. For the enemy would be foiled by the fort ; 
and even if he were to turn back against the rear enemy (who might have attacked him) 
he would be held in check by the enemy in the fort, who may be supposed to be the ally 
of the parsnigradha and who, in any case, would harass the repulsed enemy who had attacked 
him. 

10 piiroe seems to refer to the hinagakti, the alpdrambha and the cekadsSabalaprayata 
of ss. 2, 4.and 6in whose case also the pdrsnigrahana is unnecessary. 

11 After svesdm, it is proposed to add paresdm asin 9.4.10 ; that is shown by the ca, 
— The motive here is ease in orverthrowing the enemy. 

18 milahora- ctc. : cf. 2.9.21-28 ; though the definitions there refer primarily to state 
servants, they can also apply tokings. The idea evidently is, one who attacks such kings 
becomes sampriya and hence his paérsnigrohana isinadvisable. According to Cs, as hetween 
the attacker of a miilahara and that ofa tdddtvika, the former should be preferred for attack 
in the rear, while as between the attackerof a idddtvika and that ofa kadarya, the latter 
should be preferred for an attack in the rear. This is hardly likely. The preference 
for the former in One case and for the latter in the other would be very strange. And no 
comparison between these seems intended. 


868 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [ 7. 18. 28 


14 The same motives (hold good) for attacking in the rear those attack- 
ing their allies. 


15 As between one attacking his ally and the other attacking his enemy, 
he, who attacks in the rear the one attacking his ally, over-reaches. 16 For, 
one attacking an ally, might, after easily obtaining success, exterminate the 


attacker in the rear. 17 For, it is easy to make peace with an ally, not with 
an enemy. 


18 As between one uprooting an ally and one uprooting an enemy, he, 
who attacks in the rear one uprooting an enemy, over-reaches. 19 For, one 
uprooting his enemy, with allies grown in strength, might exterminate the 
attacker in the rear, not the other, destroying his own party. 


20 Incase the two (enemies) have come away without obtaining a gain, 
that attacker in the rear, whose enemy is frustrated in securing a great gain or 


whose enemy has suffered heavy losses and expenses, over-reaches. 21 In 
case they have come after obtaining a gain, that attacker in the rear, whose 
enemy is weaker in point of gain or power, over-reachers, or in whose case the 
enemy against whom (his enemy) had marched might do harm to the enemy 
in battle. 


22 Even of two kings attacking (their enemies) in the rear, he who is 
superior in raising troops for an undertaking capable of achievement, or who 
is an entrenched enemy, or who is situated on the flank (of the enemy), over- 
reaches. 28 For, one situated on the flank can go to the rescue of the king 
to be attacked and is dangerous to the (enemy’s) base, one situated in the rear 
is only dangerous to the base. 


14 te eva hetavah, i.e., all considerations mentioned in ss. 1-18 in connection with 
pardbhiyoginau would also apply to mitrabhiyoginau, enemies who attack their own allies. 


15 mitrdbhiyoginah: Meyer would read amiirabhiyoginah or in the alternative atisam- 
dhiyate. The correctness of miird- is, however, shown by the next s. 


18 amitroddhdrinah is from Cs: its correctness is shown by the next s. — The diffe- 
rence between abhi-yuj and wud-hr seems to be that in the latter the enemy is completely 
exterminated, and his territory seized. — vrddhamitrah: apparently the success in uproot- 
ing the enemy brings in new allies. 


20 yasya amitrah: the amiira is not the vijigisu’s rival as Meyer thinks, but the king 
who is to be attacked in the rear. 21 Jdbhena Saktyd hinah: a vod seems necessary after 
$aktyad. Meyer, however, has ‘ who has lost in power because of the gain,’ which seems 
hardly likely. — yasya ud etc. : yasya refers to the attackerin the rear; Satroh refers to the 
enemy whose rear he would attack ; and ydfavya is the king attacked by this gatru. Cs 
has ‘that parsnigrdha gets an advantage to whose enemy (viz., the vijigtsu) the enemy 
attacked (viz., the ari) is able to do harmin battle.’ This is quite unlikely; the vijigisu 
and ari are themselves thought of as pargnigrdhas in this Chapter. Sees. 1. 


22 sakydarambha- etc.: a single idea ‘raising troops for an undertaking which can 
succeed ’ (Cs) is better than two ideas ‘ possible undertakings and the raising of troops’ 
(Meyer). — pdarégoa is not the side of the ydtavya (Cs), but of the attacking king. Cf.s. 24 
below. 


7.18. 24 } KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 364 


24 Three kinds of attackers in the rear should be known as imped- 
ing the activity of the enemy: the group of neighbouring kings in the 
rear and the two neighbours on the two flanks. 


25 The weak king situated between the leader and the enemy 
is called a buffer ; he is a hindrance to the strong, if possessed of a fort or 
a forest as a place of retreat. 


26 But when the conqueror and the enemy, intending to secure the 
middle king, attack the middle king in the rear, he who, when that king returns 
after securing the gain, divides the middle king from his ally and secures a 
former enemy as an ally, over-reaches. 27 The enemy who helps is fit to be 
allied with, not the ally who has renounced his friendly feelings. 


28 By that is explained the intention to secure the neutral king. 


29 ‘But in the case of attack in the rear and march against an enemy, 
prosperity results from diplomatic fight. 80 For, in a fight with military 
operations, there is loss of prosperity for both sides because of losses and 
expenses. 81 For, even after winning, a king with his army and treasury 
depleted becomes a loser,’ say the teachers. 832 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 33 
Even with very great losses and expenses, the destruction of the enemy must be 
brought about. 


24 sdmaniah ig an emendation from Meyer; the singular is preferable in view of 
vargah with which it should be construed. — Cs understands the three to be (i) sdmantah, 
(ii) prsthatovargah and (iii) prativegau at the sides. This is unlikely. A sa@mania who can 
be described as a pdarsnigraha, cannot be in front and if he is in the rear or at the side, he 
would be included in (ii) or (iii) of Cs. 


25 pratighdtah: Cs reads pratighdte and explains ‘when the strong king attacks him, 
he has a refugein a fort or a forest,’ adding that antardhi is so called because he disappears 
in this way (cf. antardhadna). pratighdta is, however, an obstacle, a hindrance, hardly 
an attack. And antardhi seems to be from antar-dhd ‘to place hetweentwo.’ Cf. 7.18.29, 
where curiously Cs quotes the present passage with the reading pratighdtah. — durgdata- 
vyapasdravan : cf. 7.7.2. 


26 madhyamam lipsamadnayoh: both the vijigisu and the ari are anxious to get the 
madhyama in his Own control ; one of them is an ally of the madhyama, the other is not. 
In this situation, the madhyama launches an attack on a third king; the vijigisu and the ari 
each wants to attack himin the rear. The one who is not in alliance with the madhyama 
scores Over the other whoishisally. For, the madhyama would naturally be angry with the 
latter who despite the alliance had attacked himin the rear ; he would leave that ally and 
make an alliance with the rival of that old ally. He might regard the latter’s parsnigrahano 
* as understandable because he was known to be originally hostile. — amitram, i.e, madhya- 
mam. 27 $atruhis the pdrsnigradha who formerly was not in alliance with the madhyama. 
— upakurvanah suggests that the attack in the rear by this former enemy was nominal, 
and even aid may have been surreptitiously given by this pdrsnigraha to the madhyama. 
Meyer thinks that itis the vijigisu and the ari who return with the gain (labdhalabhapaga- 
mane). Thatis unlikely. It is the attacking king who would be returning with the gain, 
not the parsnigraha. Cf.ss. 20,21 above. — Ins. 26 Cshas grhnatah for grhnatoh ; but yah 
presupposes the dual. Theidea(in Cs) that the madhyamais engagedin helping one (vijigisu 
or ari) while the other attacks him in the rear does not seem likely when both of them are 
lipsamanain respect of the madhyama. 


29 For mantrayuddha, cf. 12.2. The ancient teachers seem to be averse to actual 
fighting. 83 abhyupagantacyah used in the literal sense, ‘ should be brought about.’ 


. 865 THE SLX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [7. 18. 41 


34 When losses and expenses are equal, he who, after first bringing about 
the destruction of his own tressonable troops (and) becoming free from thorns, 
would afterwards fight with troops under control, over-reachers. 35 Even 
of two, securing first the destruction of their treasonable troops, he, who 


would secure the destructon of a large number, of more powerful and extremely 
treacherous troops, over-reaches. 


86 By that is explained the destruction of alien and forest troops. 


37 When the conqueror may become the attacker in the rear, 
the attacker in front or one marched against, then in those cases, he 
should carry out the following course for a leader. 


38 The leader should attack in the rear the enemy attacking his 
ally, after first making (the enemy’s) ally in (his) rear become engaged 
in a fight with the rescuer of the attacker in the rear (i.e., of himself). 


39 When attacking (in front) he should keep off the enemy in his 
rear by his ally in the rear, similarly (keep off) the ally of the enemy in 
the rear by the ally of his ally in the rear. 


40 And in front he should make his ally engage in fight with the 


enemy’s ally, and should keep off the ally of the enemy’s ally by the ally 
of his own ally. 


41 When attacked, he should cause the rear of the attacker to be 


attacked by his ally and keep off the rear ally (of the attacker) from the 
attacker in the rear by the ally of his ally. 


34 purastal... ghdtayitod, i.e., by placing them in front to bear the enemy’s first 
onslaught. — The atisamdhi is on the hypothetical basis of rivalry between the vijigisu 
and ari, hardly between combatants in the same fight. 


37 The vijigisu may find himselfin three situations, as a paérsnigrdha or as an abhiyokta 
(aggressor) or as a yatavya (victim of aggression). The three situations are discussed in ss. 
38, 39-40 and 41 respectively. Meyer thinks of two cases, an abhiyokiad becoming a parsni- 
graha of the conqueror and a ydtavya becoming the conqueror’s parsnigraha. This is quite 
unlikely. How can kings supposedly in front attack in the rear? 


38 The satru attacks the vijigisu’s ally ; hence the vijigisu attacks the Satruin the rear ; 
he becomes his pdrsnigradho. — dakranda is the §airu’s ally in the rear; he is really the 
vi jigisu’ s rear enemy, his parsnigrdha. Heis engaged i in fight by the vijigisu’s own rear ally, 
who is called parsni igrahabhisdrin, because the vijigisu has become the parsnigraha. 
These terms are not rigid as Meyer supposes, but differ according to each particular situation. 
In this stanza, the enemy as the attacker becomes the centre and the vijigisu becomes his 
parsnigraha. Meyer’s translation ‘ after he has made his own ally in the rear engage in fight 
the ally of his rear enemy ’ does not show what the vijigisu’s.parsnigraha himselfis to do. 


89 dkrandena is to. be construed with nivdrayet, not with abhiyunjanah (asin Meyer). 
40 avaghattayet, i.e., make him engage in fight. — Stanzas 39 and 40 go together. 


41 Whereas mitra and miiramiira are from the vijigisu’s point of view, adkranda and 
parsnigrdha are from the attacking enemy’s point of view; the latter are the uijigisu’s 
arimilra and mitra respectively. Meyer who.understands fixed princes by these terms 
(from the vijigzsu’ 'S point) finds himself in deep waters. © He asks, how can the mitromitra, 
three states away in front, help the adkrenda one state away in the rear? His rendering 
of nivdrayet ‘ should rescue ’ or ‘should warns) unlikely in itself, is of no help. 


7.18, 42 ] ‘KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 366 '. 


42 In this way, the conqueror should establish in the rear and in 
front, a circle (of kings) in his own TICE with the excellences of the 
constituent, called the ally. 


48 And in the entire circle, he should ever station envoys and 
secret agents, becoming a friend of the rivals, maintaining secrecy when 
striking again and again. 


44 The affairs of one, who cannot maintain secrecy, even if 
achieved with particular success, undoubtedly perish, like a broken 
boat in the ocean. 


CHAPTER FOURTEEN 


SECTION 118 RECOUPMENT OF POWERS THAT HAVE BECOME WEAK 


1. When attacked by confederates in this manner, the conqueror should 
say to the one who is the principal among. them, ‘ With. you, I would make 
peace ; here is money and I shall be an ally, you will (thus) have a double 
advancement ; it does not behove you to let your enemies, masquerading as — 
friends, thrive at your cost ; for, these, when grown powerful, will over- 
throw you yourself.’ 


2 Or, heshould sow dissensions, saying ‘Just as I, who had done no harm, 
am attacked by these kings joining together, so will they, with their forces 
combined, attack you also, when at ease or in a calamity ; for, strength changes 
the mind ; prevent that (strength) of theirs.’ 


8 When they are divided, he should support the principal and make 
him fight with the weaker (confederates) or giving help to the weaker make 
them fight with the principal, or so (act) as he may consider better (for himself). 
4 Or, making one entertain enmity towards the others, he should divide him 
from them. 


5 Or, secretly offering a greater gain to the principal, he should get peace 
made (through him): 6 Then agents in the pay of both, pointing to the 


42 mitraprakrii-, i.c., the ally himself as a prakrii rather than the constituents of the 
ally. 
714 


1. pradhdnah: this is the foremost among the confederates, their leader. — dviguna 
because he would be getting the money and also securing a new ally. There is nothing to 
show tl:at double the amount is promised, as Cb Cs imply., 


2 scasthd cyasane vd: perhaps we shoyld read svatham; both the expressions would 
then referto the king addressed. svasthahisoddasitis descriptive of the other confederates. 

8 Gnugrdahya refers to the lending of troopsin particular ; cf. '7.8.28-29. 4 oor va 
etc. is repeated from 7.8.4 one. 

5. phalabhityastvena, i.e., by the promise of more than what he would be getting from the 
confederacy. 6 Sin ; see 1.12.17-18. — uddisaycyuh : the idea is of poisoning 


367 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY (7.14.11 


greater gain, should poison the minds of the confederates, saying ‘ You have 
been cheated.’ 7 When they have become vitiated, he should violate the 
treaty. 8 Then agents in the pay of both should bring about a further discord 
among them, saying ‘ This is what we had pointed out.’ 9 When they are 
divided, he should act by supporting one of them. 


10 In the absence of a principal (among them), he should secure from 
among the confederates one who had roused them, or one persevering in his 
undertakings, or one with loyal subjects, or one who had joined the confederacy 
out of greed or fear, or one afraid of the conqueror, or one bound to his kingdom, 
or his ally or a moving enemy, the earlier ones in the absence of the later ones 
(in this list), — one who had roused them by a surrender of himself, one per- 
severing in his undertakings by bowing down with conciliation, one with loyal 
subjects by offering and accepting girls in marriage, the greedy one by double 
the share, one afraid of them by helping him with treasury and army, one 
afraid of himself by creating confidence by the giving of a surety, one bound 
to his kingdom by becoming one with him, his ally by doing what is agreeable 
and beneficial to both or by giving up benefits (received), the moving enemy by 
reassuring him by desisting from doing harm and rendering help (to him). 
11 Or, by whichever means any of them may be separated, by that heshould 
secure him, or by means of conciliation, gifts, dissension and force, as we shall 
explain in (the section on) troubles. 


their minds against the pradhdna. 7% samdhim: the treaty mentioned ins. 5. — disayet, 
i.e., should not pay what he had agreed to pay under the treaty. 8 evam tad: they argue, 
‘we told you that you were cheated; thisis the proof. He is not giving you anything 
because he is giving more to the pradhdna.’ Tl.is brings about the bheda of the other 
confederates from the pradidna. Cs (mostly following Cb) explains ‘ he should violate the 
treaty and not give anything to the pradhdna on the plea that the confederates had violated 
it. Then the agents should say to the confederates that the pradhdna has brought about 
this violation of the treaty since he did not get the promised higher gain and since he wants 
to act again after joining our confederacy.’ All this seems a little strange. Howcanthe 
pradhdna be said to have brought about the violation of the treaty? Andsolong as he has 
not received anything, he would probably be able to prove hisinnocence. The reasoning 
thought of would not necessarily lead to bheda. — anyatamopagrahena : the vd after this is 
unnecessary and has been dropped. 


10 piurvdn uttardbhdve: this reading from Cb Csis uow read in the text for pirvd- 
nyalarabhave, which is an odd compound. The idea is that the later kings in the list should 
be tackled first for the purpose of bringing about bheda in the confederacy. The reason for 
that is that it is easier to tackle them. Thus the caldmiira and the mtira can be more 
easily divided from the confederacy than the earlier kings. €b Cs, however, think 
that each later king is to be tackled first because he is more dangerous to the vijigisu 
than the earlier one, and tackling him would be more advantageous. Thatis not correct. 
The mitra and the coladmitra, mentioned lastin the list, are certainly not more dangerous than 
those mentioned earlier. — kanydddnaydpandbhyam: Cb Cs have ddana ‘receiving’ 
and yadpana ‘ giving.’ Itis likely, however, that kKanydddna has the usual meaning of ‘ giving 
a girl’ in marriage; cf. 7.16.6. ydpana can mean ‘receiving, accepting.’ — visvdsyc is 
from a suggestion of Meyer for visudsayet of the mss. The actual comment in Cb presupposes 
a formin the absolutive. A finite verb in the midst of clauses all connected with sddhayet 
is quite unlikely. — upakdratydgena : the benefit received or expected from the ally might 
have caused estrangement ; lence it is to be given up. Cs has ‘ giving up tribute which he 
used to receive from the ally.’ Theidea ofa regular tribute would be unusual in the case of 
upakdra. Meyer suggests apakdratydgena, which does not appear necessary. — avadhriam 
“held,” i.e., given assurances. 11 ayogam ‘separation.’ — Gpatsu, i.e., in 9.5-7. 


7. 14, 12 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 368 


12 Or, when in a hurry because of harm caused by a calamity, he 
should enter into a treaty with the (surrender of his) treasury and army, 
stipulating the place, the time or the work. 13 After making the treaty, 
he should (try to) remedy his weakness. 


14 H weak in a party, he should create a party of kinsmen and allies, or 
an unassailable fort. 15 For, one entrenched in a fort or supported by allies, 
becomes worthy of honour by his own (people) and by those of others. 


16 If weak in the power of counsel, he should get a large number of wise 
men in service or asssociate with elders in the sciences. 17 For, in that way, 
he attains immediate good. 


18 If weak in might, he should endeavour to secure the welfare of his 
subjects. 19 The countryside is the source of all undertakings ; from them 
comes might. 20 The abode for it and for himself, when in trouble, is the 
fort. 21 Water-works are the source of crops. 22 For, ever continuous is 
the benefit (as) from an excellent rainfall to sowings watered by irrigaton. 
28 A trade-route is the means of over-reaching the enemy. 24 For, along 
the trade-route is made the carrying over of troops and secret agents (into 
enemy territory) and the purchase of weapons, armours, carriages and vehicles, 
as well as bringing inand takingout. 25 Mines are the source of implements 
of war; material forests, of fortification work and of carriages and chariots ; 
elephant forests, of elephants ; and herds, of cattle, horses, donkeys and camels. 
26 In case of their non-availability, obtaining them from groups of kinsmen 
and allies (should be resorted to). 


27 If weak in energy, he should secure the services, as they may be 
available, of heroic men from bands, robber-bands, foresters and Mleccha 
tribes, and of secret agents capable of doing harm to enemies. 


28 Or, he should employ against the enemies ‘ steps against an enemy- 
mixed trouble ’ or ‘ the conduct of the weaker king.’ 


29 Being thus enriched with a party, with counsel, with material 
resources and army, he should march out to overthrow the suppression 
of himself by enemies. 


12 avadhrlam ‘ fixed’ as to place, time etc. 


18 For prabhdoa in this and the next s. the mss. curiously show prabhava. 20 tasya, 
i.€., janapadasya, implying the inhabitants in it; Cf. 8.1.25. tasya can hardly be prabha- 
vasya (Cs). 22 The idea is, what good rain securesin the monsoon, irrigation secures all the 
year round. 24 alingyana: Cf. 18.3.48. — Cb comment shows -krayavikraya§ ca. — 
praveso nirnayanam ca * bringing in and taking out’ of the goods just mentioned and other 
goods. A general * entrance and exit ’is possible, but seems lesslikely. 25 -rathostranam 
of the mss. is obviously corrupt for -kharostradndm. — Ss. 19-25 refer to undertakings as the 
sources Of prabhdoa. 

27 rapakdrindm is an adjective to giidhapurusandm (Cs) rather than anindependent 
panstantive (Meyer). g char o x 

28 paramisrapratikaram asin 9.6.11 ff. Cb Cs read paramisrah pra- ‘having made peace 
with the enemy cte.’ Cb comment shows paramitrah ‘turning his enemy into an ally’ ;. 
neither oftheseislikely. 9.6.11 was obviously lost sight of. — abaliyasam asin Book 12. 

29 paravagraham dtmanah can hardly mean ‘for the putting down of his enemies’ 
(Meyer). For such a sense dimanah would be quite unnecessary. 


369 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY { 7. 15. 10 


CHAPTER FIFTEEN 


SECTION 119 REASONS FOR ENTRENCHING ONESELF (IN A FORT) 
AFTER MAKING WAR WITH A STRONG KING 


SECTION 120 CONDUCT (PROPER) FOR THE KING SURRENDERING 
WITH HIS TROOPS 


1 <A weak king attacked by a strong king, should resort for shelter to 
one with strength greater than his, whom the other would not over-reach by 
the power of counsel. 2 Among those with an equal power of counsel, 


superiority (comes) from the excellence of men under them or from association 
with elders. 


8 In the absence of one of greater strength, he should stay joining forces 
with kings equal in strength or with oligarchies equal in strength to the strong 
king, whom he would not over-reach with powers of counsel and might. 4 
Among those with equal powers of counsel and might, superiority (comes) 
from extensiveness of undertakings. 


5 In the absence of those equal in strength, he should stay joining forces 
with kings inferior in strength who are upright, energetic and opposed to the 
strong king, whom he would not over-reach with powers of counsel, might and 
energy. 6 Among those with an equal power of energy, superiority (comes) 
from the attainment of terrain suitable for one’s own (mode of) fighting. 7 
Among those with an equally suitable terrain, superiority (comes) from the 
attainment of a season suited to one’s own (mode of) fighting. 8 Among those 
with equally suitable terrains and seasons, superiority (comes) from draught- 
animals, weapons and armours. 


9 In the absence of help-mates, he should find shelter in a fort where 
the enemy, even with a large army, would not cut off his food, fodder, fuel and 
water, and would himself meet with losses and expenses. 10 Among forts 


7.15 
The two closely related Sections are to be found in ss. 1-20 and 21-80 respectively. 


2 tulyamantrasaktindm : Cb Cs read -bala- after tulya-. But bala is out of place here. 
— dyatiasampadah : it is possible that the original reading was amdtya-, who are principally 
to be understood by dyatia. Cf., however, 9.6.7. These expressions describe characte- 
ristics of the weak king’s possible ally. 


8 Most mss. read tulyabalasamkhyath, which Cs explains ‘having thesame number of 
troops.’ “This does not differ from samabala. Meyer has ‘ who are his equals (tulya) in point 
of number of troops.’ Equality with the king attacked is beside the point. -samghaihis 
definitely better, the reference being to states mentioned in Book 11. — yan nais proposed 
for ydvan na of the mss. ydvatis unlikely. The actual commentin Cb seems to support yan 
na ; ithas no explanation of ydvat. Cs has ‘ should fight (tisthet) solongas the enemy does 
not succeed in over-reaching him ’, i.e., the kingis to go on fighting tillthe enemy divides his 
helpmates from him which is a strange idea. Meyer’s ‘till heis able to over-reach his enemy 
by mantra and prabhdava etc.’ is also littlelikely. The parallel s. 1 shows that itis the strong 
king who might try to over-reach, not the king attacked. The latterintends to strengthen 
his position by alliances, which the former might try to break up. 

5 yan na is again proposed for ydven na as ins. 8. 6 sva-in this and the next s. 
refers to the helpmate, not to the king attacked. 


7.15.11 } KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 370 


equally impregnable, superiority (comes) from stores andrefuge. 11 ‘For, 
one should seek a fortress with men, rich in stores and provided with refuge,’ 
says Kautilya. 


12 Heshould resort to that (fort) for these reasons : ‘ I shiall win over the 
enemy in the rear or his ally or the middle king or the neutral king ; or, I shall 
vause his kingdom to be seized or destroyed by one of these, viz., his neighbour- ° 
ing king, a forest chief, a pretender from his family and a prince in disfavour ; 
or, by supporting the party of likely seceders, I shall raise a revolt in his fort, : 
country or camp; or, I shall kill him as I please, when he comes near, by the 
use of weapons, fire or poison or by occult means ; or, I shall put him to losses 
and expenses on account of secret practices employed by myself; or, I shall 
succeed in gradually instigating (against him) the group of his allies or his 
army, when they are severely afflicted by losses, expenses and long marches; 
or, by destroying his supplies, reserves and foraging parties, I shall bring 
about the subjugation of his encamped army ; or by taking out troops, I shall 
create a weak point in him and strike with all troops mobilised ; or, I shall 
secure a treaty with him as desired when his energy is damped ; or, while he 
is engaged in a struggle with me, insurrections will rise all round him; or, 
I shall cause his base, denuded of reserves, to be devastated by my ally’s 
troops or forest troops ; or, staying in this fort, I shall protect the welfare of 
@ vast territory ; or, if I stay here, my own dispersed troops and those of my 
ally will collect in one place and be irresistible ; or, my army skilled in fighting 
in water, in trenches or at night, being freed of the dangers of (marches on the) 
roads, will carry out operations when the (enemy) is near; or, coming here on 

@ terrain and in a season adverse to him, he will himself cease to be because of 
losses and expenses, (as) this region can be approached only with heavy losses 
and expenses because of the abundance of forts and forests as places of refuge, 
is full of sickness for foreigners and without a suitable terrain for the operation 


10 According to Cb, this s. represents the opinion of the ancient teachers. 11 manu- 
$yadurgam, 1.e., a fort with men to defend it. — apasdra is a place of refuge for the king as 
well as the subjects. A means of escape from the fort does not seem intended here. — iti 
Kautilyah: this does not show a material difference ofopinion, except that the presence of 
men, i.e., troops in the fort is insisted upon. 


12 pratipddayisyami ‘ will secure them,’ i.e., win them over and get their help. — 
aupanisadikath : supply yogaih. Tiis expression should preferably be understood indepen- 
dently rather than as an adjective to the preceding sastrdgnirasopranidhanaih. — stayom 
refers to the vijigtgu (Cs) ; a reference to the enemy (Meyer) appears less likely. — dando- 
panayena, i.e., by secretly sending out some troops into the enemy’s encamped forces ; that 
would create a weak point (randhra) in the enemy’s army, making a sudden assault on it 
advantageous. The enemy must be supposed to remain unaware of the arrivalin his camp of 
these troops. It is also possible that the troops are not sent into the camp itself, but to a 
place where they would create a diversion. — dsanne: this can hardly mean ‘ when the 
time comes.’ dsdnna refersto the enemy who hasapproached near. — mahdksayavyayd- 
bhigamyo etc. is understood in Cn as only an explanation of viruddhadega- etc., and notas a 
separate kdrana. That issupported by the absence of vd. In fact, it seems that this whole 
passage beginning with mahdksayavryayd- etc. up to nirgamisyati seems to bea marginal gloss 
in explanation of the preceding clause. — Gpadgato praveksyati ‘ will enter whenin dire 


871 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [ 7. 15. 27 


of their troops, (and hence) he will enter it (only) when in trouble, and will not 
get out of it if he enters.’ 


18 ‘In the absence of (such) reasons, or when the enemy has very great 
strength, he should leave the fort and go away. 14 Or, like a moth in fire, 
he should fall (desperately) on the enemy. 15 For, achievement of one thing 
or the other is certain for one giving up all hope of himself,’ say the teachers. 
16 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 17 Finding out suitable conditions for peace 
between himself and the enemy, he should make peace. 18 In the reverse 
case, he should seek peace after a fight or seck escape. 19 ‘To one with whom 
peace is possible, he should send anenvoy. 20 Or, ifoneis sent by him, he 
should welcome him with money and honour, and say, ‘ These are gifts for the 
king, these for the queen and princes from my queen and princes ; this king- 
dom and myself are at your disposal.’ 


21 After obtaining shelter, he should behave towards the suzerain as in - 
(the section on) ‘ proper behaviour.’ 22 And he should carry out under- 
takings like the fort and others as wellas the accepting and giving of princesses 
in marriage, coronation of the prince, purchase of horses, catching of elephants, 
holding sacrificial sessions or fairs and going on pleasure-trips, (only) when 
permitted. 238 Agreements with constituents remaining in his own territory 
or punishment of deserters, — he should carry out all, when permitted. 


24 Or, if his citizens and country people have turned hostile, he should 
request for another land, being justly behaved. 25 Or, he should deal 
with them by silent punishment, as with treasonable persons. 26 He should 
not accept even, suitable land being given to him from his ally. 


27 When the suzerain cannot be seen, he should see one of these, viz., 
(his) minister, chaplain, commander-in-chief and crown prince, and should 
confer obligations on them as far as he is able. 


straits and there is no other go ’ (Cn) is to be preferred to ‘as soon as he enters he will be in 
trouble ’(Cs.) 


15 anyatarosiddhih, i.e., victory or death (and consequent heaven). 18 vtkramena 
samdhim : the idea apparently is, the strong king may be impressed by his valour and agree 
to come to terms. — dpasdram is here escape to a fort or forest. 20 panydgaram refers 
to goods sent as gifts. 


21 labdhasam$raycoh: the shelter obtained is with the strong king himself as suggested 
in ss. 19-20. — samaydcarikavat, i.e., asin 5.5. 22 dvdhavivdha ‘receiving and giving 
girls in marriage’ (Cs). The other way about is also possible. — ydird can hardly mean 
‘a military expedition’ in this context. 28 prakrti would be ministers in particular ; 
samdhi with them would be agreements or instructions about carrying out work in his 
own former state. 


24 nyayaouritiris from Cb Cn Cs; nydyauritim, which would be an adjective to bhumim, 


is much less likely. 26 wcitdm vd: vd has the sense of api (Meyer). A former ally must 
not be antagonieed. 


27 adrsyamdne bhariari: Cn Cs have ‘ should see his own minister etc. only when the 
suzerain is not there.’ His own ministers etc. are unlikely in view of upakurydat that follows. 
Meyer proposes drsyamdne bhartari ‘only when the suzerain is there,’ the ministers being 
those of the vassal. Thatalsois unlikely. The idea clearly is, when the suzerain cannot be 
seen, his minister etc. may be seen. This appears to be the explanation in Cb. 


7.15. 28 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 372 


28 On occasions of worship of deities and recitations of blessings, he 
should cause blessings to be pronounced on him. 29 Inevery case, he should 
speak of his surrender as an excellent thing. 


80 One surrendering to force should thus behave towards the 
suzerain in a steadfast manner, waiting on the strong, united (with him) 
and opposed to those suspected and so on (by him). 


CHAPTER SIXTEEN 


SECTION 121 CONDUCT (PROPER) FOR THE KING SUBJUGATING 
(OTHER KINGS) BY FORCE 


1 The strong king, desirous of conquering one causing harassment, 
though the terms of the treaty were accepted (by him), should march in that 
direction in which there is suitable terrain, suitable season and livelihood for 
his own troops, in which the enemy is without the refuge of a fort and without 
(protection in) the rear and the help of an ally. 2 In the reverse case, he 
should march after taking protective measures. 


28 After daivata-, piijd is to be understood. 29 The idea is, he should not show 
dissatisfaction with his condition. Tke explanation in Cs ‘to all people he should speak of 
his surrender and should praise the virtues of his sovereign’ is little likely. Cb has a 
similar explanation. 


30 samyuktabalavat : these are the ministers etc. of the sovereign (Cn Cs). — avasthitah 
may mean ‘firm, steadfast.’ If evam could be construed with it (instead of with varicia) 
we could understand ° placedin thissituation.’ 


7.16 


Cn Cs point out that dandopandmin would be a more appropriate name for this king as 
shown by s. 8. Meyer’s idea that dandopandyin is the weak king taking his troops to the 
strong king is unlikely in the light of the contents of the Chapter. 


1 It is proposed to read anujridtasamdhipanodvegakaram for anujiidtastaddhiranyo- 
of the mss. The idea understood is that the weak king, though he had consented to the 
terms of the treaty, has started ignoring them, and causing harassment or trouble to the 
strong king, (anujidtasamdhipanah api udvegakarah). We may also understand udvega as 
*shaking,’ i.e., violation (anujiidtasamdhipandndm udvegakaram, causing violation of the 
terms of the treaty accepted by him.) Cn reads ananujitdtasamdhipanyodvegakaram ‘ who 
has not accepted (ananujridta) the terms of peace (samdhipanya) and is therefore causing 
harassment (udevga).’ panya is unusual in this sense, for which pana is the usual word. 
Otherwise, the meaning arrived atin Cnisalso good. It adds that the reading of the mss. 
is an @papdatha and that those trying to explainitaretobepitied. Thus Cs (mostly following 
Cb) has * who causes trouble because of money promised but not paid (adattahiranya) by him, 
(i.e., by the strong king) though he had agreed to do so (anujridiah as ablative singular of 
anujnd, agreement or promise).’ Meyer understands the expression as an adjective to karma 
(supplied), and, with the vassal kingin view, translates ‘ when permitted (anujidtah) to carry 
out an undertaking bringing money and formidable might (udvega) to him, (tad, i.e., his 
suzerain), he who has surrendered, after growing strong (balavdn) and wishing to conquer 
etc.’ This is hardly possible. — svarluoyttih: vrlti is ‘livelihood, food etc.’ (Cn Cs). — 
apargnir andsdrag ca: These expressions also describe the Satru, {.e., the weak yatavya: He 
should have no pdrgni,i.e., a rear which is well guarded and no 4sdra, i.e., help expected 
from some ally. Thus the commentators. That seems better than understanding the 
expressions as describing the balavdn king, with pdrgni understood as the parsnigraha and 
Gsara as the pargnigrahdsara of the strong king. 


378 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [ 7.16.16 


8 He should subjugate the weak by means.of conciliation and gifts, the 
strong by means of dissension and force. 4 And he should secure the 
members (of the kings’ circle) who are immediately next to him and who are 
separated by one intervening state, by the exclusive use, the alternative use 
or the combined use of the (four) means. 


5 The protection of those dwelling in villages and forests, of cattle-herds 
and trade-routes, and the handing over of those who are discarded, who have 
deserted and who have done harm, — thus should he practise conciliation. 
6 The giving of land, money and girls, and the promise of safety, — thus 
should he practise gifts. 7 Making a demand for treasury, troops, land or 
inheritance by supporting one of these, viz., a neighbouring prince, a forest 
chief, a pretender from the family and a prince in disfavour, — thus should 
he sow discord. 8 Subjugation of the enemy in open, concealed or silent 
war or through ‘ means for taking a fort,’ —- thus should he make use of force. 


9 Thus he should place those full of energy in such a way that they are 
helpful to the army, those possessed of might so that they are helpful to the 
treasury, those endowed with intellect so that they are helpful to the land. 


10 Among them, he who helps in many ways with gems, articles of high 
value, of low value and forest produce produced in his ports, villages and mines, 
or with carriages and vehicles arising from material forests, elephant forests 
and herds, is (the ally) of varied usefulness. 11 He who gives substantial 
help with troops or treasury is one of great usefulness. 12 He who helps with 
troops, treasury and land is one of all-sided usefulness. 


138 He who withstands one’s enemy on one side is the (ally) useful on one 
side. 14 He who withstands the enemy and the enemy’s ally on the two 
sides is one useful on both sides. 15 He who withstands the enemy, his 
ally, the neighbour and the forest chief on all sides is one useful on all sides. 


16 And if an enemy in the rear, — a forest chieftain, a principal officer 
of the enemy or the enemy (himself) — be found capable of being secured by 


3 upanamayet : it is this root that is found in dandopanaia : hence Cn’s preference for 
dandopanami-inthetitle. 4 niyogaetc.: cf.9.7.78-76. — anantaraikdntarah : see 6.2.14 ff. 


7 -Land andinheritance would be demanded on behalf of the tatkulina and aparuddha. 


8 kiitayuddha: see 10.3. — tisnimyuddha: see 12.4 and 12.5. — durgalambhopaya is 
Book 18. 


9 dandopakdrinch ‘helpful to the army (of the balavan).’ — The connection between 


prajnd and bhiiiis not quite obvious. mantrasakti may be helpful for administration of the 
territory. 


10 phalgu had clearly got dropped out from the exemplar of the mss. through a scribal 
error. — yad... tad has’ the neuter miiram in view. 12 -bhiimibhih is as proposed 


by Meyer, and is obviously quite necessary in view of the instrumentals in the parallel ss. 
10-11. 


14 cobhayatah pratikaroti is as proposed by Meyer ; that is obviously supported by the 
parallels in the other ss. 


16 parsnigrdhas ca etc.: the translation follows Meyerin regarding diavika, sotrumukhya 
and gairu as three types of pdrgnigraha of the balavan ; and for this the reading Satrumukh- 
yah gatrur vd from Cb Csis preferred to fatrur mukhyasatrur ud (or mukhyah Satrur) of the mss. 


7.16.17] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 874 


a gift of land, he should win his support with (the grant of) land without 
excellences ; one stationed in a fort, with land not continguous ; a forest chief, 
with land not yielding livelihood ; a pretender from the family of the enemy, 
with recoverable land ; a prince in disfavour of the enemy, with land snatched ; 
one with banded troops, with land having permanent enemies; one with 
compact troops, with land having strong neighbouring kings ; one opposing 
in war, with land having both these characteristics ; one with energy, with 
land where military operations are not possible ; one belonging to the enemy’s 
party, with waste Jand ; one enticed away, with impoverished land ; a deserter 
who has returned, with land the settlement of which would involve great losses 
and expenses ; the deserter (from the enemy) who has come over, with land 
without shelter ; with land that cannot be occupied by any one else, he should 
secure the support of its master himself. 


17 He should allow to continue (as before) that one among them who is 
of great help and unchanging in loyalty. 18 He should silently do away with 
the contrary one. 19 He should gratify, according to his power to help, one 
who has lelpedhim. 20 Andin conformity with his efforts, he should bestow 
wealth and honour on him, and give help in calamities. 21 To those coming 
of their own accord, he should grant interviews as desired and make arrange- 
ments (for receiving them). 22 He should not use towards them insults, 
injuries, contemptuous words or reproaches. 238 And after promising them 
safety, he should favour them like a father. 


24 Andif any of them were to do him harm, he should proclaim his guilt 
and slay him openly. 25 Or, because of fright (likely) among others, he 
should act as in ‘infliction of secret punishment’. 26 And he shall not 
covet the land, property, sons or wives of the slainone. 27 He should place 
in their appropriate positions even the members of his family. 28 He should 
place on the throne the son of one killed in action. 


Cb Cs understand parsnigrahah independently as the first of fourkings mentioned. Butthe 
8. hasin view parsnigrahas of differenttypes. For, it is this s. which seems to be referred to 
as parsnigrahopagraha in 7.11.89. — apratisambaddha, i.e.,far away from the fort. — apa- 
cchinnayd is as suggested by Meyer. The land snatched may be from the enemy himself. 
— §Srenibalam and samhatabalam (samghabalom in Cb) are descriptive of a king. Cb Cn 
Cs understand these as substantives, i.e., such armies themselves are to be understood, 
the former being without a leader, the Jatter with a leader (Cb Cn Cs). — apavdhitam 

carried off,’ i.e., enticed to come over. Cb Cs have ‘ distressed by the fight’; Cn ‘ with 
whom a treaty was first made, but who was then made to violate the treaty.’ Cf., 
however, 12.38.14. — pratyapasrtam: a deserter from the enemy who has come over to 
him. Cf. 13.4.51. — bhartdram, i.e., the owner of the land. This can hardly mean 


en "in the context, as Meyer thinks. Heis clearly on a wrong track in this 


17 anuvartayet, 1.€., allow him to continue in his own realm as before. ‘Secure his 
obedience "is possible, but seems lesslikely. 21 pratividhdna seems to refer to ‘ arrange- 
ments’ for receiving them, rather than to ‘ steps for protecting (himself from them)’ (Cb Cs). 
22 ativdda may mean ‘excessive praise’ (Cb Cn Cs) as in 4.1.59. However, ‘ reproach, 
reproof’ appears more likey in the context. Cf. ativdddms titikseta, Manu, 6.47. 


ars dandakarmikavat, i.e.,asin §.1, 27 pdtresu ‘in suitable positions’ is an unusual 


875 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [ 7.17.7 


29 In this way, the princes surrendering to force remain loyal to his sons 
and grandsons. 


80 But the circle (of kings), being frightened, rises to destroy one who 
were to kill or imprison those who have submitted and covet their land, pro- 
perty, sons or wives. 81 And those ministers, who are under his control in 
their own lands, become frightened of him and resort to the circle. 82 Or, 
they themselves seek to take his kingdom or life. 


83 And therefore, kings, protected in their own territories hy means 
of conciliation, become favourably disposed towards the king, remaining 
Obedient to his sons and grandsons. : 


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN 


SECTION 122 THE MAKING OF PEACE 
SECTION 123 LIBERATION OF THE HOSTAGE 


1 Peace, treaty, hostage, these are one and the same thing. 2 The 
creation of confidence among kings is (the purpose of) peace, treaty or hostage. 


3 ‘ Plighting one’s troth or taking an oath is an unstable pact, a surety 
or a hostage is stable,’ say the teachers. 4 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 5 Plight- 
ing one’s troth or taking an oath is a pact stable in the next world as well as 
here, a surety or a hostage is of use only in this world, depending on strength. 


6 ‘We have made a pact,’ thus kings of old, faithful to their word, 
made pacts by plighting their troth. 7 In case of (fear of) its transgression, 
they touched fire, water, a furrow in the field, a clod of earth from the rampart, 
the shoulder of an elephant, the back of a horse, the box of a chariot, a weapon, 
@ gem, seeds, a fragrant substance, a liquid, gold or money, affirming with an 
oath, ‘ May these kill or abandon him who would break the oath’. 


81 ye cdsydmatyah soabhiimisodyattah : these ministers are those of the vassals, svabha- 
migu being the respective territories of the latter, and asya, referring to the sovereign, to be 
construed with dyatiah. Cb Cn Cs understand the ministers to be those of the sovereign, 
engaged in work (dyatta, i.e., vydpria) in the vassals’ territories. But if asya refers to the 
sOvereign, sua- can hardly refer to the vassals. Meyer suggests andyatidh ‘his viceroys, 
unconnected with lands under their conttol (soabhtimisu).’ stabhiimisu can hardly be under- 
stood in this way. Cf.s.88 below. 


717 

The two Sections are to be found in ss. 1-81 and 82-61 respectively. 

1 samddhi ‘hostage’ is related to ddhi ‘ pledge.’ A samdhi may or may not contain 
@ stipulation as to samddhi. And there can be gama without a samdhi. 

8 pratigraha ‘ acceptance (ofa hostage),’i.e.,a hostage. 5 balaépeksah: the strength 
is the relative strength of the parties to the transaction. Russ. understands * dependent 
on the measure of strength of him who gives them.’ The explanationin Cb Cs ‘ the surety 
can be trusted only when he is strong, and the hostage only when he is the object of love 
(snehapdatra) of the king who hands him over,’ is hardly acceptable, 

7 agni etc. might kill, raina etc. might leave. 


7.17.8 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 376 


8 In case of (fear of) transgression of oath, the binding to suretyship of 
great men, ascetics or principal men constitutes surety. 9 With respect to 
that, he who receives sureties capable of suppressing the enemy, over-reaches. 
10 The opposite of this is over-reached. 


11 The holding of a kinsman or a principal officer, is receiving a hostage. 
12 With respect to that, he who gives a treasonable minister or a. treasonable 
child, over-reaches. 18 The opposite of this is over-reached. 14° For, the 
enemy strikes without compunction at the weak points of one who is trustful 
because of receiving a hostage. 


15 When keeping a child as a hostage, however, as between giving a son 
and a daughter, he who gives a daughter over-reaches. 16 For, a daughter 
is not an heir, and is of use to others only and cannot be harassed. 17 Ason 
is the reverse of this. 


18 Even of two sons, he who gives a son legitimately born, wise, brave, 
trained in the use of weapons, or an only son, is over-reached. 19 The 
opposite of this over-reaches. 20 For, it is better to hand over as a hostage 
an illegitimate son than a legitimate one, because of the loss of continuity of 
heirs (in his case), an unwise son than a wise one, because of the absence of the 
power of counsel, a son not brave than a brave one, because of the absence of 
the power of energy, one not trained in the use of weapons to one trained in 
their use, because of the absence of the ability to strike, one not an only 
son than an only son, because of the absence of expectations (being centred 
in him alone). 


21 As between a legitimate son and a wise son, the attribute of sovere- 
ignty goes with one who is legitimate though unwise, the function of counsel 
(goes) with one who is wise though illegitimate. 22 Even in the matter of 
counsel, the legitimate over-reaches the wise through association with elders. 


8 mahatam should be understood independently of tapasvindm. 9 atisamdhatte: 
comparison between two similarly placed kings is to be understood here as before. 10 
viparitah, i.e., who does not receive sureties that are pardvagrahasamartha. 

11 bandhumukhya can hardly be ‘a distinguished relation ’ (Meyer) in view of amdtya 
and apatyain the next s. 14 parahis the one who gives the hostage. — nirapekgah, i.e., 
not caring for what happens to the hostage. 

16 addydda@ from Cb Cn Cs is the only correct reading. Meyer’s remark (in the 
Nachtrag) that even the daughter inheritsin the absence of a son is beside the point ; the 
question here is as between a son and a daughter when both are there whom to give as a 
hostage? His further discussion regarding the conqueror’s reeponsibility to get the conque- 
red king’s daughters married has little relevance here. — paresdam, i.e., of the husband and 
his family. — aklesyd not liable to be troubled as a male is. With klesdya Cb has ‘a 
trouble to her father because of money he has to spend on her.’ 


18 yo is added as being necessary as usual. 20 lupladdyddasamianatodt: Cs has 
‘because he cannot have an offspring who caninherit.’ But theillegitimate son himself would 
also be unable toinherit. — prahartavyasampad : Cn Cs have ‘ excellence in using weapons 
(pr a8 praharana)’ ; Meyer has ‘ capacity when itis necessary to strike ’ ; ‘ excellence 
in hitting or striking ’ may appear sufficient. 

21 aisvaryaprakriih, i.e., a natural ability to rule or a naturally majestic bearing. 
Cf. 8.2.28. — mantrdadhikdaroh, i.e., ability to give counsel and make use of it. 22 This 
means that ag between a jdfya and a prdjfa, the latter should preferably be given. 


877 THE SLX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [ 7.17. 38 


23 As between a wise son and a brave son, the possession of acts of 
intelligence belongs to the wise though cowardly, the function of valour to the 
brave though unwise. 24 Even in the matter of valour, the wise one over- 
reaches the brave, as the hunter does the elephant. 


25 As between a brave son and one trained in the use of weapons, 
valorous behaviour belongs to the brave though untrained in the use of 
weapons, the power to hit the target (comes) to one trained in weapons though 
not brave. 26 Even in the matter of hitting the target, the brave one over- 
reaches the trained one, because of his firmness, quick understanding and 
watchfulness. 


27 As between a king with many sons and a king with an only son, the 
one with many sons, handing over one and supported by the rest, can violate 
the pact, not the other. 


28 If the pact is on condition of giving the son who is his all, advantage 
(comes) from the offspring of the son. 29 Between two, equally having 
offspring from a son, advantage (comes) from the power to procreate. 30 
Even between two, possessing the power to procreate, advantage (comes) 
from the birth being close at hand. 


81 But when there is a capable only son, he should hand over himself, 
if he has lost the power of procreation, but should not give the only son. 


82 When grown in strength, he should bring about the liberation of the 
hostage. 


88 Secret agents disguised as artisans or artists, carrying out works 
in the proximity of the prince, should dig up a subterranean passage at 
night and carry away the prince. 


23 matikarmandm yogah, i.e., association with acts requiring intelligence. 24 That 
is, a $ira should he given, rather than a prajiia. 


26 asammosa ‘ watchfulness in protecting oneself* (Cn) is better than ‘absence of 
bewilderment or delusion (asammoha)’ (Cs). 26 Thatis, a &rtdsira should be given rather 
than a gira. 


27 sesapratistabdhah: both provrtti and orttt in place of prati are unlikely. For 
pratistabdha, cf. 7.7.11; 7.10.27. 


28 putrasaroasoa is the only son, who is the allinall of thefather. Meyer’s ‘all the 
sons he has ’islittlelikely. putraphalatah, i.e., if the son to be given as a hostage has a son. 
The grandchild would be there to continue the line. Meyer's *‘ when there is power to pro- 
create sons (in the king himself) ’ is little likely. 29 samaphalayoh: comparison is again 
thought of; when two kings give each an only son, and this son has an offspring. — 
Saktaprajananatah: the capacity to procreate is that of the king himself (Cn) rather 
than that of the onlyson(CbCs). Cf. luptaputrotpattir dlmanam, s.81 below. The question 
of the son’s capacity to procreate would appear to be premature. Meyer has *‘ whose progeny 
is capable.’ There islittle pointinthat. 80 upasthtia- etc. ; Meyer’s ‘ with progeny which 
is already capable of doing work (upasthita, i.e., ready for work) ’ is altogether beside the 
point and is unlikely in itself. 


88 upakhdnayitodis an archaic form. 


7.17. 84] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 378 


84 Or, actors, dancers, singers, musicians, reciters, minstrels, rope- 
walkers and showmen, stationed (there) beforehand, should wait upon the 
enemy. 385 They should (then) wait upon the prince one after the other. 
26 He should fix for them entry, stay and departure without restriction 
as to time. 87 Then, disguised as one of them, he should leave at night. 
88 By that are explained courtesans and women appearing as wives. 


89 Or, he should go out carrying the box of their musical instruments or 
(other) articles. 


40 Or, he should be carried out by cooks, waiters, bath-attendants, 
shampooers, bed-preparers, barbers, toilet-attendants or water-servers along 
with boxes of materials, dresses and articles, beds and seats after they have 
been used. 


41 Or, he should go out at a time when the appearance cannot be 
distinguished, disguised as a servant, carrying something with him, or (go out) 
through a. subterranean passage with (materials for) a night oblation. . 42 Or, 
he should practise the trick of Varuna in a reservoir of water. 


48 Or, secret agents disguised as traders should administer poison to 
guards by selling cooked food and fruits. 


44 Or, on the occasion of offerings to deities or worship of manes or 
picnic parties he should administer food and drink mixed with a stupefying 
mixture or poison, and depart, or (he should leave) by seducing the guards. 


45 Or, secret agents disguised as gallants, minstrels, physicians or 
vendors of cooked food should set fire at night to houses of the rich or of the 


84 natanartaka- etc.: cf. 1.12.9, also 2.27.25. — saubhika, one who puts up a show 
onthestage. Cf. 11.1.34. — pirvapranihilah, i.e., stationed in the enemy territory before 
the hostage was given. 86 sthdpayet: the subject is kumdrah. 87 tadoyatijano vd: od 
Rerves nO purpose. Meyer thinks that some words like tair nirhriyeta have dropped out. It 
is not necessary to suppose that. 88 bhdrydcyanjandh, i.e., female agents posing as the 
wives Of the prince; as wife, the agent would be allowed unrestricted entry ; then the 
prince is to leave in her garb. 


89 tesdm refers to notanartaka- etc. as well as riipdjiodh etc. ; hence tdsdm is not 
necessary as Meyer thinks. For pheld, cf. 18.2.48. 


40 siiddrdlika- etc.:cf. 1.12.9. — Oneis reminded of the trick used by Shivajito escape 
from Aurangzeb’s custody in Agra ; he was carried out in a fruit basket. — sambhogaih, 
i.e., when they are sent out after use. 


41 aripavelayam *‘ ata time when the form isindistinguishable ’,i.e., whenitis dark. — 
surungamukhena 0d nigsopahdarena : Cn Cs have ‘ sending all attendants away on the pretext 
that he wants to offer night oblations.’ Cb hasasimilar explanation. We may also under- 
stand the offering of night oblationsas a pretext for his leaving the residence alone and then 
arriving at the Opening of an underground passage through which to escape. This surugd, 
unlike that in s. 38, is not made by his agents and starts at a place away from his residence. 
Meyer proposes nisdpahdrena ‘ by a nocturnal removal through a tunnel’ apahdra does not 
go well with nirgacchet. 42 vdrunam yogam: Cn Cs refer to 18.1.8-4. The idea rather is 
that of remaining submerged in water for a long time and coming upat a very distant place 
from where he plunged in (apparently for a bath). 


48 rasam from Cn Cs is quite necessary. 
44 macanayoga : see 14.1.16,17. — protsdhana is inducing them to let him go ‘bya 
promise of gifts * (Cn Cs) rather than ‘by stirring up a fight amongst them’ (Meyer). 


45 ndgaraka ‘a gallant’ is different from ndgarika. — draksindm: Cb Gn have nc 
comment On this word. Cs puts it in brackets without comment. If it is to be read, a ud 


879 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [ 7.17. 61 


guards. 46 Or, those disguised as traders should set fire to the market-place. 
47 Or, after throwing another body inside, he should set his own residence 
on fire, for fear of pursuit. 48 Then he should leave through a hole in the 
wall, a channel or a subterranean passage. 


49 Or, disguised as a carrier of loads of goods in jars suspended in slings 
from a pole, he should leave at night. 


50 Or, entering the roving camps of ascetics with shaved heads or matted 
hair, he should leave at night disguised as onc of them, or with the help of one 


of these, viz., change of appearance, inducing a malady and the disguise of a 
forester. 


51 Or, made to appear as a corpse, he should be carried out by secret 
agents. 52 Or, dressed as a woman, he should follow (the funeral procession 
of some) one dead. 


53 And agents appearing as foresters should direct (pursuers) to another 
direction when he is going inone. 54 Then heshould go in another direction. 
55 Or, he should escape through groups of carts of cartmen. 


56 And when pursuit is close on his heels, he should remain hidden. 
57 In the absence of a hiding place, he should scatter on both sides of the 


road money or poisoned food-stuffs. 58 Then he should go away in another 
direction. 


59 If caught, he should over-reach the pursuers with conciliation and 
other means, or with poisoned food on the way. 


60 Or, in the trick of Varuna and in acts of setting fire, he should place 
another body and accuse the enemy, ‘ You have killed my son.’ 


61 Or, taking up weapons secretly (brought), and falling on the 
guards at night, he should escape on quick-marching (horses) along with 
secret agents. 


after it is necessary, grhdni being supplied from the preceding. The prince would escape 
when the guards are busy putting out the fire. 47 anyad <d Sariram etc. : one is reminded 
of the escape of the Pandavas from the lac-house. 48 &hdla: cf. 3.8.21. 


49 kdca is a contrivance for carrying loads On the shoulder, consisting of a pole with 
slings at the two ends, a contrivance stillin common usein India. Cb, however, has 
‘ kacabhara, i.e., carriers of grass, fuel etc., Aumbhabhdra, i.e., carriers of water and bhanda- 
bhara, i.e., dealersin horses etc.’ Cs follows. 


50 ciripakarana: see 14.2.4 ff. — oyddhisarana is described in 14.1. The disease 
would, however, be only apparent ; the pretence of illness may induce the guards to allow 
him to go ostensibly for treatment. 

55 $akatavdlaih: vata usually ‘an enclosure,’ seems used in the sense of ‘ group’ (Cn 
Cs), samiha (Cb). 

56 sattram is a place where One can hide oneself, particularly for lying in ambush; 
cf. 10.3.24. 

59 pathyaddnena read in the mss. is obviously not right ; cf. 2.16.24. 

60 The subject for obhiyurijita is the father of the prince, while that for ddhdya would 
be the secret agents; the sense of the causal may therefore be understood in ddhdya. — 
abhiyufijita * should accuse’ may also suggest the idea of attacking. 


61 ighrapdtaih: Cn supplies agoaih, Cb yanath. 


7.18.1 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 380 


CHAPTER EIGHTEEN 


SECTION 124 CONDUCT TOWARDS THE MIDDLE KING 
SECTION 125 CONDUCT TOWARDS THE NEUTRAL KING 
SECTION 126 CONDUCT TOWARDS THE CIRCLE OF KINGS 


1 With respect to the middle king, he himself, the third and the fifth 
constituents are friendly elements. 2 ‘The second, the fourth and the sixth 
are unfriendly elements. 


8 If the middle king were to help both these, the conqueror should be 
favourably inclined towards the middle king. 4 If he does not help (either), 
he should remain favourable to the friendly elements. 


5 If the middle king were to desire to seize an ally of the conqueror 


having the feelings of a friend, he should save the ally by rousing the allies of 
the ally and his own allies, and dividing his allies from the middle king. 6 Or, 
he should incite the circle: ‘ This middle king, grown very powerful, has risen 
for the destruction of all of us ; let us join together and frustrate his expedi- 
tion. 7 If the circle were to favour that, he should, by the suppression of 
the middle king, augment himself. 8 If it were not to favour, helping the 
ally with treasury and army, he should win over by conciliation and gifts one 
— the principal or the proximate — from among the kings inimical to the 
middle king, who, many in number, may be helping each other, or of whom, 
by winning over one, many would be won over, or who, being afraid of each 
other, would not rise. 9 Being thus double, (he should win over) a second 
king ; being three-fold, a third king. 10 Augmented in power in this way, 
he should suppress the middle king. 11 Or, if place and time were to lapse, 
he should make peace with the middle king and be helpful to the ally, or make 
a pact for an undertaking with the treasonable (officers of the middle king). 


7.18 
The three Sections are found in ss. 1-25, 26-27 and 28-44 respectively. 


1 madhyamasya : this word seems out of place here. This and.the next s. describe 
the prakrtis and the vikrtis of the vijigisu, not of the madhyama, as Cb Cs understand. For, 
ubhayam in s. 8, who are likely to be favoured by the madhyama, cannot include his own ene- 
mies; and the prakrtisin s. 4, to whom the vijigisu is advised to be favourably disposed if 
the madhyima does not help either party, can be the prakrtis of the vijigisu himself, not those 
ofthe madhyama. If atallthe word madhyamasya is read at the beginning ofthis s., it should 
be understood in some such sense as ‘in relation to, with respect to, the madhyama king.’ — 
dima as a separate word is quite necessary asin the commentators. It refers to the vijigisu 

‘himself, the third and fifth prakrtis being his mitra and mitramitra. 2 The second, fourth 
and sixth prakrtis are the ari, arimitra and arimitramitra of the vijigisu. 

8 ye madhyamadvesino rajanah is to be understood with each of the following three 
clauses (Cn Cs) rather than as a separate fourth clause (Meyer). — nottistheran ‘ not rise 
(against the madhyama),’ though they are hostile (dregin) to him. — dsannam ‘ proximate’ 
to himself or to the ally whoisto besaved. 11 desakdldtipattau, i.e., when the matter is 
urgent. Cf. 3.16.11. — sdcioyam kurydt: by secretly helping the ally with troops and 
money, asin Cn; cf.8. 16 below. — dilgyegu ; these are clearly those of the middle king. — 


karmasamdhim : see '7.12. 


381 THE SIX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [ 7. 18. 25 


12 If the middle king were to desire to seize an ally of his deserving to 
be weakened, he should sustain him, saying ‘I will save you,’ till he is weakened. 
138 He should save him when weakened. 


14 If the middle king were to desire to seize an ally of his deserving to 
be exterminated, he should save him when weakened through fear of the 
increase of the middle king’s power. 15 Or, if he is exterminated, he should 
get him in his power by the grant of land, through fear of his going elsewhere. 


16 If the allies of his ally, deserving to be weakened or exterminated, 
were to be helpful to the middle king, he should have peace made through 
another person. 17 Or, if the allies of those two were capable of suppressing 
the conqucror, he should make peace (with the middle king). 


18 If the middle king were to desire to seize his (i.e., the conqueror’s) 
enemy, he should make peace. 19 Thus his own ends are secured and the 
middle king is also pleased. 


20 Ifthe middle king were to desire to seize his own ally having friendly 
feelings, he should have peace made through another person. 21 Or, if he 
were to care (for the conqueror), he should dissuade him, saying ‘ It does not 
behove you to exterminate an ally.’ 22 Or, he should remain indifferent, 
thinking ‘ Let the circle be enraged with him on account of the destruction of 
his own party.’ 


23 If the middle king were to desire to seize his own enemy, he should 
help him with treasury and army, unseen. 


24 If the middle king were to desire to seize the neutral king, he should 
give him aid, thinking ‘ Let him be divided from the neutral king.” 25 Of 
the middle and the neutral kings, he should resort to the one who is liked by 
the circle of kings. 


12 asya, i.e., vijigisoh. Similarly in ss. 14 and 18. 


14 madhyamavrddhibhcyat: the fearis thatifhis ally were totally crushed, the madhya- 
ma would be very strong. 15 anyatra, i.e., in the enemy’s camp (Cn Cs). 

16 sdcivyakardni: they render aid against their own ally, clandestinely. — puru- 
sdntarena samdhiyeta ; this refers to 7.3.24, a treaty in which the sendpati or the kum@ra is 
surrendered to the enemy. Here the sendpati or kumdra would appear to be that of the ally. 
The causal would have been preferable to the passive of samdhiyeta. 

20 samdadhydt: apparently the vijigisu induces the madhyama king’s ally to make 
a treaty of this kind. samdhim kdrayet would have been better. 21 sdpeksam seems to 
mean ‘if the madhyama has regard for him (the tijigisu).’? Cn has * anucchedarucim if heis 
disinclined to exterminate.’ Meyer treats it as an adverb ‘ respectfully, discreetly.’ 

23 enam, i.e., to the enemy of the madhyama. 


24 After lipseta, the words asmai sadhayyam dadyat are added asin Cn; the comment 
in Cb also presupposes those worlds. In their absence, the words that follow, uddasindd etc. 
(including those in s. 25in that case), cannot be construed with the preceding clause. And s. 
25 very clearly contains a new idea, unconnected with words in s.24. For bheda implied 
by bhidyatém cannot be brought about by whatis recommended in s. 25. The help given 
miglit encourage the madhyama to take a strong line against the uddsina. — asmatis madhya- 
mayo ; heis weaker than the uddsina , and his strengthening would be necessary for bheda. 
— uddsindd bhidyatam cannot mean ‘turn away from the uddsina ’ as words addressed by 
the madhyama to the vijigisu, as Meyer thinks. 


7.18. 26 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 382 


26 By conduct towards the middle king is explained conduct towards 
the neutral king. 


27 If the neutral king were to desire to seize the middle king, he should 
turn to that side where he would over-reach his enemy or render help to his 
ally or secure the neutral king for rendering aid with troops to himself. 


28 Augmenting himself in this way, he should weaken the constituent, 
enemy, and support the constituent, ally. 


29 Though there are feelings of enmity (among all), the enemy (in front) 
not self-possessed (and) constantly doing injury, or the enemy in the rear in 
league with the enemy (in front), one vulnerable, being in a calamity, or 
one attacking the leader in his calamity, these are (neighbouring kings) with 
a hostile disposition ; one marching for a common objective, one marching 
for a separate object, one marching after joining forces, one marching after 
making a pact, one marching for his own object, one rising together (with the 
leader), one purchasing or sclling either treasury or troops as he resorts to a 
dual policy, these are with a friendly disposition; the neighbour placed in 
between or at the side as a hindrance to the strong king, or one in the rear of 
the strong king, one who has submitted to force, either submitting of his own 
accord or submitting because of the might, these are neighbours with a 
dependent’s feelings. 30 By these are explained those separated by one 
intervening state. 


81 Of these, that ally who would make common cause with him in 
case of hostility with the enemy, he should help with power, with which 
he would withstand the enemy. 


82 He should get that ally, who after conquering the enemy, might 
grow in strength and go out of control, into conflict with the two con- 
stituents, the neighbour and the one separated by one state. 


27 wuddsinam vd: Cb Ce add madhyamam before this. But though possible, the labha 
of the madhyuma does not seem intended here. 


29 Allneigibouring kings (sdmantdh) normally tend to be inimical, possessed of amiira- 
bhava: yet three classes are distinguished here, aribhdvin, mitrabhdvin and bhrtyabhavin. 
— andlmavdn and nilyadpakdari are descriptions of gairu as well as of pdrsnigraha and not 
independent categories (asin Csand Meyer). So satrusamhitahis an adjective to parsnigrahoh 
and not anindependent category. — cyasani yatavyah is one king ; cf. 6.2.16. — aribha- 
vinah : the substantive is sdmantah at tlie end. — sva in sudrthd- ctc. seems to refer to the 
vijigisu, not to the sadmania, The latter’s artha is mentioned in prthagartha. — dvaidhi- 
bhdvikah is the samanta who makes peace with the vijigisu, when engaged in war elsewhere ; 
while making the peace, he purchases or sells danda or koa to the vijigigsu. Hence koga- 
dandayor ctc. does not constitute a category independent of doaidhibhavika. — balavatah 
pratighdiahis a description of the antardhi and the pratitega, and not a separate type of king 
as Cb Csthink. Cf. 7.13.24-25. There is no definition of pratighdla in 7.18.25 as Cs states 
here (though not while commenting on the passage itself). svayamupanata and pratdapo- 
panaia are two types of dandopanaia, and not separate categories. 


81 ekdrthatam vrajet cannot mean ‘ would make common cause, i.e., peace (with the 
enemy) ’(Cb Cs). Cnrightly has ‘ vijigisund saha.’ 

32 sdmontaikdnlarabhyam prakrtibhyam: these would be those of the ally himself, 
hardly those of the vijzigigu. 


883 THE SLX MEASURES OF FOREIGN POLICY [ 7. 18. 41 


88 Or, he should cause his territory to be seized by a pretender 
from his family or a prince in disfavour or so act that he would remain 
under control in consideration of help (received). 


84 That ally, who being much weakened might not help or might 
go over to the enemy, he, well-versed in polities, should keep neither weak 
nor strong. 


35 That unstable ally, who for the sake of his own ends makes peace 
(with him), — he should remove the reason for his leaving, so that he 
would not waver. 


86 That ally who remains common to the enemy (and himself), 
he should divide that rogue from the enemy, (and) when divided, exter- 
minate him, thereafter (exterminate) the enemy. 


37 And he should get that ally, who would remain indifferent, 
into conflict with neighbouring kings ; then when he is severely distressed 
by the fight, he should place him under (his) obligations. 


38 That weak ally, who goes to the enemy and the conqueror 


(for support), he should help with troops, so that he would not turn away 
from him. 


89 Or, removing him from that (territory) he should settle him in 
another land, after first settling another (ally) there because of help with 
troops (received from him). 


40 That ally who might do harm or who, though capable, would 
not help in times of trouble, he should certainly exterminate him, when 
trustingly, he comes within his reach. 


41 When the enemy has risen, unrestrained, because of a calamity 
of the ally, he should be got over-powered by that ally himself, with his 
calamity removed (by him). 


83 anugrahdpeksam may be ‘in expectation of help’ or ‘in consideration of help 
received.’ ‘Tie latter seems meant. 


34 arthavid seems to be arthasdstravid, hardly ‘ who knows his interests.’ 
35 arthayuttyd ‘ with the purpose of securing his own interests.’ Cf. 8.1.59. 
87 upakare nivesayet: the same idiom as in ‘ place under obligation.’ It can hardly 


mean ‘take him into favour and allow him to render service (to himself)’ (Meyer) or 
‘should make him serve oneself anew’ (Russ.). 


39 itatra, i.c., in the territory of the weak king, who is shifted from there. — dandanu- 
graha is help of troops already received from him, hardly that expected from him. 


40 arnkam upasthitam, i.e., come within his reach Orin his power. Cf. 1.17.10. 


41 Meyer understands the vd in this stanza in the sense of tva or yathd, and construes 
this stanza (as containing a comparison) with the next stanza, ‘just as an enemy, rising 
because of an ally’s calamity can be put down through the ally, so an ally rising because of 
an encmy’s calamity should be put down through the enemy etc.’ Thisis not likely, There 
is no tathd or evamins.42. And vdasivais doubtful. And even though s. 41 speaks of the 


ari, the mention of the mitravyasana and of the vijigigu’s duty towards the ally show that 
the context of ‘ally ’is not violated. 


. 


7.18.42] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 884 


42 That ally who, after rising because of a calamity of the enemy, 
becomes disaffected, is over-powered through the enemy himsclf, by 
overcoming the calamity of the enemy. 


43 He, who is well-versed in the science of politics, should employ 
all the means, viz., advancement, decline and stable condition as well as 
weakening and extermination. 


44 He who sees the six measures of policy as being interdependent 
in this manner, plays, as he pleases, with kings tied by the chains of his 
intellect. 


Herewith ends the Seventh Book of the ArthaSastra of Kautilya 
‘Tae Srx MEasuRES or Foreicn Pouicy’ 


42 prasidhyati is used with the sense of the passive voice. 
44 anyonyasamcaram ‘ moving to each other,’ i.e., connected with each other, bound 
up with one another. 


Boox EIGut 
CONCERNING THE TOPIC OF CALAMITIES 
CHAPTER ONE 


SECTION 127 THE GEOUP OF CALAMITIES OF THE CONSTITUENT 
ELEMENTS 


1 In case of simultaneity of calamities (the question arises) should one 


march or guard (oneself) because of ease, hence a consideration of calamities 
(is necessary). 


2 Acalamity of a constituent, of a divine or human origin, springs from 
ill luck or wrong policy. : 


3 Inversion of excellences, absence, a great defect, addiction, or 


affliction constitutes a calamity. 4 It throws out a person from his good, 
hence it is called vyasana. : 


The Eighth Book deals with the calamities that affect the various constituents (prakytis) 
of the state. Itis necessary to take precautions against these before one can start on an 
expedition of conquest, which is to be described in the following Books. 


8.1 


1 vyasanayaug-padye : for the purpose of the discussion of the calamities befalling 
the different prakrtis, it is assumed that the vijigisu and the ari are both suffering from a 
calamity affecting one of their prakrtis. The relative seriousness of the calamities befalling 
the various prakrtis being pointed out, it becomes easy for the vijigigu to decide whether he 
should march against the ari or should stay quiet. Ifhis calamity is lighter, heis to march ; 
if itis more serious, he is to remain quiet. — saukaryatah ‘ because of the ease,’ i.e., with 
easein the carrying out ofthe policy cither of ydna or of sthana. — ydlaoyam raksitacyam 04 : 
the vdis from Cn Cs; itis to be preferred to the ca of the mss. The two policies of ydna 
and sthdna (i.e., dsana) cannot be pursued simultancously.. There can be no doubt that 
raksitavyam refers to the policy of sthdna, as is clearly shown by 8.2.26. With ca, Meyer 
has ‘ going forth (ydtavyam) and finding means of protection (raksziaoyam ca).’ He supposes 
that the two or more calamities have befallen the vijigigu himself. That is hardly right. 
Meyer further suggests that ydatavyam may mean ‘he should run away’ or that pdlaoyam 
should be read instead. yd cannot mean ‘to run away’ in this case and there would 
be no difference between pdtavyam and raksitavyam. 


2 For anaya and apanaya see 6.2.6-12. . 


3° gunapratilomyam, i.e., the possession of qualities the opposite of those regarded as 
constituting the excellences of the various prakriis as in 6.1. Cn Cs give an alternative 
explanation ‘the wrong use of the six gunas or policies.’ But thatis not right. This and 
the following expressions are attributes of the prakrltis which represent a vyasana in their 
case. And gunain connection with prakrtis can only refer to their qualities, not to the six- 
fold guna ; cf.s.62below. Besides, the wrong use of gunas (or policies) is apanaya, as stated 
in 9.5.1; and apanaya is the cause of vyasana (s. 2 above), is not itself a vyasana. — abhdvah 
is the absence of any of the prakrtis, such as absence of durga or kofa. — pradosah ‘a great 
defect ° refers to spoiling or deterioration of a prakrti. ‘Material elements may get ruined ; 
hum1n beings may become didsys. — prasargah is applicable to human beings only. — 
piddisthesameasthe pidanaofs.4.1ff. . aT he escats = 


&.1.5 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 386 


5 ‘Of calamities befalling the king, the minister, the country, the fort, 
the treasury, the army and the ally, that of each earlier one is more serious. ’ 
say the teachers. 


3 ‘No,’ says Bharadvaja. 7 ‘Of calamities befalling the king and 
the minister, the calamity of the minister is more serious. $ Deliberation 
in counsel, securing the fruits of deliberation, carrying out undertakings, 
mangging income and expenditure, infliction of punishment, warding off of 
enemies and forest tribes, protection of the kingdom, taking steps against 
calamities, guarding of princes and the installation of princes, are (all) depen- 
dent on ministers. 9 In the absence of these, those (activities) are lacking, 
and there is loss of all activity on the part of the king, as of a (bird) with 
clipped wings. 10 And in the calamities (of these), secret instigations by the 
enemy are close at hand. 11 And if these are hostile, there is danger to 
(the king’s) life, since they move near the person of the king. ’ 


12 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 18 It is the king alone who appoints 
the group of servants like the councillor, the chaplain and others, 
directs the activity of departmental heads, takes counter-measures 
against the calamities of constituents, whether human or moeterial, and 
secures theiradvancement. 14 Ifthe ministers are suffering from calamities, 
he appoints others who are not in calemities. 15 He remains ever diligent 
in honouring those worthy of honour and suppressing the treasonahle. 16 
And when the king is possessed of excellences, he makes the constituents 
perfect with their respective excellences. 17 What character he has, that 
character the constituents come to have, being dependent on him in the 
matter of energetic activity and remissness. 18 For, the king is in the place 
of their head. 


19 ‘Of calamities befalling the minister and the country, the calamity 
of the country is more serious,’ says Visalaksa. 20 ‘The treasury, the 
army, forest produce, labourers, means of transport and stores spring from 
the country. 21 In the absence of the country, there would be lack of these, 


5 Manu, 7.294-295, puts pura (i.e., durga) before rdstra (i.e., janapada) ; that agrees 
with the view of the ParaSaras (s. 24 below). 

8 dandapranayanom refers to infliction of punishment, rather than to the raising or 
disposing Of an army (as Cn Cs understand it). Cf. 1.4.11-12 for danda with pra-ni. — 
dandadpranayanam of the mss. is Obviously faulty. — kumdraraksanam: according to 
Cn Cs this is ‘ guarding against princes’ asin 1.17. However, ‘ protection of the princes, 
appears more likely here. 9 tadabhdoah: Cn seems to have read tadabhdavat ‘because 
there would be no mantra etc. in the absence of ministers, there would be cestandga.’ This 
would dispense with the necessity of ca after cestandgah. But in 15.1.89, where this passage 
is quoted, the ca is read ; On the strength of that, ca is added here and in consequence tada- 
bhaoahis retained. 11 For vaigunya ‘ hostility,’ cf. 5.6.8 ; 7.8.19. — prdndantika-: prana 
hereis the person ofthe king. antika has nothing to do with anita and the expression cannot 
mean ‘life-threatening,’ i.c., fatal (Meyer). 

18 edhanom is that of the two kinds of prakrtis. 14 Cnseems to have read vyasanisu 
camalyesu, which might appear. better. 16 sampannah and scasampadbhih refer to excel- 
lences as described in 6.1 and elsewhere. 17 wutthadne pramdde ca: cf. 1.19.1-2. 18 kita 
is ‘ peak, head’ rather than ‘root cause * (Cn Cs). 

20 vahanam refers to bullocks and cartsin particular. 21 svamyamdlyayos cdnantarah: 
we haye to supply abhdvah from the preceding, the idea being, if there is no country 


3887 CONCERNING THE TOPIC OF CALAMITIES [8.1.84 


and (the disappearance) of the king and the minister (would follow) immed- 
iately thereafter. ’ 


22 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 28 All undertakings have their origin in 
the ministers, (viz.), successful execution of works in the country, bringing 
about its well-being and security from one’s own and from the enemy’s people, 
taking counter-measures against calamities, settlement of new lands and their 
development, and (bringing in) the benefit of fines and taxes. 


24 ‘ Of calamities befalling the country and the fort, the calamity of the 
fort (is more serious), ’ say the followers of PardSara. 25 ‘For, it is in the 
fort that the treasury and the army spring up and a place (secured) for the 
country people in times of trouble. 26 And city-dwellers are stronger than 
the country people and being steadfast (in loyalty) are helpful to the king 


in times of trouble. 27 Country people, on the other hand, are common 
to the enemy. ’ 


28 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 29 The undertakings of the fort, the . 
treasury, the army, water-works and the occupations for livelihood have 
their source in the country. 380 And bravery, firmness, cleverness and large 
numbers are (found) among the country people. 81 And mountain forts 
and island forts are not inhabited because of the absence of the country. 82 
However, in a country inhabited mostly by agriculturists, the calamity of the 
fort (is more serious), while in a country inhabited mostly by martial people, 
the calamity of the country (is more serious). 


88 ‘ Of calamities befalling the fort and the treasury, the calamity of the 
treasury (is more serious), ’says Pisuna. 84 ‘ For, dependent on the treasury 


and therefore no treasury etc., there willsoon be no king and no minister. Cn Cs, however, 
treat this as a new s., ‘ the country should really occupy the position between the king and 
the minister in the list of prakrtis.’ For this, antard would be necessary, and janapadah 
would have to be supplied from janapadabhdve. It is extremely doubtful if ananiarah can 
mean ‘ placed in between.’ The clause, as naturally understood, does not imply that the 
janapada is superior to the king, as Cn objects. 


23 dandakcra-: cf. 1.18.8, though here danda may also mean ‘ army” (Meyer). 
25 durge: Cn reads durgat. 26 paurd janapadebhyah from Cs is clearly necessary in 


place of pauraénapedsie of the mss. — nityah: Cn seems to understand this indepen- 
dently ‘ steadfastly loyal’; in view of the position of ca, it seems better to understand it 
as the reason for their being @padi sahayah. 27 amitrasddhdranah: this is because when 
they are over-run by the enemy they easily transfer their allegiance to him. 

81 parvatdntardvipadh durgah: see 2.3.1-2. 32 karsakapraye tu etc.: thisis a partial 
agreement with the view of the ParaSaras. We have to supply janapade after karsakaprdaye 
and understand gariyah after durgavyasanam. Thus Cn. Cs explains ‘in aland with a few 
waysriors and many agriculturists there is trouble in the absence of a fort ; that trouble can 
be avoided in a land of warriors, but even they cannot ward off the calamity of the land ; 
hence calamity of the land is more serious.’ Allthis could hardly have been meant. Meyer 
supplies durge after karsakaprdaye, ‘on the one hand, the preponderance Of agriculturists in 
a fortis a calamity ; on the other, the preponderance of soldiers on the land is a calamity for 
the countryside.’ This also appears extremely doubtful. Russ. reads ‘ifthe people consist 
for the most part of farmers then is felt the calamity in relation to the fortified place; if the 


countryside consists mostly of fighters then the country suffers similarly (because soldiers 
take away the resources).’ 


84 durgasomskarah : cf. 2.4.81. — It is proposed to read, with Meyer, janapada-... 
vyavoharak in this s., instead of after paresdm at the end ofthe nexts. The words transposed 


8 1.85] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 388 


are building of the fort, protection of the fort, control over the country, the 
allies and the enemies, incitement of those away from the land, and the use 
of ermed forces. 85 A fort is susceptible to secret instigations by enemies 
with money. 86 And in a calamity, it is possible to go away with the 
treasury, not with the fort.’ 


87 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 88 Dependent on the fort are the treasury, 
the army, silent war, restraint of one’s own party, use of armed forces, re- 
ceiving allied troops, and warding off enemy troops and forest tribes. 89 
And in the absence of a fort, the treasury will fall into the hands of enemies. 
40 For, it is seen that those with forts are not exterminated. 


41 ‘Of calamities befalling the treasury and the army, the calamity of 
the army (is more serious),’ says Kaunapadanta. 42 ‘For, dependent on 
the army are restraint of allies and enemies, rousing alien troops to action, 
and reinforcement of one’s own troops. 48 And in the absence of an army, 
the loss of the treasury is certain. 44 Andin the absence of a treasury, it is 
possible to collect an army with forest produce or land or by allowing seizure 
of enemy’s land by each for himself, and to collect a treasury, when one has 
an army. 45 And being in close proximity to the king, the army has the 
same characteristics as the minister.’ 


46 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 47 The army, indeed, is rooted in the 
treasury. 48 Inthe absence ofa treasury, the army goes over to the enemy 
or kills the king. 49 And the treasury, ensuring (the success of) all endea- 
vours, is the means of deeds of piety and sensual pleasures. 50 In confor- 
mity with the place, the time and the work, however, one of the two, treasury 
and army, becomes important. 51 For, the army is the means of acquiring 
and protecting the treasury, the treasury that of the treasury and the army. 


can be construed with kosamilah, but not with durgah. — desdntarita may be natives who 
have gone away or foreigners in their Own lands. — dandabalavyavaharah : Cn has ‘ forcing 
some One to send troops (bala) by threats of punishment (dandabhayat)’; Cs ‘ dealing in, 
1.c., giving and receiving Of troops’; thissense does not suits. 88 or 9.2.4; sce also 18.3.15. 
Meyer has ‘activity and maintenance (vyavahara) of professional troops (dandabala).’ 
‘The use of armed STE ’ would appear to be sufficient in all places where the expression 
occurs. 

38 dandabalacygoah ara Cn here has ‘ disposition of peroons sent through fear of use 
of force.” — dsdra is the ally’s troops ; cf. 10.2.7. | 


42, poradandotsahanam : the alien troops are part of one’s army. Meyer proposes 
utsddonam for utsahanam ; that docs not seem necessary. The idea of urging them to fight 
ishetter. — svadandapratigrahah : pratizraha means ‘ reserves ’ which are used to reinforce 
the’ troops engaged in fighting ; ; cf. 10.2.20. ‘Cn’s explanation seems to imply the idea of 
raising troops. Cs has ‘acceptance of one’s army as attacking the enemy’ § troops,’ i.e., 
apparently its use for attack. Meyer has ‘possession of one’s army’ or mastery Over it. 
Russ. has ‘taking punitive measures in his own land.’ 44 kosdbhdce ca: we expect a tu 
in place of ca. — svayarngrdha: cf. 8.4.28; 9.3.17. .45 rajitah dsonnacrititudd :; this is 
because the army is directly under the king. For the idea, cf. s. 11 above. 

49 sarodbhiyogakarah : it seems that abhiyogais usedin the sense of ‘ effort, endeavour.’ 

Cs has ‘ capable of carrying out attacks against all neighbours ° which is hardly appropriate 
in the casc Of kosa. Cn secms to have read -tarah ‘ capable of saving from attacks by all.’ 
These explanations might suit danda but the expression cannot be included in the preceding 


339 CONCERNING THE TOPIC OF CALAMITIES [8.1.61 


52 Because it brings into being all objects, the calamity of the treasury is 
more serious. 


58 ‘ Of calamities befalling the army and the ally, the calamity of the 
ally (is more serious),’ says Vatavyadhi. 54 ‘The ally does the work with- 
out being paid and at a distance, repels the enemy in the rear, his ally, the 
enemy and the forest chief, and helps with treasury, army and territory, 
remaining united in conditions of calamity.’ 


55 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 56 When one has an army, one’s ally remains 
friendly, or (even) the enemy becomes friendly. 57 MHowever, in a work 
that can well be performed either by the army or the ally, advantage comes 
from their strength (and ) the attainment of suitable place and time for their 
own type of warfare. 58 But an ally is of no avail in a speedy expedition 
against enemies or forest chiefs and in a rising in the interior. 59 An ally 
looks to the securing of his own interests in the event of simultaneity of 
calamities and in the event of the growth of the enemy’s power. 


60 Thus has been stated the determination of (the seriousness of) cala- 
mities befalling the constituents. 


61 But in accordance with the peculiar nature of the calamity, 
the numerousness or loyalty or strength of parts of the constituent leads 
to the accomplishment of a work. 


8. 50 Thisis a partial concession to Kaunapadanta’s view. 52 sarvadravya-: Cn Cs under- 
stand the dravyaprakriis. 


54 vyasandvasthdyogam as an adjective to mitram rather than to vijigisum ‘ who has 


fallen in a state of misfortune’ (Meyer). With upakaroti, we gencrally have the genitive, 
not the accusative. 


56 Cn readsa hiafter dandavato. 57 sddhdrane,i.e., which can be carried out either 
by the army ortheally. Cs understands sdrya in the sense of kdryasddhakatva and construes 
sGratah ‘in point of strength’ with it. That is unnecessary. — For sdra ‘strength,’ cf. 
10.5.14 ff. — After -labhdt a ca or ud would seem necessary. 58 amitirdtatikdn is proposed 
as the object of sighrabhiydne, since kope cannot be construed with amiira or dlavika. kopa 
referstoa revoltinthekingdom. Forabhyantara;opa, see 9.8.12. 59 vyasanayavgapadye, 


i.e., when the vijigisu and the enemy are both in calamity, as in g. 1. — arthayukiav : cf. 
7.18.85. 


61 prakrtyavayavandm is construed with bahubhdoah etc. in the second half and vyasa- 
nasya vigesatah understood as an independent clause. The idea is, it would depend on the 
nature of the particular calamity whether bahubhdca or anurdga or sara of parts of the prakrti 
would be helpfulin overcoming the calamity. Meyer has ‘in the case ofa calamity (vyasa- 
nasya) befalling single parts of a constituent, it is in accordance with the peculiar nature 
(visesatah of the calamity) that numerousness etc. leads to success.’ It is not necessary to 
understand the cyasana to be that of parts ofa prakrti. Cn has two explanations, the second 
of whichis adopted in Cs. According to it, ‘ the numerousness etc. of parts of constituents 
is more effective than the greater or less importance (visesa) of the calamity affecting those 
parts.’ Cn adds ‘if, for example, the vijigigu has janapadaryasana and the enemy has 
durgavyasana, the former (even though in a greater calamity) would succeed, if his janapada 
has numerousness etc. and if the avayavas of the enemy’s durga (such as dhdnvana; vana, 
etc.) do not have bahubhdva etc.’ Thisisreadingtoomuchinthe words. Itisalso doubtful 
if 2 comparison between the calamities of two kings is intended in this stanza. (Cn’s first 
explanation is ‘on account of the greater or less importance (visesatah i.e., baliyastuat) of 
the calamities of the members (avuayava), viz., the constituents (i.e., with prakriayah eva 
avayaodh) being thus declared, the numerousness etc. (of a later prakrit, whose calamity is 

lighter) brings success.’ The first half does not seem properly understood. — 9.7.48-49 


show that bahubhdva and anurdga belong to avayavas of purusaprakrtis, while sdra to those 
of dravyaprakriis. 


8.1.62] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 390 


62 But when the calamity of two (constituents) is equal, the 
difference (arises) from a decline in qualities, if the possession of excellences 
by the rest of the constituents is not rendered unserviceable. 


68 But where the destruction of the rest of the constituents is 
likely to follow from the calamity of one, that calamity would be more 
serious, whether of the principal or of (some) other (constituent). 


CHAPTER TWO 


SECTION 128 CONSIDERATIONS REGARDING THE CALAMITIES OF 
THE KING AND KINGSHIP 


1 The king and (his ) rule, this is the sum-total of the constituents, 


2 For the king, there is (danger of) revolt in the interior or in the outer 
regions, 8 Because of danger as from a snake, a rising in the interior is a 
greater evil than a rising in the outer regions, and a rising of ministers of the 
interior (a greater evil) than a rising in the interior. 4 Therefore, he should 
keep the power of the treasury and the army in his own hands. 


62 Itis proposed to read ndvidheyakam for nabhidheyikam of the mss., and avidheyoka 
is understood as ‘ not under control, not effective, etc.’ ; ndvidhdyakam may also be read in 
this sense. doayoh refers to two constituents of the same state. gunatah is construed with 
kgaydt, the idea understood being that the difference arises froma greater or less deteriora- 
tion in the excellences of the prakrtis. Cn has two explanations, the first of which is ‘ when 
the same prakyti of the conqueror and the enemy isin a calamity, the difference is due to 
absence of bahubhdva and other qualities; but if the remaining prakrtis possess their excel- 
lences, that renders the absence of bchubhdva and other qualities ineffective (gunoksayasya 
avidhdyakam bhavati).’ In the second, Cn has ‘the distinction is according to presence of 
qualities (gunatah) or their absence (ksaydt), provided the excellences of the remaining prakylis 
mentioned above (abhidheyakam,i.e., cbhidhdya visayikriam) are not present in those of the 
enemy.’ There seemslittle justification for supplying parasyain the second half. Cs differs 
from the second explanation in Cn only in referring gunaiah to the conqueror and kgayat 
to the enemy or vice versa instead of referring both to the vijigisu. In this s. drcyoh can be 
understood to refer to two rival kings ; however, it appears better to understand two prakytis 
of the same state by it. Meyer construes kgaydl with the second half, ‘if after deterioration of 
a constituent, the remaining constituents are in an excellent condition, the calamity is not 
worth mentioning (ndbhidheyikam).’ Thislastisextremely doubtful. Russ. follows Meyer. 


68 ekavyasandd shows that doayoh in the last stanza refers to prakrtis rather than to rival 
kings. — pradhdnasya, i.e., of the king. 


8.2 : 

The Chapter deals with rdjavyasana and rajyavyasana in ss. 2-4 and 5-25 respectively. 

pte Te is concerned with danger to the king’s person, the latter with abnormal forms 
of rule. 

1 rdjdé rdjyam: this is not the same thing as ‘1]’état c’est moi’ of Louis XIV. rdjya 
refers to rulership or rule and does not mean ‘kingdom’. ‘The idea here is, the king and his 
rule constitute the sum-total of prakrtis. The other prokrtis are subservient to that. The 
supreme importance of the king and hisruleisthus emphasised. Because ofthisimportance, 
the question of the vyasanas befalling them is taken up first. Cn Cs (agreeing in this with 
Kaémandaka, 15.1) understand by rajya all the other prakytis from amdtya to mitra. But 
rdjya in this Chapter has nothing to do with those prakrtis. Cf. also 5.1.2 and the contents 
of that Chapter. 

2 abhyantara kopa and bdhya kopa are described in 9.8.12 and 22 respectively. 3 
ahibhaydt : a simile is implied ; the ablative shows hetu. — antaramdtyakopa is defined in 

9.8.20 and refers to a rising Of palace Officials like dauvdrika, antarvamsika etc. — antahkopa’ 


is the same as abhyantarakopa. 


391 CONCERNING THE TOPIC OF CALAMITIES [ 8.2. 12 


5 ‘As between rule by two and rule without the (legitimate) king, rule 
by two is destroyed by hatred and loyalty towards each other’s parties or 
by mutual rivalry; rule without the (legitimate) king, on the other hand, 
looking to the winning of the hearts of the subjects, is enjoyed by the others 
as it exists,’ say the teachers. 


G ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 7 Rule by two, (e.g.), by father and son or 
by two brothers, continues to exist, with well-being and security equally 
shared and with ministers held in check. 8 Rule without the (legitimate) 
king, on the other hand, snatching what belongs to another still living, and 
thinking, ‘ This does not belong to me,’ impoverishes it, carries it off or sells 
it or, if (still) disaffected, leaves it and goes away. 


9 As between a king blind and a king deviating from the science, 
‘The king, blind because he is without the eye of science, doing whatsoever 
pleases him, obstinately resolved, or led by others, ruins the kingdom with 
(his acts of) injustice; but one deviating from the science is easy of persua- 


sion in those cases where his mind has strayed from the science,’ say the 
teachers. 


10 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 11 The blind king can be made to follow 
any course of action through the excellence of his associates. 12 ° One devia- 


5 duairdjya: as the sequel shows, this is joint rule by two kings, not a partition ofa 
kingdom into two, as is the case in Mdlavikdgnimiira, Act 5. — vairdjya ‘ being without 
the king ’ isin effect rule by one other than the legitimate ruler of the state. Some enemy, 
after conquering a state, has driven out its ruler and started ruling over it from his own state. 
Tne text does not justify the thesis of Jayaswal (Hindu Polity, I, 92) that this means a king- 
less state and that it implies a real democratic constitution, nor is vairdjya an aristocracy 
(vi-raj) ruling under authority from janapada or the entire body of the people (H. K. Deb, 
IHQ, XIV, 372 ff.). — anyaih cannot mean ‘ by the subjects’ (Cs) or ‘ by everybody ” (Deb, 
loc. cit., p. 370). It refers to those who have forcibly seized the kingdom. 

% tulyayogaksemam is a reply to parasparasamgharsena ; if welfare is equally shared, 
there need be norivalry. Cn rightly adds ‘ mitho virodhdsambhavat ’ by way of explanation. 
— amdlydvagraham is from Cn Cs. It means ‘ where the ministers are held in check’ 
and is a reply to anyonyapaksgadvesa- etc. Cn, however, has ‘if a conflict does arise, the 
ministers can set it right ’; Cs has ‘ the ministers can prevent double rule from coming into 
existence,’ which is hardly likely ; the question of preventing dvairdjya is not being discussed 
here. V. Raghavan (Proceedings of the All-India Oriental Conference, Nagpur, 1946, pp. 
108-4) proposes mitho’ vagraham, regarding tulyayogaksemam as a reply to anyonyapakga- 
etc. and mitho ’vagraham as a reply to parasparasamghargena. He thinks that the amdlyas 
have no place here. But anyonypakga- does contain a reference to such officers in both 
parties. And tulya- etc. appears more likely as a reply to paraspara- etc. The case of 
Malavikdgnimitra 5.14 (paraspardvagrahanirvikdrau) is not exactly parallel. The two kings 
there rule over two halves of Vidarbha independently and are both vassals to another 
sovereign. 8 vuairdjya does not necessarily refer to rule by foreigners from outside India, 
as Meyer thinks. The foreign ruler is only from a neighbouring state in Indie. Though 
the subject for kargayati etc. is vairdjyam, we have to understand the foreign ruler as meant. 
Cn Cs read vairdjye for vairdjyam. The construction becomes easy in that case, though 
the subject for kargoyati etc. has then to be supplied. — Jayaswal’s translation of the s. 
(Hindu Polity, I, 94) ‘ nobody feels ina Vairéjya government the feeling of “‘ mine’’ (with 
regard to the state), the aim of political organism is rejected, any one can sell away (the 


country), no One feels responsible, or becoming indifferent leaves the state’ does too 
much violence to the text. 


9 For agdstracakgur andhah, cf. 1.14.7 — calitagastra is one who deliberately flouts 
the teaching of the dgdsira. 


8. 2.18] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 392 


ting from the science, however, with his mind firmly fixedon what .is contrary 
to the science, ruins the kingdom and himself with his injustice. © 


18 As between a sick and a new king, ‘ The sick king meets with (the 
danger of) the overthrow of his rule caused by ministers or danger to his own 
life caused by (carrying on the) rule; the new king, on the other hand, busies 
himself with acts like observance of his duties, showing favours, granting 
exemptions, bestowing gifts and conferring honour, which please and benefit 
the subjects,’ say the teachers. 


14 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 15 The sick king carries on the kingly duties 
as they were going on before. 16 The new king, however, thinking: the 
kingdom, won by force, to be his, behaves as he likes without restraint... 17 
Or, being in the power of his associates in revolt, he tolerates the ruin of the 
kingdom. 18 Not being rooted among the subjects, he becomes, easy to 
uproot, | 


19 With respect to the sick king, there is this distinction, one afflicted 
by a foul disease and one not so afflicted. 20 With respect to the new, 
also, (the distinction is) one of noble birth and one not of noble birth. 


21 As between a weak king of noble birth and a strong king not of noble 
birth, ‘ The subjects yield with difficulty to the overtures of the weak though 
nobly-born king, having regard to his weakness, but easily (yield) to those 
of the strong though low-born king, having regard to his strength,’ say the 
teachers. 


22 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. .28 The subjects submit of their own accord 
to a weak king of noble.birth, as a natural capacity to rule devolves on one 
of noble birth. 24 And they frustrate the overtures of the strong but low- 
born king since in love are all virtues present. 25 The loss of the crops is 


18 prdandbddham vd rdjyamilam: this clearly means that carrying on the rule would 
be too much for the bealth of the king and he might die, as Meyer says. Cn has ‘ the people 
consider him unfit to rule and overthrow him.’ — prakrtiranjanopakdraih is an adjective 
to the preceding expression. 

15 rdjapranidhim asin 1.19. 16 baldvorjitam and sdmutthayikaih (s. 17) show that 
“new king’ meansa usurper. The difference from vairdjya is that in this case the new ruler 
is not a foreigner, but a usurper from the sameland, perhaps even a scion Of the same family 
to which the ousted king belonged. 

19 pdparogi,i.e., suffering from foul disease such as leprosy and so on. — Theideain 
these two ss. appears to be thatin connection with the choice between a sick king and a 
new king, the preference indicated above need not be mechanically followed, but the nature 
of the illness and the nobility or otherwise of birth of the new king should also be taken 
into account. 

21 wupajdpais usually ‘secret instigation’ in order to win a person Over to one’s side. 
Here it refers to overtures, not necessarily secret, made for that purpose. 

23 jdlyai etc.is repeated from 7.17.21. 24 anurdge sdroagunycm from Cn-Cs is 
found in 7.5.14 in the same connection. The reading of the mss. anuyoge sddgunyam yields 
little relevant sense. 25 praydsavadhdt etc.: Cn Cs regard the two statements in this s. 
as dealing with troubles caused by foreign invasion and divine calamities respectively. 
But this seems hardly right. Such a discussion would be out of place here ; it would have 
beenincluded in 8.4, under pidanavarga. The two things are unconnected with rajavyasana 
or rdjyaoyasan3, which form the topicofthisChapter. Thes. seems to contain two maxims 


393 CONCERNING THE TOPIC OF CALAMITIES [ 8. 3. 12 


a, greater evil than the loss of sowings, as it involves loss of efforts, drought 
(a greater evil) than excessive rain, as it involves loss of livelihood. 


26 The relative scriousness or otherwise of calamitics of the consti- 
tuents, (taken) two at a time, has been set forth in the traditional order, 
as the ground for marching or staying quiet. 


CHAPTER THREE 


SECTION 129 THE GROUP OF THE VICES OF MAN 


1 Absence of training in the lores is the cause of a man’s vices. 2 For, 


an untrained person does not see the faults in vices. 8 We shall sct them 
forth. 


4 A group of three (vices) springs from anger, a group of four springs 
from lust. 


5 Of the two, anger is more serious. 6 For, anger acts everywhere. 
7 And mostly kings under the influence of anger are known to have been 
killed by risings among the subjects, those under the influence of lust (are 
known to be killed) by enemies and diseases as a result of losses. 


8 ‘No,’ says Bharadvaja. 9 ‘ Anger is behaviour proper for a good 
man, (a means of) requiting enmity, extirpation of insults and keeping men in 
dread. 10 And resort to anger is ever needed for putting down evil. 11 
Lust is (a means of) attainment of success, conciliation, generosity of nature 
and being lovable. 12 And resort to lust is ever needed for the enjoyment of 
fruits of works done.’ 


pertaining to rule by a weak king and a strong king. Rule by the latter is like sasyacadhe 
or aursti , that by a weak king like musticadha ‘ destruction of sowings’ or atiursti. Thisis 
intended to support the view that rule by the durbala noble kingis preferable. Itis not un- 
likely that the s. is a marginal comment that has gotinto the text. — Meyer finds here the 
words of experience of Candragupta’s minister, who, having fallen from the ‘rains (of favour)’ 
to the gutter, is bitter against the low upstart whom he helped to power. Itis as difficult 
to agree with thisinference as with Jolly’s opposite inference that the author could not haye 
been the minister who had helped an upstart to power. Personal experience need not be 
understood as reflected in this passage. 


26 The stanza is unrelated to the contents of this Chapter, but forms a summing up of 
the discussionin the last Chapter ; it should have preferably come at the end of 8.1. — ydne 


sthdne refers to ydtavyam raksitavyam of 8.1.1. Hence Meyer’s proposal to read sthdne 
sthdne ‘in each case’ is unacceptable. 


8.3 | 
3 tdn has in view dosdn ; hence the masculine. 


7 kgayanimitiam is read as in Cn, and Grivyddhibhih is preferred to ativyddhibhih. 
As Cn explains ksaya refers to losses of kofa and danda (in the case of ari) and to decay of 
the body (in the casc of vyddhi). vyaya does not have such a double significance and does 
not appear authentic. atrvyddkt, though possible (cf. 7.6.9), scemsless likely. — iti: Mcyer 
thinks that the name of the teacher or school holding this view is lost. Perhaps dcaryah 
was Originally there-after iti. } 


9 vairaydianam and avajiidoadho from Cn Cs are quite obviously the only correct 
readings. 11 siddhilabhah: a strong desire or urge often leads to success. — Bhéradvaja 


does not regard kopa and kama as vices and is therefore unconcerned with their relative 
seriousness. 


8. 8.18] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 394 


18 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 14 Becoming hated, making enemies, and 
association with pain, that is anger. 15 Humiliation, loss of wealth, and 
association with harmful persons like thieves, gamblers, hunters, singers and 
players on instruments, that is lust. 16 Of these, being hated is a greater 
evil than humiliation. 17 One humiliated is held in their powcr by his own 
people and by others ; the hated one is exterminated. 18 Making enemies 
is a greater evil than loss of wealth. 19 Loss of wealth endangers the 
treasury, making enemies endangers life. 20 Association with pain is a 
greater cvil than association with harmful persons. 21 Association with 
harmful persons can be remedied in a moment, association with pain causes 
prolonged distress. 22 Therefore, anger is more serious. 


23 Verbal injury, violation of property and physical injury (are vices 
Springing from anger). 


24 ‘As between verbal injury and violation of property, verbal injury 
is worse,’ says Visalaksa. 25 ‘For, a spirited man, spoken to harshly, 
retaliates with energy. 26 The barb of offensive speech, embedded in the 
heart, inflames the spirit and afflicts the senses.’ 


27 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 28 MHonouring with money removes the 
dart of speech, but violation of property means loss of livelihood. 29 Not 
giving (what belongs to the other), taking away, destroying or abandoning 
property is violation of property. 


30 ° As between violation of property and physical injury, violation of 
property is worse,’ say the followers of Parasara. 31 ‘Spiritual good and 
pleasures are rooted in money. 82 And the world is tied up with money. 
88 Its destruction is a greater evil.’ 


34 “No,’ says Kautilya. 85 Even for a very large sum of money, no 
one would desire the loss of his life. 86 And through physical injury a 
person incurs that same danger at the hands of others. 


37 This is the group of three (vices) springing from anger. 


38 The group of four (vices) springing from lust, however, is, hunting, 
gambling, women and drink. 


89 Among them, ‘Of hunting and gambling, hunting is worse,’ says 
Pisuna. 40 ‘For, in it, the danger of robbers, enemies, wild animals, forest 


14 $§atruvedanam ‘finding enemies,’ i.e., making enemies, Mcyer’s ‘feeling enmity 
towards others’ does not quite fit s.19 — duhkhdsangah: dsanga is close contact, 
association. 15 pdtaccara ‘a thief’ is explained in Cn as ‘a drunkard.’ 21 muhiria- 
prattkaro ;: Cn Cs read muhiirtapritikaro; but the former presents a better contrast to 
dirghaklegakaro. 


25 pratydrohati ‘ climbs back,’ i.e., retaliates. 
29 paritydgah,i.e., ‘non-protection of goods entrusted to one’s care *(Cn Cs). 


395 CONCERNING THE TOPIC OF CALAMITIES [ 8. 3. 54 


fires and stumbling and loss of way as well as hunger and thirst constitute a 
danger to life. 41 In gambling, however, there is only winning for one 
expert in dice, as it was for Jayatsena and Duryodhana.’ 


42 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 48 Of the two (parties in gambling) there 
is also loss for one, as is illustrated by Nala and Yudhisthira. 44 And the 
Same money, won at gambling, becomes a bait and leads to formation of enmi- 
ties. 45 Uncertainty as to existing wealth and obtaining non-existing 
wealth, loss before a thing is enjoyed and getting illness due to retention of 
urine, motions of the bowel, hunger and so on, are the evils of gambling. 
46 But in hunting, there is exercise, getting rid of phlegm, bile, fat and 
(a tendency to) perspiration, practice in hitting the targets of moving and 
stationary bodies, knowledge of the minds of animals in anger, fear and 
condition of ease, and (only) occasional marching. 


47 ‘Ofthe vices of gambling and women, the vice of gambling (is worse),’ - 
says Kaunapadanta, 48 ‘For, continuously, at night in lamplight, and 
(even) when the mother has died, the gambler goes on playing. 49 And if 
questioned in difficulties, he becomes enraged. 50 But in case of indulgence 
in women, questioning concerning spiritual and material well-being is indeed 
possible on occasions of bath, toilet and meals. 51 And it is possible to 
emplov a woman in what is beneficial to the king or to turn her away by means 
of silent punishment or disease or to make her go away.’ 


52 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 58 Deliverance is possible in gambling, 
without deliverance is addiction to women. 54 Failure to show himself, 
aversion for work, absence of material good and loss of spiritual good by 
allowing the right time to pass, weakness in administration and addiction to 
drink (result from addiction to women). 


40 prdndbddhah is the predicate for stendmiira- etc. and kguipipdse. 41 Jayatsena 
is apparently the name of Nala’s brother. Aceording to the Mahabharata, 3.56.4 if., 
however, Nala had lost to Puskara. 


44, Gmisam ‘a bait’ which lures other gamblers to covet it (Meyer) rather than ‘a prey, 
i.c., an Object of enjoyment for all (not for himself) ’ (Cn Cs). — vatrdnubandhah from Cnis 
a better expression than vairabandhah of the mss. 45 vipratipattih ‘conflict’ scems to 
refer to uncertainty, rather than ‘misuse’ (Cn). Meyer has ‘slipping out of one’s hand’. 
46 kopabhayasthanesu is from Cn. Cn explains stidna as ‘condition of ease.’ With 
-sthdnehitesu of the mss., Cs understands thita in the sense of ‘activity’. Meyer prefers to 
read hilesu as a separate word ‘in conditions of well-being,’ which is not very happy. — 
anityaydana,i.e., you do not have to go out always ; Only occasionally yougohunting. Meyer 
thinks that nityaydnam ‘ being always On the move ’ is better. But that would hardly be 
a point in favour of hunting. 


51 updmgsudandena: Meyer’s attempts to get over the difficulty of ‘ silent ’ punishment 
for women, cccasioned by his belief that Indianslooked upon a woman’s murder as a ghastly 
Sin, are all unsuccessful. We have to face the fact that onc teacher, Kaunapadanta, at least 
had no scruples on that score. — Cn construes oydvartayitum with updmsudandena, and 
avasrdvayitum with cyddhind. That is also likely. 

53 sapratyddeyom, i.e., from which a person can be reclaimed. ‘The losses of which 
can be recovered ’is much less likely. 54 In view of the ca after dharmalopah, anariho is 
read as a separate word. The compound anarthadharmalopah is awkward. 


8. 3. 55 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 396 


55 ‘ Of the vices of. women and drink, indulgence in women (is worse),’ 
says Vitavyadhi. 56 ‘For, harmfulness among women is of various kinds 
as explained in (the Section on) rules for the royal residence. 57 In drink, 
on the other hand, there is the enjoyment of pleasures of the senses, such as 
sound and others, making gifts of love, honouring attendants, and the removal 
of fatigue caused by work.’ 


58 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 59 In the case of indulgence in women there 
is begetting of an offspring and protection of oneself with wives at home, the 
opposite of this with outside women, ruin of everything with women unappro- 
achable (for one). 60 Both these (evils) are there in the vice of drink. 61 
The cxcellences of drink are: loss of consciousness, insane behaviour of one 
not insane, appearing like a corpse when not deceased, exposing private parts 
to view, loss of learning, inteilect, strength, wealth and friends, separation 
from the good, association with the harraful, and attachment to skill in lute 
and song, destructive of wealth. 


62 Of gambling and wine, gambling (is worse). 68 ‘The success or 
failure of one side, due to the stakes, leads to strife among the subjects by 
creating two factions concerning animate and inanimate objects. 64 And 
in particular, in the case of oligarchies and of royal families having the chara- 
cter of an oligarchy, there are dissensions caused by gambling and destruction 
caused by that; hence it is the most evil among vices, as it favours evil men, 
(and) since it leads to weakness in administration. 


65 Lust means the favouring of evil persons, anger, the suppression 
of good persons. Because of the multitude of evils (resulting from them), 
both are held to be a calamity without end. 


66 Hence, the self-possessed (king) should give up anger and lust, 
the starting point of all calamities, the destroyers of the patrimony, by 
waiting upon elders and gaining control over his senses. 


56 bdligyam is not mere foolishness, but harmfulness, as shown by the contents of 
1.20.14-17. — As the quotation from Vatavyadhi refers to the section on nisdniapranidhi, 
it is reasonable to suppose that his work contained a section similar to 1.20 above. 


60 tad ubhayam, i.e, the viparycya (viz., absence of offspring and abscnce of self-protec- 
tion) and sarvocchittih ‘ruin of everything.’ 61 pdnasampad: sampad appears to be used 
ironically. 

62 Cn,followed by Cs, reads ekesam at the end of thiss., explainingit by ‘in the opinion 
ofsome.’ It then adds anyesadm after vindsa iti in s. 64, interpreting asatpragraha there as 
‘indulgence in drink’. Thatis quite unlikely, asis shown by the fact that s. 64is quoted 

‘in 15.1.48-44 as an illustration of oydkhyana, where anyesdm is not to be found, showing 
that right up to the end of s. 64 we have only dyiiiain view and nowhere pdna. Itis there- 
fore better to read ekesdm at the beginning ofs. 68 in the sense of ‘ of one party (to the game)’. 
68 prdnisu refers to betting on animal fights, races etc., while niscetancgu refers to dice etc. 
64 samghdnam: sec 11.1 below. — samghadharmindm rajakulandm: this refers to the 
kulasamgha of 1.17.53 in which all male adults of the dynasty form a condominium over the 
state. 


66 miulaharam: mila refers to the inherited kingdom, as Cn points out. Cf. 2.9.20 ff. 
— vrddhosevt jitendriyah: cf. 1.5-7 above. — For cyasanas, cf. Manu 7.45-52, which show 
some expansion and much difference as compared to the present text. 


897 CONCERNING THE TOPIC OF CALAMITIES [8.4.12 
CITAPTER FOUR 


SECTION 180 THE GROUP OF AFFLICTIONS 
SECTION 181 THE GROUP OF HINDRANCES 
SECTION 132 THE GROUP OF STOPPAGES OF PAYMENT TO THE TREASURY 


1 Visitations from the gods are: fire, floods, disease, famine and 
epidemic. 


2 ‘Of fire and floods, the affliction of fire is irremediable and all-con- 
suming, while the affliction of floods is such that escape from it is possible and 
its dangers can be tided over,’ say the teachers. 3 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 
4 Fire burns (at most) a village or half a village ; floods, on the other hand, 
carry away hundreds of villages. | 


os 


5 ‘Of disease and famine, disease ruins undertakings by hindering 
the activity of workers who die or are sick or afflicted, whereas famine does 
not ruin undertakings and yields taxes in money and cattle,’ say the teachers. 
6 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 7 Disease afflicts only one region and remedies 
can be found for it, while famine afflicts the whole country and leads to absence 
of livelihood for living beings. 


8 By that is explained epidemic. 


- 9 ‘Of the loss of common men and that of chiefs; the loss of common 
men brings about insecurity of undertakings, the loss of chiefs is characterised 
by a hindrance to the carrying out of works,’ say the teachers. 10 ‘No,’ 
says Kautilya. 11 The loss of common men can be made good because of 
the very large number of common men, not the loss of chiefs. 12 For, 
among thousands there is one chief or not (even one), because of the high degree 
of spirit and intelligence (necessary, and) because of the dependence of com- 
mon mei on him. 3 


8.4 


The first of the three Sections in this Chapter, which is mainly concerned with janapada- 
vyasana, extends up to s. 47, the other two being disposed of in a single s. each. 


1 Cf. 4.3.1 for eight calamities of a divine origin. Rats, serpents etc. mentioned there 
are calamities of much less importance. — maraka is a pestilential epidemic. 


2 sakyapagamanam from Cn is certainly preferable to sakyopagamanam ; the idea is 
of possibility of escaping from the floods. — uklam, which appearsin the reading ofthe mss., 
is duc to a scribal crror. 


5 . -vyddhitopasrsta is read asin Cs for -vyddhitdpasrsta. It seems that upasrsia should 
be understood in the sense of ‘ afflicted,’ i.e., incapacitated for work because ofthe illness. 
Cf. rogopasrsta (Raghuvamsa, 8.94). Cs, understanding it in the sense of ‘sick,’ explains 
upasrstapcricaraka by ‘ who nurse the sick’. paricdraka, however, is to be construed with 
preta and vyadhita as well and evidently refers to workmen employed On works. apasrsta 
may mean ‘ whois relieved of his work ’ (Meyer) , ‘ discharged, dismissed ’ (Russ.), or ‘ who 
has left’; but upasrsta is a better reading. : 


‘8 tena seems to refer to famine asin Cs rather than to disease asin Cn. 


9 ksudraka: cf. 1.13.18. — mukhya refers to principal officers and cheftains, includ- 
ing feudatories. 12 sattvaprajiddhikyat: Cs makes this the reason for ksudrakdndm tada- 
grayawam. Cn does not read taddsrayatoat ksudrakandm, and it seems very likely that these 
words are Only a marginal comment that has creptinto the text. They do not provide the 
reason for the statement in bhavati eko na vd, as the use of the ablative is expected to do. 


8.4.18] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 398 


13 ‘ Of one’s own army and an enemy’s army, one’s own army harasses 
by excessive violence and levies, and cannot be warded off, whereas an enemy’s 
army can be given a fight or can be escaped from by means of flight or by a 
treaty,’ say the teachers. 14 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 15 Harassment by 
one’s own army can be avoided by winning over or destroying the leaders 
among the principal officers or it afflicts (only) a part of the country, whereas 
the enemy’s army, which afflicts the whole country, ruins it by plunder, 
slaughter, burning, destroying and carrying (people) off. 


16 ‘ Of strife among subjects and strife in the royal family, strife among 
subjects, creating a split among subjects, invites attacks by enemies, while 
strife in the royal family brings about double food, wages and exemptions for 
the subjects, ’ say the teachers. 17 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 18 Strife among 
subjects can be averted by winning over the leaders among the subjects or by 
removal of the cause of strife. 19 And subjects, contending among them- 
selves, benefit (the king) by their mutual rivalry. 20 Strife in the royal 
family, on the other hand, leads to harassment and destruction of the subjects 
und can be overcome (only) with a double exertion. 


21 ‘Of indulgence in pleasures by the country people and that by the 
king, indulgence in pleasures by the country people brings about the destruc- 
tion of the fruits of works for all three times, whereas indulgence in pleasures 
by the king confers benefit on artisans, artists, actors, reciters, prostitutes and 
traders,’ say the teachers. 22 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 23 Indulgence in 
pleasures by the country people consumes little for the sake of the removal 
of fatigue caused by work and, after consuming, leads to application to work 
once again, whereas indulgence in pleasures by the king afflicts (the subjects) 
through seiziwre of what he pleases, demands, gifts and seizure of works by 
(the king) himself and by his favourites. 


24 ‘Of the king’s beloved and the prince, the prince harasses through 
seizure of what he pleases, demands, gifts and seizure of works by himself 
and by his favourites, the king’s beloved through enjoyment of pleasures,’ 


13 dandckarablydm: in spite of its use along with kara, danda here is obviously 
‘force ’ rather than ° fines’. — apasdrena: the flight is by the people rather than by the 
king. 15 prakrtipurusamukhya: it seems that prakrlipurusa means a principal officer, 
and mukhya refers to leaders or the foremost among them. Cf. 12.38.14. Cn seems to have 
read Only prakrtimukhya and explained it hy ‘chief among ministers’. — apavdhanaih 
from Cn Csis clearly necessary. Cf. 2.1.1, also 8.2.8. 

16 ‘rdjavivddch is strife among members of the royal family for power. 18 wupagraha 
is conciliation, winning Over. 20 doigunavydydma, i.e., effort double that required for 
putting down strife among subjects. 

21 traikdlyena ‘¢.g., crops sown in the past are not cared for, sowings in the present 
are not made and preparation ofland for future sowing is not made’ (Cn). — -riipdjivd-, 
found in Cn Cs, is missingin the mss.. It scems quite authentic. 28  gacchati: as the 
subject is -vihdrah, gamayati would appear better. — svayamgrdha: cf. 8.1.44. — pranaya: 
cf. 5.2.16 etc. — panydgdara is a present consisting of goods. Cf. 7.15.20 etc. — karyo- 

pagraha: Cn has ‘ receiving bribes for allowing any work to be done’. Meyer has ‘seizure 
of works’, i.c., appropriation of their fruits. That would appear to be better. 


24 subhagd ‘beloved’ of the king. In 12.2.15, the word is used as an adjective to 
mahisi. erea queen ora mistress may be understood. 


399 CONCERNING THE TOPIC OF CALAMITIES [ 8.4.37 


say the teachers. 25 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 26 The prince can be held in 
check through the minister and the chaplain, not the king’s beloved, because 
of her foolishness and association with harmful persons. 


27 ‘Of a band (of fighting units) and a chief, the band, impossible to 
suppress because of large numbers, harasses through robbery and forcible 
seizure, the chief through favouring and destroying undertakings,’ say the 
teachers. 28 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 29 A band is easy to restrain because 
of common character and vices or through the winning over of the chief or a 
part of the band. 30 The chief, full of hauteur, harasses by destroying the 
lives and property of others. 


31 ‘Of the Director of Stores and the Administrator, the Director of 
Stores harasses by finding fault with what is done and by (imposing) penalties, 
while the Administrator, supervised by a bureau, enjoys (only) the fruit 
assigned,’ say the teachers. 32 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 38 The Director of 
Stores receives as admissible in the treasury what is guaranteed by others, 
whereas the Administrator first secures wealth for himself, then collects 
revenue for the king or allows it to perish, and in the matter of recciving 
others’ property he acts on his own authority. 


34  ‘ Of the frontier officer and the trader, the frontier officer harasses a 
trade-route by allowing the activity of robbers and charging excessive duties, 
whereas traders promote (a trade-route) through benefits conferred by goods 
carried out and goods brought in exchange,’ say the teachers. 35 ‘No,’ 
says Kautilya. 36 The frontier officer maintains (a trade-route) by favouring 
the bringing together of goods, whereas traders, joining together and raising 
or lowering the (prices of) goods, make a profit of one hundred panas on one 
pana or of one hundred kwmbhas.on one kumbha. 


87 As between land seized by a person of noble birth and land occupied 
by herds of cattle, ‘ Land seized by a person of noble birth, though yielding 


27 §rentis clearly a band or community of fighting men, normally carrying on some 
peaceful occupation. Cf. 7.11.18. For mukhya, cf. ss. 9-12 above. 29 samdnagilavya- 
sanatvat : theidea seems to be, if one of them can be won over, the others would follow suit. 
The idea in Csis, they can be restrained by other men of the same character and vices. 380 
stambha ‘ haughtiness ’; cf. 1.9.1,3 etc. 


31 karcnddhisthitah: this can mean ‘under the control of a bureau’ as in Breloer 
(ILI, 223), and that sense better suits the context here, though in 2.5.8 and 2.11.1, the 
expression seems to mean ‘presiding Over an Office’. 88 kridvastham: for avasthd 
“guarantee,’cf.2.8.29. — svapratyayah ‘ trustingin himself,’i.e., acting on hisown authority. 
Cf. 2.86.5; 3.14.84. — Breloer (JII, 101-102) makes this comment: “The dc@rycs look 
only at the goods; what the samdharir pilfersis for the private individuals to sce, the statc 
is not hurmed thereby. JKautilya, on the contrary, looks upon harm to the people and to 
the economy as harm to the state, a sort of state socialism.’ Itis doubtful it this view 
can be sustained on the strength of this passage. 


34 coraprcsarga ‘letting loose thieves,’i.c., encouraging them. Cn Cs read -prasango, 
understanding it us ‘instigation’. — panyapretipanya: cf. 2.16.18 ctc. 36 sampdta 
‘coming together’ or ‘bringing together’. — vartayati: the object is vanikpatham. — 
pone panasatam is a profit of 10,000% ; this is an exaggeration, as pointed out in Cn. — 
Gjivanti ‘live on’ as well as ‘ make a profit of.’ 


37 abhijata is a man from a noble family, particularly from the royal family itself. 
Cf. 18.56.19. — wuparuddha ‘blocked’, i.e., occupied, scized. — mahdphala *pi ayudht- 


8. 4. 38 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 400. 


abundant produce, is not fit to be retrieved (if) useful in providing soldiers, 
because of the fear of the danger of a calamity, while land occupied by herds 
of cattle, being suited for agriculture, is fit to be reclaimed. 38 For, pasturc- 
land is made to yield before fields,’ say the teachers. 39 ‘ No,’ says Kautilya. 
40 Land seized by a person of noble birth, even if yielding extremely great 
benefit, is fit to be retrieved because of the fear of the danger of a calamity, 
whereas that occupicd by herds of cattle, of benefit to the treasury and useful 
for transport, is not fit to be reclaimed, except in case of obstruction to the 
sowing of crops. 


41 ‘OF highway robbers and forest tribes, highway robbers, operating 
at night and lying in wait, attack men’s bodies, are a constant danger, rob 
hundreds of thousands (in cash) and stir up principal men, (while) forest tribes, 
operating in forests on the frontier far away, are openly known and move 
before the eyes of all, and harm only a part of the country,’ say the teachers. 
42 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 48 Robbers rob only the negligent, are few in 
number, powerless and easy to know and capture, whereas forest tribes, living 
in their own territory, are many in nunber and brave, fight openly, seize and 
ruin countries, having the same characteristics as a king. 


44 Of deer parks and elephant forests, deer, being plenty in number, 
yield the benefit of abundant meat and skins, cause little trouble about 
fodder and are casy tocontrol. 45 Elephants are the reverse of this when 
being caught, and if rogues, they lead to the ruin of the country. 


yopakarin?: the contribution of fighting men which the land is likely to make is not to be 
_ understood as the great phala derived from it. — vyasanabddhabhayat: Cn Cs under- 
stand the danger to be that soldicrs would not be available in times of calamities (i.e., 
vyasane dbddhabhaydat). But if the land is recovered, the fighting men init would certainly 
be ayailable. ‘The danger would rather appear to be that of a fight in case an attempt is 
made to rescuc it; such a conflict would be a calamity. vyasandbddha may he understood as 
*the danger of a calamity ’. —- Meyer has an altogether different explanation. He reads 
amahaphala, interprets abhijda as ‘ cultivable plants’ and translates, ‘land fully covered 
by cultivable plants, even though not yiclding great produce, should not be freed, heing use- 
ful for service in war.’ This is highly doubtful. Russ. follows Meyer. 40 atyantama- 
hopakdard, because it supplies a very large number of fighting men. There is no reference to 
phela here. — vyasanabddhao-: the danger is of the abhijata becoming very powerful and 
attempting to seize the kingdom for himself. 

41. rdatrisaltracarah: it is true that ratri is one of the satiras mentioned in 10.38.24 
and that therefore a single idea ‘ operating under cover of night ’ is possible ; nevertheless, 
two ideas ‘ operating at night and aftcr lying in wait’ seem better. rdtrisatira can hardly 
mean ‘ nocturnal assemblics (of thieves, robbers etc.) ’as J. Charpentier (JRAS, 1934, 118-4) 
thinks it means in Saundarananda, 2.28. \Vith these words, -cardk from Cn Cs is to be pre- 
ferred to sarah. — nityah: Cn does not seem to have read this word. Meyer suggests 
anilydh *never in one place’; Charpentier suggests niiyam. Re 

43 kunthah: cf.7.12.9,13. — rdajasadharmanah,i.e., as dangerous as an cnemy king. 

44. mandagrasaoaklesinah : Cs has ‘ cating little fodder and hence causing little trouble 
in catching.them.’ It may simply mean ‘causing little trouble about food.’ 45 grhya- 
manah: Cs construes this with dustd# ca: it seems, however, that the latter begins a new 
clause.. Meyer proposes agrhyamanah ‘if they are not caught and if they are wicked ete.’ 
However, grhyamandh appears better. — Meyer thinks that sg. 44-45 contain the opinion 
of the dcdryas and that its refutation by Kautilya has beenlost. The latter, he argues, would 
not be so hard On his favourite elephants. Howevcr, when itis a question of pidana or 

affliction, even Kautilya could not possibly have argued that elephants are less troublesome 
than deer. . sis si en 


401 CONCERNING THE TOPIC OF CALAMITIES [8.5.1 


46 Of benefit conferred on one’s own sthdniya and that conferred on an 
enemy’s sthdniya, the benefit conferred on one’s own sthdniya, (viz.,) the benefit 
of grains, cattle, money and forest produce, is capable of sustaining the lives 
of the country people in times of trouble. 47 The reverse is the benefit 
conferred on an enemy’s sthdniya. 


Thus ends the topic of afflictions. 


48 Internal (hindrance) is hindrance by the chiefs, external the hindrance 
caused by enemies or forest tribes. 


Thus ends the topic of hindrances. 


49 Affected by those two (hindrances) and by the afflictions as described, 
appropriated by chiefs, impaired by exemptions, scattered, wrongfully 
collected, (and) carried off by neighbouring kings and forest tribes, — these 
are stoppages of (payment to the) treasury. 


50 The (king) should strive to prevent the afflictions from arising 
and to overcome those that have arisen, as well as to destroy the 


hindrances and stoppages (of payment) for the sake of the country’s 
prosperity. 


CHAPTER FIVE 


SECTION 183 THE GROUP OF CALAMITIES OF THE ARMY 
SECTION 134 THE GROUP OF CALAMITIES OF THE ALLY 


1 The calamities of the army are: (the state of being) unhonoured, 
dishonoured, unpaid, sick, newly arrived, come after a long march, exhausted, 
depleted, repulsed, broken in the first onslaught, caught in an unsuitable 
season, caught on an unsuitable terrain, despondent of hope, deserted, with 
women-folk inside, with ‘ darts’ inside, with a rebellious base, split inside, 
run away, widely scattered, encamped near, completely absorbed, blocked, 


46 sthdniya: scc 2.3.8, also 2.1.4. The upakdra is help rendered in times of difficulty. 
Cn explains ‘ durbhiksddigu kraysvikray tdrak’*®. Such help may be given even to an 
enemy’s sthdniya. The upakdra on a sthdntya is regarded as a pidana, perhaps because it is 
done at the cost of the rest of the country. However, such an upakdéra on one’s sthdntya 
is said to sustain janapadas in times of difficulty. It seems, therefore, that janapada means 
only ‘ nativos’ as contrasted with foreigners in the parasthaniya. . 

48 stambha refers to hindrances or obstructions caused to state undertakings by 
Officers themselves or by enemies etc. — As suggested by Meyer an avagraha should be read 
after bdhyo, so that amiira is understood, not mitra. Forest tribes are invariably mentioned 
together with enemies, not with allies. — It may be that this vyasana is principally that 
of x durga ; for the vyasanas of this prakyti are not mentioned elsewhere in this Book. 


49 saktah ‘clinging to ’,i.e., misappropriated, not paid into the treasury. 
8.5 =~. 
The two Sections are to be found in ss. 1-2] and 22-80 respectively. 


1 Here and in s. 9 below Meyer’s proposal to read kalatragarbht (for -garhi) has been 
adopted, being necessary for the sense required. Itis supported by Kamandaka, 14.69,80. 


Sp pariieipiem is from Cs for upaksiptam ; it is supported by s.18; cf. also Kamandaka, 
e 373. 


85.2] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA. 402 


encircled, with supplies of grains and men cut off, dispersed in one’s own land, 
dispersed in an ally’s land, infested by treasonable men, with a hostile enemy 
in the rear, with its base denuded (of troops), not united with the master, 
with head broken, and blind. 


2 Among these, as between an unhonoured and a dishonoured (army), 
the unhonoured would fight when honoured with money, not the dishonoured, 
with resentment in its heart. 


8 As between an unpaid and a sick (army), the unpaid would fight if 
given pay at once, not the sick, unfit for work. 


4 As between a newly arrived (army) and one that has come after a 
long march, the newly arrived would fight after learning about the region 
from others and being mixed with old troops, not the one that has come after 
a long march. bemg troubled by the long march. 


5 «As between an exhausted and a depleted (army), the exhausted 
would fight after getting refreshed with bath, food and sleep, not the depleted, 
with its draught-animals and men reduced in a fight elsewhere. 


G As between a repulsed (army) and one broken in the first onslaught, 
the repulsed, thrown back in the first encounter, would fight, being rallied 
by heroic men, not the one broken in the first onslaught, with its heroic men 
slain in the first encounter. 


‘7 As between an (army) caught in an unsuitable season and one caught 

on an unsuitable terrain, the one caught in an unsuitable season would fight 

when cquipped with vehicles, weapons and armours suited to the season, not 

the one caught on an unsuitable terrain, with its foraging raids and operations 
impeded. 


8 As between an (army) despondent of hope and a deserted one, the 
despondent would fight when its desires are fulfilled, not the deserted one, 
from which its chiefs have run away. 


9 As between an (army) with women-folk inside and one with darts 
inside, the one with women inside would fight after getting rid of the women, 
not the one with darts inside, having enemies inside it. 


' 2 krtarthamanam: ‘ which is honoured by giving money’ seems better than ‘given 
money and shown honour’ (Meyer). 

4 Here, ay in s.1, the mss. show diraydla: but dirdydta from Cs seems preferable. 

[t is supported by Kamandaka, 14.67,76. Cn seems to have read dirdgaia. 

7 yathartuyugya- is as proposed by Meyer for yatharluyogyayugya-. When yathdis 
there, yogy is wnnecessary. — prasdra ‘a foraging raid’; cf. 10.2.5. 

8 apasrlamukhyam is from Cs. Cn seems to haye read parisrlamukhyam. — Meyer 
remarks that parisrptam is a mistake for parasrstam ‘abandoned’. Kamandaka, 14.69,83, 
has avamukia for parisrpia. 

9 The explanation of the reading kalatragarhi in Cs is ‘ finding fault with the women- 
folk, i.e., the retinue, for being a burden and a hindrance in the work of fighting *; that is 
highly problematical. 


403 CONCERNING THE TOPIC OF CALAMITIES 8.5.16 


10 As between an (army) with a rebellious base and one split inside, 
the one with a rebellious base would fight when its resentment is overcome by 


conciliation and other means, not the one split inside, divided from one 
another. | 


11 As between an (army) run away and one widely scattered, the army 
that has run away, having crossed over to a single realm, would fight with 
diplomacy and military activity, finding shelter in a fastness or an ally, not the 


widely scattered one, gone to more than one realm, because of there being 
many dangers. 


12 As between an (army) encamped near (the enemy) and one completely 
absorbed (in his forces), the one encamped near, having separate marches and 
halts, would fight by over-reaching the enemy, not the one completely absor- 
bed, with its halts and marches one with the enc my. 


18 As between a blocked and an encircled (army), the blocked one 


would fight the obstructor by getting out in another direction, not the encir- 
cled one, obstructed on all sides. 


14 As between an (army) with supplies of grains cut off and one with 
reserves of men cut off, that with supplies of grains cut off would fight after 
bringing grains from elsewhere or by subsisting on animal and vegetable food, 
not the one with reserves of men cut off, being without help. 


15 As between an (army) dispersed in one’s own land and one dispersed - 
in an ally’s land, that dispersed in one’s own land, being. disbanded in one’s 
own territory, can be collected together in case of trouble, not the one . 
dispersed in an ally’s land, because of the distant place and time. 


16 As between an (army) infested by treasonable men and one with a 
hostile enemy in the rear, that infested by treasonable men would fight when 


10 kupitamilam: Cn Cs understand mila in the sense of ‘ principal officers ’; that is 
better than understanding itin the sense of “the hereditary army (maulabala) asin Meyer, 
though in Kamandaka, 14.70,88, kruddhamaula appears for kupitamila. 


11 Itscems that the army has run away or been scattered, because it is defeated and 
the kingdomis conquered. In apasrta, the.whole of it goes into one otherland ; in atikgipia 
it is split up and scattered in many lands. — satira is, in particular, a fortress. 


12 wupanivistam: this happens when there is a joint expedition. Meyer’se ‘on whose 
neck the enemy has sat, i.e., hard-pressed by the enemy ’is not possible. — atisamdhdyarim 
is proposed for atisa;dhdkaram (or -taram). The mention of ari in the next clause suggests 
its use alsoin this. And the question is not of fighting the enemy trying to cheat (atisam- 
dhatr), but a third king along with the enemy. — samdptam ‘ completely joined ’, because 
under a single command of the enemy. It cannot mean ‘captured’ (Meyer). — Kaman- 
daka, 14.84, regards upanivista also as incapable of fighting. ~ . 


14 ‘anabhisadram: abhisdra refers to help or rescue. Cn reads andsdram which comes 
to the sume thing. 3 


15 vikgipiais explained in Cn Cs as ‘sent on some mission or task’. However, no 
mission or task can be thought of in 9.2.11 and other places. — drdhayitum from Cn pro- 
vides the action necessary in the case of viksipia, not avosracayitum. The latter can hardly 
mean ‘ to bring together ’as Csinterpretsit ; cf.8.8.51. For dodhayin this sense, cf. 7.7.18. 

16 aszmhatam, i.e., kept as a separate unit. Meyer suggests adisyasamhectam and 


thinks that Kamandaka, 14.85, presupposes sampiilam ‘ purged’. Cn seems to have read 
mitho *samhatam. 


8. 5.17] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 404 


officered by trustworthy men and kept apart, not the one with a hostile enemy 
in the rear, being frightened of an attack in the rear. 


17 As between an (army) with a denuded base and one not united with 
the master, that with a denuded base would fight with full mobilisation, after 
protection is secured through the citizens and the country people, not the one 
not united with the master, being without the king or the commander-in-chief. 


18 As between an (army) with head broken and a blind (army), the one 
with head broken would fight under the command of another (commandant), 
not the blind one, being without a euide. 


19 Removal of defects, insertion of (fresh) troops, over-reaching 
by remaining in a strong place, and peace with a superior party, are the 
means of overcoming the calamities of an army. 


20 Being ever active, he should protect his own army, in its cala- 
mity, from the enemies; and being ever active, he should strike at the 
weak points of the army of the enemies. 


21 The (king), ever diligent, should take steps right beforchand 
against that causc because of which he might suffer a calamity of. the 
constituents. 


22-27 An ally against whom one has marched oneself after joining 
forces (with others) or under the influence of others, or who is deserted 
through weakness or greed or regard (for another), or who is sold to the 
attacker by turning away from the battle or by planning to march against 
another cnemy in another direction when pursuing the dual policy, or 


1% $tinyamitlam : miila is the country and its capital from which the troops have 
come ; these are now without troops. — Itisclear that sedmin refers to the commander-in- 
chief besides the king. 

18 tifa ‘head’ is the commandant ; his death is implied in bhinna, 

_ 19  sattrasthdindtisamhitam from Cn Csis metrically preferable, though the bhdve kta 
is a little awkward. A single idea seems intended ‘ over-reaching the enemy after taking 
up & position {n a strong place like a fort,’ though the commentators understand two 
ideas * remaining in a strong place and over-reaching.’ Russ. has ‘ placing oneself in a 

concealed placeand thus getting an opportunity to outwit the enemy.’ — uttarapaksasya: 

we expect the instrumental, * with the stronger party,’ i.e., with the enemy, ifhcis stronger. 
Russ. renders the word by ‘one who can take counter-action (against a rebellious army).’ 


21 Cn Cs read this stanza at the end of the chapter, after the discussion of the mitra- 
vyasan%s. That may appear reasonable since mitra alsoisone ofthe prakrtis. Nevertheless, 
the preseht place would seem all right for the stanza as it refers to the prakrtis that are part 
of the same state, regarding which steps can be taken right before calamities overtake them. 
A mitra is not on the same footing. A provision for preventing a mitravyasana is separatcly 
mentioned in stanza 30. — yatonimittam is a bit awkward as an adjective to vyasanam. 
Perhaps yato nimitiad would simplify the construction. 

22 svayam etc.: Cn Cs understand three cases ‘ oneself in onc’s own interest (svayam), 
in combination with others (sambhiya) and at the instigation of another (anyavasena).’ 
it seems, however, that svayam is to he understood in any case and the alternative is only 
hetween sambhiya and anyavagena. 

23 abhiyunijane, i.e., to the enemy who hasattacked one’s ally. — samgrdme apavartind 
refers to one method of ‘ selling’ ; instead of going to the ally’s help, the vigigisu turns away 
from the fight, leaving the attacker free to overcome the ally. This would be for some 


405 CONCERNING THE TOPIC OF CALAMITIES [ §. 5.30 


who after being inspired with confidence is over-reached either in a sc pa- 
rate or a joint march, or who is not rescued from a calamity through fear 
or disrespect or laziness, or who, being kept out of his own lands, has 
gone away fromone’s side through fear, or who is humiliated by snatching 
(something) away (from him) or by not giving (something) to him or even 
by giving (something to him), or whose wealth is extorted from him by 
oneself or through another’s agency, or who, being assigned a very heavy 
task, is broken (in the attempt) and has gone over to the enemy, or who, 
neglected because of weakness, is antagonised after making a request, 


(such an ally) can be secured with difficulty, and (even) when secured 
becomes quickly disaffected. 


28-29 Anally, who has exerted himself oris worthy of honour, but 
is not honoured through one’s folly, or is not honoured in a suitable manner, 
or who is prevented from gaining strength, or who is frightened because 
of harm done to (another) ally, or who is suspicious of oneself making a 
treaty with the enemy, or who is divided (from onseself) by treasonable 
persons, is easy to secure and remains (loyal, when) secured. 


80 Therefore he should not allow these defects harmful to allies to 


arise, or, when they have arisen, he should remove them by qualities 
capable of removing the defects. 


Herewith ends the Eighth Book of the Arthasdistra of Kautilya 
‘CONCERNING THE TOPIC OF CALAMITIES * 


consideration ; that is the price received for the sale. — dvuaidhibhdvena : Cn reads dvaidhi- 
bhittena, whichis sligitly better. Theideais, the vijigisu, in following the dual policy, makes 
peace with the attacker of his ally because he wants to march against some enemy (anyain 
amitram) of his own elsewhere (anyatah) ; the ally is thus ‘sold’ to his attacker. Because of 
the second vd (after ydsyatd) , Cn Cs find two situations in the second half; but the two 
situations as explainedin them do not differatall. The vd seems used a second timc merely 
for the sake of metre. 


25 avaruddham ctc: the idea scems to be that the ally is obstructed when returning 
tohsownland; he thus gets frightened and manages to escape from the vijigigu’s side. ‘The 
two were apparently On a joint expedition on the vigigigu’s account. — dcchedandt of tho 
ally’s land. — addnat of what was due to him for his part in the expedition. 


26 aiydhdritam: cf. 1.6.7. — bhankied seems used intransitivcly ‘being broken’ in 
attempting the very heavy task, and then gone over to the encmy, who had proved to be 
very strong. Cn Cs have ‘ whois seta very heavy task when he has just broken the cnemy..” 
Itis doubtful, however, if the vijigisu would think of dictating terms to a victorious ally. —- 
upasthitam from Cn is preferable to gvasthitam. 


27 upeksitam etc.: Cs has ‘who, though treated with indifference because of his 
weakness, approaches again witha proposal for alliance but is antagonised.’ Itis doubtful. 
if mitram can be the subject for prarthayitod. The vijigigu alone can be thought of as making 
the proposal. Cn’s reading prdrihayitra makes this clear. It is, in any case, a bit strange 
that a proposal for alliance should antagonise the ally. Perhaps that is because of the 
upeksa that has led to resentment. Understanding prdarihay in the sense of ‘to attack’ 


(Meyer in a foot-note) appears to improve matters; but that case secma covered by abhi- 
ydlam svayam in 8s. 22. 


28 $aktito vd nivdritam : Cn Cs read bhahktito for saktito and explain * weancd away frony 


his devotion to the vijigisu by others.’ That is possible, but ‘ prevented from growing 
strong’ might appear slightly better. 


29 arisamhitat: when the vijigisu has made a treaty or pact with his enemy. 


Boox NINE 
THE ACTIVITY OF THE KING ABOUT TO MARCH 


CHAPTER ONE 


SECTION 185 ASCERTAINMENT OF THE (RELATIVE) STRENGTH OR 
WEAKNESS OF POWERS, PLACE AND TIME 


SECTION 186 SEASONS FOR MARCHING ON AN EXPEDITION 


1 After ascertaining the (relative) strength or weakness of powers, place, 
time, seasons for marching, time for raising armies, revolts in the rear, losses, 
expenses, gains and troubles, of himself and of the enemy, the conqueror should 
march if superior in strength, otherwise stay quiet. 


2 ‘Of (the powers of) energy and might, energy is superior. 38 For, 
the king himself, if brave, strong, healthy, trained in the use of missiles, 
is able to conquer a king possessed of might with the aid of the army alone. 
4 And even his small army becomes capable of achieving its object because 
of its spirit. 5 But a king without energy, though possessed of might, 
perishes when overpowered by valour,’ say the teachers. 


6 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 7 The king, possessed of might, over-reaches 
the king possessed of energy, by his might, by inviting another king superior 
to him (in energy), by hiring or purchasing heroic men. 8 And his army, 
richly endowed with abundant might, horses, elephants, chariots and equip- 
ment, moves unhindered everywhere. 9 And winning over and purchasing 
men of energy, those possessed of might, even women, children, lame and blind 
persons, have conquered the world. 


10 ‘Of (the powers of) might and counsel, might is superior. 11 For, 
one, though richly endowed with the power of counsel, has only barren wisdom, 


The Ninth Book deals with preparations to be made before starting on an expedition 
and the precautions that have to be taken at the time. 


9.1 

The two Sections are to be found in ss. 1-88 and 84-52 respectively. 

1  Saktidega- etc. contains a list of all the topics discussed in this Book. 

8 dandadvittyo ‘pi: the point of api is, he may | ave no other resources except an 
army; particularly he may have no treasury. Meyer proposes adanda- ‘even without an 
army’. Thatisnotlikely. The next s. refers to this king’s army though it may be small. 
And Kaémandaka, 18.44, does speak of the use of an army (dandam adhike nayet), though he 
gives the illustration of Paraguraéma. 

7 tadvisistam: tad would refer to utsdha, not to bala or forces (Cn Cs). The king is 
already prabhaoavan ; he will not bein need of superior forces. bhrivd is proposed for 
hrtod, in accordance with the explanation in Cs‘ having hired for wages ’. hrinits usual 

sense is little likely in the case of brave warriors. 9 wutsdhavatah in the accusative as in 
Cn Cs is quite necessary. — fitod ‘ winning over’ rather than ‘ conquering in battle.’ 


407 THE ACTIVITY OF THE KING ABOUT TO MARCH {9.1.29 


if without might. 12 And lack of might ruins his works decided upon after 


deliberation, as lack of rain ruins the grains in the womb (of the earth),’ say 
the teachers. 


18 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 14 The power of counsel is superior, 15 
For, the king with the cyes of intelligence and science, is able to take counsel 
even with a small effort and to over-reach enemies possessed of energy and 
might, by conciliation and other means and by secret and occult practices. 


16 Thus the king, superior in each later one among the powers of energy, 
might and counsel, over-reaches (the enemy). 


17 Place means the earth. 18 In that, the region of the sovereign 
ruler extends northwards between the Himavat and the sea, one thousand 
yojanas in extent across. 19 There the various types (of land are): forest 
land, village land, mountainous land, marshy land, dry land, level land and 


uneven land. 20 In them, he should start work that would augment his own 
strength. 


21 That in which there is terrain suitable for the operations of one’s 
own army and unsuitable for those of the enemy, is the best region, the 
opposite kind is the worst, alike to both is middling. 


22 Time is of the nature of cold, heat and rain. 28 Its various parts 
are: night, day, fortnight, month, season, half year, year and yuga. 24 In 
them, he should start work that would augment his own strength. 


25 That in which the season is suitable for the operations of one’s own 
army, unsuitable for those of the enemy, is the best time, the opposite kind 
is the worst, alike to both is middling. 


26 ‘Of power, place and time, however, power is superior,’ say the 
teachers. 27 For, one possessed of power is able to counter-act (the diffi- 
culties of) marshy or dry region and (those of) time with cold, heat or rain. 
28 ‘Placeis superior,’ saysome. 29 ‘ For, a dogon land drags a crocodile, 


15 prajitdsastracaksuh: prajid is one eye and sgastra the other. — -prabha@vatas ca 
of the mss. is an Obvious corruption. — yoga is describedin Books 12 and 18 and upanisad 
in Book 14. 

18 wudicinam ‘to the north,’ i.e., from the sea in the south to the Himalayas in the 
north. ¢iry2% is explained as ‘ between the eastern and the western occan,’i.e., the extent 
breadthwise (Cn). The extent of 1,000 yojanas would be that of the breadth rather than 
that between the north and the south ; it could possibly apply to both, but hardly to nort);- 
south alone. Usually, however, 1,000 yojanas is given as the extent from north to south ; 
cf. kumdripurat prabhrii bindusarovadhi yojanadndri dasagatt cakravartiksetram — Kavyc- 
mimamsda p.92 (Kane, HD, III, p. 66, fn.96). In either case one thousand yojanas which is 
alittle more than nine thousand miles is far outside the actual measurements: Russ. prefers 
the reading atiryak in the sense of ‘breadthwise’ on the ground that tiryak means * cross- 
wise, i.€.,’ north tosouth ’ and thatin ancient references South India is hardly included. 
It is quite impossible to accept navayojanasahasrapramadnam as the reading On the 
strength of the quotation in Sarhkaraya on Kamandaka, 1.89 (D. R. Bhandarkar, Some 
Aspects etc., p. 96). — The cakravartiksetra does not seem intended to include regions 
beyond the borders of India. 


27 wnimna refers to water, watery regions. 


9.1.80] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 408 


a crocodile in water drags a dog.’ 30 ‘Time is superior,’ say some (others). 
‘By day a crow kills an owl, at night an owl kills a crow.’ 32 ‘No,’ says 
Kautilya. 88 Power, place and time are mutually helpful. 


84 Grown superior in these, keeping a third or a fourth part of the 
army as protection in the base, in the rear, and in forests on the borders and 
taking with him treasury and troops capable of carrying out the undertaking, 
he should march against the enemy, whose old stocks of food are exhausted, 
who has not yet collected the new food-grains and whose fort is unrepaired, 
on an expedition in MargaSirsa, with a view to destroy his monsoon crops 
and winter sowings. 85 He should march on an expedition in Caitra, with 
a view to destroy his winter crops and spring sowings. 86 He should march 
on an expedition in Jyestha, against the enemy, whose stores of grass, 
timber and water are exhausted and whose fort is unrepaired, with a view to 
destroy his spring crops and monsoon sowings. 


87 He should march in winter against a country which is very hot or 
which has little fodder, fuel and water. 88 He should march in summer 
against a country with showers of snow, or consisting mostly of deep water or 
_ with dense grass and trecs. 89 He should march when it is raining against 
a country suited to the operations of his own army and unsuited to those of 
the enemy. 


40 He should march on an expedition of long duration between the 
MargaSirsa and the Pausa full moon days, on one of medium duration between 
the Caitra and the Vaisakha full moon days, on one of short duration between 
the Jyestha and the Asidha full moon days, on the fourth (expedition), if 
desirous of burning up (the enemy) in his calamity. 41 Marching in (the 
enemy’s) calamity has been explained in (the Section on) ‘ marching after 
making war’. , 


42 And in general the teachers advise, ‘ One should march in the enemy’s 
calamity.’ 48 ‘Qn accession of strength one should march, there being 
uncertainty as to calamities,’ says Kautilya. 44 Or, he should march when 
by marching he would be able to weaken or exterminate the enemy. 


34 mile, i.e.,in the kingdom from which the expedition starts. 35 In this case 
there is no reference to the enemy’s difficulties. Perhapsin Caitra, conditions described in 
kstnapurana- etc. are not expected to arise. 36 Meyer thinks that Jyesthaisabsurd and 
that Sravana was expected. But monsoon sowings so late asin Sravana are not very likely. 
And s. 40 supports Jyestha, av it supports MargaSirsa and Caitra. 

88 tusdradurdinam ‘always having showers of snow’ (Cn Cs) is preferable to ‘ rich in 
mist and clouds * (Meyer). 

40 Margasgirgtm etc. ; the feminines refer to the fullmoon days. Cs reads Mdrgasirsam 
etc.,asnamesof months. But with antarena ‘ between ’, particular days appear preferable 
to months. — upogisyan (from upa-ug ‘to burn’) should be construed with vyasane rather 

than with the preceding hrasvakdlam (asin Cn Cs). — caturthimisfromCnCs. We have to 
supply ydlram yayat. The pointseemsto be that itis different from the three just mentioned 
in not being restricted as to duration and season. The only occasion ir the enemy’s cala- 
mity. Meyer supplies pérnimdam * on the fourth full moon day’. But in view of antarena, 
the full moon days themselves are not to be thought of as days for starting. 41 vigrhya 
ydne, i.e.,in 7.4 above. 


409 THE ACTIVITY OF THE KING ABOUT TO MARCH (9.2.2 


45 Ata time when excessive heat is over, he should march with elephant 
divisions for the most part. G6 For, clephants, sweating inside, become 
leprous. 47 And not getting a plunge in water or a drink of water, they 
become blind through internal secretion. 48 Hence in a region with plenty 
of water and when it is raining he should march with clephant divisions for 
the most part. 49 In the reverse case, (he should march) with troops con- 
sisting mostly of donkeys, camels and horses, in a region with little rain and 


mud. 50 Ina region mostly desert, he should march with the fourfold army 
when it is raining. 5 


51 He should regulate the expedition in accordance with the evenness 


or unevenness of the road, the presence of water or land on it, or the shortness 
or length of the march. 


52 Or, all expeditions should be of short duration in conformity 
with the lightness of the undertaking, or of long duration in conformity 
with the heaviness of the undertaking, and (then there may be) camping 
during rains in the foreign land. 


CILAPTER TWO 


SECTION 187 OCCASIONS FOR THE EMPLOYMENT OF (THE DIFFERENT 
KINDS OF) TROOPS 


SECTION 138 MERITS OF EQUIPPING FOR WAR (THE DIFFERENT 
KINDS OF TROOPS) 


SECTION 189 THE WORK OF (EMPLOYING SUITABLE) TROOPS 
AGAINST ENEMY TROOPS 


1 Occasions for the employment of the hereditary, the hired, the banded, 
the ally’s, the alien and the forest troops are : 


2 When hereditary troops are in excess of what is required for the 
defence of the base; or, when hereditary troops, being over-strewn with 
treasonable men, might create trouble at the base ; or, the enemy has plenty 
of loyal hereditary troops or a strong army, (hence) it is necessary to fight with 


48 anaikdntikatoa ‘ uncertainty ’ as to there being a vyasane at all and as to any benefit 
that can be derived from it. 

45 altyusnopoksine kale, i.c., when summer is past. Cs explains ‘ which ends in exces- 
sive heat, i.e., in summer,’ and consequently reads ahastibalapradyah ‘ without elephants’. 
Such a negative description of troopsto be used does not appear verylikely. 49 Csremoves 
the stop after -pankaum, so that olpavarsapankam goes with maruprayam. But the order of 
words favours the other punctuation. 

51 sama- etc. stand for samaivza- ctc. 

52. ydatavydl: is used as a substantive in the sense of ydirdah. 

9.2 
The three Sections are to be found in ss. 1-12, 13-24 and 25-29 respectively. 
1 samuddana is synonymous with upddana. 


2 maula is derived from mila, the kingdom or the capital, of which the troops are 
natives. The word, however, conveys the sense of hereditary troops loyal to the dynasty 
from generation to generation. — atydcdpa: see 10.5.28. — bahuldnuraktasampdte : the 
mss. show -sampddite, which would imply that the many loyal troops of the vijigisu create 
(sampddita) distrust in his mind (avisvdsa) regarding biria and other troops. This would 


952.3]. KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 410 


military operations ; or, because on a long march or on one of long duration, 
hereditary troops can bear losses and expenses ; or, when plenty of loyal troops 
being got together, no trust can be placed in other troops, hired and other, 
through fear of secret instigations by the enemy against whom one is 
marching ; or, when the strength of all (other) troops is depleted ;—these are 
occasions for the use of hereditary troops. 


% (When he thinks), ‘ I have a large hired army and only a small heredi- 
tary army ; or, the enemy has a small or disaffected hereditary army or a 
hired army consisting mostly of weak troops or without strong troops ; or, 
it is to be a fight with diplomacy with slight military operations ; or, the 
distance is short or duration brief, involving few losses and expenses ; or, 
my army is with few treasonable men in it, with secret (enemy) instigations 
frustrated, and trustworthy ; a small raid of the enemy is to be repelled ; ’— 
these are occasions for the use of hired troops. 


4 (When he thinks), ‘I have a large army of warrior bands, capable of 
being used at the base and in the expedition ; the distance is short, the enemy, 
having mostly an army of warrior bands, intends to fight with diplomacy and 
military operations ; use of armed forces is to be made ; ’—these are occasions 
for the use of an army consisting of bands. 


5 (\Vhen he thinks), ‘ I have a large allied army that can be used at the 
base and in the expedition ; the distance is small and war with military opera- 
tions is to be more extensive than diplomatic war ; or, having first engaged in 
fight the forest troops or the site of the capital or the allied troops of the enemy 
with my allied troops, I shall then engage them in fight with my own troops ; 
or, my undertaking is shared in common with the ally ; or, the success of my 
undertaking is dependent on the ally ; or, my ally is close to me, deserving to 
be favourcd ; or, I shall destroy the excess of traitors (in his troops) for him ;’ 
—these are occasions for the use of an ally’s troops. 


appear to be a very strange idea. Meycr therefore proposes bahuldnanuraktasampddite 
‘created by many faithless troops’. With -sampdte, Cn Cs understand ‘the coming (sam- 
paia) of many loyal agents of the enemy and their engaging in upajapa.’ The idea would 
rather appear to be ‘when a large number of loyal troops (of the maula type) can be collected 
(sampdta) and other troops cannot be trusted because of instigations etc.’ The expression 
is alittle odd. Russ. reads ‘ not trusting hired and other troops at their presence in large 
numbers and their devotion as there is danger that they may succumb to the instigations 
of the enemy.’ 


3 alpdvadpamis proposed in the sense of ‘with few treasonable menin it’ as contrasted 
with clydcapam ‘having many treasonable men in it’ (10.5.28). Cs reads alpasampdlom 
* to which few secret agents from the enemy come’; Russ. renders this reading by ‘ which 
does not failin spirit, indifferent to temptations.’ Cn seems to have read alpasamghdtam 
Or -samoddam in the sense understoodin Cs. alpasvapam ‘with little sleep’ hardly suits even 
ina figurative sense. — prasdrah, primarily a foraging raid (10.2.5), refers toa raid or 
advance. 

4 Whereasin bhriabala the soldiers are recruited individually, the srenibalo is a band 
of fighting men under its own Icader. — dandabalaoyavahdrah: cf. 8.1.84,88. This scems 
to be anindependent substantive. Cn Cs treat it as an adjective to pratiyoddha * who has 
to fight with troops (bala) sent to him by his enemy through fear of chastisement (danda).’ 
* when the enemy uses the army under fear of punishment’ (Russ.). Meyer renders danda- 
bala by ‘ professional troops’. 


5 atydodpam: sec 10.5.28. 


411 THE ACTIVITY OF THE KING ABOUT TO MARCH [9.2.12 


6 (When he thinks), ‘I have a large alien army, with alien troops I 
shall fight at the site of the (enemy’s) capital or against (his) forest troops, 
in that case I shall gain in cither eventuality, as does the Candala in a fight 
between a dog and a boar; or, I shall make these the means of crushing the 
thorns among allied or forest troops ; ’—or, when they have grown excessively 
large, he should always station alien troops in close proximity (to himself) 
for fear of a revolt, except in case of fear of a rising in the interior ;—and when 
the time for (one’s own) fighting is later than that for the enemy’s fighting ;— 
these are occasions for the use of alien troops. 


7 By that are explained occasions for the use of forest troops. 8 When 
useful for showing the way ; when suited for the terrain of the cnemy ; when 
capable of counter-acting the enemy’s mode of fighting ; or when the enemy 
has mostly forest troops, (on the principle’ ‘ let the Bilva-fruit be destroyed by 
the Bilva-fruit’; when a small raid is to be repelled ;—these are (futher) 
occasions for the use of forest troops. 


9 An army not in one unit, coming from many regions, which, whether 
asked or unasked, gets ready with the object of getting plunder is the volunteer 
army, not given food and wages, carrying out plunder, doing labour and heroic 
deeds, liable to be divided by the enemies, (but) not liable to be divided if 
consisting mostly of persons from the same region, caste or profession, united 
and large in number. These are occasions for the use of (various kinds of) 
troops. 


10 Of these, he should remunerate alien and forest troops with forest 
produce or with booty. 11 Or, when an occasion has arisen for the enemy 
to raise troops, he should keep alien troops in his control, or send them else- 
where, or render them ineffective, or keep them dispersed, or should release 
them when the time for them is past. 


12 And he should obstruct such raising of troops by the cnemy and 
secure that for himself. 


6 svavardhayoh etc.: cf. 7.1.34. — alyupacitam vd etc. up to -kopasankayah is mis- 
placed. The passage does not state any occasion for the use of alien troops. That they 
are not, however, a late gloss is shown by the fact that they are quoted in 15.1.50. The 
words should preferably be read afters. 11 below. — anyatra ete. i.c., if stationing the 
alien troops near him were to lead to a rising by mantrin, senapatictc. Kor abhyantarakopa, 
sce 9.8.12. — satruyuddhdvara- etc., i.e, when the vijigisu wants to fight after the enemy 
(from whom the troops are received) has finished his own fighting. 

8 ariyuddhapratilomam : itis not necessary to read -aprotiloman * not avcrse to fighting’ 
as Meyer proposes. pratiloma can mean ‘able to fight against’. 


9 anekam ‘not in one unit,’ i.e., ‘not under one leadership ’ (Cn Cs). — anekastham 
isreadasinCn. anekajdtiyam would also be possible, but not anekajdtiyasiham as found in 
the mss. —- cilomaursti- is an obvious corruption of vilopavisti. — Cn Cs interpret -prata- 
pakara as ‘ carrying out the king's orders’. That would be an unusual sense. 

11 gatrubalam is proposed for gatrum ; that is necessary. — aphalam ctc.: cf. 7.8.28. 
Cn Cs understand ‘should not give the stipulated money for the troops.’ But ‘should 
render them unserviceable’ appears better. — viksiptam: cf. 7.9.22 etc. 


9. 2.13 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 412 


13 And it is better to equip for war each earlier one among these than 
each later one. 


14 Because of their having the same feelings as the king and because of 
constant cnjoyment of his regard (for them), hereditary troops are better 
than hired troops. 


15 Being always proximate to him, quick in rising for action, and under 
control, hired troops are better than banded troops. 


16 Being native to the country, actuated by a common purpose, and 
having the same rivalry, resentment, success and gain (as the king), banded 
troops are hetter than allied troops. 


17 Being not restricted as to place and time and because of having a 
common purpose, allied troops are better than alien troops. 


18 Being under the command of Aryas, alien troops are better than 
forest troops. 19 ‘These two have plunder as their objective. 20 When 
there is no plunder or when there is a calamity, there might be danger from 
them as from a snake. 


21 ‘Among Brahmana, Ksatriya, Vaisya and Sidra troops, each earlier 
one is better for equipping for war than each later one, on account of superiority 
of spirit,’ say the teachers. 22 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 23 By prostration, 
an enemy may win over Brahmana troops. 24 A Ksatriya army, trained 
in the art of weapons, is better, or a VaiSya or a Sidra army, when possessed 
of great strength. 


25 Therefore, he should raise troops keeping in mind ‘ The enemy has 
these troops; for them these would be counter-troops.’ 


26 ‘That with elephants, machines and carts at the centre, equipped with 
Jances, javelins, spears, reeds and arrows, is a counter-force against elephant 


13 samndhayitum ‘to equip with armour,’ i.c., to make it ready for fight, to use it for 
fighting. 

14 tadbhavabhdvitcdt: Cn Cs understand biidva as ‘existence’, and explain ‘ whose 
existence depends On that of the king.’ bhdva as ‘feeling’ would also do ; cf. mitrabhdvin, 
aribhavin etc., 7.18.29. — -satkdra- from the commentators is preferable to -samskdra- 
of the mss. Cn reads -anurdgdatin place of -anugamdt. Kamandaka, 19.4, satkdrdd anura- 
gdc ca seems to support that. 

16 chkdrthopagatam: Cn understands the common purpose to bo that of members of 
the srent among themselves, not as that of the vijigisu and the Srenibalc. — Csincludes 
aGparimita-...-gamdc ca from the next s. at the end of this s., making ekarthopogamdt an 
adjective to mitrabaldt. Thatis hardly right. With that punctuation there would be no 
statement of reasons for preferring a mitirabala to an amitrabala. 

18 Clearly forest troops had their own non-Aryan or Mleccha commanders. 20 
ahibhayam: cf. 1.17.9. 

24 bahulasdram ‘ possessed of great strength,’ is understood as ‘having many brave 
men in it’ (Cn Cs Meyer). 

26 It would be better to read Sakatagorbham separately as in the quotation in Sarnka- 
rarya on Kamandaka, 19.26. Cn interprets éakatagerbha (in the compound) as ‘a centre 
consisting of carts,’ understanding hasti and yantra as two things or hastiyantra as one 
(machine against elephants? or machine to be used fromelephants?). — Adtakais from 


413 THE ACTIVITY OF THE KING ABOUT TO MARCH [9.3.5 


divisions. 27 ‘The same, equipped mostly with stones, clubs, armours, 
hooks and ‘ hair-seizers ’, is a counter-force against chariot divisions. 28 The 
Same is a counter-force against cavalry, or mailed elephants or mailed horses. 
29 Mailed chariots and armoured infantrymen are a counter-force against 
the fourfold troops. 


30 Thus he should carry out the raising of troops so as to withstand 
enemy troops, in conformity with the strength of his own troops, (and) 
in accordance with the various types of divisions (that may be necessary). 


CHAPTER THREE 


SECTION 140 CONSIDERATION OF REVOLTS IN THE REAR 


SECTION 141 COUNTER-MEASURES AGAINST RISINGS OF CONSTITUENTS 
IN THE OUTER REGIONS AND IN THE INTERIOR 


1 As between a small disturbance in the rear and a large gain in front, 
the small disturbance in the rear is of greater importance. 2 For, when he 
is gone, treasonable men, enemies and foresters augment the small disturbance 
in the rear on all sides, or a rising of the constituents (augments it). 3 And 
if this happens servants, allies, losses and expenses eat up the large gain in 
front even if obtained. 4 Therefore, the advantage from a gain in front 
being one in a thousand or (at most) one in a hundred when there is a disturb- 
ance in the rear, he should not march. 5 ‘ Misfortunes, indeed, have the 
mouth of a necdle’ is a saying among the people. 


the commentators for bharvatava. It is ‘ of the size of the Aunfa and has three points’ (Cn 
Cs). — venu ‘a long whip’ (Cn Cs). — Salya ‘an iron club with spikes all round ’ (Cn Cs). 
It may also mean ‘a dart, an arrow’. 27 kacagrahani: cf. 2.86.18. Itis ‘along, broad 
bamboo with a hook’ (Cn Cs). 28 tadeva ‘i.e. rathaprctibala, according to some, /iasti- 
pratihala, according to others ’ (Cn). — varmino ud hastino ’$od vd varminah : Cn Cs include 
these words in the next s. and explain ‘ mailed elephants against elephants, mailed horses 
ugainst cavalry, mailed chariots against chariots and armoured infantrymen against 
infantry, thisin general should be the counter-force against the fourfold army.’ For this, 
the two vds should be dropped or a vd read after kavacinah and dvaraninoh. Even s0 the 
explanation does not appear convicing. The punctuation adopted is found in the quota- 
tion in Samkararya on Kamandaka, 19.26. — The ca after patiayahis from Cn ; it seems to 
have dropped out because of the following ca (in caturanga). 

30 parasainyanivdranam is an adjective to samuddanam. — angavikalpasah, i.e., 
according as one or the other of the four angas may be needed. 


9.3 


The two Sections are very closely related and it is difficult to find a demarcation line 
betwen the two. 

2 prakrti refers to such officers etc. as are mentioned in ss. 12, 15, 20 and 22 below. 
It may zlso refer to subjects. 8 bhriyamitraksayavyayah is ‘servants, allies, losses and 
expenses ’ rather than loss of servants‘and allies and expenses.’ — bhriein Gl is due to 
dittography. 4 sa@hasraikiyah etc.: Cn explains ‘the gain in front is one-thousandth, 
while trouble in the rear is one-ihundredth (with pascatkopoh nominative).’ Thus Cs. vd 
<locs not seem properly explainedin this. Cn has another explanation ‘ when the gainis one 
thousand and loss (-ayogah) one ; similarly when gain is onc hundred and loss one.’ Meyer 
(with pascatkope locative) has ‘advantage from a gain is one in a thousand, or (at most) 
Onc in a hundred when there is trouble in the rear.’ That explanation is adopted. For 
Salaikiya in this sense, cf. Rdjatarungint, 8.1272 (sataiktyo yo ’vasisto viplavalcsayite jane). 


9, 3.6 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 414 


6 Incase of revolt in the rear, he should make use of conciliation, gifts, 
dissension and force. 7 For the gain in front he should make the commander- 
in-chief or the crown prince the commandant of the troops. 8 Or, if strong 
(and) capable of suppressine the revolt in the rear, the king (himself) should 
march to secure the gain in front. 


9 In case of suspicion of a revolt in the interior, he should march taking 
with him the suspected persons, or in case of suspicion of a revolt in the outer 
regions, (taking with him) the sons and wives of these. 


10 He should march after suppressing the (revolt in the) interior and 
appointing a regent with many types of troops under more than one chief, 
or he may not match. 11 That a revolt in the interior.is a greater evil than 
a rising in the outer regions has been stated before. 


12 A revolt by one of (the following), the minister, the chaplain, the 
commander-in-chief and the crown prince, is a revolt in the interior. 18 He 
should overcome that by giving up his own faults or in accordance with the 
power and offence of the other. 14 In the case of the chaplain, even when 
his offence is great, the punishment should be confinement or exile, in the case 
of the crown prince, confinement or death, if there is another virtuous son. 


15 Heshonld overcome, with energy, a son, a brother or another member 
of the family, planning to seize the kingdom ; if lacking in energy, by acquiesc- 
ivg in what is seized and by entering into a pact (with him), for fear that he 
might join the enemy. 16 Or, he should create confidence in him by grants 
of land to others like him. 17 Or, he should send (against him) troops 
superior to him, that are permitted to seize what they can, or a neighbouring 
vassal or a forest chieftain, (and) should over-reach him when he is fighting 
with these. 18 Or, he should make use of ways for securing a prince in 
disfayour, or secret ways of capturing an enemy’s town. 19 By this are 
explained the minister and the commander-in-chief. 


9 Cn Cs include abhyantaraoagraham kriva at the end of this s., not at the beginning 
ofthenext. Thatisfarfromhappy. avagrahacan mean only ‘suppression ’ ; and theidea 
of kecping the wives and sons of bahyas in charge of (avagraha) abhyantaras is quite unlikely 
Moreover, s. 11 would have significance only if the words are readin 5s. 10. 

1l purastdt: in8.2.8 above. 

14 “nigrahah: ‘death’ (Cn Cs) seems clearly intended. — tdbhydarn mantrisendpati 
vydkhyatau found in the mss. after s. 14 are clearly an interpolation. The mantrin is not on 
the same footing as the purohiia nor the senapati on the same footing as the yuvardja. More- 
over, tlicir case is specifically mentioned in s. 19. : 


15 putram: 80n other than the yuvardja. aes utsdhena, i.e., by energetic action. 

17 tadvisistam, i.e., superior to the rebel’s troops. It can hardly mean ‘commanded by 

the rebel” (Cs); that would be very risky. Meyer has ‘(after creating confidence) he 

should send him against one who is superior to him (tadvigistam) for plunder (svayamgraham) 

or for execution of punishment (dandam).’ Thisis unlikely. danda cannot be understood 

in this sense ; in fact, suayamgrdham dandam conveys 2 single idea. And Meyer’s construc- 

- tion shows three accusatives (tadvisistam, enam and svayamgraham) with pregayet, which is 
very unlikely. 18 aparuddhdddnam asin 1.18.18-16. — péragramikam yogam asin 13.1. 


415 THE ACTIVITY OF THE KING ABOUT TO MARCH [9.3.35 


20 <A revolt by any one of the officers of the interior except the minister 
and others is a rising of ministers of the interior. 21 In their case, too, he 
should use means as deserved. 


22 A revolt by one of (the following), the chief of the countryside, the 
frontier officer, the forest chieftain and the vassal surrendering to force, is a 
revolt in the outer regions. 23 Heshould cause that to be suppressed through. 
one another. 24 Or, if he is strongly entrenched in a fort, he should cause 
him to be suppressed by any one of (the following), a neighbouring prince, 
a forest chieftain, a pretender from his family or a prince in disfavour. 
25 Or, he should make his ally win him over, so that he does not go over to 
the enemy. 


26 Or, a secret agent should divide him from the enemy, (saying), 
‘ This (enemy), looking upon you as a secret agent, will make you fight against 
the king himself, (and) with his object achieved, will employ you, in charge 
of troops, against his enemy or forest chieftain or in a difficult undertaking, 
or will post you at the frontier, separated from wife and sons. 27 If you 
fail in the fight (agains€ your king), he will sell you to the king, or making peace 
through you, will conciliate the king himself. 28 You should go to his best 
ally.? 29 Ifhe agrees, he should honour him by the fulfilment of his wishes 
30 If he does not agree, the (agent) should divide the support from hin, 
(saying), ‘He is kept as a secret agent against you.’ 31 And the secret 
agent should get him killed on the strength of letters carried by men con- 
demned to death or through secret agents. $2 Or, he should win back 
warriors, who had left along with him, by granting their wishes. 33 The 
secret agent should (then) declare them as having been employed by him. 
34 Thus is success to be achieved. 


85 And he should cause these revolts to arise for the enemy, and suppress 
those against himself. 


20 antaramatya ; ‘ dauvarika, antarcairsika and others’ (Cn), i.c., palace officials. 


22 rdstramukhys would principally include the samdhartr. 24 tatkulina and aparud- 
dhe show that the rebel has the status of a king; a vassal seems primarily thought of. 


26 ayam refers to the enemy, whose aid the rebel has sought or is likely to seek. © 
27 toayd. od samdhim krivd : in this, no material gainis derived asin panyam karisyati ; in 
either case, the rebel is handed over to his former master. 28 upakrstam vd: the vdis due 
to 5.5.14, where itis necessary. Cs reads gacchet as in 9.5.14; but the potential form is 
quite unlikely here. 30 sam$rayam is the cnemy with whom the rebel has found shelter. 
abhityakia ; thisis the usual form of the word for ‘a person condemned to death ” ; that is 
adopted throughout on the authority of Cn Cs. The mss show abhioyakta, which, if genuine 
must be understood in the same sense. abhivyaktasdsana cannot mean ‘a letter brought 
tolight ’ (Meyer) ; cf. 9.6.29and 13.4.28. A mancondemned to death is preferred for carry- 
ing the implicating letter, as the enemy is likely to killthe person carryingit. 82 dudhayet 
is the usual word ; cf. 7.7.13. 38 tena, i.c., by their old master. As they have gone hack, 
they arc proved to have been his agents ; the rebel also, therefore, must be one such. 


9. 3. 36 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 416 


36 Secret instigations (to revolt) should be made to one who is capable 
of starting or putting down a revolt. 


37 A response to instigations (to revolt) should be made to one who is 
true of promise, capable of helping in carrying out the undertaking and Securing 
its reward and of saving in case of failure, and about him one should form 
a conjecture as to whether he has honest intentions or is a rogue. 


$8 A roguish officer from the outer regions instigates an officcr in the 
interior (to revolt) with these motives : ‘ If after killing the king, he will make 
me «ecepted (as king), I shall make a double gain, death of the enemy and 
acquisition of land ; or, the cnemy will kill him, so that the party of kinsmen 
of the officer put to death and those frightened of punishment because of a 
like offence, will become for me a very large non-seducible party; or, the 
(king) will be suspicious cven of others like him, and (then) I shall get his 
other chiefs killed one by one through letters carried by men condemned to 
death.’ 


39 Or, a roguish officer from the interior instigates an officer in the outer 
regions (to revolt) with these motives: ‘I shall appropriate his treasury or 
I shall destory his troops, or I shall get the wicked king killed by him ; when 
he responds I shall make the officer from the outer regions fight against the 
enemy or forest chieftains (with the idea), “‘Let his army get stuck, let his 
enmity be firmly fixed, then he will be in my power, then I shall conciliate 
the king himself or shall seize the kingdom myself” ; or, after imprisoning him, 
I shall secure both--the territory of the officer from the outer region and the 
territory of the king ; or, inviting the officer from the outer region, when he 
has become hostile (to the king) and is full of trust (in me), I shall get him killed; 
or, I shall seizé his base when it is without him.’ 


40 One with honest intentions, however, instigates (others to revolt) 
in the interests of those who live with him. | 


41 One should make a pact with one of honest intentions ; agreeing 
*So let us do,’ one should over-reach a roguish one. 


86 This and the following ss. contain advice to rebels; the king comes in only as a 
victim of their intrigues. 

38 pratipadayisyati : cf. 1.10.8. — tulyadoga- etc. need not be understood as an adjcc- 
tive to hutabandhupaksah ; in view of ca, a separate idea is better. — bhiiydnakriya- is as 
proposed by Meyer for bhiiyat na kriya- of the mss. and bhiydn krlya- of Cn Cs. akriya 
implying that they cannot be seduced from his side by the king is preferable to kriya imply- 
ing that he willhave to make efforts to win them over to his side. — asya, i.e., of the king. 
— abhityaklasdsanena : see s. 31 above. 


39 vairam is apparently with the king. — svayam od rajyam: Cn Cs think that thisis 
the kingdom of the bahya ; that, however, is referred to in Siinyom vd asya miilam later on. 
Thisis the master’s kingdom. — dodhayitcad ; the invitation to come is as a fellow-conspira- 
tor. 

40 sahajioyartham : sahajivin seems to refer to fellow officers who live in the same 
stateand are fed up with the king. Cs makes sahajivi ‘ livingin close association with fellow- 

conspirators ’ an adjective to kalydnabuddhih and understands artham ‘ what is beneficial ” 
as the object of upajapati. That is not happy. 


417 THE ACTIVITY OF THE KING ABOUT TO MARCH [9.4.8 


42 Understanding all this, 


the wise (king) should guard others from others, his own people from 
his own people, his own people from others, and others from his own 
people, and always guard himself from his own people and from others. 


CHAPTER FOUR 
SECTION 142 CONSIDERATION OF LOSSES, EXPENSES AND GAINS 


1 The diminution of draught-animals and men is loss. 2 The diminu. 
tion of money and grains is expense. 


3 He should march when the gain is superior, because of many good 
points, to these two. 


4 That which can be seized, which can be recovered, which is pleasing, 
which is rousing to anger, which requires a short time, which involves small 
losses, which requires small expenses, which is great, which leads to further 


increase, which is safe, which is lawful and which is foremost,—these are the 
excellences of gain. 


5 That which is easy to obtain and protect, and cannot be recovered by 
the enemies is the (gain) which can be seized. 6 In the reverse case, it is 


one that can be recovered. 7 One, seizing it or staying there, meets with 
destruction. 


8 If, however, he were to see, ‘ After seizing the recoverable gain, I shall 
cause (the enemy’s) treasury, army, stores and fortifications to disappear ; 
I shall make the mines, the produce forests, the elephant forests, water-works 
and trade-routes denuded of all valuables ; I shall impoverish his subjects, 
carry them away or conciliate them by suitable means, (while) the (enemy) 
will afterwards rouse them by contrary means; or, I shall sell this (gain) 


42 evam upalabhya is to be construed with the stanza ; itis thus that the vijigisu is 
brought into relation with the discussion on rebel conspirators. — pare sve: Cn remarks 
that pare in effect refers to bahyas and sve to abhyantaras. Thatis possiblein the context ; 
‘those hostile’ and ‘those loyal’ would, however, appear more likely. — raksyah can 
hardly mean ‘ should keep the roguishness etc. of one a secret from the others’ (Cs). That 
is impossible with dfmd with which also raksyah is to be understood. 


0.4 


3 bahugunavisiste ‘superior (to ksaya and vyaya) because of many excellences’; we 
can also understand ‘ greater by many times (than the two).’ But s. 24 shows that gunop 
refers to qualities like ddexatva etc. 

7 tatrastho: the labha thought of is that of land. 


8 apavahayisydmi: cf. 8.2.8. That makes dudhayisydmi of Cs little likely. The idea 
is, when the enemy recovers it, he would find it impoverished and deserted. — dyogena: 
this seems contrasted with pratiyogena that follows and may be understood as ‘suitable 
means’, while prativoga may be ‘contrary means’. Meyer has ‘application (to duty) ’; 
Cn has ‘ not taking away their gains’. dyoga may also mean ‘ employing (them) ’ asin 9.5. 
11. — param, i.e., when the enemy tries to recover it ; his ways would alienate the subjects, 
who would then support the vijigisu and prevent the recovery. Cn seems to have read parah, 
though its explanation has ‘ pagcat.’ — mitram aparuddham vd: the miira is that of the 


9.4.9] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA. 418 


to his rival or make his ally or a prince in disfavour accept it ; or, remaining 
here, I shall take steps against the harassment of my ally’s or my own terri- 
tory by robbers and enemies ; or, I shall make his ally or support realise his 
deficiency, so that being disaffected with the enemy, he will accept a member 
of his family; or, I shall honour him and return the land to him, so that I 
shall have an ally bound to me and acting with me for a long time ;’ in such 
cases, he should scize even a recoverable gain. 


§ Thus the gains that can be seized and that can be recovered have been 
explained. 


10 The gain, being obtained by a rightcous (king) from an unrighteous 
one hecomes pleasing to his own people and to others. 11 The reverse 
rouses to anger. 


12 A gain, not being obtained on the advice of ministers, leads to a rising, 
(as they think), ‘He has been made to undergo losses and expenses by us.’ 
13' A gain, being obtained in disregard of treasonable ministers, leads to a 
rising, (as they think), ‘Having achieved his object, he will destory us.’ 
14 The reverse is the gain that pleases. 


15 Thus the gains that please and that rouse have been explained. 


16 Because it can be secured by merely going (there), the gain is one 
requiring a short time. 17 Because it can be secured by diplomacy, it is 


enemy (Meyer) not of the vijigisu (Ce) ; the idea is to alienate the enemy’s ally from him. — 
vaigunyan grahayisyami: vaigunya is usually ‘hostility’; cf. 5.6.8; 8.1.11. But here 
it seems to mean ‘deficiency’. The idea is, the fact that his land im occupied by the 
vijigigu would show the cnemy’s weakness to his ally, who would thereupon be amitravirakta 
and extend hissupportto another member ofthe enemy’sfamily (talkulinam) who may have 
a cluim to the throne. Thus Cs; this explanation appears the least unsatisfactory. Hence 
Gmitraviraktam is readin the text as in Cs, in place of amitramn viraktam. of the mss. 
With the latter reading, amiira could refer to the enemy’s enemy and virakia could 
qualify tatkulina; cven then a v4 would be necessary to show the option hetwcen 
amiira and tatkulina. Cn mentions pratipatsye or pratipatszate as the reading, explaining 
*T shall get that aily (tad) for mysclf, as he is disaffected with the enemy (amitraviraktam)’ ; 
or ‘that ally with take that (tad, i.c., the enemy’s kingdom), being disaffected with the 
enemy’. In neither explanation does taikulfnam find a place. Meyer has ‘J shall bring 
his ally to harm (vaigunya)’ and then separately ‘that (tad,i.c., gain) willfall to the 
lot of one hostile to him (amitram) or to one disaffected with him (viraktam) or to 2 vretender 
from his family (when the gain is ultimately recovered from me).’ Itis doubtful if tad can 
refer to the labha, and if pratipatsyate could have labhah for its subject. 


12 labho’labhyamanah kopako bhavati: the situation is : the king fails in an adventure 
recOmmended by the ministers and has incurred losses and expenses in the expedition. 
This is kopaka. This word is understood in Cs as ‘producing hatred (pradvesa) in the king and 
fcarin the ministers ’; Cn has ‘ bhayahetuh (cause of fear among the ministers)’. Though 
the sense suits, that is not the usual meaning of kopaka. It would mean cither ‘rousing 
to anger’, which does not suit, or ‘leading to arising’ by the ministers, who apparently 
tl:ink of revolting in order to forestall the king’s anger ; there may be hopes of the rising 
succecding, as the king is weakened by losses and expenses. Thislatter meaning for kopaka 
is necessary in the next s. There the disyas would rise in order to prevent the king from 
obtaining the gain and then wreaking his vengeance on them. 14 viparitoh, i.c., lobhya- 
mdnah in the first case and alabhyamédnah in the second (Cs). 


419 THE ACTIVITY OF THE KING ABOUT TO MARCH [9.4.27 


one involving small losses. 18 Because there is only the expense of food, it 
is one requiring small expenses. 19 Because of vastness in the present, it 
is great. 20 Because it leads to continuity of advantage, it is one that lcads 
to further increase. 21 Because it is free from dangers, it is one that is safe. 
22 Because it is obtained in a praiseworthy manner, it is one that is lawful. 


23 Because it comes without restrictions in the case of confederates, it is 
one that is foremost. 


24 When the gain is equal (from two expeditions), he should consider 
the place and the time, powers and means, agreeableness and disagreeableness, 
speed and absence of speed, nearness and distance, the present and 
consequences in the future, valuableness and continuousness, and abundance 


and richness in qualities, and seize that gain which is possessed of many good 
points. 


25 Hindrances to gain are: passion, anger, nervousness, pity, shyness, 
ignobleness, haughtiness, a sympathetic nature, regard for the other world, 
piousness, illiberality, abjectness, jealousy, contempt for what is in the hand, 
wickedness, lack of trust, fear, failure to counter-act, inability to endure cold, 
heat and rain, and fondness for auspicious days and constellations. 


26 The object slips away from the foolish person, who continuously 
consults the stars; for an object is the (auspicious) constellation for 
(achieving) an object; what will the stars do? 


27 Men, without wealth, do not attain their objects even with 


hundreds of efforts ; objects are secured through objects, as elephants 
are through elephants set to catch them. 


22 pragestopdddnat refers to such ways of acquisition as conquest, purchase etc. 
23 sdmavdyikdndm anirbandhagdmitcat : this seems to mean that One of the confederates 
receives a higher share in the joint expedition, without restrictions or objections by others. 
Russ. shows this explanation. Cn seems to understand ’a higher share (bhdgantarotkrstah) 
because there is no restriction as to each one’s gain (suvosvaldbhotkarsanibandhdbhdaodt).” 
In 9.7.59, apuroga is used of a confederate who is not the leader. We need not, however, 
understand that the puroga or leader alone gets a puroga share. Any One of the confede- 
rates may appropriate a higher share if the others do notobject. Meyer has ‘onein which 
one need not march (gam) together with the allies any further,’ which hardly suits. 

24 priydpriyau, i.e., priyatca and apriyatoa of the labha. — sdratvasdtatye : for the 
’ contrast implied in the two terms, Cn compares 7.12.16. 

25 kdrunya, according to Cn Cs, leads to aversion to fighting, while sdnukro$atd leads 
to forgiveness for an offender. — hrih: it prevents the use of force when the offenders cry 
for mercy (Cn Cs) ; it is the noble feeling that recoils from soiling itself with evil (Meyer). 
— For atydgiivam, Cs reads atydsitoam ‘ consuming more than one’s share ’. — aprattkdrah 
is from Cn; Cs reads anikdrah ‘ absence of contempt for the enemy ’. 


27 mnddhandah is from Cs for saddhandh of the mss. The latter has to be understood as 
sddhanavaniah and even then yainasatair api cannot be construed naturally with it. The 
Mahabharata, 12.8.20 (adhanenarthakadmena narthah Sakyo vivitsata, arthair arthad nibodhyante 
gajair iva mahdgajah) supports nddhandh. 


9.5.1] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 420 


CHAPTER FIVE 


SECTION 148 DANGERS FROM (OFFICERS IN) THE OUTER REGIONS 
AND THE INTERIOR 


1 The use of peace and other policies not in the prescribed manner is 
wrong policy. 2 From that spring dangers (of conspiracy or revolt). 


3 Originating in the outer region and responded to from the interior, 
originating in the interior and responded to from the outer region, originating 
in the outer region and responded to from the outer region, (and) originating 
in the interior and responded to from the interior : these are the (four types of) 
conspiracies. 


4 Where those in the outer regions instigate those in the interior, or those 
in the interior instigate those in the outer regions, in these cases where there is 
association between the two types, success over the one who responds is of 
greater advantage. 5 For, those who respond are full of guile, not those who 
instigate. 6 When they are subdued, the instigators would not be able to 
instigate others. 7 For, those in the interior are difficult to instigate for those 
in the outer regions, or these for the former. 8 There is a waste of great 
effort for the others and a continuous advantage for oneself. 


9 When those in the interior respond, he should make use of conciliation 
and gifts. 10 Giving a position and showing honour is conciliation. 11 
Favours and exemptions or employment in works is gifts. 


12 When those in the outer regions respond, he should make use of 
dissension and force. 18 Secret agents, posing as friends of those in the 
outer regions should communicate to them (the following, as) secret informa- 
tion spied out, * This king intends to over-reach you through these posing as 
treasonable men ; beware.’ 14 Or, secret agents, posing as treasonable men, 


0.3 
As Meyer observes dpad in this Chapter refers to conspiracies against the king or the 
state. 


1 ayathoddega-, i.e., not as recommended in Book 7 above. 
8 For abhyantara and bahya, sce 9.3.12,22. 


4 ubhayayoge: ubhaya refers to abhyantora and bahya, at the two ends of the realm. 
5 sutyajah: Cn explains vydja by ‘ abhyupagamonimitia, an indication that he agrees’, 
such as a bribe received, etc. Thatis not very happy. Meyer’s ‘easy to cheat (for the 
authoritics) ’ seems also less likely. It seems we have to understand ‘ full of deceit or guile’. 
Success Over them may be not easy, but for that very reason would be specially advanta- 
geous. 8 This s. seems to mention further advantages of overcoming the pratijapiirs. 
The instigators are referred to in paresdm, while adtmanah refers to the king. Cn, however, 
regards the s. as stating the reason why upajdapa, though difficult, should still be attempted ; 
thereby the efforts of others are frustrated and one attains one’s own Objective. This hardly 
seemsintended. Cs adds anyah after dtmanah and cxplains ‘(if the pratijapitrs were tO:reveal 
the plot to the king) there is great loss of effort (of the upajapitr), a great gain, viz., favour 
of the king to the others (paresam, {.e., pratijapitrnam) and the opposite of that (anyah), 
i.e., disaster for himself (i.e., the upajapiir).’ This appears even less likely. There is no 
reference to the revealing of the plot; and anya can hardly be ‘ opposite, reverse ’. 


13 vd here as well asin 8s. 21 has no significance. — céram: cf. 1.12.7 etc. Hence 
* use of a secret trick (by the king)’ (CnCs)islesslikely. 14 diisydn bdhyair bhedayeyuh : 


421 THE ACTIVITY OF THE KING ABOUT TO MARCH [9.5.29 


employed with the treasonable men (in the interior), should divide the trea- 
sonable men from those in the outer regions or those in the outer regions from 
the treasonable men (in the interior). 15 Or, assassins, insinuating them- 
selves, should slay the treasonable men with weapon or poison. 16 Or, 


after inviting (to the capital) those from the outer regions, they should get 
them killed. 


17 Where those in the outer regions instigate others in the outer regions 
or those in the interior instigate others in the interior, in these cases, where 
there is association at one end only, success over the instigator is of greater 
advantage. 18 For, when the evil (of treason) is removed, there remain no 


treasonable men. 19 But when treasonable men are over-come, the evil 
again makes others treasonable. 


20 ‘Therefore, when those in the outer regions are instigators, he should 
make use of dissension and force. 21 Secret agents, posing as friends, should 
say, ‘ This king himself intends to seize you; you are at war with this king ; 
beware.’ 22 Or, assassins, insinuating themselves in the troops of the 
envoy of the one responding, should strike at their weak points with weapon, 


poison andsoon. 23 ‘Then secret agents should accuse the one responding 
(of that crime). 


24 When those in the interior instigate others in the interior, he should 
make use of the means as deserved. 25 He should use conciliation in the 
case of one discontented though showing signs of contentment, or the reverse 
of this. 26 Honouring under the pretext of (appreciating) integrity or 
capability or by showing consideration in a calamity or on a happy occasion, 
is the use of gifts. 27 Or, an agent posing as a friend, should say to them, 
‘In order to find out your feelings, the king will put you to test; you should 
disclose them to him.’ 28 Or, he should divide them from each other, saying, 
‘So and so is thus whispering to the king about you’ ; thus is dissension (to be 


brought about). 29 And force should be used as in the infliction of (secret) 
punishment ’. 


it seems that the instrumental is used in the sense of the ablative. In any case, * through 
the bahyas who have instigated ’ (Cn Cs) is quite unlikely in the context where the bahyas 
are the pralijapitrs. The instigators are the abhyantaras, referred to here as diisyas. 15 
anupravistah : insinuating themselves in their service is primarily meant, though the idea 
of first winning their confidence is also possible. Cf. 1.17.89 etc. 16 ghdlayeyuh: the 


singular would have been better, with the king as subject. As itis, satirinah may be the 
subject, hardly t#kgndah in view of the causal. 


17 ekdntayoge from Cn Cs is read in conformity with ubhayayoge above. ekdnta is 
one end of the realm, either the interior or the outer regions. 18 doga is the evil of treason 
that is there in the upajapitrs. 19 diisya, i.e., pratijapitr. 

21 dddtukdmah : i.e., the king will scize you through the pratijapitrs who are really 
his agents. 22 Thiss. describes the use of danda and hence is unrelated to s. 21; tatah 
found in the mss. has therefore no place in this s. and it is proposed to drop it. It seems to 
have been repeated here from the next s. by some copyist. The attemptsin Cn Cs to explain 
tatah are far from satisfactory. — esdm,i.e., upajapitrndm. 28 abhkisamseyuh : the accusa- 
tion is of murder of the upajapitrs. 

27 upadhdsyati refers to the upadhds of 1.10. — tad, i.e., ‘your mind’ (Cn Cs). — 
upajapati seems used in the literal sense ‘whispers’. Meyer proposes upajalpati, since 


the former has a technical sense. That, however, isnot necessary. 29 dandakarmikavat, 
i.e., a8 in 5.1 above. 


9. 5. 80] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 422 


80 Of these four conspiracies, he should first deal with that in the interior. 
$1 That a rising in the interior is a greater evil than a rising in the outer 
regions because of danger as from a snake has been stated before. 


82 Of the conspiracies, he should know each earlier one as a less 
serious conspiracy than each later one, or that starting from strong men 
as more serious, the reverse as less serious. 


CHAPTER SIX 
SECTION 144 (DANGERS) CONNECTED WITH TRAITORS AND ENEMIES 


1 (That) from the treasonable only and (that) from the enemies only : 
this is the two-fold unmixed (danger). 


2 In the case of unmixed (danger) from the treasonable, he should use 
against the citizens and the country people the (various) means excepting 
force. 3 For, force cannot be used against a multitude of people. 4 Even 
if used, it might not achieve its object and at the same time might bring on 
another disaster. 5 But against the leaders among them, he should act as in 
“the infliction of (secret) punishment’. 


6 In the case of unmixed (danger) from enemies, he should seek success 
by conciliation and other means in that place where the enemy, whether the 
principal or the subordinate, is. 7 Success over the principal is dependent 
on the king, success over dependents in dependent on ministers, (and) success 
over the principal and the dependents is dependent on both. 


80 abhyantaram ‘ where the abhyantaras are the upajapitrs’ (Cn) ; ‘ where both insti- 
gators and responders are abhyantaras’ (Meyer). 31 purastdtin 8.2.8. 


32 purodm purvdm as enumeratedin s. 3 above. — Meyer, preferring the faulty suddhim 
for gurvim translates * should know the removal ($uddhi) of the conspiracies to be, however 
(ud), easy (laghvim) against opponents (viparyaye) when it (i.e., guddhi) springs from the 
powerful (king, balavadbhyah).’ This is quite unlikely. 


We have to supply dpadah as the substantive in the title, asis clear from the colophon 
after 9.7.66. Meyer understands ‘ events, situations ’, with the result that heis often misled 
in this Chapter. Cn Cs supply badhydbhyantardh as well; but that is not intended. 


1 $uddha in the singular is necessary. This dpad is contrasted with dmigrd and 
paramigrd. In this Chapter dpad is more ‘danger’ than ‘ conspiracy ’. 


2 pauresu jadnapadesu vd: this shows that sedition is not restricted to officers. In 
this, dusyasuddha differs from bahydbhyantard dpad ; also thereis no upajdpa apparent in it. 
5 mukhyesu : these would be ring-leaders, not necessarily officers. 

6 JSatrusuddhda is nothing more than an actual or impending attack by an enemy, 
including intrigues by him to oust the king. — yatah $atruh etc. : Cn Cs have ‘on whomis 
dependent (yatah) the enemy or his minister (pradhdnah) or an officer other than the minister 
(karya), these neing the ally etc., the enemy himself and the minister respectively.’ This 
seem3 doubtful; yaiah can hardly mean ‘ yasmin adhinch’. And the next s. does not speak 
of satrusiddhih, as would have been expected if three persons were intendedin this s. It 
seems therefore that pradhdnah kdryo vdis merely in elucidation of gatruh — the principal 

enemy, i.e., the enemy king in person, or his karya, i.e., dependent, such as a minister or 
general. yatah...tatah may refer to the place or the situation, ‘there ...where’ or ‘in 
respect of that...which’. 7 dyatiais used as a substantive as wellas an adjective in this 
s. — Meyer remarks that this is strange wisdom. Over-zealousness in classification is 
responsible for what are often quite obvious statements. 


428 THE ACTIVITY OF THE KING ABOUT TO MARCH [ 9. 6. 26 


8 Because the treasonable and the non-treasonable have joined hands, 
it is mixed (danger). 9 In the case of mixed (danger) success (should be 


sought) through the non-treasonable. 10 For, in the absence of the support, 
the supported do not exist. 


11 Because allies and enemies have become one, it is (danger) mixed 
with the enemy. 12 In the case of enemy-mixed (danger), success (should 


be sought) through allies. 18 For, peace is easy to make with an ally, not 
with an enemy. 


14 Ifthe ally were not to desire peace, he should constantly instigate him 
secretly. 15 Then dividing him from the enemy through secret agents, he 
should win the ally. 16 Or, he should win over the (king) situated on the 
border of the confederacy of allies. 17 When one situated on the border is 
won over, those situated in the centre become divided. 18 Or, he should 
win over one situated in the centre. 19 When one situated in the centre is 
won over, those situated on the border do not remain united. 


20 And he should use such means as would secure the defection of the 
support of these (confederates). 


21 He should conciliate a pious king by extolling his birth, family, 
learning and conduct, by (mention of) relationship of ancestors (of both) or 
by rendering service and refraining from injury in all three times. 22 He 
should win over by conciliation one whose cnergy has left him, one weary of 
war, one whose efforts are frustrated, one distressed by losses and expenses 
and by the expedition abroad, one seeking another (ally) with (his) integrity, 


one afraid of another or one of honourable intentions, attaching prominence 
to friendship. 


28 We should win over a greedy or a weakened king with gifts after 
first making an ascetic or a chief stand surety. 24 Gift is five-fold: relin- 
quishing what is due, acquiescence in what is taken, return of what is received, 
bestowal of one’s own goods not given before, and permission to seize what he 
can from others’ goods, 25 ‘This is making gifts. 


26 He should divide one frightened because of mutual hatred or enmity 
or afraid of seizure of his land, through one of these (causes of fear). 27 


8 disyddisyandm: both the digya and the addgya are state subjects. For the time 
being they have joined in a conspiracy. 


1l paramigrd: Meyer thinks that parimigrd with a preposition would be better as the 
name, like Gmigrd. That is possible, but not certain. 18 Cf. 7.13.17. 


16 Cs reads mitrdmitrasamghasya for mitrasamghasya. But that is not necessary. 
It is a confederacy of allies from their own point Of view, not that of the vijigisu. 


20 Cn has vaisdm for caisém ; that might appear better. — d§raya is the chief among 
the confederates. 


22 It seems that kalyadnabuddhim is to be construed with maitripradhdnam only, not 
with niurtiotsdham and others. Thus Meyer. 


28 -avasthGpand has roference to giving a surety. tapasvin and mukhya are to be 
distinguished ; cf. 7.17.8. 


9.6.27 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 4.24 


(He should divide) a timid king by (threat of) reprisals, * After making peace, 
this king will take action against you; his ally has been sent (to negotiate) ; 
you are not in the peace (negotiations) even.’ 


28 Or, when for any king goods from his own land or from another's 
land should come as presents, secret ogents should spread reports, * These 
have been received from the king against whom we are to march.’ 29 When 
(the report) is spread wide, he should send a letter with a man condemned 
to death, ‘ These goods have been sent by me to youasa present ; attack your 
confederates or desert them; then you will receive the rest of the stipulated 
amount.’ 80 ‘Then secret agents should make the others realise, ‘ This was 
given by the enemy.’ 


81 Or, an article, well-known as belonging to the enemy, should go, 
unknown, to the conqueror. 82 Secret agents appearing as traders from him 
should sell it among enemy chiefs. 88 Then secret agents should make the 
others realise, ‘This commodity was given to the enemy.’ 


84 Or, after favouring with money and honour persons who have com- 
mitted great crimes, he should employ them against the enemy with weapon, 
poison and fire. 85 ‘Then he should make one minister (seemingly) desert. 
86 Taking his sons and wife under protection, he should have it proclaimed, 
‘They were killed at night.’ 87 Then the minister should disclose those 
(criminals) one by one to the enemy. 38 If they were to act as directed, he 
should not get them seized. 389 Or, if unable (to do as told), he should get 
them seized. 40 Securing the position of a trusted counsellor, the (ministcr) 
should speak of the necessity of (the enemy) being on his guard against the 


27 pratighdlena ‘by counter-attack,’ i.e., by a threat of reprisals. — nisrstam: cf. 
nisrstartha dita in 1.16.2. — samdhau vd ndbhyantarah : we have to understand tram as the 
subject. The ideais, you have no placein the negotiations, and, further, the terms of the 
treaty will not cover you, so that you will be at the mercy of the vijigisu. 

28 panydgdra is ‘a present, primirily consisting of goods’; cf. 7.15.20. — cdrayeyuh, 
i.€., spread the report as news secretly spied out. 30 grdahayeyuh ‘should make them 
understand.’ The object can hardly be $asanam here, in view of aripradattam, which can be 
understood of the goods only. 

81 gatruprokhydtam panyam is curious: gutroh prakhydtam would be better. — 
avijndlam, i.e., in effect, by tneft. 33 g dhayeyuh: it can hardly mean ‘have the goods 
seized by the guards’ (Cn Cs). There is no nee for seizing the goods. — aripradatiam : 
this may mean ‘ given to the enemy ’ by the particular confederate, or ‘ given by the enemy ’ 
to the traders. As ariis the vijigisu, with whom the particular confederate is thus proved 
to have been in league, the former meaning appears slightly better. 

34 mahdparaihan ; tivese seem to be orjJinary criminals, who are pardoned andin return 
for that are asked to act as agents for killing the enemy. These are not likely to be amatyas, 
asCnCstbink. amdlyas would hardly be asked to serve as assassins. 85 ekam amdalyam: 
thisin realityisa very trustwortay minister whois assigned the task of bringing about bheda. 
He could not be mahdparddha in reality. Onc is reminded of Bhagurayana in the Mudra- 
raksasa. — nispdtayet: the desertion of the minister and the consequent disappearance of 
his wife and sons are only a pretence, used to outwit the enemy ; he might think the deser- 
tion ¢tc. to be real. [or this trick, cf. 13.8.11-14 below. 37 idn, i.e., the mahdparddhas. 
— praritpiyel * point out, disclose’; cf. 4.5.18 ; 11.1.49. Thisis done one by one as they 
may be found to have failed in their mission of secretly killing the enemy. Thus the 
amaly2 wins the enemy’s confilence ; heis not concerned with the fate of the mahaparddhas 

at the hands ofthe enemy. 38 ‘The twoss. 88 and 89 are pointless ; it seems likely that 
they are a marginal gloss that has gotinto the text. 41 amitrasasanum mukhyopaghdtaya 


425 THE ACTIVITY OF THE KING ABOUT TO MARCH [ 9. 6. 61 


chief (confederate). 41 Then an agent in the pay of both should get an order 
of the enemy for the chicf’s destruction seized. 


42 Or, he should send a letter to one possessed of the power of energy, 
‘Seize the kingdom of so and so; our treaty stands as before.’ 43 Then 
secret agents should have it seized among the enemies. 


44 Or, (agents) should destroy the camp or supplies or allied troops of 
one (of the confederates). 45 Speaking of friendship with the others, they 
should suggest to him, ‘ You are sought to be destroyed by these.’ 


4G Or if a great warrior or an clephant or a horse of some one were to 
die or to be killed or carried away by secret agents, (other) secret agents should 
declare him as destroyed by others. 47 Then he should send a letter to the 
one who is accused, ‘Do more of this; then you will receive the rest of the 
stipulated amount.’ 48 Agents in the pay of both should get that seized. 


49 When they are thus divided, he should secure one of them. 


50 By that are explained (dissensions among) commanders-in-chief, 
princes and commandants of armies. 


51 And he should make use of dissensions as for oligarchies. 52 This 
is the work of creating dissensions. 


58 Secret agents should dispose of a fiery or energetic enemy orone in a 
calamity or one entrenched in a fort, by weapon, fire, poison and so on, or 
one of them (should do so) because of ease in doing it. 54 For, an assassin, 
single-handed, may be able to achieve his end with weapon, poison and fire. 
55 He does the work of a whole army or more. - 


56 ‘This is the group of four means. 57 In that, each earlier one is 
lighter than each later one. 58 Conciliation is one-fold. 59 Gifts are 
two-fold, being preceded by conciliation. 60 Dissension is three-fold, being 
preceded by conciliation and gifts. 61 Force is four-fold, being preceded 
by conciliation, gifts and dissension. 


is from Cn. amitra is the enemy with whom the vijigtsu’s minister is staying. Theletter 
may be addresscd to his officer or agent ; ‘ to another confederate ’ (Cn) appears less likely. 
— grahayet is here ‘ cause it to be seized,’ i.e., letit fallinto theirhands. ‘The ubhayavetana 
does this, as hcis really the vijigisu’s agent, working also as the enemy’s agent. Cf. 1.12.18- 
19. — Thc idea is to divide the enemy from the chief confederate and others. 


45 itaresu maitrim bruvdndh: it is better to consture these words with the following 
than with the preceding ghdlayeyuh (asin Cs). For the ghdta, mention of friendship with 
others is unnecessary, but it is necessary for the upajapa. 

50 tena ctc.: this means that the sendpati of one should be similarly divided from the 
sendpati of the Other confederates and so on. Thisis when the armies of the confederates 
are led not by the respcctive kings, but by sendpott, kumara and so on. 


51 sdmghikam bhedam, i.c., ways of dissension recommended in the case of sanighas 
in 11.1 below. 


53 ttksnam : cf. 1.14.5. — sthtiagairum: sce 7.10.7. — saukaryatah ‘because of the 
ease in doing’. 55 sarvasamdoha, i.c., the full army mobilised ; cf. 6.2.38 etc. 


s laghisthah: the comparative would have been better. laghu ‘light’, i.e., easy to 
employ. 


9. 6. 62 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 4,26 


62 Thus has been declared (whatis to bedone) against those who attack. 


68 But the same means (are to be used) against those in their own terri- 
tories. 64 Special steps, however, are: 65 He should frequently send well- 
known envoy-chiefs with presents to one of the (confederates) who are in their 
own territories. 66 They should urge him to a treaty or to kill another 
(confederate). 67 If he does not agree, they should announce, ‘ We have 
made a treaty.’ 68 Agents in the pay of both should communicate that to 
the others (adding) ‘ This king of yours is treacherous.’ 


69. Or, if any of them has fear of or enmity towards or hatred of another, 
(agents) should divide him from the other, (suggesting), ‘ This king is making 
peace with your enemy ; presently he will over-reach you; make peace your- 
self very quickly and try to restrain him.’ 


70 Or, establishing relationship by accepting or giving (girls) in marriage, 
he should divide those not so related. 


71 He should cause their kingdoms to be destroyed by a neighbouring 
prince or a forest chieftain or a pretender from his family or a prince in dis- 
favour, or (destroy) their caravans, herds and forests or troops approaching 
to render help. 72 And guilds of castes, supported by one another, should 
strike at their weak points, and secret agents (should strike) with fire, poison 
and weapon. 


78 And in case of enemy-mixed danger, he, being deceitful, should 
kill the enemies by secret practices like a (fowler using a) cloak and a 
bait (to lure birds) by creating confidence and offering a bait. 


G2 abhiyufjanegu : when the kings forming the confederacy have already attacked 
his territory. 

G5 abhijrdtdn ditamukhydn: these envoys would be well-known to the other kings as 
those coming from the vijigisu. 67 krio nak samdhih: apparently tbe denial of the king 
would not convince the other confederates, because the envoy was known to have frequently 
gone to him with panydgadra. 


69 Meyer construes purd tudm atisamdhatte ‘before he deceives you’ with the following 
clause ; cf. 1.14.8. 


70 dodhavivahdbhydm : see 7.15.22. 


71 rdjyani ghatayet is from Cn’s comment ‘janapadddini’; Cs has rdjyam in the 
singular. — sdrthaorejdtavir vd is from Cn Cs for -tavibhir vd of the mss. The instrumental 
in the latter is unlikely. These are objects to be destroyed, not means of destruction. — 
abhisrtam ‘come for rescuing’ the rdjya, sdriha etc. %2 jdtisamghdh ‘corporations or 
guilds of castes’. This could hardly be a reference to the ruling sammghas, Licchivika and 
others mentioned in 11.1.4-5 below, as Cn Cs understand it. Clearly, castes were spread 
Over many states and often caste loyalties transcended those to the state. These are 
intended to be exploited. 


78 vilamsagila-is proposed as the most likely reading. vtlamsa is givenin the lexicons 
the sense of ‘a trap or snare for binding or catching birds and deer’ or ‘a cloak worn by 
fowlers to create confidence among birds and deer (when catching them).’ Thelatter 
meaning is adopted asin Cn Cs. gilais‘abait’. The idea is that the vijigisu should act like 
a fowler who uses a vilamsa or a gila for catching birds. The two correspond to visodsena 
and dmisena respectively. Meyer, with -gala, explains ‘likea fowler who produces from his 
throat (gala) imitative luring cries.’ That does not sound very likely. — paramisraydam : 
the paramisrd apad is nothing but anattack by confederates. The situation is similar to 
that in 7.8.1-4 (ydtavyaorttih) and in 7.14.1-11, the present passage On paramiérd being in 
fact only an expansion of the latter Section (hinasaktipiranam). 


42'7 THE ACTIVITY OF THE KING ABOUT TO MARCH [9.7.8 


CHAPTER SEVEN 


SECTION 145 (DANGERS) ASSOCIATED WITH ADVANTAGE, DIS- 
ADVANTAGE AND UNCERTAINTY (AS TO EITHER) 


SECTION 146 OVERCOMING THESE (DANGERS) BY THE USE OF 
THE DIFFERENT MEANS 


1 Immoderation, such as passion and so on, rouses one’s own constituents, 
wrong policy (rouses) foreign (constituents). 2 Both those amount to demo- 
niacal conduct. 8 A change in one’s own people is revolt. 


4 In cases that cause advancement of the enemy, there may be advan- 
tage that is dangerous, disadvantge or uncertainty. 


5 That gain, which when not obtained leads to the prosperity of the 
enemy, or when obtained is recoverable by enemies, or when being obtained 
gives rise to losses and expenses, is a dangerous advantage. 6 For example, 
a gain which is a tempting morsel for neighbours being caused by a calamity 
of the neighbour, or a gain sought by the enemy obtainable (by him) by its 
very nature, or a gain in front contested by a rising in the rear or an enemy 
in the rear, or a gain repugnant to the circle (of kings) because of the extermi- 
nation of an ally or the violation of a treaty, is an advantage that is dangerous, 


7 The rise of danger from one’s own people or from enemies is a 
disadvantage. 


8 Concerning these two, ‘ Is it an advantage or no ?’ ‘Is it < disadvan- 
tage or no?’ ‘Is the advantage a disadvantage?’ ‘Is the disadvantage an 


9.7 


The two Sections are found in ss. 1-66 and 67-84 respectively. In the first of the two 
Sections we have to supply dpadah as the substantive. 


1 kdimddir utsekah: sce 1.15.11. — bahyah are foreign states, hardly state Officers in 
the outer regions (Cs). The contrary of bdhydh here is sudh, not abhyantardh. 3 Cn Cs 
read ss. 8 and 4 together, explaining ‘ revolt, which is change in the feelings of the subjects, 
when it leads to the prosperity of enemies, is an dpad, which may be an artha or an anartha 
orasamsaya.’ It seems, however, that s. 3 on‘y defines kopa and is quite unconnected with 
the discussion on dpads that follows, in which svajanavikara has no place at all. A kopa 
can hardly be described as an Gpad which may be an artha. Moreover, ss. 5-6 show that 
dpadartha is to be understood as a single idea * G@padritpah arthah, an advantage that may 
turn out to be disastrous’; a kopa cannot beso described. Itisalso possible thats. 3isa 
marginal gloss. 


5 aprdptah: because you do not-seize the artha, the enemy grows stronger; its non- 
seizure is an Gpad. 6 sdmantadndm dmisabhiiah sdmanicoyasanojch: one sdmania is in a 
calamity ; other sdmantas are waiting to benefit from it. If you do not scize the artha, 
some other sdmanta will ; that will be an @pad (as this other sdmanta will be growing strong). 
It seems that this illustrates satruvrddhim aprdpiah karoti of s. 5. Cn Cs, however, under- 
stand two types here, dmisabhiiah and -vyasanojah, though there is no vd. — satruprarthito 
etc. : thisillustrates praptah pratyddeyah etc. of s.5. Hence the od after suabhadvddhigamyo 
should be dropped as in Cn Cs. 


% svatuh parato vd bhayotpattih: Cn Cs have ‘ danger when a gain (artha) is taken away 
from oneself and danger arising while oneis seizing a gainfrom one’s enemy (paraiah).’ Itis 


not easy to see why artha should be broughtin at all. The latter at least would be an 
Gpadartha, not an anartha pure and simple. 


8 artho na veti (in this s.) and ss. 11-12 are from the commentators. There can be no 
question about their authenticity. — artho ’nartha iti i.e., is what appears to be an artha 


9.7.9 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 428 


advantage ?** is uncertainty. 9 (Thus) stirring up an ally of the cnemy is 
uncertainty as to whether it isan advantage orno. 10 Inviting alien troops 
with money and honour is uncertainty as to whether itis a disadvantage or no. 
11 Seizing land with a strong neighbour is uncertainty as to whether the 
advantage is a disadvantage. 12 Marching after joining forces with a 
superior king is uncertainty as to whether the disadvantage is an advantage. 


18 Among these, he should act in the case of the uncertainty associated with 
advantage. 


14 Advantage followed by advantage, advantage without a con- 
sequence, advantage followed by disadvantage, disadvantage followed by 
advantage, disadvantage without a consequence, disadvantage followed by 
disadvantage ;: this is the group of six consequences. 15 Seizing the enemy 
in the rear ~fter uprooting the enemy (in front) is advantage followed by 
advantage. 16 Helping the neutral king with troops in return for reward 
is advantage without a consequence. 17 Uprooting a buffer king of the 
enemy is advantage followed by disadvantage. 18 Helping the enemy’s 
neighbour at the side with treasury and troops is disadvantage followed by 
advantage. 19 Desisting after stirring up a weak king is disadvatnage with- 
outaconsequence. 20 Desisting after rousing a superior king is disadvantage 
followed by disadvantage. 21 Of these, each earlier one is better for 
attaining than each later one. 


22 Thus has been laid down the nature of enterprises. 


23 'The presentation of advantages simultaneously from all sides is the 
danger of advantages from all sides. 24 The same, when contested by the 
enemy in the rear, is the danger of uncertainty concerning advantages from all 
sides. 25 In the case of these, success (should be sought) by securing the 
support of the ally and the rear ally. 


inrealityananartha? 9 ésatrumiiram utsdhayitum ;: the enemy’sally is roused against him ; 
this would ordinarily be an artha, as it would weaken the enemy and place him in danger. 
The uncertainty arises because the enemy’s ally may not be quite reliable. 10 Inviting 
enemy troopsis Ordinarily an anartha ; butif treated with honour etc., they may prove loyal. 
11 Seizing landisan artha, butif it has strong neighbours, it may turn out to be an an- 
aritha. 13 arthasamgayam: Cn Cs understand only the first type. The third type could 
also be understood. 

14 anubandhasadoargah from Cn Cs is quite obviously necessary. anubandha is ‘a 
consequence.’ 16 phalena,i.e., for money received when giving troops. 17 antaris the 
antardhi,asinCnCs. Exterminating another king is ordinarily an artha, butif thereby you 
remove the buffer between you and a powerful king, that would bean gnartha. 18 Giving 
koga or danda without receiving anything in return is an anartha, but if it helpsin putting 
down your enemy, that is a result to be welcomed. 21 piirvah piirvah greyadn: Cn Cs 
understand in the last three cases (anarthatrivarga) the earlier one as preferable for avoiding. 
That cannot be right. Ananartha leading to artha cannot be ‘ more fit to avoid’ than one 
without a further consequence and most certainly not than one leading to a further anartha. 
All six cases are arranged in a descending order for purposes of preference. 

22 kdrya ‘the enterprisc,’i.e., whether it is to be undertaken or not. 

23 samantato’rthapad : thisis an Gpad apparently because one cannot decide which artha 
to secure first. But it is an dpad only technically. 25 tayoh: it would be better to read 


tasyam, for, the case of samaniato’rthd is referred to in ss. 80-81 below and steps recommended 
here do not apply to it. 


429 THE ACTIVITY OF THE KING ABOUT TO MARCH [9.7.43 


26 The appearance of danger from enemies from all sides is danger of 
disasters from all sides. 27 The same, when checked by the ally, is the 
danger of uncertainty concerning disasters from all sides. 28 In the case of 
these, success (should be sought) by securing the support of a mobile enemy and 
the reor ally or taking the steps (recommended) against enemy-mixed danger. 


29 When there is gain from one side and gain from another side, that is 
danger of advantage from two sides. 80 Im that and in the one with 
advantages from all sides, he should march to obtain the object possessed of 
the excellences of a gain. 31 If excellences of the gains are equal, he should 
march to secure that which is prominent or proximate or not brooking 
delay or in which he may he deficient. 


82 When there is disaster on one side and disaster on another side, that 
is danger with disasters on two sides. 33 In that and in the one with 
disasters on all sides, he should seek success through allies. 34 In the absence 
of allies, he should overcome the disaster on one side with a less important 
constituent, the disaster from two sides with a more important (constituent), 
the disaster from all sides with his base. 35 If that is impossible, he should 
Icave everything and go away. 386 For, the coming back to the throne of 
one continuing to live is observed as in the case of Suyatra and Udayana. 


37 When there is gain on one side and an attack on the kingdom on the 
other, that is danger with advantage and disaster on the two sides. 38 In 
that, he should march to secure that object which would overcome the disaster. 
89 Otherwise, he should ward off the attack on the kingdom. £0 By that 
is explained the danger with advantage and disadvantage on all sides. 


41 When there is disaster on one side and uncertainty as to advantage 
on the other, that is danger with disaster and uncertainty as toadvantage on 
the two sides. 42 In that, he should first overcome the disaster; when that 
is overcome, (he should seek) the uncertain gain. 43 By that is explained 
the danger with disaster and uncertainty as to gain on all sides. 


28 tayoh: here, too, tasyam would be better. For, measuresin the case of samaniato- 
*narthd are stated in ss. 33-36 below. — caldmiira isan enemy who has nofort. Cf. 7.10.9. 
Such a foe, being easy to manage, should be tackled first ; cf. 7.14.10. — paramiésrdprati- 
kadrah as recommended in 9.6.11 ff. 


31 anatipdtinam, i.e., urgent. — dino vd yena bhavet: Cs has ‘ which, if not secured, 
would render him weak’. A more direct ‘in which he may be deficient’ appears, however, 
preferable. 


34 laghiyasyd, i.e., by surrendering danda before kosa, the latter before durga and so 
on. — milena, i.c., by a surrender of the kingdom. 35 The mss. show samutsrjya for 
sarvam utsrjya. The latter is definitely better and is supported by the quotation in the 
Ndlyadarpana, p. 36. 36 jivatah: Cs reads jivatad to correspond to the instrumental in 
Suydtrodayanadbhydm. It would perhaps be better to read -dayanayoh in the genitive in the 
latter word, as the quotation in the Natyadarpana (p. 86) has it. Suyatra is Nala (Cn Cs). 

89 vdrayet: Meyer proposes kdrayet, ‘ otherwise, he would be bringing about an attack 
on his kingship.’ In spite of hi, however, this does not seem likely. The idea is simply, 
if the artha is not anarthasddhaka, steps to ward off the anartha itself should he taken first. 


9:7. 44 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 480 


44 When there is gain on one side and uncertainty as to disaster on the 
other, that is danger with gain and uncertainty as to disaster on the two sides. 
45 By that is explained one with gain and uncertainty as to disaster on all 
sides. 46 In that, he should strive to rescue each earlier one among the 
constituents from the possibility of disaster in preference to each Jaterone. 47 
Yor, it is better that the ally remain in peril of disaster, not the army, or the 
army, not the treasury. 48 If the entire (constituent) cannot be saved, he 
should strive to rescue parts of the constituents. 49 Then of constituents 
consisting of men, (he should rescue) the more numerous or the loyal, excepting 
the sharp and the greedy, of material constituents, that of high value or of 
great henefit. 50 By peace or staying quiet or the dual policy, (he should 
rescue) the insignificant ones, by the opposite (of these) the important ones. 
51 And of decline, stationary condition and advancement, he should seek to 
attain each later one in preference to each earlier one. 52 Or, he may scea 
special advantage in the future by seeking decline and others in the reverse 
order. 


58 Thus has been laid down place (in the matter of dangers) 


54 By this is explained meeting with gain, disaster and uncertainty at 
the start, in the middle or at the end of an expedition. 


55 And because gain, disaster and uncertainty are immediatcly effective, 
itis better to obtain gain at the start of an expedition, (as) it becomes (useful) for 
overcoming the enemy in the rear and his ally, for reimbursing losses, expenses 
and marches and for guarding the base. 56 Similarly, a disaster or an un- 
certainty becomes bearable to one staying in his own territory. 


57 By this is explained meeting with gain, disaster and uncertainty in 
the middle of an expedition. 


58 At the end of an expedition, however, after weakening an enemy fit 
to be weakened or exterminating one fit to be exterminated, it is better to 
meet with a gain, not a disaster or uncertainty, because of the fear of danger 
from an enemy. 


44 Meyer thinks that a s. to the effect ‘in that case, he should try to overcome the real 
anartha and then the things that threaten anartha ’, is missing afters. 44. Ifat alla missing 
8. is to he understood, it should rather be to this effect, ‘in that he should first overcome the 
anarthasam$ayo and then proceed to secure the artha.’ 49 tiksna-: itis not necessary to 
read ksina- for this, as Meyer proposes. Cf. 1.14.5; 9.6.53. 50 Jlaghiini...guriini: this 
seems cOmmon gender to cover prakyti feminine and avayava masculine. 52 prdatilomyena, 
befooiby peoking ksoya rather than sthdna or vrddhiandsoon. Fora full discussion of this, 
see 7.1.20 ff. 


54 ydlrddi-: ddiis necessary in view Of the discussion that follows. — upasampraptum 
*to meet with ’. 


55 nirantarayogitvdt, i.c., becausc artha etc. produce their effect or results immediately. 
Cs’s ‘in case all three simultancously present themselves’ seems unlikely. Meyer’s 
“because the three are intimately connected with each other’ scems also little likely. — 
parsrnigraha- ctc. ; having three separate expressions in the locative appears betterin view 
of ca than having asingle long compound. 56 svabhiimisthasya: this is the case ydtrddau. 

58 The point seems to be that karsana etc. should be resorted to only if it leads to ortha, 
not if it leads to anartha or sam$aya. — pardbddha : the para is some other enemy, hardly 
the kargantya ctc. himself. 


431 THE ACTIVITY OF THE KING ABOUT TO MARCH [9.7.72 


59 But for one not the leader among confederates, it is better to meet 
with disaster or uncertainty in the middle or at the end of an expedition, 
hecause of its affecting (all) without restrictions. 


60 Material gain, spiritual good and pleasures: this is the triad of gain. 
61 Of that, it is better to attain cach earlier one in preference to each later 
one. 


62 Material loss, spiritual evil and misery: this is the triad of disaster. 
63 Of that, it is better to remedy each earlier one in preference to each later 
one. 


64 ‘Is it material gain or loss?’ ‘Is it spiritual good or evil?’ ‘Is it 
pleasure or pain ?’: this is the triad of uncertainty. 65 Of that, it is better 
to secure the first alternative after overcoming the second (in each case). 


66 Thus has been laid down time (in the matter of dangers). 
Thus ends the topic of dangers. 
67 The means of overcoming these arc: 


68 Jn the casc of a son, a brother or a kinsman, overcoming (dangers 
from them) through conciliation and gifts is appropriate, in the case of leaders 
among citizens, country people and in the army, through gifts and dissension, 
in the case of neighbouring princes and forest chieftains, through dissension 
and force. 69 Thisis the natural method; in the reverse case, it is unnatural. 


70 In the case of allies and cnemies, success (should be sought) by a 
combination (of the means). 71 For, the means help cach other. 


72 Conciliation used in the case of ministers under suspicion of the 
enemy renders unnecessary the use of the remaining (means), gifts used 
in the case of treasonable ministers, dissension used in the case of confederates, 
(and) force used in the case of the powerful (render other means unnecessary). 


59 «apurogasya, i.e., an Ordinary Or subordinate member of the confederacy. — 
anirbandhagdmitodl is proposed as in 9.4.23 and as suggested by Meyer. The idea seems to 
be that the anariha etc. would not be restricted to him, and would be shared by the con- 
federates with him, or, if he alone isin trouble the confederates would come to his rescuc. 
Meyer, however, explains ‘ because then there is no urgent need further to march ’, which 
seems hardly meant. Cn Cs, with anibandha-, explain ‘ because he can go elsewhere being 


unrestricted in his movements.’ This is doubtful. The confederates could hardly be so 
free. 


60 Itis significant that artha is placed before dharma ; cf. 1.7.6-7 ; also s. 81 below. 


66 tlyapadah is a sort of colophon forall three Sections 143-145 which deal with the 
various hinds of a@pads. 


69 anulomd, i.c, natural. It can hardly mean ‘ to be used in normal cases, i.c., when 
the sons etc. are obedient? (Cn Cs). In that case, there is no need to use any remedy at all. -- 
viparyaye, i.e., when saémaddna is not used of sons etc., but bhededanda instead. 


72 disydmatyesu: with this also gatroh is to be understood. — sarmghdtesu i.e., 
confederacies. 


9.7.73 ] KAUTILIY.A ARTHASASTRA 132 


78 And in accordance with the seriousness or lightness of the dangers, 
there is restriction or option or combination (in the use of means). 74 With 
this (means) only, not with another: this is restriction. 75 With this 
(means) or with another: this is option. 75 With this and with another: 
this is combination. 


77 Of thesc, the use of one means at a time is four-fold, so is the use of 
three at a tine; the usc of two at a time is six-fold ; the use of four at a time 
is single. 78 ‘(hus there are fiftecn (ways of using the) means. 79 The 
saine number (of using them are there) in an unnatural way. 


80 Of these, success with one means is single success, with two, two-way 
success, with three, three-way success, with four, four-way success. 81 And 
since material wealth is the root of spiritual good and has pleasure for its fruit, 
that attainment of material gain which continuously results in spiritual good, 
material gain anc pleasures, is attainment of all gains. 


These are ways of overcoming (dangers). 


82 Caused by providence are the troubles : fire, floods, disease, epidemic, 
panic, famine and demoniacal creation. §2 Overcoming them is through 
prostration before gods and Brahmins. 


$& When there is excessive rain or drought or demoniac creation, 
then the means of overcoming it are rites prescribed in the Atharvaveda 
and undertakings hy holy men. 


Herewith ends the Ninth Book of the Arthagastra of Kautilya 
‘Tne Activity OF 'Il'ne KInc About To Marcu ’ 


79 pratilomah, i.c., when the means are used in an unnatural or wrongful manner. 
81 dharmamila- is a Tatpucusa compound rather than 2 Bahuvrihi. Cf. ss. 60-61 
above. 


$2 Cf. 4.3.1 and 8.4.1. Strictly speaking, fire, floods etc. are pidunas (8.4), hardly 
dpads. The reference to them here is unnecessary. — pramdrah is clearly the same as 
marala. -— vidrava ‘running way in panic’. — dasuri srstih; rats, serpents, spirits etc. 
o $4 _alivrstir uorstir vd is from Cn; the reading of the mss., asrstir alisrstir 0d, is impos- 
sible. 


Boox TEN 
CONCERNING WAR 


CHAPTER ONE 


SECTION 147 SETTING UP OF THE CAMP 


1 On a site, approved by experts in the science of building, the com- 
mandant, carpenters and astrologers should cause the camp to be set up, 
circular, rectangular or square or in conformity with the nature of the ground, 
with four gates, six roads and nine divisions, endowed with a moat, a rampart, 


a parapet, gates and towers, when there is danger and when the army has to 
halt. 


2 In the ninth part to the north of the central (should be erected) quarters 
for the king, one hundred dhanuses in length and half that in width, (with) 
the royal residence in the western half of that. 8 The palace guards should 
be stationed on the borders. 4 In front (should be erected) the audience-hall, 
to the right the treasury and offices for issuing orders and carrying out works, 


to the left the place for elephants, horses and chariots intended for the king’s 
use. 


10.1 


The description of the skandhdvdra shows that it is a strongly fortified cantonment area 
where troops raised are stationed over a long period before starting on an expedition. The 
standing army, at other times, must also have been stationed there. 


1 vdstuka: cf. 1.20.1; 2.3.8. — ndyaka is the general who marches at the head of the 
army ; cf. 10.2.4, also 10.6.45. — navasamsthdnam: apparently, samsthdna is the same as 
bhdg2 in the next s. According to an alternative explanation in Cn, samsthadna is a square 
formed by intersection of roads. That fits in with six roads. — khdla etc.: cf. 2.3.4 ff. 


sdla here is the same as prdkdra there. — bhaye sthdne ca : these are the two occasions when 
the setting up ofa campis recommended. 


2 madhyamasya utiare navaghdge: perhaps we have to understand this in the same 
sense as vdstuhrdaydd utiare navabhage in 2.4.7, i.e., in the ninth part to the north of the 
central onc-eighty-first part on the paramasdyika plan of 81 squares. And by the ninth part 
we have probably to understand the one-eighty-first part lying to the north of the central 
square. Cf. Sarmkararya on Kamandaka, 17.5. — rdjavdstukam : the quotation in Samka- 
rarya shows rdjavdstunivesam kdrayet in place of rdjavdstukam ; that reading is adopted in 
the Punjab edition. — Whereas rdjavdstuka refers to palace grounds as a whole including 
the upasthadna etc. of s. 4, antahpura refers to the actual royal residence. Cf. 1.20.1. $3 
antarvomSsikasainyam : cf. 1.20.18 and 1.21.8. 4 Sdsanakarana can hardly be the akga- 
patala (Cn Cs) ; the record-cum-audit office (2.7) is hardly likely to be shifted to the camp. 
Moreover, sdsana would seem to refer to the decrees or orders, the issuing of which would be 
so necessary in the camp. Similarly, kaéryakarana can hardly be ‘ dispensation of justice’ 


(Cn Cs), in view of the separate mention of the upasthdna. It may be the staff headquarters 
for control of the camp. 


10.1.5] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 484 


5 Beyond this at a distance of one hundred dhanuses from each other 
(there should be) four enclosures, with carts, stretches of thorny branches, 
pillars and the parapet. 


6 In the first (enclosure) in front, the councillor and the chaplain (should 
be encainped), to the right the magazine and the kitchen, to the Jeft the store 
for forest produce and the armoury. 7 In the second, (there should bc) 
quarters for hereditary and hired troops, for horses and chariots and for the 
commander-in-chief. 8 In the third, elephants, banded troops and the camp- 
superintendent (should be encamped). 9 In the fourth, the labour-corps, 
the commandant and allied, alien and forest troops under the command of 
their own officers (should be encamped). 10 Traders and courtesans (should 
be encamped) along the highways. 


11 Outside (the camp), fowlers and hunters (should be stationed) with 
drums and fire, as well as secret guards. 


12 In the path of the march of enemies he should cause to be placed 
(hidden) wells, concealed hollows and barbed wires. 


13 He should cause a change of guards to be made in the eighteen 
groups. 14 And he should cause watches to be kept (even) by day in order 
to discover spying. 


15 He should prohibit disputes, drinking, festive gatherings and 
gambling and secure the guarding of the seal. 


16 The regent shall arrest a soldier returning from the army without 
a written order. 


5 methipratali ‘stretches of thorny branches’ (Cn Cs). metht means ‘a post, parti- 
cularly at the threshing floor’; butin view of stambha, which is also used here, that sense is 
not very likely. Meyor understands pratatistambha as one, ‘ posts with creeper-entangle- 
ments ’. 

6 mahdnasam: this is meant for the palace, hardly for the entire camp; cf. 2.4.8. 
7 Itis possible but not certain thatin this and the following two ss., we have to understand 
purastat, daksinatah and vadmatah respectively of the three groups mentioned in each s. 8 
érenyah: this clearly refers to the grenibala ; a reference to Kamboja, Surastra and other 
samghas Of 11.1.4-5 (Cn) can hardly be understood. — prasgdsld: see s.17 below. Heis 
obviously not the same as the pragdstr mentioned in 5.3.5 and 1.12.6. 

12 Gpdte ‘in the path of advance’. — kiipa- etc.: cf. 2.3.15. kantokini here is pro- 
bably the same as kantakapratisora there. Cs explains by ‘ planks with thorns’. kantakint 
is also the name ofsome thorny plants. 

18 ° astddagavarganadm : Cn Cs have ‘the six kinds of troops, each threefold because 
of the leaders, padika, sendpoti and nayaka (of 10.6.45).’ This is not very convincing. 
Perhaps the positions mentioned in ss. 6-9 above can be undcrstood, with asvcaraiha as one, 
and mitra-, amiira- and atavi-bala each separately. Or, places mentioned in s&s. 2-4 may 
also beincluded for arriving at the number eighteen. 

15 mudrdraksanam may refer to allowing entry or departure only with a sealed pass, 
also perhaps to preventing fraud in connection with the seal. 

16 sendniortlam from Cn Cs alone makes sense. — sinyapdlah also from the com- 
mentators is preferred to anfapdlah of the mss. As the camp is obviously still inside the 

state territory, a deserter from it is hardly likely to come across the entapala. As the king 
isin the camp, a Sanyopala or regent would be appointed to deputise for him. 


485 CONCERNING WAR [10.2.8 


17 The camp-superintendent should march ahead on the road, and 
should make carpenters and labourers prepare arrangements for protection 
and for water in the proper manner. 


CHAPTER TWO 


SECTION 148 MARCH FROM THE CAMP 
SECTION 149 GUARDING (TROOPS) DURING THE CALAMITIES OF 
THE ARMY AND AT THE TIME OF ATTACK 


1 After calculating the halts on the way in villages and in forests, in 
accordance with the supply of fodder, fuel and water, and (calculating) the 
time for camping, halting and marching, he should start on the expedition. 
2 He should cause food and equipment tobe transported in double the 
quantity required to meet the case. 3 Or, if unable to do so, he should assign 
it to the troops, or should store them at intervals on the route. 


4 In front (shall march) the commandant, in the centre womenfolk and 
the king, on the flanks horses as repellers as with arms, at the end elephants 


or extensive raids, in the rear the commander-in-chief shall march (and) 
encamp. 


5 Getting supplies from forests on all sides is a raid. 6 The flow 
(of equipment and men) from one’s own country is supplies. 7 An ally’s 
army ishelp. 8 The place where the women-folk are kept isa place of retreat. 


17 taksandni is fromCn Cs for grohandni ; the latter may mean ‘ taking up positions ° 
forthe haltsonthe way. But raksana ‘ securing protection ’ on the way appears preferable. 
The commentators understand levelling of roads, removal of wild animals etc. -— ydydt 


should have come before samyak; for the latter and rakéandni are to be construed with 
kGrayet. 


10.2 


The two Sections are to he found in ss. 1-16 and 17-20 respectively. skandhdodra- 
praydnam is ‘ march from a camp’ rather than ‘ march to a camp’ (Cn Cs). 


1 sthdna ‘a halt of two or three months ’ (Cn), ‘along halt of a month ora fortnight’ 
(Cs) ; ascna ‘a halt of five or six days’ (Cn Cs) ; gemana ‘halt for the night ’(CnCs). 3 
Gyojayet from Cs is preferable to prayojayei ; Cn seems to have read sainyesu vdayojayet. 


4 The arrangement of ss. 4-12 is as in Cs, except that pascal sendpatir yayat niviseta 
is read at the end of s.4. not after s. 8 as in Cs; also with sarvato in s. 5instead of after 
prasaravrddhir od (s. 4) asin Cs. Thus we get a description of the order of the march in one 
place. — bdhiitsdrah: this seems to convey the idea of spreading out on the flanks and 
repelling an attack in those quarters, asa man does with his arms. Cf. 10.4.13-14. Russ. 
understands by it ‘ reconnoitring by the infantry.’ — cakrdntesu refers to the rear ends of 
the army (Cn Cs). — prasdracrddhir 0d: this is an option to hastinah. It is horses that 
carry Out prasdracrddht (10.4.18). If there are no elephants, raids by horses in large numbers 
are recommended. If cakrdntesu in the sense of the rear ends is to be understood with this, 
saroatah is less likely to be used with it. — sendpatir yaydt niviseta : a ca seems Obviously 
necessary. Cs, however, reads paryaydt (for yayd?) and explains “in the rear (pascat) of their 
respective army-divisions (svasvasenadpascadbhdgakramat)’*. Itis doubtful, however, if more 
than One sendpati is meant in this passage. Cf. 10.1.7 above. parydaydt cannot be under- 


stood in the sense of ‘by turns’ as Meyer in the Nachtrag suggests. ydydtis found in 
Kamandaka, 19.47. ; 


5 vandjtoah ‘living on the forests ’ ; vana, it seems, stands for all places where supplies : 
of food can be found, and prasdra seems to imply a foraging raid ; often, however, an ordinary 
raid seemsintended. 8 This definition of apasdra is not found in the mss. It may well be 
that all the definitions in ss. 5-8 are derived fromsome marginal gloss. Those of vivadha, 
dsdra and Gpasdra are uncalled for here. . 


10.2.9] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 436 


9 In case of an attack in front he should march in the crocodile array, 
in the rear, in the cart array, on the two flanks, in the thunderbolt array, on 
all sides, in the ‘ excellent-on-all -sides ’ array, in a region where march in a 
single file alone is possible, in the needle array. 


10 Incase of two alternate routes, he should march in a region suitable 
to himself. 11 For, those on terrain suitable to themselves effectively resist 
those on unsuitable terrain. 


12 One yojana is the slowest (rate of marching), one and a half middling, 
two yojanas fastest, or, the rate of march may be as possible (for him). 


18 When steps have to be taken against an enemy in the rear, his ally, 
the middle or the neutral king, who may give shelter (to the enemy) and 
destroy (one’s) rich lands ; when a difficult path has to be cleared ; when the 
treasury, the army, allied, alien or forest troops, labourers or a suitable season 
has to be awaited ; when (he thinks) ‘ There will come about a deterioration 
in the fortifications made (by the enemy), in his stores and in his precautions 
for protection, a feeling of despondency in his purchased troops and a feeling 
of despondency in his ally’s troops; or, the instigators are not very quick; 
or, the enemy will fulfil my desires;’ (then) he should march slowly, in the 
reverse case, quickly. 


14 He should make the army cross waters with (the help of) elephants, 
pillar-bridges, embankments, boats, rafts of wood and bamboos and by means 
of gourds, leather baskets, skins, canoes, tree-stems and ropes. 15 In case 
the ford is seized (by the enemy), he should get (the army) across at another 
place at night with the help of elephants and horses and lic in ambush. 


9 abhydghdle seems to refer to an expected attack from the encmy, rather than one 
planned by the vijigigu himself. — makarena: for the arrays, see 10.€.8 ff. 


11 pratilomah ‘ contrary ’,i.c., able to fight effectively against the others. 


12 With sambhaoyd cagatih, Meyer translates ‘and in accordance with that, one should 
calculate the arrival (dgatih, ata particular place)’. This is unlikely. 


13 d$rayakdari sampannaghati : these are not independent Occasions when a slow march 
is recommended (asin Cn Cs), but are only adjectives qualifying parsnih dsdrah etc. The 
idea is, when any Of these is likely to give shelter to the enemy or to lay waste one’s rich lands 
during one’s absence, precautions are necessary beforehand (pratikartavyah) ; hence a slow 
march is recommended. Gsrayakari can hardly mean ‘ when one is seeking a shelter for 
oneself’ or sampannaghdit * when one plans to destroy the rich territory of the enemy.’ In 
the latter case, itis not clear why one should march slowly. Meyer, understanding the 
passage up to praliksydhindependently of sanair ydydt, translates, ‘ precautions have to be 
taken against the dsrayakdrit and the sampannaghdli, no less than against the pargni etc.” 
This is unlikely in the absence of api and yathd...tathd. And there is little doubt that 
the entire passage is to be understood with donair, yaydat. — orstir of the mss. (for vistir) 
would scem to be included in rtu. — upajapitdro ndlitoarayanti : these are his own agents 
trying to wean the enemy’s officers etc. from their loyalty to him. These can hardly be 
*the treachcrous elements of the enemy * with whom the vigigisu is conspiring (Cn Cs). 
upa-jap is ‘to instigate to treason in order to win over to one’s side’. — abhiprayam 

etc. : this will be without having to fight. 


14 stambhasamkrama : see 7.10.82. — carmakaranda ‘a wicker basket covered with 
hide’ (Cn). — dyté ‘animal skin filled with water’. 15 For satira, sec 10.83.24 below. 


437 ‘CONCERNING WAR {10, 2.20 


16 And in a waterless region, he should make carts and animals carry 
water according to their capacity, in conformity with the length of the route. 


17 He should guard his own army when on a long march in a wilderness, 
when without water, when lacking in fodder, fuel and water, when marching 
on a difficult road, when broken by an attack, when exhausted by hunger, 
thirst or a long march, when engaged in crossing rivers deep in mud and water 
or climbing up and down valleys and mountains, when crowded on a road 
where march in a single file alone is possible or in a region uneven with moun- 
tains or in a narrow place, when without equipment whether in the camp or on 
the march, when engaged in meals, when tired after a long march, when 
slecping, when troubled by diseases, epidemics or famine, when infantrymen, 
horses and elephants are ill, when not on terrain suitable to it, or when any of 
the calamities of an army has befallen it ; and he should strike at the enemy’s 
troops (when they are in these predicaments). 


18 Ascertainment of the strength of the enemy’s army (is made) by 
counting the number of troops marching out along a route allowing a march 
ina single file only, their fodder, foodstuffs, beds spread out, cooking fires laid 
out, banners and weapons. 19 He should conceal (all) that in his own cesc. 


20 After securing a mountain fort or a forest fort in the rear, with 


means of retreat and reserves, he should fight and encamp on land 
suitable to himself. 


16 adhvapramdnena from Cn Cs is preferable to the locative -pramdne. 


17 anudakam seems superfluous when the next expression has -udakahinam. Cn 
remarks that this shows that waterlessness is the greatest calamity. Meyer proposes to 
read anugatam ‘ pursued’, or dirghakantadrdmanusyakam ‘when in the widlerness super- 
human beings (amanugya) threaten it’. This last is quite fanciful. — The participle in 
-praskannam (Cn Cs) is preferable to the noun -praskandanam. — -gaibhirdndm goes with 
nadi- only in the compound. Cn seems to have read -gambhiranadi-, the whole in a single 
compound. That might appear better. — -araydne, as Meyer says, might appear better 
than -apaydne. — abhtimistham is from Cn Cs for abhiiyistham ; the lattcr is unlikely though 
-dvipabhiyistham is conceivable. — balavyasana: sce 8.5.1-18. 


18 sendniscdra ‘ marching out of the army ’ and grdsahara ‘ fodder and food ’ are both 
fromthe commentators. The other readings are obviously faulty. 


20 vanadurgam vdisfrom Cn Cs for vdnadurgam vd of G M. vd nadtdurgam is unlikely. 
2.3.2 mentions vanadurga as a place of retreat in difficulties, apasdra being mentioned there. 
— pratigraha seems to refer to the place in the rear where the king remains with reserves. 


Cf. 10.5.58. In view of that passage, ‘ where the king meets the attacking enemy forces” 
(Cn Cs) seems less likely. 


10.3.1] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 488 


CHAPTER THREE 


SECTION 150 VARIOUS TYPES OF COVERT FIGHTING 

SECTION 151 ENCOURAGING ONE’S OWN TROOPS 

SECTION 152. DISPOSITION OF ONE’S TROOPS TO COUNTER-ACT ENEMY 
TROOPS 


1 Whenheis superior in troops, when secret instigations are made (in the 
enemy’s camp), when precautions are taken about the season, (and) when he 
is on land suitable to himself, he should engage in open fight. 2 In the 
reverse case, (he should resort to) concealed fighting. 


3 He should strike at the enemy on the occasions of the calamities of his 
troops and on occasions for assault, or when he is on unsuitable terrain, being 
himself on suitable terrain, or (even) one on suitable terrain, if (he himself is) 
possessed of the support of constituents. 


4 Or, feigning a rout with treasonable, alien and forest troops, he should 
strike at the (pursuing enemy when he has) reached unsuitable ground. 


5 He should break compact ranks through elephants. 


6 He should strike by turning round at the (enemy) who is pursuing 
when a rout is first feigned and who is broken (in the attempt), himself remain- 
ing unbroken. 


7 Or, striking in front, he should strike in the rear with elephants and 
horses, when the (enemy) is reeling or has turned back. 8 Striking in the 
rear, he should strike in front with strong forces, when the (enemy) is reeling 
or has turned back. 9 By these are explained attacks on the flanks. 10 
Or, he should strike at the point where the treasonable or weak troops (of the 
enemy) may be stationed. 


11 If the ground in front is uneven, he should strike in the rear. 12 If 
uneven in the (enemy’s) rear he should strike in front. 18 If uneven on one 
flank, he should strike at the other flank. 


14 Or, after first engaging (the enemy) in fight with treasonable, alien 
and forest troops, he should strike at him when heis exhausted, himself re- 
maining fresh. 


10.3 

The three Sections are to be found in ss. 1-25, 26-47 and 48-57 respectively. 

1 prativihitakartuh of the mss. is faulty. Meyer’s proposal to read prativihitadurgah 
is unlikely, as a reference to durgais out of place here. 2 $akata- for kita- is also faulty. 

8 avaskaniakdlas are occasions mentioned in 10.2.17. — prakrtipragrahah: the 
prakrti would appear to be his own constituents (Meyer), rather tha: those of the enemy (Cs). 

4 bhangam dahasthe sense of‘ to make a show Of being brokenin ranks, to feigna rout ’. 
— Most of tae kutay .ddhas are nothing but normal tactics common on the battlefield, and 
there is nothing wrong about them. 

6 abhinnah is proposed for abhinnam as suggested by Meyer. That is in conformity 
with s. 22 and other parallel expressions. 


439 CONCERNING WAR [ 10. 3. 25 


15 Or, making a show of a rout himself through treasonable troops, he 
should strike at the enemy, who is confident that he has won, by resorting to 
ambuscade, being himself on his guard. 


16 Remaining ever vigilant he should strike at the (enemy) negligent 


when engaged in plundering a caravan, a herd of cattle, an encampment or 
transport. 


17 Or, with strong troops concealed by weak troops, he should enter 
the ranks of cnemy warriors and slay them. 


18 Or, luring enemy warriors with (prospects of) cattle seizure or hunting 
wild animals, he should, concealed in an ambush, strike at them. 


19 After keeping (enemy troops) awake at night by a sudden assault, 
he should slay them by day when they are overpowered by sleep or are asleep. 


20 Or, he should make an attack on those asleep (at night) with elephants 
having leather-cases on their feet. 


21 He should strike in the latter part of the day at troops exhausted 
by keeping fighting equipment on for the day. 


22 Or, he should strike at the enemy, whose elephants and horses are 
made ineffective through herds of cattle, buffaloes and camels carrying sacks 
of dry skins containing round pebbles and taking fright, who js broken and 
has turned back (in flight), remaining unbroken himself. 


23 Or, he should strike at all (kinds of troops) when they are facing the 
sun or the wind. 


24 A desert, a forest, a strait path, a muddy place, a mountain, a marshy 


place, uneven ground, a boat, cattle, a cart array, mist and night: these are 
places for ambush. 


25 And the occasions for assault mentioned before are also occasions for 
concealed fighting. 


15 sattra, i.e., one of the places mentioned in s. 24 below. 


16 samvdha is understood in Cn Cs as ‘ guarding’; but troops engaged in guarding 


can hardly be described as pramatta. samodha as ‘ transport’ seems better, as another 
Object of plunder. 


17% -cchannasarabalo is proposed for -cchannahk sdrabalo. Cf. Kamandaka, 19.68 
(phalgusainyapraticchannam krivad vd sGravad balan). 


18 gograhanena, i.e., ‘for seizing cattle on the oijigigu’s side’ (Meyer) rather than 
‘ for preventing oijigigu’s men from seizing the enemy’s cattle’(Cn Cs). So sedpadcoa 
is ‘ for engaging in hunting ’ rather than ‘for preventing the vijigisu’s men from hunting in 
enemy territory ’(Cn Cs). One is reminded of Udayana lured with bunting. 

20 ‘The leather-coverings on the feet of elephants are for protection against thorns etc. 
or ‘against svadamstra’ (Meyer). 

22 The idea seems to be that the herds are frightened (trasnu) by the noise of the 


pebbles ($arkard) in the sacks they carry and run helter-skelter, thus creating confusionin 
the ranks of the onemy’s elephants and horses. 


23 saroam: Meyer thinks that we should read khorvam ‘ crippled’, i.e., unable to see 
clearly. Thatis extremely doubtful. 


25 praharanakdldh are those of 10.2.17. 


10. 8, 26 } KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 440 


26 Open warfare, however, in which the place and time (for the fighting) 
are indicated, is most righteous. 


27 Collecting the troops together, he should address them, ‘I receive 
a wage like you; this kingdom is to be enjoyed together with you ; the enemy 
should be attacked by you at my request.’ 


28 Even in the Vedas, on the occasions of the concluding baths of 
sacrifices in which fees have been fully received, it is declared, ‘ That will be 
your condition after death, which is obtained by the brave (fallen on the field).’ 
29 Moreover, there are two stanzas in this connection : 


80 Brave men, giving up their lives in good battles, reach in one 
moment even beyond those (worlds), which Brahmins, desirous of heaven, 
reach by a large number of sacrifices, by penance and by many gifts to 
worthy persons. 


81 A new vessel, filled with water, properly consecrated, with a 
mantle of darbha grass—may this not be the share of him and may he 
go to hell, who would not fight for the sake of the lump of food received 
from the master. 


82 He should make the minister a:1d the chaplain encourage the warriors 
by (pointing out) the excellences of the array. 


83 And the group of his astrologers and others should fill his own side with 
enthusiasm by proclaiming his omniscience and association with divine 
agencies, and should fill the enemy’s side with terror. 


84 When ‘to-morrow is the fight’, he should observe a fast and sleep 
beside his weapons and vehicles. 85 He should offer oblations in the fire 
with Atharva-maniras. 86 WHe should make (Brahmins) recite blessings 


invoking victory and securing heaven. 87 And he should consign himself 
to (the care of) Brahmins, 


26 The punctuation is as in Cs, with a stop after dharmisthah, Open warfare is 
recommended as righteous. dharmistha as descriptive of the king in the next s. is not so 
happy: 

27 maya bhihitath is from Cn; that is preferable to maya ’bhihitah ‘ specified by me’ 
or mayd “bhihatah ‘attacked by me’. 

28 It scems3 that the passage in ss. 28-3lis alater addition. It is not part of the king’s 
exhortation asis clear from the iti at the end of s. 27, nor can it be understood as part of the 
encouragement to be attempted by the mantrin and purohtia mentioned in s. 32. In any 
case, it is quite unlikely that anyone would say On the battlefield ‘ apiha $lokau bhavatah’, 
in the minner of an expository treatise. The whole passage is obviously a marginal gloss 
that has crept into the text. The question of the indebtedness of this text to Bhasa’s 
Pralijnayavgandharayana, where in Act 4, s. 81 occurs, is therefore tardly relevant. 31 
Renan éardvam clearly refers to the vessel from which libations of water are offered to the 


82 vyithasampaddisincluded at the end Ofthiss. asin Cn; itstates the ground on whicn 
the minister and chaplain encourage the troops. It could hardly be appropriately used 
with ‘drtantikddih vargah in the next s. 


88 sarvajia-,i.e., sarvajfatoa-. Cf. 1.8.6 etc. — daivatasamyoga is read asin 18.1.1,8. 


441 CONCERNING WAR [ 10.3. 49 


38 He should make troops that are possessed of bravery, skill, nobility 
of birth and loyalty and that are not chcated in the matter of money and 
honour, the centre of the ranks. 


89 A bare army, without standards, consisting of warriors related as 
fathers, sons and brothers, should be the place for the king. 40 An elephant 
or a chariot should be the vehicle for the king, guarded by cavalry. 41 He 
should mount that (vehicle), of which the army mostly consists or in which 


he may be trained. 42 One appearing as the king should be stationed at 
the head of the array. 


43 Bards and panegyrists should describe the attainment of heaven 
by the brave and the absence of heaven for cowards, and sing praises of the 
caste, corporation, family, deeds and conduct of the warriors. 44 Assistants 
of the chaplain should speak of the use of sorcery and black magic, mechanics, 


carpenters and astrologers (should speak) of success in their own works and 
failure in those of the enemy. 


45 The commander-in-chief should address the ranks after they are 
carefully made well-disposed with money and honour, ‘One hundred thousand 
(shall be the prize) for killing the (enemy) king, fifty thousand for killing the 
commander-in-chief or a prince, ten thousand for killing a foremost warrior, 
five thousand for killing an elephant or chariot warrior, one thousand for 
killing a horsemen, one hundred for killing a chief of infantrymen, twenty per 
head (of infantrymen killed), beside double the wage and whatever one seizes.’ 
46 Heads of groups of ten should ascertain that about them. 


47 Physicians, with surgical instruments, apparatus, medicines, oils and 
bandages, and women in charge of food and drink and capable of filling men 
with enthusiasm, should be stationed in the rear. 


48 He should arrange his ranks in a battle-array on ground suitable to 
himself in such a way that it does not face the south, has the sun at the back 


and the wind favourable. 49 And in a battle-array on land suitable to the 
enemy, they should set the horses moving. 


39 munddnikam ‘like a shaven head, because of the absence of crest-like flags ’ (Cn). 
Tt cannot mean ‘ like the head, i.e., the principalarmy ’(Cs). 42 vyiihddkisthadnam is from 
Cn Cs ; the reference is to the most prominent place in the array, ‘ the head ’ (Cs). 

44, Kkrlydbhicaram: this is for the destruction of the enemy. — yantrika is from Cn, 
‘mechanics who had manufactured the machines of war like ja@madagnya etc.’ sattrika, 
as secret agents, would hardly go about speaking of the success of their work. — mauhirtika 
ig in strange company with yantrika and vardhaki. 

45 $atasahasrah: we cannot understand gold coins in the higher cases as Cn Cs do; 
pana must be understood throughout. — bhogadoaigunyam svayamgrdha$ ca need not be 


restricted to the virnsatika, as Meyerdoes. 46 dasavargddhipatayah, i.e., patika, sendpati, 
and ndayaka as in 10.6.45. 


47 Sastrayanira is a reference to surgical instruments and other apparatus, hardly to 


weapons and machines. — uddharsaniya has the sense of the active voice ; * uccair harsa- 
nahetavah > (Cn). 


~ 49 asvdm$ cdrayeyuh: this isin order to prevent the enemy arranging his battle-array 
ere. 


10, 3. 50 | KAUTILTYA ARTHASASTRA eh 


50 Where a firm stand and speed in movements of the array have no 
favourable terrain, there he would be conquered in either case, whether 
standing firm or moving quickly. 51 In the reverse case, he wins in either 
case by standing firm or moving quickly. 


52 Ground being level, uneven or mixed, its nature in front, on the flanks 
and in the rear should be ascertained. 53 On level ground (there should be) 
the staff and circle arrays, on uneven the snake and diffuse arrays, on mixed 
mixed arrays. 


54 After breaking an (enemy) superior in strength he should ask for 
peace. 55 Ifsued for peace by one equal in strength, he should make peace. 
56 He should continue to strike at one inferior in strength, but not at all at 
one who has reached his own land or is ready to sacrifice himself. 


57 The vehemence of one returning again to the fight and despair- 
ing of his life becomes irresistible ; therefore, he should not harass a 
broken enemy. 


CHAPTER FOUR 


SECTION 153 GROUND SUITABLE FOR FIGHTING 
SECTION 154 FUNCTIONS OF THE INFANTRY, THE CAVALRY, 
THE CHARIOTS AND THE ELEPHANTS 


1 Suitable ground is desirable for infantrymen, horses, chariots an 
elephants, for fighting and for camping. 2 Battle-fields and seasons for 
men fighting in deserts, forests, water or dry lands and for those fighting in 
trenches, on open ground, by day or by night, and for elephants from rivers, 
mountains, marshes and lakes, and for horses are desirable for each as 
suited to him. 


3 Level, firm, clear, not causing jolting, not causing wheels or hooves 
to get stuck, not obstructing axles, not broken with trees, thickets, creepers, 
tree-stems, fields under water, pits, ant-hills, sand and mud, and free from 
clefts, this is ground for chariots, beneficial (also) to elephants and horses as 
well as men, for fighting and for camping, in normal and in difficult (situations) 


50 abhiimir oyithasya is one of the readings in Cn;.that is better than abhtimi (Cs) ; 
abhimau might be better still; but perhaps sthdne prajave ca abhtimir would be best. 

57 Cf. Mahabhdaraia, 12.100.18 ‘ punardoartamandndm nirdsandm ca jivite, vegah suduh- 
saho rajams tasmanndtyanusdrayet.’ 


10.4 
The two Sections are found in ss. 1-12 and 18-18 respectively. 


3 abhikd$d,i.c., clearly visible. — acakrakhurd ’naksagrahini : Meyer thinks that the 
original reading was asaktacakra- etc. Itis also possible that it was acakrakhurdksagrahini 
as a single compound * not catching wheels, hooves or axles ’. — Both here and in s. 6 Cn 
bas -bhanguradaranahind in a continuous compound, bhargura being understood as ‘a 
wavy surface’. The word, however, is more likely to be an adjective ‘broken’. — same 
vigame seem to refer to normal and abnormal situations. In thelocative masculine or neuter 
the words can hardly refer to bhamih for elephants etc. (as Meyer hasit). We also cannot 
supply dege after the words (asin Cs), since the bhiimi is described as sama only. 


448 CONCERNING WAR [ 10. 4.18 


4 That with small stones and trees, with small pits that can be jumped 
over, and with the blemish of small clefts is the ground for horses. 


5 That with big tree-stems, stones, trees, creepers, ant-hills and thickets 
is the ground for infantrymen. 


G6 That with traversable mountains, water and uneven places, with trees 
that can be uprooted and creepers that can be cut, broken with mud and free 
from clefts is the ground for elephants. 


~ 


~ Without thorns, not very uneven, with room for retreat, this is 
excellence (of ground) for infantrymen. 


8 With double the room for retreat, free from mud, water and bogs and 
devoid of pebbles is excellence for horses. 


9 With dust, mud, water, reeds and growth of rushes, free from ‘dogs 


teeth ’, and free from obstruction by big branches of trees, is excellence for 
elephants. 


10 Possessed of water-reservoirs and shelters, not causing jolting, with- 
out fields under water, and enabling a turn round, is excellence for chariots. 


11 Ground (suitable) for all has been declared. 12 By this camping 
and fighting of all kinds of troops becomes explained. 


13 Investigation of the ground, the halting place and forests, sccuring 
land without unevenness, water, ford, wind and sun’s rays, destruction of 
supplies and reserves or their protection, cleansing and steadying the army, 
extension of raids, repelling as with arms, making the first attack, penetration, 
breaking through, comforting, capturing, setting free, causing a change in the 


6 gamyasailanimnavisamad is from Cn Cs. The idea is of land dotted with hills and 
streams which can be easily traversed by elephants and with uneven regions (vigama) which 
elephants can easily cross. Kamandaka, 20.14, supports the interpretation of visama as 
@ nounin the sense of ‘an uneven place ’ (Cn Cs). — Cn reads bharijaniya- for chedaniya-. 
pankabhangurd, i.e., ‘ having mudin places ’ seems supported by the reference to the presence 
of kardama in the best kind of land for elephants in s.9. 


7 Cnseems to have read bahuvigamd for abahuvisama. The latter appears better. — 
pratydsara is a place for retreat in the rear; ‘ vpyuhasya pascddbhdgah ’ (Cn). 

9 $arddhdna appears to mean ‘growth of grass, rushes etc.’ Cn seems to understand 
* pointed rootsof grass’. -— svadamstrais the plant gokgura, according to CnCs. Cf. 2.3.15. 


10 -apd$raya which is found in Cn for -d$raya is the usual word. — vydvariana is turn- 
ing round. 


18 -vicayahin the sense of ‘ search ’ is preferable to -nicayah which means ‘collecting ’. 
— avisama is from a reading in Cn, understood in the sense of ‘land without unevenness.’ 
visama as ‘landinaccessible to the enemy ’ appears less likely. — ghdlah is that of those of 
the enemy, while raksdis that of those of oneself. — viguddhihis ciearing the wounded etc. 
from the army, hardly clearing it of treasonable elements. — sthdpand is steadying of the 
army. — prasdravrddhir bahiisdrah as two separate items are necessary. Cf. 10.2.5. — 
vyavedhanam ‘ piercing ’ refers to ‘ breaking through ’. — grahanam, i.e., making prisoners; 
moksanam setting one’s own prisoners free. — marganusdravinimayzh, i.e., making the enemy 
give up his pursuit of one’s troops by going to his rear and pursuing him in turn. — 
kosakumara- may be those of the enemy or of oneself ; the latter are carried off to safety. — 


10. 4. 14 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 444 


path of pursuit, carrying off the treasury or the prince, assault on the rear and 
tips, pursuit of the weak, accompanying, and the work of rallying, these are 
the functions of cavalry. 


14 Marching in the van, making new roads, halting places and fords, 
repelling as with arms, crossing and descending in water, remaining steadfast, 
marching forward and descending, entering difficult and crowded places, 
setting fire and extinguishing it, securing victory single-handed, reuniting 
broken ranks, breaking up unbroken ranks, protecting in a calamity, assault, 
frightening, causing terror, showing magnificence, capturing, setting free, 
breaking ramparts, gates and towers, bringing in and carrying away treasury, 
these are the functions of elephants. 


15 Guarding one’s own troops, repelling the four-fold army in battle, 
capturing, setting free, reuniting broken ranks, breaking up unbroken ranks, 
causing terror, showing magnificence, and making a frightful din, these are 
the functions of chariots. 


16 Bearing arms in all places and seasons, and military activity are the 
functions of infantrymen. 


17 The work of clearing camps, roads, water-works, wells and fords, 
carrying machines, weapons, armours, implements and food, and removing 
from the battle-field weapons, armours and wounded men are the functions of 
labourers. 


18 A king, with few horses, should yoke bullocks and horses to 
chariots ; similarly, one with few elephants, should make the centre con- 
sist of carts driven by donkeys and camels. 


hindnusGranam : the causal does not secm to have any significance. Meycr thinks that we 
should read dindnusaranam as in Kamandaka, 20.6. That does not appear necessary. — 
anuydnam is simply accompanying One’s troopsin order to guard them. Cn Cs have ‘ pur- 
suing the flecing enemy’. anu-sris the usual root for ‘to pursue.’ — samdja is ‘ getting 
together,’ i.e., rallying. 

14 The first avatarana (with toya) refers to getting in water, while the second refers to 
descending from a height. —visamasambddhapravesah as a single word (asin Cn Cs) is distin- 
ctly better than the three words separately. — ekdngavijaya is ‘ victory with one arm of the 
army, viz., with the elephants ’ (Cn Cs) ; it can hardly mean ‘ victory over a single element 
of the enemy ’ (Meyer). — abhighdtah may be construed with vyasane or understood inde- 
pendently. — vibhisikdis ‘ frightening at mere sight ’, while trdsanamis by frightful deeds 
(Cs). — audaryam is lending grandeur or magnificence to the army. — kosavdhandpava- 
hanam is from Cn Cs. According to Cn some read upavdhana as thelast wordin the com- 
pound in the sense of ‘ carrying (king and others) on the back’. apavdhana would refer to 
carrying away the enemy’s treasury. 


15 samgrame is to be construed with the preceding -pratisedhahk (Cn Cs), rather than 
with the following grahanam ctc. (Meyer). 


16 vydadyamah refers to actual fighting. 
18 gavdfoavyayogam, i.e., yoking horses to some chariots and bullocks to others. 


44.5 CONCERNING WAR [10.5.8 


CHAPTER FIVE 


SECTION 155 ARRANGEMENT OF BATTLE-ARRAYS IN WINGS, FLANKS 
AND FRONT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE STRENGTH OF 
TROOPS 


SECTION 156 DISTRIBUTION OF STRONG AND WEAK TROOPS 


SECTION 157 MODES OF FIGHTING OF THE INFANTRY, THE CAVALRY, 
THE CHARIOTS AND THE ELEPHANTS 


1 He should engage in fight after establishing a fortified place at a 
distance of five hundred dhantses, or in accordance with the nature of the 
ground. 


2 Thecommander-in-chief and the commandant should arrange the army 
in a battle-array, with chiefs assigned different positions, after detaching it 
out of sight (of the enemy). 


8 Heshould place a foot-soldier ata distance of one sama (from the next), 
a horseman at a distance of three samas, a chariot or an elephant at a distance 
of five famas. 4 Or, he should arrange with double or treble the distance. 
§ Thus one should fight in comfort, without being crowded. 


6 A dhanus is five aratnis. 7 At that distance (from the next) he 
should place an archer, at a distance of three dhantuses a horseman, ata distance 
of five dhanuses, a chariot or an elephant. 


8 Five dhanuses (should be) the juncture of the divisions of wings, flanks 
and centre. 


10.5 


The three Sections are to be found in ss. 1-40, 41-52 and 53-56 respectively. 


1 It is proposed to read -pakrstam durgam as separate words, so that durgamalonc 
can be understood with bhiimivagena vd. Ifa single compound is read asin the mss. the 
option in bhiimicagena vd would have no meaning. The durga is a fortified place (nota 
regular fort) which is inaccessible to the enemy. It seems tobe the same as pratigraha of 
s. 58, though that is 200 dhanuses behind the army, while the durga is 500 dhanuses away. 
The difference in distance as well as nomenclature may be due to a difference in sources. 


2 moksayitod, i.e., detaching the main army from the reserves in the rear. 


3 samaisa distance of 14 angulas; cf. 2.20.11. The distance is between two soldiers 
ina row. 4 dvigundniaram: According to Cn, the greater distances are recommended 
when foot-soldiers are few in number and elephants etc. are of the middling or best types 
(as against lowest typesin s. 3). 


6 pafcaraint: the ordinary dhanus is 4 aratnis ; cf. 2.20.18. Meyer thinks that ss. 6-7 
are interpolations. Kamandaka, 20.22, however, presupposes them. It is possible that 
these distances are for fighters with bow and arrow, while those in ss. 3-4 are for those 
fighting with swords, spears etc. 


8 anikasamdhih: anika scems used of the divisions of an array, such as paksa, kaksa 
etc., and sarndhi is the open space betweeen any two of these. ‘ pakgas are outside in front, 


kaksas inside at the back and urasyaisinthe middle’ (CnCs). The terms are suggested by 
the figure of a flying bird. 


10.5. 9] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 446 


9 For a horse, (there are) three soldiers as fighters in front. 10 (There 
are) fifteen for a chariot or an clephant, as well as five horses. 11 The same 
number of foot-cuards should be arranged for horses, chariots and elephants. 


12 Heshould place as the centre a division of three rows of three chariot- 
units, a flank and a wing of the same size on eithcr side. 18 There are thus 
forty-five chariots in a chariot division, two hundred and twenty-five horses, 
six hundred and seventy-five soldiers as fighters in front and the same number 
as foot-guards. 


14 This is the uniform array. 15 It may increase in size by two 
chariot-units at a time up to twenty-one chaziot-units. 16 Thus the odd 
numbers hecome the ten bases of the uniform array. 


17 Incase of an unequal number in the wings, the flanks and the centre 
as compared to one another, there is uneven array. 18 It may also increase 
in size by two chariot-units at a time up to twenty-one chariot-units. 19 
Thus the odd numbers become the ten bases of the uneven array. 


20 ‘Troops left over after this array should be made an insertion. 21 
He should insert two thirds of the chariots in the (outer) parts, the 


10 rathasya hastino vd: chariots and clephants are gencrally not uscd together. 
Here a unit is based either on chariots or on elephants. 11 tdvaniahi.c., 3 for a horse and 
15 for a chariot or an elephant. Cs understands tdvantah to mean 5, which seems hardly 
correct. Cn thinks that there are 5 horses and 15 foot-guards for a chariot, making 10 
horses and 30 foot-soldiers in the unit. That aleo is hardly right. As each horse has 3 
praliyoddhrs and 3 pddagopas, that would give 60 foot-soldiers, not 30. Meyer arrives at 
1churiot, 5 horsesand 90infantrymen. ‘That is unlikely, as shown by s. 13 below. 


12 trini trikdni, i.c., three rows of three chariot-units cach. 13 In view of the 
explicit statement here, 450 horses (in Cn) or 4050 foot-soldiers(in Meyer) cannot be right. 
— rathavyithe, which is read fn the Punjab edition is quité necessary. Here we have a 
description of a rathavyuha only. — Itis proposed to drop odjirathadvipdnam found after 
padagopah at the end. The expression is unlikely hereina description of a rathavyitha ;itis 
clearly repeated by a copiyst from s. 11 above. 


14 sama-,i.e., Onein which each of the five divisions of the vy#ha has the same number 
ofunits. 15 dovirathottardisfromCnCs. Itseems that each row of chariots (irika of s. 12) 
ig to increase successively by two, 5, 7, 9, etc., up to 21 chariots. The actual number of 
chariots in each of the five divisions of the array comes to 9, 15, 21 and so On up to 63, and 
in the array as a whole to 45, 75, 105, and so on up to 815. In the largest array we get 
315 chariots, 1575 horses and 9450 foot-soldiers. 16 ojdh: 3, 5,7 etc. are odd numbers. 


17 mithois from Cn for ato, which has little significance. The unevenness of numbers 
is with reference to one another (mithah), e.g., 9 in urasya, 15 in paksa, 17 in kakga and 
s0 On ; the permutations canbe very largein number. 18 fasydpi etc. means little more 
than that the series 8, 5 to 21 is available for each of the five divisionsin different numbers. 
19 These prakriis do not differin any way from those ofs. 16. 


20 dvdpah ‘aninsertion’. The idea seems to be that of reinforcing orstrengthening 
of the array. 2) dvau tribhdgau angesu etc.: this would disturb the characterofa sama 
vyitha ; for, while in the latter the urasya has only one-fifth of the whole, the addition to 
urasya is to the extent of one-third of it. — It may be assumed that the chariots added 
ure accompanied by the usual number of horses and foot-soldiers. 22 tribhdgonah 
ctc. : the idea seems to be that the insertion is to be less by one-third, i.e., up to two-thirds; 
thusin an array with 45 chariots, the additionis to be of 80 chariots only (20 of these being 
in the wings and flanks and 10 inthe centre). ThusCn. Cs seems to understand that 
the total addition is to be Icss than one-third, e.g., lessthan 15 in aunit of 45. Meyer 
thinks that this s. only sunis up the preceding statement; two-thirds in the arigas is the only 


447 CONCERNING WAR [ 10. 5. 87 


rest he should place as the centre. 22 Thus an insertion of chariots less 
by one-third should be made. 


23 By that is explained the insertion of elephants and horses. 24 


The insertion should be so made that it does not cause crowding in the fighting 
of horses, chariots and elephants. 


25 Iixcess of troops is insertion. 26 Excess of infantry is counter- 
insertion. 27 Excess ofonearm is side-insertion. 28 Excess of treasonable 
troops is over-insertion. 


2 Insertion should be made according to the strength of the troops up 


to four times or up to cight times the insertion or counter-insertion of the 
enemy. 


30 By the chariot-array is explained the elephant-array. 


31 Or, (the array may be) mixed, of elephants, chariots and horses— 
elephants at the ends of the army, horses on the flanks, chariots in the centre. 
32 A centre of clephants, flanks of chariots and wings of horses—this is (an 
array) breaking with the centre. 38 The reverse is one breaking with the cnds. 


34 But the unmixed (array) of elephants is—war-elephants at the centre, 
riding clephants in the rear, vicious clephants at the tips. 


85 (An unmixed) horse-array is—a centre of armoured horses, flanks 
and wings of unarmoured. 


36 (An unmixed) infantry-array is—armoured soldiers in front, archers 
behind. 87 Thus the unmixed (arrays). 


dvapa; Onc-third placed at the centre is not to be considered an dvdpa, because it is not 
inserted in between any two parts. It istobe noted thatin the quotationin Samkara 

on Kamandaka, 20.40, this s. is not to be found ; it is therefore quite possiblethatit is a 
marginal gloss that has got into the text. 


25 bahulyam ‘ excess, i.e., surplus left over after the array is formed (Cn). This is 
the means of dvdpa. Cs has ‘ bahulya, i.e., strengthening by the insertion of the excess.’ 
Yhis sense of bdhulya does not fit in the case of disyabdahulya. 


29 The mss. read theca after d; it is proposed to read it before, to make the construc- 
tion smoother. The idea seems to be that the avdpa is to be four times or eight times that 
of the enemy’s dudpa and pratydvdpa. It seems that dodpa refers to ckariot (or elephant) 
units, while pratydodpa to foot-soldiers. — vibhavaiah sainydnadm is not a third option as 
Cn seems to understand it. 


30 This clearly shows that a rathavyiiha as described so far contains no elephants. 


31 hastirathdsodndm : as Cn remarks, horses here are those uscdindependently of cha- 
riot or elephant units. — cakrdntegu : Cn Cs read cakradntayoh ‘in the wings’. The dual 
is not quite necessary. — The mss. add mukhyd after agod; Cs has agcamukhyd in a 
compound. Itis proposed to drop mukhyd, as it is unlikely either with ascd or rathd. — 
Cn adds that after urasye, the words ayam paksabhedi have to be read, having dropped out 
through a scribalerror. It then reads aniarbhcdiin s. 38, understanding antarin the sense of 
kaksa. However, it seems better to stick to the readings ofthe mss. Kamandaka, 20,37-38, 
has Only madhyabhedi and antabhid. And madhya and ania are the usual terms of contrast ; 
of. 9.6.16-19. $83 vipariiah, i.e., with horses in the centre and elephants in the wings, as 
shown by Kamandaka, 20.88. Cn Cs have ‘ horses in centre, elephants on the flanks and 
chariots in the wings.’ The objection in Cn that the other arrangement would not differ 


from that in s. 8lis not quite valid; and itis not necessary to provide for the case where 
clephants are in the flanks (as Cn also objects). 


34 jaghana, i.e., kaksa and koti, i.e., paksa (Cn). 


10. 5. 88 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASTRASA 448 


38 Foot-soldiers (should be) in the wings, horses on the flanks, elep- 
hants in the rear, chariots in front, or a reversal of this (may be made) in accor- 
dance with eneiny’s array. 39 ‘This is disposition of troops with two arms. 
40 By that is explained disposition of troops with three arms. 


41 In the case of men, the excellences of an army constitute the best 
troops. 42 In the case of elephants and horses, special excellences are: 
pedigrec, breed, mettle, youthfulness, vigour, height, speed, spiritedness, 
training. firmness, loftiness, obedience and possession of auspicious marks 
and good conduct. 


43 He should place one-third of the best among foot-soldiers, horses, 
chariots and elephants as the centre, two-thirds as flanks and wings on the 
two sides, behind them the second best, against the order the third best, weak 
troops against the order. 44 Thus he should make use of all. 


45 By placing weak troops at the ends, he becomes able to over-power 
(the enemy) with his vchemence. 


46 Placing the best troops in front he should place the next best at the 
ends, the third best in the rear, (and) weak troops in the centre. 47 Thus 
it becomes capable of resisting. 


48 After arranging the battle-array, however, he should strike with one 
or two out of the wings, flanks and centre; with the remaining he should 
support (the attack). 


49 He should attack with plenty of best troops that army of the enemy 
which is weak, lacking in elephants and horses, with treasonable officers in 
it or seduced by secret instigations. 50 Or, when the enemy’s army is most 


38 pattayah ctc.: Cn Cs understand two arrays here, infantry and horses alone in 
One and elep} ants and chariots alonein the otker. It seems rather that tne s. states the 
general position of each of the four arms in an array whenever two arms are used, irrespective 
of the usual divisioninto kaksa, paksa and urasya. In any case, a combination of clephants 
and chariots alone would hardly be recommended. Meyer proposes caturanga-for dryanga- 
in the next s. As, however, the preceding ss. 84-87 have referred to ekdngabalavibhaga, a 
reference to dryangabalavibhaga would seem expected. Nevertheless, the arrangement might 
appear applicable to caturangabala also. 


41 dandasampat etc.: when men are possessed of qualities mentioned in 6.1.11, they 
make the best army (sdrabala). 42 wudagrata: Cn Cshave ‘kaving a high or uplifted face.’ 
A lofty bearing is what seems intended. 


43 anulomam ‘in the natural order’, i.e., bchind the best troops. — pratilémam, i.e., 
in front of the sdrabala, the phalgubala being stationed right in front of all. 


45 vegdbhihilikah is an emendation suggested by Meyer for -hilitch; itis also foundin 
G2. Theformer may mean ‘who wears down the enemy’s vehemence, who withstands his 
vehemence ’ or ‘ who overpowers the enemy by his vehemence’. Thelatter reading would 
mean * who is overpowered by vehemence ’, whichisinaptin the context. Cnscemsto read 
vegabhihutah, Cs vego *bhihutah, the explanation being ‘the enemy’s vehemence is burnt 
up as an oblation in the fire of weak troops.’ Cs overcomes the grammatical difficulty in 
his reading by understanding yudhyamdnena after avadhaya. Cn Cs mention another reading 
vego *bhihatah * the vchemence of the cnemy becomes shattcred.’ 

46 kotigu:the plural shows that the two wings alone are notintended. See s. 34 above. 

48 pratigrhniyat: Cn Cs understand ‘should hold (the enemy’s attack)’. In view of 
pratigraha as used ins. 58 below, alsoin 12.4.19 and 18.3.46, the root prati-grah seems to 
have the sense of ‘to support an attack (made byonesclf)’. The idea here may be that of 
supporting the attack (already made) at a later stage. 


449 CONCERNING WAR [ 10. 5.58 


strong, he should attack it with double that number of best troops. 51 He 
should reinforce that arm of his which has few best troops with a large number 


of them. 52 He should arrange the troops near the place where the enemy 
has suffered a loss, or whence there may be danger. 


58 Rushing forth, rushing about, rushing beyond, rushing back, holding 
together after pounding, enclasping, moving zigzag, encircling, scattering, 
turning back after flceing, guarding broken ranks along the lines, in front, 


on the flanks (and) in the rear, pursuing broken ranks—these are modes of 
fighting for horses. 


54 These same with the exception of scattering, (and) destruction of 
the four arms whether combined or separate, smashing of wings, flanks and 


centre, making a sudden assault, and attacking those asleep—these are modes 
of fighting for elephants. 


55 These same with the exception of holding together after pounding, 
(and) marching forth, marching away, fightingin a stationary position on land 
Suitable to them — these are modes of fighting for chariots. 


56 Striking in all places and at all times, and silent punishment are the 
modes of fighting for foot-soldiers. 


57 In this manner he should arrange battle-arrays, odd and even, 
in such a way that the strength of the four arms becomes suitably used. 


58 Retiring to a distance of two hundred dhanuses, the king should 
remain in the rear ; from that (comes) the rallying of broken ranks ; he 
should not fight without reserves in the rear. 


50 duvigunasdrena: as the enemy’s troops are sdristha, ‘double’ can only refer to 
quantity. 51 bahund: we should supply sdrena, rather than angena (Cn Cs). 

58 unmathydoadhdnam : Cn Cs have ‘holding together, keeping together (avadhadnam) 
after pounding the enemy.’ Rvss. has ‘a destructive raid.’ Meyer understands evadhana 
as ‘ throwing down ’” or apadhdna as ‘ driving away’. —- valayahis a sort of pincer move- 
ment with two danda arrays (cf. 10.6.21). — mandalam ‘ encirclement’ of a part of enemy 
troops after cutting them off (Cn Cs). — prakirnikd ‘ scattering ’ is ‘ the use of all the above 
movements together’ (Cn Cs). —- vudorliaprstham seems to refer to making a show of 
flight (prstha) and then turning round to attack. — anuvamsam seems used adverbially to 
be construed with bhagnaraksd. Cn Cs, however, understand it independently ‘ following 
one’s troops that face the enemy’ or ‘retiring and coming back to fight’; Russ. has 
‘turning back of a part of one’s troops before the enemy. ’ . 

54 vwyastasamasidndm vd: the vd obviously shows the Option between ocyasia and 
samasta. 7 

55 sthitayuddha: this can hardly mean ‘fighting after remaining fora long time round 


the enemy’s fortified wall (prdkdra)’ (Cs). It only refers to fighting without manoeuvring 
or movements. 


56 karmdni in 10.4.13-1€ differ from yuddhani here in that they include functions not 
involving actual fighting. 


57 yugman,i.e.,even. The Chapter itself has mentioned only odd vyithas. — sadrsah 
‘suitable ’, i.e., suitably distributed or used. ; 

58 pratigrahe is from Cn Cs; pratigrahah in the nominative would have to be con- 
strued with rajd@, which would be odd. pratigrahais ‘ rear of the army ’ according to Cn Cs. 
It is the place where reserves are kept ; these are to be used to reinforce the fighting troops 
when need for it arises — bhinnasarnghdtanam tasmat should be understood as a separate 
sentence. In the quotation in Samkararya on Kamandaka, 20.15, we have bhinnasamdna- 
ranah (with pratigrahah for -grahe) ; in that case tasmat in the sense of ‘ therefore ? can be 
construed with the last clause na yudhyetapratigrahah. 


10.6.1] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 450 


CHAPTER SIX 


SECTION 158 ARRANGING THE STAFF, THE SNAKE, THE CIRCLE AND 
THE DIFFUSE ARRAYS 
SECTION 159 ARRANGING COUNTER-ARRAYS AGAINST THEM 


1 Two wings, a centre and reserves—-this is the arrangement of a battle- 
array according to USanas. 2 Two wings, two flanks, a centre and reserves 
—-this is according to Brhaspati. 


8 According to both, arrays with wings, flanks and centre are the basic 
arrays, the staff, the snake, the circle and the diffuse. 4 Among them, 
that with crosswise operations is the staff array. 5 Operation of all (divi- 
sions) one after the other is the snake array. 6 Operation on all sides of 
advancing (divisiens) is the circle array. 7 The separate operation of divi- 
sions as stationed is the diffuse array. 


8 ‘That operating evenly with wings, flanks and centre is the staff 
(array). 9 That, marching beyond with the flanks is the ‘splitter’. 10 
The same falling back with wings and flanks is the ‘strengthencr’. 11 The 
same, marching out with the wings is the ‘unbearable’. 12 Marching out 
with the centre keeping the wings stationary is the ‘falcon’. 18 In the 
reverse case, (these four become) the ‘ bow’, the ‘ bow-flank’, the ‘ esta- 
blished ’ and the ‘ well-established ’ (respectively). 14 That with wings of 


10.6 
The two Sections are found inss. 1-41 and 42-44, the rest of the ss. being miscellancous 


in character. 

1 In 15.1.4]-42, this s. is quoted as an illustration of anumata ‘another’s opinion 
whichis not contradicted’. However, kaksa which is not mentioned by Usanasis frequently 
referred to in the text. — pratigrahah: see 10.5.58 above. 

8 prapakga- etc.: Cn Cs explain ‘ with wings ctc. arranged (pra as pravibhakia) as 
described below.’ Thatisnot vervsatisfactory. Perhapsthe original reading was sapaksa-. 
— ubhayoh, i.c., according to both USanas and Brhaspati. This is strange, as Usanas docs 
not mention kaksa at allinhis scheme. Perhapsthc word has wrongly got into the text. 
4 tiryagcritih: orltt seems to refer to the mode of operations during the fight, though Cn 
Cs render it by ‘ arasthana, taking up a position’. tiryax may refer to the crosswise move- 
ments of the clivisions, though the use of tiryak in describing something called danda does not 
secm quite appropriatc. Perhaps atiryakis to be read; samamins. 8 might scem to support 
this. Russ. has tiryagoritih ‘cxactly according to the length of the front.’ — samastdnam : 
supply anikdndm. — anodoritih ‘coming one behind the other’ as in a serpent’s body. 
The idea seems to be that the divisions operate one behind the other. 6 saraiamfromCn 
Cs is preferable to sttardm, which has little significance. saratam presents a contrast to 
sthitadndm in the next s. 

8 Cn Csatatc that these definitions are in accordance with Brhaspati’s ideas whercas 
the earlier ones were acceptable to both. Thisishardly convincing. The two sets of Gefini- 
tions do not quite agree with each other. — samam varlamdnah may refer to simultancity 
of operations by the various divisions, though ‘ operating in a straight line ’ may well have 
been meant. 9 «atsdlikrantah ‘breaking through with the flanks,’ the urasya and 
paksas remaining in their positions. 10 paksakaksabhyam: Cn Cs have paksadbhyam 
Only. But the former is supported by Kamandaka, 20.45. — pratikraniah ‘falling bacn’; 
this is obviously the opposite of aitkrdniah. 11 sa evdlikrantah is from Cn Cs, supported 
by Kamandaka, though niskraniah of the mss. would mean the same thing. 12 paksda- 
ravasthapya: perhaps pa+sakaksdoavasthapya is to be read. 18 viparyaye, i.¢., with 
pratikranta for atikradnia and vice versa in the earlier four cases. 14 cdpapaksah: this 


451 CONCERNING WAR [ 10. 6. 38 


bows is the ‘conqueror’. 15 The same, marching out with the centre, is 
the ‘ victory’. 16 That with wings like big ears is the ‘ pillar-eared’. 17 
That with double pillars in the wings is the ‘ extensive-victory’. 18 That 
with wings augmented threefold is the ‘army-face’. 19 In the reverse 
case, it is the ‘fish-mouth’. 20 The staff, in a straight line, is the ‘ needle’ . 
21 Two staffs is the ‘bracelet’. 22 Tour staffs is the ‘invincible’. 28 
These are staff arrays. 


24 That operating unevenly with wings, flanks and centre is the snake 
array. 25 It is ‘ moving-like-a-serpent’ or ‘ cow’s-urination’. 26 That 
with two (divisions) at the centre and staffs in the wings is the ‘cart’. 27 In 
the reverse case, it is the ‘crocodile’. 28 The cart, inter-mixed with 
elephants, horses and chariots is the ‘ flying-about’. 29 These are snake 
arrays. 


30 When the wings, flanks and centre become one, it is the circle array. 
31 That with faces on all sides is the ‘ good-on-all-sides.’ 82 That with 
eight divisions (or faces) is the ‘invincible.’ 33 ‘These are circle arrays. 


may mean ‘ with wings shaped like bows’ or ‘ with a cdpavyiiia in each of the wings’ ; in 
the latter case, there would be five divisions in each of the wings, besides the other three 
(2 kaksas and an urasya), i.c., 18 in all, as Samkararya points out on Kamandaka 20.46. 

It is not certain that thisis really meant. 16 Itis propored to read sthitlakarnapaksah as 
a single compound. According to Kamandaka, 20.47, each of the wings has two anikas 
instead of one. 17 dvigunapaksasthiinah: tihs seems to mean that the size of the paksa 
is twice thatin the sthiindkarna, i.e.,4anika.ineach. Kamandaka’s definiticnis dvisthinah, 
which Samkararya understands as two sthiindkarnas one beyond the other, with 14 anikas 
in all. 18 éryabhkisrdntapaksah: Cn has ‘when the wings go beyond three’; docs tl.is 
mean ‘ with more than three anikas in each wing’? Sarnkararya in fact understand; four 
anikas in each wing, and eleven anikasin all. Itis possible that we have to understand 
‘ with three anikas in each wing’. 19 viparyaye, i.c., with the urasya and kaksa threefold. 
20 iwrdhtarajih dandah, i.€., a danda going ina straight line. This seems to mean that 
the five divisions move One behind the other. 21 dvau dandau: danda here is evidently 
as arranged for siict. Two parallel columns scem to be meant, each with five Givisions. 
22 catvdrah, i.e., four sict-formations. 


24 visamam variamadnah ‘ moving unevenly’, i.e., apparently notin a straight line. 
25 According to Cn Cs (also Kamandaka, 20.48) sarpasdrt and gomutrikd are names of 
two varieties of the bhoga vyitha ; their definitions are not given, because the names are 
self-explanatory. The difference between the two is that in the former the divisions are 
close to each other, whilein the latter they are broken and of various sizes (bahuahd ribhin- 
ndkdrah). Meyer thinks that these are not varieties of bhoga, only other names by which also 
it is known. 26 yugmorasyo dandapaksah: Samkararya on Kamandaka, 20.49, under- 
stands a double-sized urasya and the paksa and kaksa arranged one behind the other as in 
danda, on either side, with six anikasinall. Cn Cs have ‘ with the centre shaped asa danda 
split into two and each wing like a full danda.? This would scem to give J5 divisions, if 
danda of the siici type is to be understood. — viparyaye,i.e., dandorasyah and yugma- 
paksah. Samkararya does not explain beyond saying that it too has six anikas. Perhaps 
he would understand two anizas in the centre one behind the other and a kaksa and a paksa 
on each side ina line. Cn Cs have ‘ urasya like one danda and the wings of the shape of a 
split danda.’ ‘A danda (five divisions one behind the other) in the centre and two divisions 
in each wing ’seems morelikely. The exact nature of many of these arrays is far from clear. 
28 vyatikirnah: this seems to imply that an aodpa of these is made in the regular Sakata 
array. 

80 ekibhdve, i.e., when the distance between them (10.5.8) isnotthere. 32 astdnixah, 
i.e., 2 urasyas, 2 kaksas and 4 paksas (Cn Cs). Samkararya has 2 urasyas, 4 kakgas and 
2 paksas. — Meyer thinks that we have four types of mandala vyitha, without the description 
of any one of them. That is probably because of the plural -cyiihdh, in s. 38. Cs states 
that the plural may serve to include varieties not mentioned here. Kamandaka, 20.50, 
also has only two types. — durjaya figures also among dandacyithas (s. 22). 


10. 6. 84 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 452 


84 Because of the disjoined nature of the wings, flanks ancl centre it is 
the diffuse array. 85 By the formation of the figure with five divisions, it is 
the ‘thunder-bolt’ or the ‘lizard’. 86 With four (divisions), it is the 
‘hearth ’ or the ‘ crow’s-fect’. 87 With three, it is the ‘ half-moon’ or the 
‘crab-horned’. 88 These arc diffuse arrays. 


39 One with chariots at the centre, elephants on the flanks and horses 
in the rear is the ‘ unharmed’ array. 40 Foot-soldiers, horses, chariots and 
elephants, one behind the other is the ‘immovable’ array. 41 Hlephants, 
horses, chariots, and foot-soldiers, one behind the other is the ‘ unrepulsed ’. 


42 Among these, he should counter-act the ‘splitter’ with the 
‘strengthencr’, the ‘strengthener’ with the ‘unbearable’, the ‘ faleon’ 
with the ‘bow’, the ‘established’ with the ‘ well-established ’, the ‘ conqueror’ 
with the ‘victory’, the ‘pillar-eared’ with the ‘extensive-victory’, the 
‘flving-about’ with the ‘ good-on-all-sides’. 43 With the ‘invincible ’, 
he should counter-arrange against all other arrays. 


44 Of foot-soldiers, horses, chariots, and clephants, he should strike at 
cach carlicr one with each later one and an inferior arm with a superior arm. 


45 The one commander of ten single units is the licutenant, the one 
(commander) of ten lieutenants is the general, the onc (commander) of 
these is the commandant. 46 With drum-beats, flags and banners, he 
should establish signals for the divisions of the array, for dividing (them- 
selves) into sections, for joining together, for halting, for marching, for turning 
back and for attacking. 


47 In case the (opposite) arrays are equally matched, success (comes) 
from the possession of suitable place, time and strength. 


34 asamhatdl, i.c., asamhataiodt. 35 dkrlisthdpandtl,i.c., the five divisions are so ar- 
ranged that they present the appearance ofavajraandsoon. The figure of the vajra is not 
at all clear. ‘The descriptionin Samkararya on Kamandaka, 20.52, docs not throw much 
light. 36 wuddhdnakoh is (rom Kamandaka as suggested by Meyer for udydnakah. The 
former is a fire-place or hearth; the latter suggesting a parkis not likely when some dkrili is 
expected. Whereas the uddhdnaka would appear to bea square, the Adkapadi would appear 
to be diamond-shaped with the tipinfront. 37 ardhacandrakah,i.e., with the centre moved 
forward of the two side-divisions. Thisseems meant, sincein the karkatakagrngi the sides 
would obviously be moved forward, not the centre. 


39 Cn Cs state thatin this array, the foot-soldiers are inthe wings. Thatis possible, 
but not certain. 40 Cn Cs have ‘infantry inthe wings, cavalryin the centre, chariots in 
the flanks, and clephantsin the rear.’ The idca of wrasya, kaksa etc. docs not scem intended 
in this s. andin the next. 41 Cn Cs have ‘ elephants in the wings, cavalry in the centre, 
chariots in the flanks and infantry in the rear.’ —- These arrays scem to be unconnected with 
the four basic vytihas and are, therefore, separately mentioned. 

43 durjaya may be the onc of gs. 22 or of s. 38. 

45 angadasakasya: the anga is the unit as described in 10.5.9-11, viz., 1 chariot (or 
elephant), 5 horses and 30 infantrymen. — patikah: this form is from Cn for padikah ; 
it is more appropriate, since it is applicable to allarms. padika would refer to an infantry 
officer only. As Meyer says, this officer corresponds to the licutenant. — sendpatih : this 
officer here is clearly subordinate to the ndyaka and hence cannot be identified with the usual 

senapati who is one of the highest dignitaries of the state. — The ndyaka thus commands 
1,000 units as described above. 46 dhvajaisa big fleg, while patakda is smaller. 


47 Tho word -sdra- is from the commentators. It seems to be authentic. 


453 CONCERNING WAR { 10. 6. 51 


48-50 He should strike terror in the enemy with machines, by the 
employment of occult practices, through assassins slaying those engaged 
in something clse, by magical arts, by (a show of) association with divini- 
ties, through carts, by frightening with elephants, by rousing the trcason- 
able, through herds of cattle, by setting fire to camps, by attacks on the 
tips and in the rear, by creating dissensions through agents appearing as 
messengers (saying), ‘ Your fort has been burnt down or captured; a 
revolt by a member of your family has broken out; or, your enemy or 
a forest chicftain has risen (against you).’ 


51 An arrow, discharged by an archer, may kill one person or may 


not kill (even one) ; but intellect operated by a wise man would kill even 
children in the womb. 


Herewith ends the Tenth Book of the Arthaégdstra of Kautilya 
‘ CONCERNING Wax’ 


48 yaniraihis from Cn Cs for dandaih ; the latter is hardly ever used in the plural. — 
$akatair hastibhisanaih : -bhisanaih is proposed for -bhiganaih. With the latter Cn Cs have 
‘with carts whose appearance is concealed by accountrements ctc. proper for an eléphant’, 
i.c., carts decked as elephants. ‘That appcars a very strange idea. Meyer proposes kapa- 
tair hastidisanath ‘with tricks destroying the encmy’s elephants.’ bhigana, however, would 
appear better in view Of vibhisikd and trdsana being mentioned among hastikarméni in 10.4. 
14. 49 goyitthaih scems to be a reference to 10.3.22. 50 durgarm dagdham: ordinarily 
the word durga ie masculine. — kopah kulyah seems to contain a single idea rather than 
two, ‘an insurrection has broken out; a pretender from your family has arisen ’ (Meyer). 


Boox ELEVEN 
POLICY TOWARDS OLIGARCHIES 


CHAPTER ONE 


SECTION 160 (WAYS OF) RESORTING TO THE POLICY OF (SOWING) 
DISSENSIONS 
SECTION 161 FORMS OF SILENT PUNISHMENT 


1 The gain of an oligarchy is best among gains of an army and an ally. 
2 For, oligarchies being closely knit are unassailable for enemies. 3 He 
should win over those of them who are friendly with conciliation and gifts, 
those. hostile through dissensions and force. 


4 The Kambojas, the Surastras, the Ksatriyas, the Srenis and others 
live by an economic vocation and the profession of arms. 5 The Licchivi- 
kas, the Vrjikas, the Mallakas, the Madrakas, the Kukuras, the Kurus, the 
Paneailas and others make use of the title of kings. 


samgha is a form of rule evolved from clan rule. Fairly big states were formed with 
councils of elders to rule over them. The Chapter clearly shows that a samgha had more 
than one chief or mukhya. In some samghas, the chiefs styled themselves rdjan or king. 
samgha is best rendered by ‘ oligarchy’. It seems to he assumed in the Chapter that the 
tijigisu has or proposes to have suzerainty Over the samghas, The Chapter is concerned 
with showing how he should maintain strict control over them. 


11.1 
The two Sections may be found in ss. 1-80 and 81-54 respectively. 


1 -ladbhadndm ullamah: the use of the comparative would have been better. Having a 
samgha under you and loyal to you is preferable to having an army of one’s Own Or an ally. 
Meyer identifies samgha with srenibala. But that would be part of danda; moreover, the 
samghas cnumerated in ss. 4-5 cannot be looked upon as constituting the srenibala of any 
king. 2 samhatatvudt: this is so because the ultimate basis of a samgha is the clan. 
3 anuguna ‘favourable’, i.e., friendly to the vijigigu. — For viguna in the sense of 
‘hostile ’, cf. 7.8.22. 


4 Kdmboja-Surdstra-Ksatriya-Srenyddayah: As K.P. Jayaswal (Hindu Polity, I, 62) 
argues, the position of ddi in the compound is against our understanding ‘Kamboja, Surastra 
and other Ksatriya bands’, and that Ksatriyu and Sreni must also be understood as proper 
nouns. He identifies Ksatriyas with the Xathroi of the Greek historians and Srenis with 
*sinae’ in Agesinae (i.c., agra-Srent) of those historians. One cannot be sure about the 
latter. Cn has ‘Ksatriya bands sucn as Kamboja and Surastra and (bands of) other (varnas).’ 
Even for this, ddi should have come before Srent. — varttdsastropajivinah i.e., following 
agriculture and other vocations in peace time, but taking to arms in case of need. 5 
Licchivika- etc. : for these, see Jayaswal (op. cit., 58-60). The Licchivis, the Vrjis and the 
Mallas are well-known from Buddhist and other sources. Kukuras are a member of the 
Andhaka-Vrsni league according to the Mahabharata. The Kurus and the Pajficalas are 
monarchies in the Mahdabhdrata. Jayaswal has further pointed out that the suffix -ka 
indicates a political group, not a tribe, since it implies loyalty (bha/-ti) to other than one’s 
country of origin, according to Panini 4.8.95-100 and Katyayana thereon (op. cit., 120-121). 
— rdjagabdopajivinah : this simply means that the chiefs who formed the ruling council of 
the samgha styled themselves ‘rdajan’. Russ. has ‘who derive benefit from their royal 
rank itself.’ — Most of the samghas mentioned belong to the north and the north-west of 
India. Itis also clear that the second group is politically more developed ; it is this group 
that seems to have had a ruling council, which wielded political authority. Kamboja and 
others do not seem to have gone much beyond the state of a clan. 


455 POLICY TOWARDS OLIGARCHIES [11.1.17 


6 In the case of all, secret agents close to them should find out one 
another’s defects, and occasions for mutual hatred, enmity or strife among 
members of the oligarchy, and should sow discord in one who is gradually 
brought round to believe (them, saying), ‘So and so is slandering you.’ 
7 When resentment is thus built up on both sides, agents serving as teachers 


should start quarrels among pupils concerning learning, skill, gambling and 
pleasure sports. 


8 Or, assassins should start quarrels among the followers of the chiefs 


in the oligarchy by praising the opponents in brothels and taverns, or by 
supporting seducible parties. 


9 They should stir up princelings enjoying low comforts with (a longing 
for) superior comforts. 


10 And they should prevent inter-dining or inter-marriage of the superior 
with the inferior. 11 Or, they should urge inferiors to inter-dining or inter- 
marrying with superiors. 12 Or, (they should urge) the very low ones to 
obtain a position of equality in the matter of family, valour or change of status. 


18 Or, they should nullify a transaction that is settled by establishing its 
opposite. 


14 Or, in cases of legal dispute, assassins should start quarrels by 
injuring objects, cattle or men at night. 


15 And in all cases of strife, the king should support the weak party 
with treasury and troops and urge them to kill the rival party. 16 Or, he 
should carry away those that have been divided. 17 And he should settle 
groups of five families or ten families of them on land suitable for agriculture. 


6 samghdndm, i.e., samghamukhyandm. Itis not a question of one samgha being set up 
against another, but of one mukhya being set up against anotherin the same samgha. — 
nyanga Scems to stand for nyagaiva, some defect or deformity. Cn Cs render the word by 
‘slander’, which is doubtful. — kramdabhintiam ‘ who has been gradually made to believe 
whatis being suggested tohim’. 7 vaildrika seems derived from vihdra ‘ pleasure sport *. 
Cn Cs, however, have ‘ answering riddles, recondite questions etc.’ — bdla ‘pupils’ are the 
chiefs, who are learning from the so-called dcdryas. 

8 samghamukhyamanusydndm : this may refer to the sevants or followers (manusya) of 
the different chiefs in the samghu 01 to the chiefs themselves ; in the latter case, man 


usYya 
would be superfluous. In the former case, we can understand that the quarrels between the 
followers would be taken up by the chiefs. — kriyapaksa: cf. 1.14. 


9 chandikd ‘pleasure, comfort’. Cn explains by ‘paricchada, retinue, paraphernalia’. 

10 ekapdlram vivdham as separate words (cf. the next s.) with a vd after them are 
necessary. — It is clear that inter-dining and inter-marriage were not easy even among 
members of the same samgha. 12 avahindn: these are apparently even lower than the 
hina. Wehavetosupply z-ojayeyuh. 

18 vyavaharam ‘transaction’, rather than ‘a legal case* (Cs). — nisdmayeyuh 
‘should extinguish,’ i.e., make it inoperative. C$ has*sbould let the litigant concerned 
know, by justifying the contrary view’. But sth@pana can hardly be mere samarthana. It 
is the upsetting of the oyavahdra that is likely tolead to quarrels. 16 apavdhayet, i.e., carry 
them to hisown kingdom. That would weaken the samgha. 17 Itis proposed to omit the 
words ekadese samastan vd nivesya found in the mss. before bhimau. They contradict s. 18; 


and nivegya and nivegayet in the same sentence do not appear likely. — bhtimau ca etc. 
explains what is to be done after apavdhana. 


11,1.18] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 456 


18 For, if stationed in one place, they might be capable of bearing arms. 
19 And he should fix a penalty if they come together. 


20 He should appoint as crown prince a nobly born member of the 
(ruling) families, who is in disfavour or has been discarded by those using the 
title of king. 21 And the group of his astrologers and others should declare 
among members of the oligarchy the possession of marks of royalty by him. 
22 And he should instigate the pious chiefs of the oligarchy, (saying) ‘ Observe 
your duties towards the son or brother of such and such a king.’ 23 When 
they have agreed, he should send money and troops for supporting the sedu- 
cible party. 24 At the time of fighting, agents appearing as vintners should 
offer, in hundreds, jars of wine mixed with a stupefying liquid, as libation 
to the deceased, under the pretext of the death of a son or wife. 


25 And secret agents should point out the depositing (of an object) 
after an agreement, (such as) sealed (hags) with money and vessels containing 
money, at the gates of sanctuaries or temples and near fortified places. 26 
When members of the oligarchy are seen (approaching), they should declare, 
‘These belong to the king.’ 27 Then he should make an attack. 


28 Or, borrowing for temporary use vehicles or money from members 
of the oligarchy, he should give a well-known article to a chief of the oligarchy. 
29 When it is demanded back by them, he should say, ‘ It has been given to 
such and such a chief.’ 


30 By this is explained (the method of creating) dissensions in the 
(enemy’s) camp and among forest chieftains. 


20 rdjaputratve sthapayet, i.e., should give him recognition as the crown prince. 24 
madanarasa : cf. 1.18.9 etc. 


25 samayakarmariksepain : this seems to refer to the placing of certain things at the 
places mentioned for onc of the chiefs with whom the king is supposed to arrive at an agree- 
ment (samaya). The objects placed would scem to be referred toin sahiranya-etc. In view 
of ca, two things are evidently to be understood, sealed packets with money inside or vessels 
fullofcoins. The places mentioned must be supposed to bein charge of the chief who is to 
be implicated. When the other chiefs find the articles to have come from the king, they 
come to believe that the particular chief has been bribed. Thus is dissension created. 
For this rdjakiyah {rom Cn is to be preferred to vikritah, which conveys little sense. — 
sahiranvabhijndnamudrdni : some noun conveying the sense of a bag or packet has to be 
understood with this. It may also be that we have to read only bhdjandni (for hiranvabha- 
janani), and omit the ca after it; in this case the compound sa/iranya- etc. would qualify 
bhdjandni. 26 rdjaktyadh: we expcct the neuter as describing bhdjandni. In the mascu- 
line it may refer to the chiefs ; in that case, the plural might suggest that a number of chiefs 
come to take the hoard, these then are declared to be partisans ofthe king. This, however, 
appears to hea less likely idea. 27 avaskandam: the attack would be in support of the 
chief implicated, with whom the others may be supposed to have quarrelled. It may also 
be) ee the attackis for recovery of the hoard which belongs to the king ; but that seems less 

ely. 

28 prakhydtan: cf. 9.6.31. Meyer proposes aprakhydtam, comparing 9.6.81; but 
there we have prakhydlam and avijiiadtam. — We have to assume that the chief who has 
received the article does not inform his colleagues. That would lead to strife. 


80 This is incidental, unconnected with samghas. 


457 POLICY TOWARDS OLIGARCHIES [ 11.1. 42 


31 Or, a secret agent should make a son of a chief of the ruling council, 
who thinks highly of himself, come to believe, ‘ You are the son of such and 
such a king, kept here through fear of the enemy.’ 82 When he agrees, the 
king should support him with treasury and: troops and make him fight the 


members of the oligarchy. 88 When his object is achieved, he should get 
him also slain. 


. 


34 Keepers of prostitutes or acrobats, actors, dancers or showmen, 
employed as agents, should make chiefs of the ruling council infatuated with 
women possessed of great beauty and youth. 85 When passion is roused 
in them, they should start quarrels by creating belief (about their love) in one 
and by going to another, or by forcible abduction (by the other). 86 During 
the quarrel, assassins should do their work, saying, ‘ Thus has this passionate 
fellow been slain.’ 37 Or, if the one frustrated puts up with his disappoint- 
ment, the woman should approach him and say, ‘Such and such a chief is 
harassing me, who am in love with you; so long as he is alive, I shall not stay 
here,’ and thus urge his murder. 88 Or, the woman, if forcibly abducted, 
should get the abductor murdered at night by an assassin at the edge of the 
park or in a pleasure house, or should herself kill him with poison. 39 Then 
she should proclaim, ‘ My lover has been killed by so and so.’ 


40 Or, an agent appearing as a holy man should create confidence in a 
chief, in whom passion is roused, by means of love-winning herbs and then 
killing him with poison should disappear. 41 When he has gone away, 
secret agents should declare that as the act of the other. 


42 Or, female secret agents (posing as) rich widows or living by a secret 
profession, and contending for inheritance or a deposit should infatuate chiefs 
of the ruling council, or Aditikausika women or dancers or songstresses 


81 dlmasambhdvitam etc. : cf. 5.1.15-18 ; some of the tricks mentioned in this Chapter 
have parallels in Chapter 5.1 33 pravdsayet ‘ should kill’ (Cn). 


84 bandhakiposakah: cf. 5.2.21,28. — saubhika would appear to be one who pute 
up a dramatic or other show On the stage ; cf. 7.17.84. 36 tiksndh: these claim to havc 


been employed by the other chief. 39 amundetc. : the other chief is thus implicated in 
the murder. 


40 Yor the trick and expressions used, cf. 5.1.19. 41 para, i.e., the other chief, 
the rival in love. 

41 ddhyavidhavd etc. : it seems that yogastriyah, i.e., female secret agents, are to pose 
as rich widows or carry On some secret profession (such as of a sorceress, 0 counterfeiter 
of coins etc., as in 4.4). As rich widows they contend for ddya, and as gidhdjtvudh they 
contend fora niksepa. — aditikaugika- is from the commentators, read as in 1.17.19. 
They understand ‘ women earning their living by showing pictures of deities, and female 
snake-charmers (hausgika)’. But a single idea, ‘females dedicated to some deity’ might 
appear better. Russ. renders by ‘actresses’. V. Raghavan (Journal of Oriental Research, 
vol. XV, December, 1945, pp. 110-116) objects that mendicant women are very unlikely in 
the context «nd suggests that Kausika (a variant of KaiSsika) is the name of a community 
devoted to the arts of music, dancing, toilet ctc., and frequently engaged in aiding loye- 
affairs ; he compares Kauégiki of the Mdlavikdgnimitra. But the Kausikas are Brahmins, 
and it is extremely doubtfulif the women-folk of any Brahmin community were engaged in 
the sort of work expected of them here. It is impossible to believe that the noble KauSiki 
of the Mdlavikdgnimitra could have played such a role as the one described here. How- 


11.1. 43 J KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 458 


(should do so). 43 When they have agreed and come to secret houses for 
the night’s meeting, assassins should kill them or carry them off imprisoned. 


44, Or, a secret agent should describe to a chief of the oligarchy who is 
fond of women, ‘ In such and such a village, the family of a poor man has 
migrated ; his wife is fit for a king; seize her.’ 45 When she is seized, after 
a fortnight, an agent appearing as a holy man should cry out in the midst of 
the chiefs of the treasonable oligarchy, ‘ That chief has'violated my wife or 
daughter-in-law or sister or daughter.’ 46 If the ruling council were to 
chastise him, the king should support him and make him fight against those 
hostile tohim. 47 If he is not punished, assassins should slay at night the 
agent appearing asa holy man. 48 Then others appearing in the same disguise 
should cry out, ‘So andsois a Brahmin-slayer and the paramour of a Brahmin 
woman.’ 


49 Or, an agent appearing as an astrologer, should describe a maiden 
chosen as the bride by one (chief) to another, ‘ The daughter of so and so is 
destined to become the wife of a king or the mother of a king; get her by 
spending all you have or by force.’ 50 Ifshe cannot be obtained, he should 
rouse the other party. 51 If she is obtained, the strife is (at once) brought 
about. 


52 Or, a female mendicant should say to a chief fond of his wife, ‘ Such 
and such a chief, conceited by reason of youth, sent me to your wife; through 
fear of him I have brought a letter and ornaments from him; your wife is 
innocent ; steps against him should be taken secretly ; in the meantime I 
shall accept (on your wife’s behalf).’ 


58 On these and other occasions of strife, whether the strife has arisen 
of its own accord or has been created by assassins, the king should support 
the weak party with treasury and troops and make him fight against those 
hostile to him, or should carry him away. 


ever, kaisikastriyah may appear possible. 43 -pravisfdn in the accusative as in Cs is 
necessary for sense. 


44 apasriam: this has to be understood in the sense of ‘ that has come away (from 
some Other place).’ Itis also possible that the idea to be understood is that of apasrtamu- 
khyam ‘ with the head of the family away fromhome’. Cn Cs understand ‘ gone away else- 
where for livelihood’. In the context of what follows that appears lesslikely. 45 dtis- 
yasamghamukhyamadhye is read as suggested by Meyer instead of diisyah samgha-etc. Out- 
side the compound, diisyah would be a description of the siddhavyarijana. Butitis doubtful 
if a real diisya would be employed to serve as a secretagentinthismanner. Itis, however, 
possible that an abhiiyakta, a man condemned to death and apparently reprieved, might 
be asked to undertake such work. — asau me etc.: cf. 5.1.51. — mukhyoformukhyam 
is also from Meyer, andis necessary. mukhydmis pointless. 47 siddhavyafjanam prava- 
sayeyuh : if the siddhavyafijana is not an abhityakta as suggested above, this would be a case 
of a state eervant being sacrificed for reasons of state. Perhaps that is why the mas. read 
disyah in s.45 above. 48 tadvyafijandh, i.e., siddhavyafjanah. 

50 para, i.e., the one who had chosen her as his bride. 

52 pratipatsyami,i.e., will make a show of accepting his proposal on your wife’s behalf, 
so that a meeting may be fixed, giving you an opportunity to have your revenge. It can 
hardly mean ‘ I shall be by your side till you kill him ’ (Cs). 


459 POLICY TOWARDS OLIGARCHIES { 11.1. 56 


54 The single monarch should deal with oligarchies in this manner. 


55 The oligarchics also should thus guard themselves against these 
deceitful tricks by the single monarch. 


56 And the head of the oligarchy should remain just in behaviour 
towards the members of the oligarchy, beneficial (and) agreeable (to them), 
self-controlled, with devoted men, and following the wishes of all. 


Herewith ends the Eleventh Book of the Arthagastra of Kautilya 
‘POLICY TOWARDS OLIGARCHIES ’ 


54 chardjah: Katyayana on Panini, 4.1.168, distingu‘shes ekardja the single monarch 
from a samgha in which rule is shared by a number of persons. Cf. Jayaswal, op. cit., 1, 84. 


55 With its usual impartiality, the text offers advice to both sides. — ekardjddin the 
ablative, as readin Cs, is necessary, unless we read ehardjasya. — rakscyuh: the objectis 
dtmanam. 


56 nyayavuritir hitah as in Cn is decidedly better than nydyaurttihiiah of the mss. — 
yukia may be ‘ diligent in their work ’, perhaps also ‘attached to him’. 


Book TWELVE 
CONCERNING THE WEAKER KING 


CHAPTER ONE 


SECTION 162 THE MISSION OF THE ENVOY 


1 ‘A weak king, attacked by a stronger king, should cverywhere 
remain submissive showing the characteristics of a reed. 2 For, he submits 
to Indra who submits to a stronger king,’ says Bhiradvaja. 


3 ‘He should fight with the mobilisation of all troops. - For, valour 
overcomes a calamity. 5 And this is a Ksatriya’s special duty, whether 
there be victory or defeat in war,’ says Visaliksa. 


6 ‘No,’ says Kautilya. 7 One submissive everywhere lives despairing 
of life like a ram (strayed) fromaherd. 8 Andone fighting with only a small 
army perishes like one plunging in the ocean without a boat. 9 He should, 
however, act finding shelter with a king superior to him or in an unassailable 
fort. 


10 There are three kings who attack: the righteous conqueror, the 
greedy conqueror and the demoniacal conqueror. 11 Of them, the rightcous 
conqueror is satisfied with submission. 12 He should submit to him, 
also when there is danger from others. 18 The greedy conqueror is 
Satisfied with the seziure of land and goods. 14 MHe should yield money 
to him. 15 The demoniacal conqueror (is satisfied only) with the seizure of 
land, goods, sons, wives and life. 16 By yielding land and goods to him, he 
should take counter-steps, remaining out of reach himself. 


aGbaliyasam is ‘what concerns the abaliyas, one who is not stronger’. Meyer under- 
slands d-baliyasam ‘till one gets stronger’, which seems grammatically doubtful. The 
Book, for the most part, expands ideas already found elsewhere, particularly in 7.14-17 
above. 


12.1 

1-2 Cf. Mahabharata, 12.67.11 ‘ elayopamayd dhtrah samnameta baliyase, Indrdya sa 
pranamate namate yo baliyase.’ 

8 samdohena: cf. 7.4.7,14. 

7 Islaidakah: Meyer proposes akulaidakah ‘a sheep lost from the herd’. Cn Cs get 


the same meaning from kulaidaka. Cf.138.1.16. 9 tadvisigtam: tad is the balavdn king. 
Cf. 7.15.1. — durgam : cf. 7.15.9. ; 


10 dharmalobhdsura- from Cs is in accordance with the order that follows. 12 pare- 
sam api bhaydt : i.c., even when the dharmatijayin is not threatening him, but danger from 
another source is feared. 


46] CONCERNING THE WEAKER KING { 12,1. 80 


17 When one of these is making ready to start, he should make a counter- 
move through peace or diplomatic war or concealed warfare. 18 (He should 
win over) the party inimical to him with conciliation and gifts, his own party 
through dissension and force. 


19 Secret agents should destroy his fort, country or camp with weapons, 
poison or fire. 20 He should cause his rear to be attacked from all sides. 
21 Or, he should cause the kingdom to be destroyed through forest tribes or 
to be seized by a pretender from his family or a prince in disfavour. 22 And 
at the end of (such) injurious acts, he should send an envoy (for peace). 28 
Or, peace (may be sued for) without doing any injurious act. 


24 If he marches even then, he should sue for peace with a successive 
inerease of one-quarter of the treasury and troops or a successive increase 
of a day and night. 


25 Ifhe were to sue for peace with the offer of troops, he should give him 
dull elephants and horses, or such energetic ones as are administered poison. 


26 If he were to sue for peace with men, he should give him treasonable, 
alien or forest troops under the command of secret agents. 27 He should 
so manage that the destruction of both would take place. 28 Or, he should 
give him troops with a fiery temper which, when insulted, would injure him, 
or hereditary, loyal troops that would injure him in his calamity. 


29 If he were to sue for peace with treasury, he should give him articles 
of high value, for which he would not find a purchaser, or forest produce that 
is unfit for use in war. | 


30 If he were to sue for peace with land, he should give him land which 
can be easily recovered, or which has constant enemies, or which is without a 
shelter, or such that settlement on it would involve heavy losses and expenses. 


17 mantrayuddhena as in 12.2 below. — kiitayuddha does not scem to refer to the 
tactics on the field described in 10.3 ; for, there is no attack yet on the weakking. Perhaps 
secret murders are to be understood, as detailed in 12.2-5 below. 18 asya, i.e., of the 
stronger king. — sva- also refers to the strongerking. Wehave to understand the idea of 
sddhayet in the sentence. . 


24 pddoltaram, i.c., ‘by offering him one quarter more than what was offered before 
but not accepted ; thus onc lac and a quarter if one lac is not accepted or 125 horses if 100 
are not accepted ’(CnCs). — ahordtrottaram: Cs has ‘increasing the period during which 
todoa work by moredays’. Thisisnotsatisfactory. Meyer suggests period for disbanding 
or surrendering troops to be reduced successively by One day, (i.e., in 9 days instead of 10). 
This gives a good sense, but it is doubtful if uffara can be so understood. 


25 sah: in view of uwacela, this is the weak king (Cn Cs), hardly the attacking king 
(Meyer). The acceptance of the terms by the latterisimplied. — danda, as distinguished 
from purusa (in s. 26), refers to horses and elephants. — kunthain ‘ineffective ” or ‘co- 
wardly ’; cf. 7.12.0 ff. — gara ‘ poison, which would kill after a month or a fortnight’ 
(Cs). Cf 14.1.6-7. For the idea, cf. 7.3.30. 

27 wubhaya, i.e., the enemy as well as the disyabala etc. 

29 sdram etc.: cf. 7.12.16. 


80 nitydmitrdm: cf. 7.10.12. — anapdsraydm: the shelter meant is a fortress. 


12:1. 81) KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 462 


81 Or, he should sue a stronger king for peace with the offer of all his 
possessions, with the exception of the capital. 


82 That which the other might seize by force, he should offer 
through one of the means. He should preserve his body, not wealth ; 
for, what regret can there be for wealth that is impermancent ? 


CHAPTER TWO 


SECTION 163 FIGHT WITH (THE WEAPON OF) DIPLOMACY 
SECTION 164 ASSASSINATION OF (THE ENEMY’S) ARMY CHIEFS 


1 If he were not to accept a peace-treaty, he should say to him, ‘Such 
and such kings, under the influence of the group of six enemies, have perished ; 
it does not behove you to follow in the foot-steps of those who were without 
self-control. 2 You should pay regard to spiritual and material well-being. 
3 For, those are really enemies, wearing the mask of friends, who make you 
undertake a rash deed, an impious act and the forgoing of material good. 
4 To fight with brave men who have given up all hope of life is a rash deed, 
to bring about the loss of men on both sides is an impious act, to give up a good 
in hand and.to forsake a blameless ally is forgoing of material good. 5 And 
that king has allies and with this object he will raise more allies, who will 
attack you from all sides. 6 Nor is he forsaken by the middle and neutral 
kings or by the circle of kings ; you, however, are forsaken (by them), since, 
while you are ready to fight, they are looking on (with the idea), ‘‘ Let him 
meet with further losses and expenses, let him be divided from his ally ; then 
we shall casily exterminate him when he has left his kingdom”. 7 It does 
not behove you, therefore, to listen to enemies masquerading as friends, to 
frighten your allies and to confer good on your enemies and to face the risk of 
(losing your) life and meet with disaster ;’ thus he should (try to) restrain 
him. 


8 If he starts even then, he should engender’a revolt among the consti- 
tuents as explained in the ‘ policy towards oligarches’ and in ‘ drawing out 


32 wupdyaiah: particularly by resorting to samdhi, as in Cs. 


12.2 

The first of the two Sections is restricted to ss. 1-7, the rest of the Chapter together 
with the:next is concerned with the other Section. — mantrayuddha amounts to cajoling, 
warning, threatening etc. through an envoy. 

1 sa cet: this is in continuation of the last Section; sak is the stronger king. — 

ga-: see1.6. 8 miltramukhdh from Csis quite necessary. mitramukhydah of the 

mss. is unlikely. 5 sa rdjdis the weak king, for whom the envoy is speaking. — elena 
arthena ‘ with this object that was offered to you by him, but rejected by you.’ yat tod 
from M is preferable to ye tud. The ye in the latter would refer to madhyama etc., hardly to 
mitramukha amitra of the next s. as Meyer understandsit. —  yacchet: this seems to be 
from yam ‘ to restrain, to check’. Cs has ‘ should give (the object that was offered before) ’ ; 
but this pressupposes acceptance of the suggestions On the enemy’s part. 

8 samghaorlic: actually in 11.1 there is little about stirring constituents or subjects 
(prakri}) to revolt. — wyogavdmanc,i.c.,in 13.2. 10 dtmaraksitake, i.e., in 1.21. 


463 CONCERNING THE WEAKER KING [ 12. 2. 21 


by means of stratagems’. 9 And he should employ assassins and poison- 
givers. 10 He should employ assassins and poison-givers at those points 
which have been declared as fit to be guarded in ‘ concerning self-protection ’. 


11 Keepers of prostitutes should make the (enemy’s) army chiefs infa- 
tuated with women possessed of great beauty and youth. 12 When many 
or two of the chiefs feel passion for one woman, assassins should create quarrels 
among them. 18 (Agents) should urge the party worsted in the strife to go 
away clsewhere or to render help to their master in the expedition. 


14 Or, agents appearing as holy men should cause poison to be given 
to those among the chiefs who are under the influence of passion, along with 
love-winning medicines, in order to overreach them. 


15 Or, an agent appearing as a trader should shower wealth on an inti- 
mate maid ofthe favourite queen (of the enemy) for the sake of love and then 
leave her. 16 Anagent.appearing as a holy man, recommended by an agent 
appearing as an attendant of that same (trader), should give a love-winning 
medicine, saying, ‘ This should be placed on the person of the trader.’ 17 
When this has succeeded, he should advise this remedy also to the favourite 
queen, saying, ‘ This should be placed on the king’s person.’ 18 Then he 
should overreach with poison. 


19 Or, an agent appearing as an astrologer should declare to a high 
officer, whose confidence has been gradually won, that he is possessed of the 
marks of a king. 20 A female mendicant (should declare) to his wife, ‘ You 
will be the wife of a king or the mother of a king.’ 


21 Or, a female agent who is the wife of a high officer should say to him, 
‘The king wants to keep me in his harem; this letter and these ornaments 
have been brought to your house by a female mendicant.’ 


1L bandhakiposakadh: cf. 11.1.84. 13 bhartuh ‘to the master (of the agents) ’, i.e., 
to the weaker king. 


14 kdmavasdn cad: it would have been better if mukhyegu had come before kémavagdn. 
Cn seems to have read kdmavasdd td, which cannot be construed properly. In any case 
Jolly-Schmidt’s rendering of it ‘ under the pretext of giving them an aphrodisiac’ is al- 
together unlikely. Meyer proposes kaémavasah (strth) ‘make women under the influence 
of love administer poison etc.’ But it is doubtful if the women, who are merely agents, 
have to be themselves in love in order that the siddhavyafijana may make use of the love- 
winning potion on the mukhyas. The mukhya isin love and wants it to be reciprocated by the 
woman and therefore uses the potion to make himselfloved by her. Cf. 11.1.40 for the same 
trick. If we suppose that the mukhya is cold and his passion is to be roused, itis difficult to 
see how the siddhavyaiijana could induce him to drink the potion. 


16 vaidehakaSsarire ’vadhdtavyd: in this case, the medicine is apparently used on the 
person of the individual in whom passion is to be roused. — The vaidehaka, of course, pre- 
trends to bein love again, so that the power of the medicine is proved. That wouldinduce 
the queen to try it on the king. 

19 Kramdbhinitam: cf. 11.1.6. 20 Cf. 11.1.49. 


21 bharydvyaiijand: we must suppose that a female agent had earlier got herself 
married to one of the higt, officials of the enemy ; thisisalongtermplan. Theidea that an 
agent appears in the garb of a wife of the officer is less likely, as the officer would certainly 
see through the disguise of any one posing as his wife. — avarodhayisyati clearly refers to 
making her an inmate of the harem. — Ickhyam dbharanam : cf. 11.1.52. 


12.°2, 22 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 464 


22 Or, an agent appearing as a cook or a waiter should inform (a chief) 
about the king’s instruction for administering poison (to him) and the money 
offered to tempt him (to do so). 28 An agent appearing as a trader should 
corroborate that (information) of his, and should speak of the success of the 
undertaking. 


24 Thus with one or two or three means, he should incite the high 
officers one by one to fight or to desert him. 


25 And in his fortified cities, secret agents serving in close proximity 
to the Regent, should declare among citizens and country people, (as if) out of 
friendship, ‘The Regent has said to warriors and heads of departments, 
“The king is in a difficult position; he may or may not come back alive ; 
obtain wealth by force and slay your enemies.””’ 26 When the rumour has 
spread far and wide, assassins should rob citizens at night and slay chiefs, 
(saying at the time), ‘ Thus are dealt with those who do not obey the Regent.’ 
27 And they should leave blood-stained weapons, articles and binding ropes 
in, the quarters of the Regent. 28 Then secret agents should proclaim, 
‘The Regent is slaying and robbing (the subjects).’ 


29 In the same manner, they should divide the country people from the 
Administrator. 30 But assassins should kill the subordinates of the Admini- 
strator in the midst of villages at night and say, ‘ Thus are dealt with those who 
oppress the countryside unrighteously.’ 


31 When trouble has (thus)-started, they should cause the Regent or 
the Administrator to be killed by a rising of the subjects. 82 They should 
get a pretender from his family or a prince in disfavour accepted as a ruler. 


33 They should set fire to royal palaces and city gates, to stores of 
articles and grains, or should kill those (officers there) and, crying piteously 
should declare that as done by him, 


22 rdjuvacanam from Cs is necessary in view of the ca after ariham. The enemy king is 
himself represented as planning the officer’s murder through the cook etc. — abhinayet: 
cf. 5.2.25. 23 hkadryasiddhim, i.e., ‘the effectiveness of the poison in killing instantane- 
ously’ (Cn Cs). Meyer has ‘the successful outcome of the affair (by the Oflicer taking 
revenge on the king)’; this is little likely. It may simply mean ‘success in his work (of 
selling the poison) ’. 

24 ckaikamasiya: ekatkasya of the mss. is quite obviously faulty. 


25 muitrinimitiam: the friendship pretended is for the persons addressed. It can 
hardly mean ‘in order to produce loyalty towards the sinyapdla ’(Cs). This loyalty, infact, 
is to be undermined. — bahulibhiite: the subject is ‘report’ or ‘rumour’. Cf. 
12.3.2. — Jayaswal’s translation ‘ when the Pauras held a general meeting (bahulibhiite) 
to give their votcs on the subject, the leaders were to be donc away with secretly ’ (Hindu 
Polity, II, 88 ff.) has little relation either to the context or to the words used. — cvam 
Ariyante ctc.: this ig in order to throw the blame for the robberies and murders on the 
Sinyapala. 

29 Apparently, the sinyapala had jurisdiction only in the fort; the samaharir con- 
tinucd to wield power in the countryside. 30 samdhartrpurusdn, i.c., gopa, sthanika etc. 


382 pralipddayeyuh: cf. 1.10.3. 


38 -dodram is 2 Samaharadvandva. — ftdn refers to officers stationed there. — 
asya refers to the sinyapala or the samahatr on whom the blame for the fire and murder is to 
bethrown. Itcan hardly refer to ‘ citizens and country people ’ (Cs). 


465 CONCERNING THE WEAKER KING [ 12. 3. 11 


CHAPTER THREE 


SECTION 164 (Continued) 
SECTION 165 STIRRING UP THE CIRCLE OF KINGS 


1 Secret agents working in close proximity to the (enemy) king and the 
king’s favourites should inform those in the position of friends to chiefs of 
infantry, cavalry, chariots and elephants that the king is enraged with these, 
by showing confidence as in a friend. 2 When the rumours have become 
thick, assassins, after -taking precautions against (dangers arising from) 
moving at night-time, should go to their houses and say, ‘ At the king’s order, 
come (with us).’ 3 They should slay them even as they come out and say 
to those near, ‘ This is the king’s message.’ 4 And to those who have not 
been slain, secret agents should say, ‘ This is what we had told you; he who 
wants to remain alive should go away.’ 


5 And to those to whom the king does not give (something) when asked 
for it, secret agents should say, ‘ The Regent was told by the king, ‘“ Such 
and such persons are asking me for something that ought not to be asked for ; 
refused by me, they have joined the enemy; strive to exterminate them.” ’ 
6 Then he should act as before. 


7 And to those to whom the king gives (something) when asked for it, 
secret agents should say, ‘ The Regent was told by the king, “‘ Such and such 
persons ask me for something that ought not to be asked for; I gave it to 
them to ensure trust (in me); they are in league with the enemy ; strive to 
exterminate them.” ’ 8 Then he should act as before. 


9 And to those who do not ask him for something that ought to be asked 
for, secret agents should say, ‘ The Regent was told by the king, “Such and 
such persons do not ask me for something which ought to be asked for; what 
else (could there be) but their being apprehensive because of their own guilt ? 
Strive to exterminate them.”’ 10 Then he should act as before. 


11 By this is explained the whole party of seducible persons. 


123. 


Section 165 is to be found only in ss. 18-21 asa sort of a tag at the end; it is really 
a continuation of the preceding topic. 


1 suhrdvisvdsena, i.c., divulging it as a secret, which could be done only to a trusted 
friend. — mitrasthdniyesu, i.e., to those who are the friends of the mukhyas (with whom 
the king is supposed to be angry). 2 krtardtricadrapratikarah: e.g., providing themselves 
with passes for movingin the camp at nighttime. 8 dsanndnis from Cs; dsanndhk of the 
mss. Can Only go with tiksndh, which makes little sense. 4 ye cépravdsiidh is as suggested 


by Meyer. pravdsita, either as ‘ murdered ’ or ‘ gone away ’ does not fit in with apakran- 
tavyam addressed to them. 


5 cdsau from Csis missing from the mss. through a scribal error; that it is necessary 
is shown by ss.7and9. 6 piirvavat, i.e., assassins killing some officers ostensibly under 
orders from the Regent and frightening away others, as in ss. 2-4. 


9 svadosa- : the dosa is that of treason. 
11 krtyapaksah : see 1.14 above. 


12, 3. 12 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 466 


12 Or, a secret agent, serving in close proximity, should give the 
(enemy) king to understand, ‘ Such and such a high officer is in communication 
with men of the enemy.’ 13 When this is believed, he should show treason- 
able men carrying letters from him and say, ‘ This is it.’ 


14 Or, after tempting with land or money the principal officers among 
the chiefs of the army, he should make them fight their own people or should 
carry them away. 


15 He should cause that son of his, who may be staying near or in a fort, 
to be instigated through a secret agent, ‘ You are a son possessed of greater 
personal excellences, yet you have been sect aside; why then are you indiffe- 
rent? Fight and seize (the kingdom) ; the crown prince will soon destroy you.’ 


16 After tempting with money a pretender from his family or a prince 
in disfavour, he should say to him, ‘ Crush his troops inside (the kingdom) or 
the troops on the frontier or the frontier fort.’ 


17 After winning the forest chieftains with money and honour, he should 
cause his kingdom to be destroyed. 


18 Or, he should say to the enemy in the rear of the (enemy), ‘ This king, 
after exterminating me, will indeed exterminate you; attack him in the rear ; 
if he turns round on you, [I shall attack him in the rear.’ 


19 Or, he should say to the allies of the (enemy), ‘I am your dam; 
with me broken, this king will overwhelm all of you; let us join together 
and frustrate his expedition.’ 


.20 And he should send (letters) to those united with him and to those 
not united, ‘ This king, after uprooting me, will indeed take action against 
you ; beware ; it is better for you to help me.’ 


12 sa@mubhdsate: the passive in the reading of the mss. (sambhdsyate) is unnccessary. 
13 dtisyan etc.: the bearers of letters are treasonable men, whose rough treatment by the 
enemy when they are caught would be welcome to the weak king. — asya, if referring to 
the weak king, would be construed with sdsanahardan ; if referring to the cnemy, it would 
be construed with dargayet. 


14 sendmukhyaprakrlipurusdn: this seems to contain a single idea, ‘the principal 
Officcrs (prakrlipurusa) among the army chicfs’. Cf. 8.4.15, where we have prakrtipuru- 
samukhya. Meyer, in the Nachtrag, has ‘ army Officers and administrative officers.in the 
army’. Russ. has ‘army chiefs and Officials’. In any case, ‘army chiefs, ministers (pra- 
krti) and servants (purusa) ’ (Cn Cs) is quite unlikely. 

15 samipe, i.e., ncar the weak king’s territory. — durge, i.c., in the strong king’s 
capital fort. — dtmasampannatarah: the comparison is with the yuvardja. — purd 
vind$sayali : for the idiom, cf. 9.6.69, also 1.14.8. 

16 antarbalam, i.e., troops left for the protection of the kingdom. — antam seems 
to refer to the frontier fort, the place for the antapdla. Cn.explains it by janapada etc. ; 
Cs reads anyam, supplying skandham from the preceding, ‘othertroops’. Thatis far from 
happy. 

18-19 Through an obvious copyist’s slip, the words esa Khalu ... 0d *sya briydat (in 
ss. 18-19) are missing in tbe mss., showing that they are all derived from a single exemplar. 
Cn presupposes the passage which is quite necessary. aham vah setuh could not be addressed 
to a pdrsnigrdha. 

20 abhyupapatium is read for abhyavapattum ; the latter has the sense of * to submit to, 
to surrender ’, from which the former must be distinguished. Cf. 2.10.24,25 and 5.5.7. 


467 CONCERNING THE WEAKER KING [12.4.8 


21 He should send (appeals) to the middle king or again to the 
neutral king, according as the one or the other may be near, making 
a surrender to him of all possessions, in order to be saved. 


CHAPTER FOUR 


SECTION 166 SECRET USE OF WEAPONS, FIRE AND POISON 


SECTION 167 DESTRUCTION OF (THE ENEMY’S) SUPPLIES, REINFORCE- 
MENTS AND FORAGING RAIDS 


1 And those agents who are living disguised as traders in the fortified 
towns of the (enemy), disguised as householders in his villages, disguised as 
cow-herds and ascetics in the frontier posts of the country, should send, along 
with presents (word) to a neighbouring prince, a forest chief, a pretender from 
his family or a prince in disfavour, ‘This region can be seized.’ 2 And when 
secret agents of these have come to the fortified town, they should welcome 
them with money and honour and show them the weak points of the consti- 
tuents. 3 They should strike at those (weak points) along with them. 


4 Or, an agent appearing as a vintner in his camp, showing a person 
condemned to death as his son and killing him by poison at the time of an 
attack should offer, in hundreds, jars of wine as libation in honour of the 
dead. 5 He should give on the first day unadulterated wine or wine with 
one quarter (poison), on the next, (wine) mixed with poison. 6 Or, giving 
unadulterated wine to the army chiefs, he should give them (wine) mixed 
with poison when they are in a state of intoxication. 


~ 


7 Or, anagent, serving as a chief in the army, (should show) a condemned 
person as a son and so on, as before. 


8 Or, agents disguised as dealers in cooked meat or cooked rice or vintners 
or dealers in cakes, should advertise their special goods and, in mutual ri- 


21 sarvasvena tadarpanam: what seems meant is sarvasvasya tadarpanena. Cs seems 
to have read tvadarpanam, though its text shows tadarpanam. One can hardly look 
upon tadarpanam as the object of prahinuydt as in Cn Cs. 


12.4 


The whole Chapter really contains a single Section, the second of the two Sections 
being disposed ofin half ofs. 20 in the middle of the Chapter. 


1 janapadasamdhi: see 3.1.1. — panydgdra: cf. 7.15.20 etc. — ayam degah: 
thisis some regionin the enemy’s country. 2 durge,i.e.,in the enemy’s fortified capital. 
4 For the trick, cf. 11.1.24. —- madanamadya- found in the mss. is unlikely in view 


of the details givenin the nexts. madya-aloncis therefore proposed. 5 pddyam seems to 
mean ‘ with one-quarter madanaras2, the rest wine’. Cs has ‘ with a quarter of the dose 
sufficient to killa person’. Meyer’s suggestion to read mdndyam ‘ very mild ’ seems hardly 
plausible. The expression is odd; itis quite possible that the words pddyam vd madyam are 
due to a scribal error and are not authentic. Cn does not show them. 


7 dandamukhyavyanjano : this presupposes a secret agent serving in the enemy’s army 


as an Officer for quite some time. A mere disguise would not be convincing and might even 
arouse suspicion. 


8 kdlikam: cf. 2.25.7. — apacdrayeyuh is read and understood in the sense of 
* mix’. 


12.4.9] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 468 


valry, call the enemies, proclaiming ‘ This is given on credit, this is very cheap,’ 
and mix their goods with poison. 


9 Or, women and children, purchasing wine, milk, curds, butter or 
oil from dealers in these commodities, should pour them in their own vessels 
containing poison. 10 (Saying) ‘ Give us at this price, or give us of better 
quality again,’ they should pour that back in the same place. 11 Agents 
appearing as traders or those who bring goods for sale (to the camp, should 
Sell) thesc same articles (after mixing them with poison). 


12 Those near should mix poison with the fodder and grass for clephants 
and horses. 13 Or, agents appearing as workmen should sell grass or water 
mixed with poison. 


14 Or, cattle-traders, long associated (with the camp), should Ict loose 
herds of cattle or of sheep and goats on the occasion of an attack, in places 
likely to cause confusion among the enemies, also (should let loose) the vicious 
among horses, donkeys, camels, buffalocs and other amimals. 15 Or, agents 
appearing as above (should Ict loose) animals whose eyes have been smeared 
with the blood of musk-rats. 16 Or, those appearing as hunters should let 
loose wild animals from thcir cages, or snake charmers, serpents with deadly 
poison, or those living by elephants, elephants. 17 Or, those living by fire 
Should set fire to things, 


18 Or, sccret agents should kill the chiefs of infantry, cavalry, chariots 
or elephants when they have turned back, or should set fire to the quarters of 
the chiefs. 


19 ‘Those appearing as treasonable or alien or forest troops, being 
employed (with the encmy), should make an attack on the rear or give support 
to the (weak king’s) attack. 


9 tadvyavaharirhastesu is fron. Cs, though hasia is not quite necessary. Perhaps 
tadoyavaharirsu should he read, asin ms. T. In cither cuse, however, we expect the ablative 
rather than the locative. 10 visistam, i.c., better in quality. -—  tatraiva, i.c., in the 
containcrs of the shopkeepers. ‘Ihe whole stock of the shopkeepers becomes poisoned, to be 
sold luter to the troops by the unsuspecting shopkeepers. 11 eldnyeca scems to refer to 
surd, ksira etc., * poisoned ® being understood and vikriniran being supplied. The liquids 
as poisoned hy the women nced not be understood ; for, the vaidchakaryanjanas could 
themselves procure poisoned goods. —- panyavikrayena dhartarah seems to mean some- 
thing like hawkerr, az Meyerimplies. panydni vikrayadrtham Ghartdrah is what seems inten- 
ded. --- Cn comes to an end with this s. 

14 mohasthanesu *in places where the enemy ranks are thereby likely to be thrown 
into confusion ’. Cs has *‘ when the enemy ig at his wit’s end as to what todo’. 15 tad- 
tyanjandh : tad refers to the govdnijaka. — cucchundartgonitaktaksan: apparently this . 
makes the animals mad. Cf. 14.1.29. 

18 vimukhdn ‘ who are turning back from the battle, who are in flight ’. 

19 disyamiiratavikavyanjanah: the idea is, loyal troops go over as deserters from 
the weak king, some of them his own troops pretending to be treasonable, others alien and 
still others forest troops. The unsuspecting enemy welcomes them. — pratigraha is 
‘giving support’. Cf. 13.3.46. 


469 CONCERNING THE WEAKER KING [ 12, 4. 29 


20 Or, those concealed in forests should lure out troops on the frontier 
and slay them, or (should destroy) the supplies, the reinforcements and forag- 
ing raids on a path where march in a single file alone is possible. 


21 Or, on the occasion of a night-battle, they should strike many drums, 
fixed beforehand as a signal, and announce, ‘ We have entered it ; the kingdom 
is won,’ 


22 Or, entering the king’s quarters, they shoud kill the king in the 
tumult. 28 Or, if he is trying to escape, leaders of Mleccha and forest troops, 
on all sides, should kill him, taking cover in places of ambush or taking coyer 
behind hedges of tree-stems. 24 Or, agents appearing as hunters should, 
in the tumult of an attack, strike at him on occasions fit for secret fight. 25 
Or, they should strike at him when he is on a path where march in a single file 
alone is possible or on a mountain, or behind a hedge of tree-stems or in a 
marshy place or inside water, in accordance with the favourableness of the 
terrain to themselves. 26 Or, they should drown him through a rush of 
water by breaking danis in rivers, lakes and tanks. 27 Or, ifheis ina desert 
fort, a forest fort or a water fort, they should destroy him with poisonous fire 
and smoke. 28 Assassins should do away with him by fire when he is in a 
narrow place, by smoke when he is in a desert, by poison if he is in his residence, 
by frightful crocodiles or persons moving in water if he has taken a plunge in 
water, or (kill him) as he is coming out of his quarters set on fire. 


29 Heshould overreach the enemy, clinging to the places mentioned, 
by forcing him out through trickery and by secret practices or by using 
one of the sceret tricks. 


21 saimkela is a signal fixed with the weak king before the night attack. — briyuh: 
the subject scems to be the so-called deserters from the weak king. We must suppose them 
to be somewhere else in the enemy’s kingdom, probably in the capital. When they cry 


labdham rajyam, the cnemy may be expected to give up the fight and return to the kingdom 
to save it. 


23 stambhavdia seems to mcan a hedge or fence made of tree-stems. 24 giédha- 
yvuddha is not the same as kiitayuddha (10.3). Itis murder pure and simple. 25 Some mss. 
show stambhavand- here for stambhavdtd- (Cs). The latter may be preferred in view Of s. 23. 
— khafijana: cf. 10.4.8. 26 Itseems that setubandhabheda is to be construed with nadz, 
saras and tataka though vega is conceivable of a river even without a dam breaking. 27 
yogagniahiima ; sec 14.1.4-14. 28 nidhdnais little more than ‘ residence, abode’; * store- 
house ’ or ‘ treasure-house ’ seems less likely. —- udakacaranath : sce 18.1.3-5 for ways of 
moving in water. 


29 yogavdmana is described in 18.2 below. — yoga refers to the yogatisamdhana 
of the next Chapter (Cs). — yogendnyatamena cd : this yoga would secm to refer to the tricks 
describedin this Chapter. — wktdsu bhitmisu seems to refer to samkata etc. of s. 28, per- 
haps also to ss. 23 ff. 


12. 5.1 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA ' 470 


CHAPTER FIVE 


SECTION 168 OVER-REACHING (THE ENEMY) BY TRICKERY 
SECTION 169 OVER-REACHING (THE ENEMY) BY FORCE: 
SECTION 170 VICTORY OF THE SINGLE KING 


1 On the occasion of a festival in honour of a deity, (there may be) many 
places for the enemy’s coming to worship because of his devotion. 2 In those 
places, he should practise secret tricks on him. 8 When he has entered the 
temple, he should cause a concealed wall or a huge stone to fall on him by the 
release of a mechanism. 4 Or, he should cause to be dropped down on him 
a shower of stones and weapons from an upper chamber, or a door panel 
thrown down or a door-bar placed in a wall and fixed atone end. 5 Or, he 
should cause the image, the banner and the weapons of the deity to fall upon 
him. 6 Or, in the places where he stays, sits or moves about, he should 
cause poison to be used along with the cow-dung smearing or with the scented 
water used for sprinkling on the floor, or with the offering of flowers and fra- 
grant powder. 7 Or, he should carry over to him poisonous smoke concealed 
by perfume. $ Or, he should make him drop down, by the release of a pin, 
into a well with spikes or a pit, underneath the bed or seat, where the floor is 
fixed by a mechanism. 


9 Or, when the enemy has come near, he should carry over (into the fort) 
persons capable of withstanding a siege from the countryside. 10 And 
from the fort he should remove those incapable of withstanding a siege or send 
them to the enemy’s territory which is easily recoverable. 11 And he should 
place the country people in one place in a mountain fort, a forest fort ora 
river fort, or in regions separated by forests, in charge of a son or a brother. 


12.5 


The three Sections are closely inter-related and thereis no clear demarcation line bet- 
ween them; at most we can say thatthe third beginsats. 48. eka in ekavijayah refers to 
the king bcing alone, with his fort in the enemy’s possession. 


1 daivatejydyam yatradyam : Cs Meyer have ‘on the occasion of the worship of a deity 
or of a festival’ ; however, in the absence of a ca or a 04, a single idca would appear better. 
— pijagama- is proposed for piijydgama- ; piijya in the latter is little likely. — bhak- 
thiah: Meyer construes this word with the next s. That seems lers happy. 2 wubjayet: 
Cs paraphrases by prasdrayel ‘should spread’. Cf.s.15 below. 6 puspaciirna-: these 
would be offered as prasdda to the enemy. 7 For poisonous smoke, cf. 14.1.9-14. 8 
yantrabaddhatalam : the talais the floor of the room ; it sinks down when the pin is removed, 
and the bed or seat topples down into the well full of spikes. 

9 avarodhaksamam: Cs has ‘ people from the enemy’s country who are fit to be putin 
confinement’ ; that appears very strange. 10 anavarodhaksamam etc.: the explanation 
in Cs ‘shculd set free these not deserving to be confined, yet confined by the enemy ’ is still 
more strange, Can the weak king be supposed to bring abcut the release of such men when 
the enemy is drawing near? — pratyddeyam etc. : thisis hisownland, nowin enemy occupa- 
tion, which he hopes to recoverlater. 11 putrabhrdiy-: these are those of the weak king. 
Cs, however, understands the enemy’s son etc. being placed in charge of his territory 
after dividing it. Would the weak king be able to do so? Cs ison a wrong track. The 
idea here is of preparing for a siege. 


471 CONCERNING THE WEAKER KING [12. 5. 28 


12 Reasons for entrenching oneself in a fort have been explained in ‘ the 
conduct of one surrendering with troops’. 


18 He should cause grass and wood to be burnt up to one yojana (all 
round the fort), 14 And he should cause waters to be spoiled and to flow 


away. 15 And he should place wells, concealed pits and barbed wires 
outside. 


16 Making an underground passage with many openings up to the 
enemy’s camp, he should cause the chiefs of stores to be carried away, or the 
enemy (himself). 17 Or, if an underground passage is made by the encmy, 
he should cause the moat to be dug deeper till its water reaches the passage, 
or a well-shed along the rampart. 18 In suspected places, he should cause 
to be placed jars of water or bell-metal vessels, in order to find out any digging 
done there. 19 When the underground passage is known, he should cause 


a counter-passage to be dug. 20 Breaking it in the middle, he should let in 
smoke or water. 


21 Or, making arrangements for the defence of the fort, aud appointing 
a kinsman (as regent) in the base, he should go in the direction opposite to 
that of the (enemy), or where he might be united with allies, kinsmen or forest 
chiefs or with great enemies and traitors of the enemy, or where, by going there, 
he might be able to separate him from his allies or to attack him in the rear or 
cause his kingdom to be seized or to prevent his supplies, reinforcements and 
foraging raids, or from where he might be able to strike at him with a foul 
throw like a gambler, or from where his kingdom may be protected or he might 


be able to strengthen the base. 22 Or, he should go there where he might 
be able to secure desirable peace. 


23 Or, those who have left (the fort) with him should send (word) to the 
(enemy), ‘This enemy of yowrs has fallen in our hands; on the pretext of 
(the purchase of) a commodity or of (doing) injury, send money and a strong 


12 avarodha- is found here asins.9. However, since the title of the 119th Section has 
uparodhahetavah, we should retain uparodha- here. The hetus are enumerated in 7.15.12. 

15 kipakitavapdta- etc.: cf. 2.3.15 and 10.1.12. — ubjayet: see s. 2. 

16 nicayamukhydn ‘chiefs of stores’ is not very satisfactory. Perhaps ‘supplies 
(nicaya) and army-chiefs (mukhya) ’.is meant; but then the compound would be unusual. 
Cs has vicayamukhyan ‘chief inspecting officers’ which is little better. 17 wudakdntikim 
‘endingin water’ implies water reaching downto the sururigd and ficcdingit. — hiza- 
$aldm : i.c., a well isto be dug for flooding the passage. $dldis unusual with kiipa. 18 
toyakumbhdn is proposed for atoyakumbhan; since kdmsyabhandani may be supposed to 

contain no water, indicating only by their vibrations if digging is going cn, atoyakumbhas 
would not materiaily differ from them. The waterin the toyakumbhas may be suppOsed to 


indicate digging by its movement or byspilling Over. 20. modhus bhitiod : the enemy’s 
tunnelis breached and then flooded. 


21 miile,i.e., in the fort. — dksikavad apaksepena ‘ witha foul throw like a gambler’. 
Thisis not very satisfactory; but that appears to be the only meaning pessible. Meyer's 
suggested dsmikapadapaksepena ‘ by throwing stones and trees ?is quite fanciful. 


23 panyam: theideaisthat the weak king, whois supposed to be heldin custody by 
his associates, is offered to the besieging king fora price, asa commodity forsale. For the 


12. 5, 24 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 472 


force, to which we should hand him over, bound or killed.’ 24 When he 
agrees, he should appropriate the money and the strong force. 


25 Or, the commander of a frontier fort, by offering the surrender of the 
fort, should get a part of the (enemy’s) troops inside and destroy them when 
full of trust. 


26 Or, (the regent) should invite a division of the enemy’s army to 
destroy the country people stationed in one place. 27 Taking it to the 
enclosed region, he should destroy it when full of trust. 


28 Or, an agent posing as a friend should send (word) to the besieger, 
‘In this fort, grains, fats, sugar or salt is exhausted; (new stocks of) it will 
come in at this place and time; seize it.’ 29 Then treasonable, alien or 
forest troops should bring in poisoned grains, fats, sugar or salt, or others 
condemned to death (should bring it in). 30 By that is explained the 
seizure of all goods and supplies. 


31 Or, making peace, he should give him a part of the (tribute-) money, 
the rest after a long delay. 82 Then he should cause his fortifications to be 
weakened. 88 Or, he should strike with fire, poison or weapon. 34 Or, 
he should favour those of his favourites who (come to) receive the money. 


85 Or, if quite exhausted, he should surrender the fort to him and 
depart. 86 He should go out by an underground passage or an opening in 
the rampart, breaking through the side. 


87 Making a sudden assault at night, he should remain if successful ; 
if not successful he should go out by some stratagem. 38 In the disguise of 
a heretical monk, he should go out with a small retinue. 39 Or, he should be 
carried out decked as a corpse by secret agents. 40 Or, wearing a woman’s 
garb, he should follow a funeral procession. 41 Or, (he should go away) 


idea, cf. 8.2.8 etc. The hiranya asked for represents this price. The army is asked for 
ostensibly for taking charge of the weak king and to fight if the latter’s troops offer 
any resistance. 


25 balaikadegam atiniya : these come in to take over the surrendered fort. 


26 dudhayet: the subject would be the son or the brother of s. 11, who isin charge of 
the peopleandisa sort ofa regentinthe place. 27 avaruddhadegam: thisapparently refers 
to the region to which the people have been taken, asin s. 11. 


28 bdahyais the king outside the fort who haslaid siege toit. 29 disydmitrdtavikah: 
these, if caught by the enemy, would not be a source of worry to the besieged king. 


32 raksdvidhdnani; these are arrangements for the defence of his kingdem by the 
enemy. — avasrdvayct: cf. 9.4.8. 34 hiranyapratigrahinah: Cs has ‘who are used to 
receiving bribes’ with anugrhniydt as ‘ should give a bribe (so that they may strike at their 
master)’. This is little likely. hiranyais the stipulated tribute which the vallabhas come 
to receive ; the bribe is given so that they may go back without the tribute. 


36 kuksipradarena etc.: apparently, the enemy troops are mainly concentrated at the 
gates for entering the fort, so that an escape through a holein the side of the wall would not 
be noticed. 


37 pdrévena ‘by the side’, i.e., by a stratagem or trick to be presently described (Cs). 
38 For this and the following tricks, cf. '7.17.50-52 and 44. 41 The stop after avasrjya 
is as proposed by Meyer; Csreads ss.41-42asone. Itis doubtful, however, ifthe two ideas, 


473 CONCERNING THE WEAKER KING [ 12.5. 51 


leaving behind poisoned food and drink on occasions of offerings to gods, ohse- 
quial rites or festivals. 


42 After making secret instigations, he should come out with apparently 
treasonable troops and strike with the concealed army. 


43 Or, if his fort is thus seized, he should, after setting up a sanctuary 
with plenty of food to eat, remain concealed in a hollow inside the image of 
the deity or in a hollow wall or in an underground chamber endowed with 
the image of a deity. 44 When (things are) forgotten, he should enter the 
king’s chamber at night by an underground passage and kill the sleeping cnemy. 
45 Or, loosening something that can be loosened by a mechanism, he should 
make it fall down (on him). 46 Or, as the enemy is sleeping in a house 
smeared with a poisonous fire-mixture or in a lac-house, he should set it on fire. 
47 Or, when the (enemy) is careless in a place of recreation in a pleasure park 
or other recreation grounds, assassins, entering through underground chambers 
or tunnels or hollow walls, should slay him, or those employed in secret service 
(should do so) by poison. 48 Or, when he is sleeping in a secluded place, 
female secret agents should drop on him serpents or poisonous fire and smoke. 


49 Or, when an occasion arises, he should, moving ahout secretly, use 
everything that may be possible against the enemy staying in the palace. 50 
Then he should go away in a secret manner, and give signals to his own men. 


51 Calling by signals of drums door-keepers, eunuchs and others 


secretly employed with the enemy, he should get the rest of the enemies 
killed. 


Herewith ends the Twelfth Book of the ArthaSastra of Kautilya 
* CONCERNING THE WEAKER KING’ 


leaving poisoned foodand attacking witha concealedarmy canbe ccmbined. Afteravasrjya, 
we should supply nirgacchet. For this idea, cf. 7.17.44. The king would allow the poisoned 
food to fallinto the hands of enemy troops who come in, while he makes good hisescape. 


42 Theidea seems to be that secret agents assure the enemy that the army ofthe weak 
king is dtisya ; the officers, in fact, are in touch with the enemy, pretending to be traitors. 
When he comes out for the attack with these supposed traitors, the enemy thinks that the 
troops will desert and come over to him; as he is negligent in view of this expectation, the 
troops, firm in loyalty, overwhelm him. gtidhasainyah seems to mean that the army is 
concealed in the appearance of diisyas. An army concealed somewhere outside the fort 
is conceivable, but does not appear very likely. 


43 prdsyaprasam seems intended as an adjective to caiiyam. The expression is awk- 
ward. As two words it could mean ‘ having eaten food ’ whichis hardly likely. — daivata- 
pratimdchidram : cf. 13.1.8. The image must be assumed to he fairly big, with openings for 
ventilation. — gudhabhittim ‘a hollcw wall’ in the palace itself. — daivatapratima- etc. 
the cellar has the image ofa deity covering its entrance, so that its existence is not suspe- 
cted by the enemy occupying the palace. Cf.1.20.2. 45 yanitravislesanam : a substantive 
such as kapdtam or parigham isto be understood. 46 avaliptam grhamas wellasjatugrham 
would be prepared before leaving the palacc. 


50 apagacchet : the reason for this is not obvious, perhaps to escape being regarded as 
a murderer. It is possible that dgacchet was the Original reading. — svajanasamjfiam : 
the signals are fixed with his own men in the palace, who continue in service with the 
occupying enemy. 


51 pareisfrom Cs ; parath of the mss. is unlikely. Similarly, ghdlayet from Csis pre- 
ferable to kdrayet. In any case, Meyer’s ‘should make (ka@rayet) only a few enemies left 
(dvigacchesdni)’ is hardly possible. 


Boox THIRTEEN 
MEANS OF TAKING A FORT 


CHAPTER ONE 
SECTION 171 INSTIGATION TO SEDITION 


1 The conqueror, desirous of capturing the enemy’s (fortified) town, 
should fill his own side with enthusiasm and fill the enemy’s side with terror, 
by getting his omniscience and association with divinities proclaimed. 


2 The proclamation of omniscience, however, (is to be made thus) : 
after ascertaining secret information from their houses, communicating it to 
the chiefs; after finding out through spies used in suppression of criminals, 
bringing to light traitors to the king ; announcing a request or a present (about 
to be made) through unnoticed signs and other things according to the science 
of association ; (showing) knowledge of news from foreign lands on the same 
day through a domestic pigeon carrying a sealed communication. 


3 The proclamation of association with divinities, however, (should be 
arranged thus) : conversing with and worshipping agents appearing as deities 
in fire-sanctuaries, who have entered the hollow images of dcities in fire- 
sanctuaries by an underground passage; or, conversing with and worshipping 
agents appearing as Nagas or Varuna risen from the water ; showing a row of 
fires at night inside water by placing a container with sea-sand ; standing on 
a boat held down by slings containing stones ; application to the nose of 


Cj (on 1.1.15) says ‘lambha for labha is a wrong form grammatically.’ — The capture 
of enemy fortsis recommended mostly through stratagems. 


13.1 


1 grdma refers to the durga or the fortified capital. The reference to péragrémika yoga 
in 1.18.10 and 9.8.18 and to the pdragrdmika Section.in 5.1.8 is clearly to details found in 
this Book. — sarvajiia- stands for sarvajfiatua-, as elsewhere. 


2 pratyddesah ‘communicating’; for this sense of the root, cf. 1.11.8, also 4.5.14. 
— -avagamena is proposed for -dgamena or-apagamena of themss. For the sense ‘ know- 
ing, finding out,’ avagama is clearly preferable. — vijfidpyopdyana- seems to contain two 
ideas ‘a request to be made (vijfidpya) and presents to be given (updyana).’ It could 
hardly mean ‘a present about to be offered (vijfidpya)’ (Cs) or ‘information (updyana) 
yet to be communicated to the king (vijridzya)’ (Meyer). — For samsargavidyd, see 1.12.1. 
adrstais to be construed with samjfid, in the sense of ‘ not noticed by others’. — grhaka- 
potena : this would be sent by agents working in foreign lands. 


3 agnicattyadaivatapratimd is clearly an image of the fire-god ina temple dedicated to 
him. Theimage must be assumed to be fairly big to accommodate a human beinginside. — 
-hartna- in the mss. for -varuna- is an obvious corruption. — samudravdlukdkogam is not 
clear. Cs has ‘ bags of sand with their mouths sewn up’; how these are to produce fire in 
wateris notexplained. 14.2.86 states that samudraphena smeared with oil floats on water 
and burns, Perhapsthatis meant here, though the words contain no reference toit. koga 
seems to mean ‘container’; -kogdn in the plural might have been expected to create the 
illusion of agnimdld. — udaka-isstrange with basii. Perhaps some aquatic animalis meant ; 


475 MEANS OF TAKING A FORT [ 18.1. 13 


oil boiled a hundred times with the entrails of a spotted deer or the fats of 
crahs, crocodiles, dolphins and otters, to a person whose head without the 
nose is covered with water-bladder or an embryo-covering. 4 With that, 
the group of nocturnal creatures moves about. 5 These are ways of moving 
in water. 6 Through them (there is) use of speech by Varuna or by Naga 


maidens and conversation (with them, and) the emitting of fire and smoke 
from the mouth on occasions of anger. 


7 Soothsayers, interpreters of omens, astrologers, reciters of Puranas, 
seers, and secret agents, those who have helped and those who have witnessed 
it, should broadcast that (power) of the (king) in his own territory. 8 In 
the enemy’s territory, they should speak about his meeting with divinities and 
the acquisiton of a treasury and army from a divine source. 9 And when 
interpreting questions to deitics, omens, crows’ flight, the science of the body, 
dreams and utterances of animals and birds, they should predict victory for 


him, the reverse of it for the enemy. 10 And they should point to a meteor 
in the enemy’s constellation with a beat of drum. 


11 Agents working as envoys, speaking to the chiefs of the enemy out 
of friendship, should tell them of the king’s high regard for them, of the 
strengthening of his own party and the deterioration of the enemy’s party. 
12 They should tell ministers and soldiers of the same well-being and security 


(as before). 13 He should show consideration for them in calamities and on 
festive occasions, and honour their children. 


udakahi of 14.3.67 is possible, but not certain. — sirovagidhandsahisalso an odd expression. 
What seems meant is that the head is covered, leaving the nose out (to make it appear blaz- 
ing). ‘ With the nose covered along with the head ’ (Cs) could hardly have been meant. 
As nastah prayogah is obviously to be construed with this expressicn, the genitive would 
have been better; or should we read -nasah (in the genitive singular from nas ‘nosc’)? — 
-vasabhir vd: the va apparently shows the option between prsatdanira and the vasa of the 
various animals. —. tailam : we expect the instrumental, since it is this oil applied to the 
nose that will apparently make it glow. The whole clause appears loosely constructed. 


5 udakacarandni,i.e., moving in water or on the surface of water. 6 agnidhiimoisargah 
as described in 14.2.34. 


7 sdcivyakardah, i.e., those who have helped him in manipulating these tricks. 9 
vdyasa@ is ‘ crows’ flight’ rather than their cries. — angavidyd: sec 1.12.1. 10 sadundu- 
bhim cannot be included in s. 9 (asis done in Cs), as fortune-telling with drum-keats does 
not appear likely. — ulkdm: this.is managed artificially as in 14.2.80. — parasya 
naksatre i.e., when the moon is in the birth constellation of the enemy. 


1l svdmisatkaram, i.e., regard felt by the vijigisu for the particular mukhya of the 
enemy ; it can hardly mean ‘honour done to the diita-agent (described so as to tempt the 
mykhya) ’ (Cs). — svapaksabaladhanam : this and the following expression are construed in 
Cs with lulyayogaksemam in the next s., the explanation being ‘ should declare suapaksabala- 
dhana and parapaksapratighata as leading to a gain and security (yogaksema) for ministers 
and soldiers, equal to that of the king himself (iulyai, i.e., rdjfid samanam)’. ‘Thisis hardly 
satisfactory, particularly the equality with the king. Meyer understands by tulya the same 
prosperity for ministers and soldiers, which would hardly tempt the mukhyas. tulya seems 
to refer to the same position as now enjoyed by them, though it must be confessed that this 
by itself would hardly be a sufficient temptation to change sides. 18 apaiyapijanam: 
according to Cs, this is done after the death of the mukhya. Thisis unlikely; the vijigisu 


would not be interested in their children for their own sake. Honouring the children is only 
a means of winning over the father. 


13. 1. 14 J KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 476 


14 In that way he should stir up the enemy's party (against him) as 
explained before. 135 And we shall explain further. 16 (He should stir 
up) the diligent by (speaking of) the ordinary donkey ; the leaders of the army, 
by the stick and the striking of the branch; those frightened, by the ram 
(strayed) from the herd ; those insulted, by a shower of thunder-bolts ; those 
with hopes frustrated, by the cane bearing no fruit, balls of rice to crows and 
the cloud created by magic ; those receiving the reward of honour, by decora- 
tion of a disliked wife by one who hates ; those secretly put to test, by the 
tiger-skin and the death-trap; those who constantly oblige, by the eating of 
the pilu-fruit, the hail, the female camel and churning of the she-donkey’s 
milk. 


17 Those who agree (to desert), he should endow with money and honour. 
18 And in their difficulties regarding goods and food, he should favour them 
with gifts of goods and food. 19 Jn the case of those not accepting (these), 
they should bring ornaments to their women and children. 


20 And on occasions of famine, or troubles by robbers or forest tribes, 
secret agents, stirring up the citizens and the country people, should say, 
* I.ct us ask the king for help ; if we do not get help, let us go elsewhere.’ 


21 When, saying ‘ All right’, they agree, help should he given to 
them by the grant of goods and grains. Thus there is this great miracle 
of secret instigation. 


14 purastdl,i.c.,in 1.14.6 1.16 sddhadranagardabhena, i.c., by comparing them with a 
donkey that labours without getting adequate compensation. — lakutasakhahananabhyam, 
i.e., Comparing them to a stick which strikes a branch so that others may get the fruits; so 
a general fights so that the king may enjoy himself. —- Aulaidakena: cf.12.1.7 ; tle sugges- 
tion is, like such a ram, he may be caught any time and killed. — aganivargena implying 
that an insult is like a thunder-bolt. — vidulena avakegind, i.c., by comparing the enemy 
king with a reed that promises but does not bear fruit. — vdyasapindenai.c., by comparing 
what is given by the king with an Offering to a crow, suggesting its meagreness as well as 
contempt forthe recipient. Cs understands vd dyasapindena ‘ or, in uneatable Jump ofiron ’; 
that is very doubtful. — kaitavajameghena: by comparing the king with a magic cloud 
from whichthereis no rain. — durbhagdlamkdrena deesineti (this lastis from Cs for dvesino ‘ti) 
The King is compared to a husband who dislikes his wife and yet provides her with orna- 
ments etc.; dvesind describes the kingorthe husband. dvesinahin the other reading would 
describe the mukhyas, who would also appear as alipijdphalan. But if they are already 
full of hate for the king, no instigation would be neccessary in their case. atipiijd also 
appears doubtful. The explanaticn in Cs ‘those honcured by the king, by speaking of 
the gift (alamkdara) being defective (durbhaga) or that the king is displeased (dvesind)’ is 
however, quite unlikely. durbhagdis contrasted with subhagd of 8.4.24 etc. Cf.‘ durbhaga 
palisneharahita’ (Trikdndasesa). — vydghracarmand, i.c., suggesting that the king is fero- 
cious like a tiger. — upahiidn: this has reference to the upadhds of 1.10. — piluvil:ha- 
danena: pilu is a kind of fruit which apparently provides no nourishment, but is only 2 
source of trouble ; so is upakara conferred on this king. — karakd ‘ hail’ is understood as 
a kind of bitter vegetablein Cs, as a water-jug by Meyer. A hail-stone may signify harm- 
fulness or usclersness. — ustryd: this also is a kind of bitter plant, according to Cs. Onc 
may understand the female camel ag being useless for purposcs of milk. — gardabhi- etc. 
apparently signifies great cffort with no return. — dhruvopakdrinahis an emendation from 
Meyer. dhruvapakdrinah ‘constantly doing haim * seems little likely in the context. 


18 chidra clearly refers to want.or lack of the things mentioned. 
21 parigralu seems to have the sense of ‘ favouring ’,i.e., granting or giving. 


477 MEANS OF TAKING A FORT [13.2.1 
CHAPTER TWO 


SECTION 172 DRAWING OUT (THE ENEMY) BY MEANS OF STRATAGEMS 


1 An ascetic with shaven head or with matted locks, living in a mountain 
cave, (and) declaring himself to be four hundred years old, should stay in the 
vicinity of the city with plenty of disciples with matted locks. 2 And his 
disciples, approaching with roots and fruits, should induce the ministers and 
the king to pay a visit to the holy master. 8 And, visited by the king, he 
should speak of identification marks of former kings and their countries, 
(adding), ‘ When every one hundred years of my life are completed, I enter 
fire and become a child again; so here in your presence, I shall enter fire for 
the fourth time; you have necessarily to be honoured by me; choose three 
hoons.” 4 When he agrees, he should say, ‘ You should stay here with sons 
and wife for seven nights, after arranging a festival with shows.’ 5 He 
should attack him while he is staying there. 


§ Or, an agent appearing as a seer of underground objects, with shaven 


head or with matted hair, having plenty of disciples with matted hair, should 
place in an ant-hilla bamboo-strip smeared with goat’s blood, after smearing 
it with gold powder, in order that ants may follow it, or (place there) a hollow 
tube of gold. 7 Then a sccret agent should tell the king, ‘ That holy man 
knows a flowering treasure-trove.’ 8 Qucstioned by the king, he should say, 
‘Yes,’ and point out that proof, or after placing more money in the earth. 
And he should say to him, ‘ This treasure-trove, guarded by a cobra, can 


be obtained through worship.’ 10 When he agrees, ‘ for seven nights’ and 
so on as before. 


11 Or, as an agent appearing as a scer of underground objects, with his 
body enveloped in a burning fire at night, is staying in a solitary place, secret 


13.2 

vamana ‘ cmptying ’ refers to forcing the enemy king out of his fort and then getting him 
killed. Mcyer understands ‘emptying’ to imply weakening of the king. But vamana 
refers to movement from one place to another; -cf. 2.1.1. cva@manais the causal of that. 


1 nagara- is the cnemy’s capital. 3 abhijfidndni: these are, of course, learnt from 
history. — bhavdn manayitaryah is from Cs; bhavdndnayitacyah of the mss. is an obvious 
corruption. 5 avaskandeta: the subject is the vijigisu. 


6 sthdnika, as the context shows, seeme to mean one who is able to see whatis under- 
ground in any particular place (sthdna) ; the usual meaning of a divisional Officer is out of 
the question. Russ. has sthdnika ‘one who constantly stays in one place.’ — bastasonita- 
is from Cs for the unlikely vastrasonita of the mss. — upajihvikdnusaranartham : apparently 
the ants would be attracted by the goat’s blood and their presence may be regarded as an 
indication of a treasure-trove there. It is however, quite likely that the absence of ants 
would indicate the presence of a cobra and the treasure guarded by him and that the goat’s 
blood is in order to drive away ants. For this -apasarandriham would have to be read. 7 
puspitam nidhim : On the strength of parallels from other folk-tales, Meyer thinks that a 
lightis supposed to appear at the place, indicating that the treasure is flowering, i.c., shooting 
forth and growing, the flower being the Salaka or na@likd. 8 bhitiyo ud hiranyamddhaya : 


this may be in place of or in addition to the Salakd or ndlikd of s.6. 10 samdnam, i.c., 
as in ss. 4-5. 


11 tejandgniis describcdin14.2.18-26. — kramdbhinitam : ‘ faithin whomis gradually 


ree ; the meaningis slightly different from thatin 11.1.6 and 12.2.19. — sdmedhikah: 
cf, 1.11.16. 


18. 2. 12 } KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 478 


agents should say to the king after making him gradually entertain faith 
(in him), ‘ That holy man is able to secure prosperity.’ 12 Promising to 
ensure what object the king were to ask for, (the seer should say), ‘ for seven 
nights’ and so on as before. 


13 Or, an agent appearing as a holy man should tempt the king with 
magical lores. 14 ‘ What object the king’ and so on as before. 


15 Or, an agent appearing as a holy man, finding shelter in (the temple 
of) an honoured deity of the country, should, by frequent festivities, win over 
the chiefs among the constituents and gradually overreach the king. 


16 Or, as an agent appearing as an ascetic with matted locks, all white, 
is staying in water, with means of getting away to an underground tunnel or 
chamber under the bank, secret agents should tell the king, after gradually 
making him believe, that he is Varuna or the King of Nagas. 17 ‘ What 
object the king’ and so on as before. 


18 Or, an agent appearing as a holy man, living on the border of the 
country, should induce the king to have a sight of the enemy. 19 When he 
agrees, he should make an cfligy and invoke the enemy, and should kill the 
king, in a secluded spot. 


20 Agents appearing as traders, coming with horses for sale, should 
invite the king to purchase or receive horses as a gift, and kill him while 
engrossed in inspecting the goods or when mingled with horses and should 
strike with the horses. 


21 Or, assassins, climbing a sacred tree near the city at night-time and 
blowing into jars through stalks or reeds, should say indistinctly, ‘ We shall 
eat the flesh of the king or the chiefs ; let worship be offered to us.’ 22 Agents 
appearing as interpreters of omens and astrologers should make that (utterance) 
of theirs known. 


15 abhyarhitdm, i.e., worshipped by all the people there. — abhisamudsya: making 
them stay with him and thus creating confidence in him. Cf. samvdsya 5.1.19 ; 11.1.40. 


1G tatasurungda- from Cs is clearly necesary ; tadasurungd- of the mss. conveys little 
sense. 


18 satrudarsandyu: the darsana is for working on his effigy for black magic. 19 
bimbam is the enemy’s efligy,.and a@vdhayiiud refers to ‘invoking ’ the enemy to come and be 
presentin the effigy. Itis this ‘presence’ thatis apparently to be held responsible for 
the death of the king. Cs hus ‘givinga sign (bimba) and bringing in the enemy 
(in person)’. It is doubtful if the vizigisu is intended to be brought face to face with 
the enemy. 

20 panyopayananimitiam : two separate purposes, sale and gift, are intended. — 
asvais ca prahareyuh: after killing him themselves, they get him trampled upon by horses, 
so that his death would appear as being due to a stampede of horses. 


21 cuityam, i.c., caityaorksam. — ndlin vd viduldni: the vd is misplaced; it should 
have come after viduldni. The idea seemsto be to muffle the voice by blowing through 
hollow reeds into jars, so that it would sound as the voice ofa spirit. Cs, reading vidalani, 
has ‘by burning as incense (dhamaniah) grain-stall s (ndlin) and splinters of wood (vidaldri)’. 
It is doubtful if incense-smoke can be supposed to he created by spirits. Meyer suggests 
vddayantah in place of vd “playing on the reeds in the pots or blowing into rattan-sticks ’. 
Thisdoesnotseemmeant. 22 After this, some rite is recommended to the enemy, during 
the course of which he is to he murdered. See ss. 33-84 helow. 


479 MEANS OF TAKING A FORT [ 18. 2.87 


23 Or, agents appearing as Nagas, with their bodies smeared with 
burning oil, should, at night-time, pound together iron clubs and pestles in a 
holy lake or in the middle of a tank and utter in the same way. 


24 Or, agents robed in the skins of bears, giving out fire and smoke 
(from the mouths), and having the appearance of Raksasas, should go three 
times left-wise round the city and utter in the same way, in the intervals 
between the cries of dogs and jackals. 


25 Or, making the image of a deity in a sanctuary burn at night with 
g g y y g 


burning oil or with fire covered by a layer of mica, (agents) should utter in the 
same way. 26 Others should make that known. 


27 Or, with blood (of animals) they should cause an excessive flow (of 
blood) from honoured images of deities. 28 Then others should declare 
defeat in battle in consequence of the flow of the blood of the deity. 


29 Or, on the nights of the month’s junctures, they should point out a 
sanctuary in a prominent part of the cemetary as with men eaten standing. 
809 Thereafter an agent appearing as a Raksasa should demand the offering 
of a human being. 381 And whoever, calling himself brave or some one else, 
were to come there to see, others should kill him with iron pestles, so that it 
would be known that he was killed by the Raksasas. 82 Those who have 
witnessed it and secret agents should report that miracle to the king. 383 
Then agents appearing as interpreters of omens and astrologers should prescribe 
pacificatory and expiatory rites (adding), ‘ Otherwise a great disaster will 
befall the king and the country.’ 34 When he has agreed, they should say, 
‘In these (manifestations), for seven nights the king himself should make 
offerings of oblations with mantras on each single day.’ 85 ‘Then as before. 


36 Or, showing these tricks practised on himself, he should overcome 
them, in order to convince the enemies. 87 ‘Then he should employ the 
tricks (against them). 


23 tejanataila as described in 14.2.25. 


24 agnidhiimotsarga from the mouth, as described in 14.2.84. — apasavyam: see 
1.20.4. — Svasrgdla- is from Cs for sivdsrgdla-: the latter may mean ‘female and male 


jackals’; but the expression appears doubtful. The cries of the animals may be supposed 
to have bcen also imitated. 


25 abhrapatalacchannena agnind: Meyer thinks that the mere application of mica 


would make the image burn at night. But the wording presupposes an inflammatory 
substance covered by mica. 


29 samdhirdtrisu, i.c., full moon and new moon nights, particularly the latter. — 
tirdhvabhaksitair ‘ eaten upright ’;i.e., eaten while they are alive, asin Meyer. Cs has* with 
the upper part of the body eaten ° which appears less likely. 34 etegu refers to all the 
manifestations mentioned above in ss. 21 onwards. — ekaika seems to refer to bali or homa 
on each oneoftkesevendays. Meyerhas ‘one single chant, offering and oblation, for seven 

ays.’ ; 

36 Paresdm upadesartham, i.e., to show to the enemy that the manifestations can be 
successfully overcome and so to induce him to take the same measures when the manifesta- 
tions are producedin his state, so that he could then be doneaway with. paresdém can hardly 
refer to hi sOwnmen,asCsunderstands. Itis unlikelythat the king would be teaching these 
tricks to his servants. Meyer proposes apadeésartham ‘in order to have a pretext for using 
them against the enemies’; that is not necessary at all. 


18. 2. 88 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 480 


88 Or, by overcoming occult manifestations, he should replenish the 
treasury. 


39 Keepers of clephant forests should tempt the (enemy) fond of 
elephants with an elephant possessed of auspicious marks. 40 When he 
agrees, they should take him to a dense forest or a path allowing only one 
person to march at a time, and kill him, or carry him off imprisoned. 41 By 
that is explained the (enemy) fond of hunting. 


42 Or, secret agents should tempt the (enemy) greedy of money or 
women with rich widows (or) women possessed of great beauty and youth, taken 
to him for the sake of inheritance or deposit. 43 When he agrees, they should, 
conccaled in ambush, kill him with weapon or poison at the time of the mecting. 


44 Or, on the occasions of his frequent visits to holy men, mendicants, 
images of deitits in sanctuaries and sttipas, assassins, concealed in underground 
chambers or passages or inside hollow walls, should strike at the enemy. 


45 In those places, in which the king himself is witnessing a dramatic 
show, or is enjoying himself in a festival or where he is sporting in water ; 


46 On all occasions of speaking words of reproof and so on, during 
sacrifices and festive parties, during birth-rites, funeral rites and illnesses, 
on occasions of love, sorrow or fear ; 


47 Or, when at a festival of his own people he, being full of trust, 
becomes careless, or when he moves about without a guard, on a rainy 
day or in crowds ; 


48-49 Wohin he has strayed from the route, or when there is a fire or 
when he has entcred a place without any men in it, assassins, entering with 
packages of clothes, ornaments and flowers, with beds and seats, or with 
vessels containing wince and food or with musical instruments, should 
strike at the enemy along with those employed there beforehand. 


38 This s. is repeated from 5.2.45 and is really out of place here. 
89 Cs rightly compares the capture of Udayana by Pradyota’s men. 


42 Asit appears that women of great beauty and youth are to be distinguished from 
rich widows, it would be better to read the vd after paramaripayauvanabhih instead of 
after ddhyavidhavabhih. It is also possible, however, that paramariipa- etc. only further 
describes the rich widows themselves. — ddyaniksepdriham is proposed asin 11.1.42 ; there 
is little doubt that daydda ‘heir* is unlikely. <A vivdda with respect to daya or niksepa 
is meant. 43 saitracchanndah is as proposed by Meycr; satiricchanndh of the mss. is little 
likely., satlracchanna is, in fact, a paraphrase of sattrin. 

45 yah (in yah preksah) has little significance. — ydtrdvihdre; Meycr thinks that we 
should read yaira vihdre, since ydtrd as ‘ festival’ is not common in this text. But that is 
not correct. For ydlrdavihdra, cf. 7.15.22 and for ydird 1.21.28 and 12.5.). 

46 dhiguktyddisu sarvesu: Cs reads cdtiiktyddisu kriyesu ‘on occasions of panegyrics 
and On ceremonial occasions.’ Meycr proposes rgukiyddisu ‘on occasions when rcs are 
recited.’ This is little likely. 

48 viprasthdne, i.e., when he has missed the road and is lost. 49 abhigatah is an 
emendation from Meyer ; abhihatath of the mss. implies that drums would be beaten when 

killing the enemy, which would be strange. And abhigatdh is necessary in itself. — arim 
in the singular is also from Meyer ; that is in conformity with the singulars in the earlier 
clauses. 


481 MEANS OF TAKING A FORT { 18.8.12 


50 And in the same way as they may have entered on the occa- 
sions for an ambush of the enemy, they should depart. Thus has been 
described the drawing out (of the enemy) by stratagems. 


CHAPTER THREE 
SECTION [73 EMPLOYMENT OF SECRET AGENTS 


1 Heshould make a trustworthy chief ofa band (ostensibly) desert him. 
2 Finding shelter with the enemy, he should bring over helpmates and 
associates from his own country on the pretext of their being his (own) party. 
8 Or, bringing about an influx of secret agents, he should, after securing the 
enemy’s consent, destroy a treasonable town of his master, or an army devoid 
of elephants and horses with treasonable officers, or a (treasonable) ally in the 
rear (of his master), and should send word to the enemy. 4 Or, he should 
resort to a part of the country or a band or forest chiefs for obtaining help. 
5 Winning (the enemy’s) confidence he should send word to his master. 
6 Then the master, pretending (an expedition for) catching elephants or 
destruction of forest tribes, should attack secretly. 


7 By this are explained ministers and forest chiefs. 


8 After making friends with the enemy, he should dismiss (some) 
ministers. 9 They should send a request to his enemy, ‘Propitiate the 
master for us.’ 10 He should upbraid the messenger whom he might send 
(with such a request), ‘ Your master is dividing me from the ministers; you 
should not come here again.’ 11 Then he should make one minister desert 
him. 12 Finding shelter with the enemy, he should bring to the notice of 


50 dvisatah: Cs understands this as accusative plural construed with praviseyuh ; 
that is not a happy construction. It is obviously genitive singular to ke ccnstrued with 
satirahetubhih. These latter refer to the occasions enumerated in the preceding stanzzs. — 
tathaiva, i.e., with the phelds as in ss. 48-49. 


13.8 


1 $reni kere obviously refers to the srenibala. — nigpdtayet: cf.9.6.35. That passage 
describes a similar stratagem. See also ss.11ff. below. 8 vilahastyagoam disydmdtyam : 
cf. 10.5.49. — With dkrandam, we have to understand disya from the preceding. — The 
object is two-fold, to get rid of the disyas and at the same time to convince the enemy that 
he really has become hostile to his old master. 4 janapadaikadesam etc. : this seems to 
mean thatinstead of attacking the disyagrama etc. of his old master, he goes to the country- 
side of the enemy to raise troopsforhim. ‘These troops would be under him, s0 that heis 
in a position to get them destroyed by inviting a secret attack by hisold master. Cs, how- 
ever, understands the idea in this and the next s. as follows, * he should secretly go to the 
country etc. to receive them as helpmates for his old master ; when after receiving them he 
feels confidence in them, he should send them to his old master.’ Thisis altogether unlikely. 
vigodsa in the next s. refers to the trust which the enemy would be placing in the ‘ deserter ’, 
not thelatter’s confidencein the troops. And presgayetis as usual Only *‘ should send word ” ; 
cf.12.5.28, also ss. 9,10,17 below. Besides, itis unlikely that enemy’s men are here intended 
to be won over to the vijigigu’s side. The idea here is that of preparing for a secret attack 
Ontheenemy. 6 giidham eva praharet: the ‘ deserting’ grentmukhya would, of course, be 
helping in this attack to destroy the enemy’s troops. 


8 avaksipet: cf 1.10.2. 10 sa@ yam from Cs is clearly necessary for svayam. 11 
athaikam etc.: for this stratagem, of. 9.6.85-41. 12 yogapasarpa seems to mean ‘agents 
who have turned traitors’ to the vijigisu. These and the aparakta and diisya are brought 


18. 3. 13 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 482 


the enemy treacherous spies, the disaffected and the treasonable, who are weak, 
or robbers and forest chiefs who harass both (kingdoms). 18 Winning 
(thus) a position of trust, he should bring to his notice the offence of brave men 
(of the enemy, such as) a frontier officer ora forest chief ora leader of the army, 
saying, ‘So and so is surely in league with your enemy.’ 14 Then after. 
wards he should get them killed through letters carried by men condemned to 
death. 


15 Or, he should get him destroyed by rousing the enemy with the use 
of armed forces. 


16 Or, by supporting the seducible party, he should make the king who 
is the enemy’s enemy do injury to himself and then should attack him. 17 
Then he should send word to the enemy, ‘ This enemy of yours is doing injury 
to me; come, let us join forces and destroy him; you will have a share in 
(his) land or money.’ 18 If he agrees and comes after honouring (these 
words), he should get him killed by the enemy in a sudden assault or in open 
battle. 19 Or, under the pretext of giving land or crowning his son or giving 
protection, in order to create confidence, he should get him seized. 20 Or, 
if he is unassailable, he should get him killed by silent punishment. 21 If 
he were to Iend a force and not come himself, he should get it destroyed by 
his enemy. 22 Or, if he were to desire to march with troops, but not with 
the conqueror, even then he should get him destroyed by a squeezing from 
both sides. 28 Or, if, full of distrust; he were to wish to march, each 
separately, or were desirous of seizing a part of the territory of the king against 
whom they are marching, even then he should get him killed by the enemy 
orby mobilising all his troops. 24 Or, when he is engaged ina fight with the 
enemy, he should get his base seized from another direction by sending 
troops (there). 


25 Or, he should bargain with the ally with the (offer of the) enemy’s © 
land, or with the enemy with the (offer of the) ally’s land. 26 Then making 
the ally do injury to himself when seeking to seize the enemy’s land, he should 
attack him and so on, all the tricks exactly as before. 


to the notice of the enemy by the deserting amdtya in order to win his confidence. — agakti- 
maiah: the point seems to he that even if the enemy takes tliemin service, they will not 
be much use to him. — parasya upaharet can hardly mean ‘ showd present to the enemy as 
helpmatces’; it could not possibly apply to the stena and dtavika who harass both kingdoms. 
13 pravtrapurusopaghdiais ‘injury by brave men,’i.e., some offence of theirs. antapdla etc. 
illustrate pravirapurusa and satrunad samdhaitte illustrates the upaghdta. 

15 dandabalavyavahdrena : cf. 8.1.34,38. — satrum seems to be the enemy’s enemy, 
though there is no asya to show that. The ss. that follow illustrate this s. The enemy 
himself as the object of udyojya appears little likely in the context. 

16 krlyapaksopagraha is the reason why the enemy’s enemy would be doinginjury to 
the vizigisu, who would then attackin retaliation. 17 parigrahah ‘allotment’ or assign- 
ment ofa share. 19 abhivisvdsandritham: this is when he is not killed, but is successful 

in defeating hisenemy. He is invited to receive the promised share of land or get his con 
crowned there ands0'on. 20 avisahyam refers primarily to the fort in which he is safe. 
22 s«ubhyatahsampitdanena, i.e., between himsclf and the enemy’s enemy. 


25 mitram: this is the vijigigu’s ally asin Cs. 26 sarvu eva yogah ,-i.c., those of 
ss. 17-24, substituting me mitram for te vatri in 17. 


488 MEANS OF TAKiNG A FORT [ 18. 3. 40 


27 Or, he should help with troops the enemy, who has agreed, when 


he is secking to seize the ally’s land. 28 Then he should overreach him, 
as he marches against the ally. 


29 Or, after taking remedial measures, he should show a calamity for 
himself, and rousing the enemy through the ally, should get him to attack 
himself. 80 Then he should destroy him by squeezing or, catching him alive, 
make an exchange of the kingdom (for his life). 


31 If, sheltered by the ally, the enemy were to wish to remain out of 
reach, he should get his base seized by a neighbouring prince and so on. 32 
Or, if he were to seek to protect it with troops, he should cause those to be 
destroyed. 


33 If the two were not to become estranged, he should quite openly 
bargain with each other’s land. 34 Then agents posing as friends or those 
in the pay of both should send messengers to one or the other, ‘ This king 
wants to seize your land, being in league with the enemy.’ 35 (If) one of 
them is filled with apprehension or anger, he should act as before. 


86 Or, he should banish chiefs of the fort or the country or the army, 
after proclaiming the grounds for their being the seducible party. 37 They 
should overreach the cnemy in a battle or a sudden assault or a siege or a 
caiamity. 388 Or, they should bring about his estrangement from his own 
groups. 89 ‘They should get corroboration through letters carried by men 
condemned to death. 


40 Or, secret agents appearing as hunters, remaining at the gates for 
the sale of meat, and given shelter by gate-keepers, should win the enemy’s 
confidence by informing him of the approach of dacoits two or three times, 
(then) getting their master’s army stationed in two places, one for destroying 
a town and the other for a sudden assault, should say to the enemies, * A band 


29 tatah pratividhdnena of the mss. is not right, since this trick is not connected with 
the preceding as would beimplied by tatah. — mitrena: this again is the vijigisu’s ally ; 
he is to urge the cnomy to attack the vijigisu because of the pretended vyasana. 30 
sampidanena, i.e., between his ally and himself; cf. ¢. 22. 


31 mitrena dégritah: this is equivalent to mitram d$ritah, the ally being that of the 
enemy. The latter has gone to the ally’s capital. — agrdhye ‘in a position where he 
cannot becaptured’. agrahyah, might appear betterasin12.1.16. — trdlum: theobject 
is miilam. 


38 tau, i.e., the enemy and his ally. — -bhilmyd in the instrumental is preferable 
to -bhiimydm ; cf.s.25. 34 parasparam is not from the enemy to the ally and vice versa, 
but to the enemy or to the ally from third parties. — mitravyafijand ubhayavetand oa: 
in view Of 04, two separate words are proposed in place of a single compound. 385 jdid- 
$ankdrosah etc. : we have to supply cet with this, for the subject for cestetais vijigzisuh. 


86 kriyapaksahetus are mentioned in 1.14. — pravrdjayet: the banishment is for 
hoodwinking the enemy, who unsuspectingly gives them shelter. 87 avarodha: cf. 12.5.9, 
10. 88 svavargebhyah: these would be the enemy’s own chiefs or officers. | 


40 mdmsavikrayena dudhsthah: apparently the hunters remained outside the gates 
to avoid duty. — grdmavadhe: one part of the vifigisu’s troops is assigned the task of 
attacking a-town (other than the durga) as dacoits, the other isintended for an assault on the 


18,8. 41 | KAUJILIYA ARTHASASTRA 484 


of robbers is close by; there is a great din; let a large force come.’ 41 
Handing that over to the troops (of their master) meant for destroying the 
town and taking the other troops to the gates of the fort at night, (they) 
should say, ‘ The band of robbers is killed ; the troops, successful in the expedi- 
tion, have come back ; open the gate.’ 42 Or, those secretly employed there 
beforehand should open the gates. 43 Along with them they should strike. 


44 Or, he should station in the enemy’s fort soldiers disguised as artisans, 
artists, heretical monks, actors and traders. 45 Agents appearing as house- 
holders should bring to them weapons and armours in carts carrying wood, 
grass, grains and other goods, or in flags and images of gods. 46 Then those 
disguised like them (should carry out) the slaughter of the unwary, the support- 
ing of sudden assault, or a strike in the rear, or should announce by the sound 
of conches and drums, ‘ The (army of the enemy) has come in.’ 47 They 
should open rampart-gates and towers, divide the enemy’s divisions or destroy 
them. 


48 The carrying over of troops (into the enemy’s fort) is to be along with 
those moving in caravans or groups, with escorts, with those accompanying 
brides, with dealers in horses, with carriers of implements, with sellers or 
purchasers of grains, with those bearing the marks of monks and with envoys ; 
peace is to he made (during the period) for creating confidence. 


49 These are secret agents for (outwitting) the king. 


durga. —- dvisatah: the plural hasin view the oflicers in the enemy’s fort. 41 tad,i.e., 
the large force ofthe enemy. — arpayitod suggests absence of any fight, as the enemy’s 
troops realise that they have been tricked. —- itarad,i.e., that meant for the avaskanda. 
— ‘The explanation in Cs is much beside the point and bristles with difficulties. The 
pratyaya won is supposed to be that of the master (not of the enemy), grdmavadhe and 
avaskande are understood as ‘for dcfending against an attack on the town and against an 
assault,’ the handing over is supposed to be for the purpose of warding off the attack on the 
town, andthe hunters themselves are supposed ‘ to kill the enemy troops so that those who 
want to leave the fort may do so easily ’; all this implies that a real attack by robbersis 
visualised, whicli is hardly concciyable. 


44 dyudhiydn here and praharandvarandni in the next s. are from Cs and are obviously 
the only correct readings. 45 dhvaja: spears could be brought in with flags. 46 tad- 
vyanjanah: tad may refer to karu ctc. and grhapatika. It is also possible that it has 
reference to enemy troops, suggesting the putting on oftheir uniform. — prsthatah: after 
this kuryhis to be understcod. In fact, the words pramaiia- ...prsthatah do not seem to 
to helong to this s. and should preferably be read at the beginning of the next s. In that 
case tadvyafijana might refer to putting on the appearance of those whose duty it is to 
announce something to the sound of conches etc. Cs construes pramaiiavadham etc. with 
pravisiam ‘should announce that pramattavadha etc. has appeared in the rear.’ That 
is extremely doubtful. — vdscems to show the opticn between gankha and dundubhi. 
47 ghdata is preferable to pdia in connection with the anikas. 


48 dtivahikaih: these are cscorts for merchants etc. A fce is charged for this; cf. 
2.16.18. Cs has * those who want protection on difficult roads ’, treating it as an adjective 
to the other six clauses. Thatis quite unlikely. — -kreirviketrbhir vd: in view of the ca 
at the end, ud scems to show the option between kretr and vikreir. — dyittaihin the mss. 
is an Obvious corruption. — atinayanam: cf. 7.14.24. Cs has ‘carrying enemy troops 
very far by pretending to escort them’. It would bea very strange army that would allow 

itselfto be led astray by bridal processions and grain merchants. —- samdhikarma: thisis 
swhile the soldiers are being smuggled in. 


485 MEANS OF TAKING A FORT [13.4.3 


50 These same are agents for forest tribes, also those mentioned in ‘ the 
suppression of criminals’. 51 Secret agents should cause a herd of cattle 
or a caravan in the vicinity of a forest to be destroyed by robbers. 52 And 
making the food and drink placed there, in accordance with an agreement, 
mixed with a stupefying liquid, they should go away. 53 Then cowherds 
and traders should cause the robbers carrying loads of stolen goods to be 
attacked when the stupefying liquid is having its effect. 


54 Or, an agent appearing as an ascetic with shaven head or with 
matted locks and posing as a devotee of god Samkarsana, should overreach 


(the forest robbers) by using a stupefying liquid after holding a festival. 55 
Then he should make an attack. 


56 Or, an agent appearing as a vintner should overreach foresters by 
using a stupefying liquid on the occasion of the sale or presentation of wine 
during festivities in honour of gods or funeral rites or festive gatherings. 
57 Then he should make an attack. 


58 Or, after scattering in many groups the forest tribes that have 


come for plundering the town, he should destroy them. Thus secret 
agents for robbers have been described. 


CHAPTER FOUR 


SECTION 174 THE WORK OF LAYING SIEGE (TO A FORT) 
SECTION 175 .STORMING (A FORT) 


1 The work of laying siege (to a fort) should be preceded by weakening 
(the enemy). 


2 He should grant safety to the countryside as it may have been settled. 
3 He should induce those, who have risen, to settle down through favours 


51 apasarpdh etc. : the agents win the confidence of the robber-bands and get them 
to attack a caravanetc. At the same time they get the merchants etc. to agree to poison 
their food etc. and let it fallin the hands of the robbers, who would be partaking of that, to 
their own cost. 52 apagaccheyuh: the subject would be gopdlakavaidehakah, rather than 
apasarpah. It would be better to read gopdlakavaidehakah at the beginning of s. 52instead 
ofs.58. 53 cordnand -bhaérdnin the accusativeis an emendation from Meyer ; the accusa- 
tive is quite necessary, as object for avaskandayeyuh. 


54 Samkarsanadaivatiyo is from Cs; -yogd atthe endisacorruption. Sarmkarsana or 
Balarama is represented as fond of wine, which may be supposed to be freely used in a 
festivalinhishonour. — Both hereandins. 56, -yogenais read for -1,0gam or -yogabhyam, 
in conformity with 1.18.9. Thereis no pointin the use of the dual. 


56 updyana ‘ present’ rather than ‘ bringingin (forsale) ’ (Cs) or ‘ arrival (ofthe vint- 
ner for sale)’ (Meyer). Cf. 13.2.20 above. 


58 apasarpah are principally agents who ingratiate themselves with persons whose ruin 
is to be brought about. 


13.4 


The two Scctions are found in ss. 1-24 and 25-53 ; the last few ss. discuss the orderin 
which conquest of lands should be made. 


1 kargana- is described in ss. 6-7. 


2 abhaye from Csisclearly the originalreading. 3 ulthitam: therisingis notin revolt 
against the conqueror, but only to get out of his way to make room for military operations. 


18. 4. 4 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 486 


and exemptions, excepting those who go away. 4 He should settle them on 
land away from the battle-field or make them stay in one region. 5 For, 
there is no country without people and no kingdom without a country, says 
Kautilya. 


6 He should destroy the sowings or crops of one entrenched in an 
inaccessible fort, also his supplies and foraging raids. 


7 By cutting off foraging raids and supplies, also by destroying 
sowings and crops, by removing (from their place) and by secret murder, 
a deterioration of the constituents takes place. 


8 (When he thinks), ‘My troops are fully supplied with abundant and 
excellent grains, forest produce, machines, weapons, armours, labourers and 
ropes ; the season is favourable (to me), unfavourable to the enemy ; (he is 
suffering from) a deterioration of his stores and fortifications through diseases 
and famine, there is weariness among his purchased troops and weariness 
among the ally’s troops ; ’ then he should lay siege. 7 


9 After securing the protection of the camp, of supplies and reinforce- 
ments and of the roads, he should encircle the fort along the moat and the 
rampart, defile the water, empty the moats or fill them, and cause the parapet 
and the rampart to be taken by means of an underground passage and 
storming by troops, and the breach by means of elephant-armour. 10 He 
should fill hollows with piles of earth. 11 He should destroy with machines 


Russ. has uithiia ‘who love their work’, obviously connecting it with utthdna ‘energetic acti- 
vity.’ — anugraha- etc. : cf. 2.1.15. — anyatra apasaraiah: the exception is that of 
those who wish to go away and do not wish to live under the conqueror. 4 samgramad 
anyasyam bhiimau (samgramdd is frcm Meyer for samgrdmcam) : the idea seems to be that the 
people who are to be settled should be settled where there is going to be no battle. With 
samgrdmam, Russ. has anyasydm ‘other than where agriculturists live.’ It is possible to 
construe anyaira apasaraiah with this s., i.e., those who move away from theirlands should 
besettledin a place where thereisgoingtobeno battle. Meyer, who hasthis punctuation, 
explains ‘ those who have run away from other places’; for this last clause, anyaiah would 
be expected. Cs reads samagram and has ‘ those over and above (the number engaged in 
agriculture, utthita)’. Thisis highly problematical. 5 The point of this dictumis that the 
vijigisu, while engaged in conquest, should see to it that the country is not ravaged nor the 
people exterminated ; otherwise the conquest will be fruitless. 


6 visama refers to the inaccessible fort, not to any difficulty or danger. 
7 vamandd: cf. 2.1.1. — prakrti ‘constituents’ rather than ‘subjects’. 


8 resmimay beropes(forscaling? )orreins. — vyddhiand durbhikga are the causes 
that have led to the ksaya of nicaya andraksaé. — Forsome ofthe expressions, cf. 10.2.138. 


9 surungabalakutikdbhydm is obscure. In spite of the dual, Cs has a single idea ‘army 
huts (sainyapallibhih) dug crosswise in the ground’. What this meansis hard to make out. 
Meyer renders balakutikda by ‘ a sort of vinea (?)’; he also suggests ‘a false wall’ or‘ a strong 
hammering’. Russ. has ‘dug-outs (mud-huts) for one’s own troops.’ Can it mean ‘a 
sudden storming by trocps’? — ddaram: this refers to a breachin the wall. With this 
hGrayetis to be understood from the preceding. Cs understands acchddayet from what follows 
and, with gula in the sense of ‘a lump for covering’, has ‘should cover the breach with a 

lump’. Why the besieger should cover the breachis not clear. guda (which is the form 
preferred )is given the sense of ‘ an elephant’s armour ’in the Medini ; itis possible to under- 
stand the storming of the breach with armoured elephants. gulena‘ with unwieldy objects’ 
(Russ.) Meyer proposes dudram for daéram, in which case we can understand the idea of 
storming the gate withelephants. bahulenaisafaulty reading. 10 nimnamvd: vd serves 


487 MEANS OF TAKING A FORT [ 13. 4.20 


what is guarded with many troops. 12 Dragging out (soldiers) from the run- 
way exit, they should strike with horses. 18 And in the intervals hetween 


fig ting, he should seek success by the exclusive, alternate or combined usc 
of the (four) means. 


14 Getting hawks, crows, pheasants, kites, parrots, sdrikds, owls and 
pigeons, with nests in the fort, caught, he should release them in the enemy’s 
fort with fire-mixtures tied to the tails. 15 Or, from the camp stationed at 
a distance (from the fort) he should set fire to the enemy’s fort with human fire, 
being guarded by bows with flags raised aloft. 16 And secret agents, serving 
as guards inside the fort, should place a fire-mixture in the tails of ichneumons, 
monkeys, cats and dogs, and let them loose in stores of reeds, fortifications and 
houses. 17 Placing fire in the interior of dried fish or in dried meat, they 
should have it carried in through birds by offering it to crows. 


18 Balls of sarala, devaddru, ‘stinking-grass’, bdellium, pine-resin, sala 
resin and lac and the dung of donkeys, camels, goats and shcep, are (good) 
retainers of fire. 


19 The powder of priydla, the soot of avalguja, wax and the dung of 
horses, donkeys, camels and bullocks make a fire-mixture which can be thrown 
(into the fort). 


20 Or, the powder of all metals, of the colour of fire, or the powder of 
kumbhi, lead and tin, mixed with the flowers of pdribhadraka and paldésa, 


little purpose. 12 niskirddis read asin 2.3.14. Cs, reading miskardd, has ‘by means ofa 
trick (kapatat) ’ or ‘ by making the elephant put forth his trunk (kara) ’. The second explan- 
ationis quitefanciful. — asvaigca prahareyuh; the ca and the plural of the verb seem due 
to repetition frcm 18.2.20. — mniyoga- etc.: see 9.7.78-8@. — Cs reads durgavdsinah 
at the end of this s. instead of at the beginning of the next and understands it as genitive 

singular ‘ of the enemy in the fort ’ over whom heis to seek success. Itis, however, distinc- 
tly better to understand the word as describing the Lirds in the next s. ‘ 


14 napir is ‘ viskira’ (Cs); the lexicons give the latter as ‘a cock’ or ‘a pheasant’. 
15 The camp isto beat some distance (frcm the fort) so that itis not affected by the 
fire. —- -dhanvdrakso in the singular is read to conform with the verb ddipayet of the 
mss. —  wcchritadhvajadhanvdrakso vd: the purpose of the raised flags is not clear. 
Apparently they are intended as a sort of protection from the human fire that is being 
used. Cs breaks the compound at -dhanvd (singular), with a@raksah (plural) as the option 
to it, understanding ddipayeyuh with the latter. Thisis farfrcm happy. Meyer suggests 
ucchritasthadhanvdksepah ‘throwers of fire by means of bows, stationed on high ground’, 
his verb being ddipayeyuh in the plural. Thesuggesticnis notsatisfactcry. — mdnusena 
agnind as described in 14.2.88. 16 antardurga- is as suggested by Meyer; antadurga- of 


the mss. would refer toa frontier fort, which has no propricty here. — kédnda ‘reed’, 
used 85 an arrow. 


18 piititrna is apparently some Kind of grass. — $rivestaka is ‘ the resin of sarala- 
pine’(Cs). — Itis not clear if the balls and the dung are to be mixed together or not ; 
perhaps not. 


19 avalgujamasi-: Cs understands masi as a variety of the sephalikd plant, instead of 
as ‘soot’. All substances mentioned in this s. together form an incendiary compound, 
that can be hurled with the hand. 

20 agnivarnam: how the powder of all metals is to get the colour of fire is not at all 
clear. Meyer suggests agnipdranam ‘ with fireinit’, whichis not convincing. — kumbhi 
is ‘the ¢riparni’ (Cs); the latter means ‘ the silk cotton tree’. Meyer thinks that kumbhi 


18. 4. 21 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 488 


the soot of kega, oil, wax and pine-resin makes a fire-mixture, one that kills 
the trusting. 21 An arrow smeared with it (and) covered with hemp and the 
bark of trapusa, is a (means of) setting on fire. 


22 However, when fighting is possible, he should not at all make use of 
fire. 23 For, fire is unreliable and is a divine calamity, the destroyer of 
innumerable creatures, grains, animals, money, forest produce and goods. 
24 Anda kingdom, with stores exhausted, even if obtained, leads only to loss. 


Thus ends (the topic of) laying siege (to a fort). 


25 (When he thinks), ‘ I am fully provided with equipment and labourers 
for the undertaking ; the enemy is ill, has the constituents estranged because 
of secret tests, or has made no fortifications or stores ; being without reinforce- 
ments or with reinforcements, he will soon make peace with allies ;’ that is 
the time for storming (the fort). 


26 When a fire is accidentally caused or is produced (by agents), when 
there is a festival, when troops are engaged in witnessing a show, during quarrels 
caused by drink, when troops are tired by constant fighting, when his men 
are wounded or killed in many battles, when people, tired of keeping awake, 
are asleep, when it is raining or the river is flooded or there is a thick fog, he 
should storm (the fort). 


27 Or, abandoning the camp, (and) hiding in a forest, he should kill the 
enemy as he sallies out. 


28 Or, one posing as the chief ally or helpmate should make friendship 
with the besieged and send a man condemned to death as a messenger, saying, 
‘This is your weak point ; these men are treasonable ;’ or ‘ This is the weak 


may be some metal. — -kegamasi-: ‘ keSais the hribera and masi is a variety of sephd- 
lik@’ (Cs). Meyer understands ‘soot’ not only of the kega plant, but also of the flowers of 
paribhadraka and paldga. — S$rivestakayuktah: the masculine seems due to agniyogah ; 
actually the compound qualifies -ciirnam neuter. — visvdseghdali vd: the vd is strange; 
for,  vifodsaghati is only a description of the agniyoga, not an opticn to it. In 2.18.5, 
visodsaghdtin appears as a sthitayanira ; it may have been used for throwing fireinto the fort. 
Meyer reads visvdsa- etc., at the beginning of the next s., which is nO improvement. 21 
trapusaisakindofplant. — bdnacanhardly mean ‘ arjunacrksa ’ (Cs)in the context. 

28 apratisamghdta- of the mss. yieldslittle sense. apratiscmkhydta-is necessary. 

25 upadhdaviruddhaprakrtih: as upadhd has a technical sense (cf. 1.10), prakyti would 
refer primarily to ministers. Meyer thinks of uzadhdas ‘ deceit’ and prakyti as ‘ subjects’. 
— pura mitrath samdhaite : the idea apparently is that he might make fresh alliances with 
@ view to raise the siege with their help; to prevent that, an immediate assault is to be 
made. Meyer’s translation presuppcses purd amitraih ‘ make peace with his other enemies’; 
that does not yield a hetter sense. For the idiom with purd cf. 9.6.69 and 12.38.15. 

26 preksanikadarganasanga: what seems meant is preksddargandnikasanga ‘ engross- 
ment of the troops in seing a theatrical show’. In a foot-note Meyer suggests preksayam 
anikadarsganasange “when in a show, the sight of the troopsis obstructed’. The inability 
of the troops to see a show would hardly be a reason for storming the fort. 

27 Cs reads satruh satirdt for satrum, and understands that the enemy is hidingin a 
forest. That the erlemy, who is besieged, would be hiding in a forest is altogether unlikely. 
28 mitrdsdramukhyavyafjano vd is from Cs. 04 shows the option between miira and 
dsdra; cf. s. 80. mukhya does not mean merely ‘a chief officer’ (Cs). It refers to the 
principal one among the kings who are supposed to be the enemy’s allies. vyanjana shows 
that this king isin reality in league with the vijigigu — ime diisyadh: theseinnocent men 


489 MEANS OF TAKING A FORT [ 13.4. 45 


point of the besieger ; this is the seducible party for you.’ 29 As he comes 
out with a return messenger, the conqueror should seize him and proclaiming 
his offence, slay him and go away. 30 ‘Then the one posing as an ally ora 
helpmate should say to the besieged, ‘Come out to save me,’ or ‘Kill the besieger 
along with me.’ 81 When he agrees, he should destroy him by squeezing 
from both sides, or, catching him alive, make an exchange of the kingdom 
(for his life). 82 Or, he should demolish his capital city. 88 Or, forcing 
out his best troops he should strike. 


84 By that are explained the king surrendering with troops and forest 
chieftains. 35 One of the two, a king surrednering with troops or a forest 
chieftain, should send word to the besieged, ‘ This besieger is ill, (or) he is 
attacked by an enemy in the rear, (or) another weak point has appeared, 
(or) he wants to go to another land.’ 86 When he has agreed, the besieger 
should set fire to the camp and go away. 37 Then he should act as before. 


88 Or, making a collection of merchandise, he should overreach him with 
goods mixed with poison. 


39 Or, one posing as a helpmate should send a messenger to the besieged, 
‘Come out to attack the enemy outside, already attacked by me.’ 40 When 
he agrees, he should act as before. 


41 Entering the fort under the pretext of (seeing) a friend or a kinsman, 
with sealed passes in hand, secret agents should get it seized (by the besieger). 


42 Or, one posing as a helpmate should send word to the besieged, * At 
such and such a place and at such and such a time, I shall strike at the camp ; 
you also must fight (then)’. 438 When he agrees, he should show the tumult 
of an attack as mentioned and destroy himas he sallies out of the fort at night. 


44 Or, he should invite an ally or a forest chieftain (and) incite him, 
‘ Fight against the besieged and seize his land.’ 45 When he fights, he should 
get him slain through the subjects or by supporting his treasonable chiefs, 


of kill him himself with poison, achieving his object (of implicating the enemy), 
* He is the slayer of his ally ’. 


being removed by the enemy On this suggestion, he thereby becomes weakened. 29 apagac- 
chet: go away with the ostensible-object of attacking the mitra or dsara who had given 
information about his kriyapaksa to the enemy. 81 ubhayaiah - etc. : cf. 18.8.22 and 30. 
83 sdrabalam vd vamayiivd, i.e., when the enemy, instead of coming out in person, sends & 
strong force in response to the appeal of the mitra or dsdra. 


_,,_34 dandopanaia : see 7.15. He is to pretend to be dissatisfied with his suzerain, the 
vi7_gisu ; sO is the Gtavika to pretend. 87 pirvavat, i.e., asin ss. 31-33. 


88 panyasampdiam ‘an accumulation of goods’; this may be done when leaying the 
camp, as Meyer thinks, or by simply allowing goods to fall in the enemy’s hands. 
89 bdhyamis from Cs; for the word, cf. 12.5.28. 
_41 sdsanamudrd: this seems to be merely a sealed pass allowing entry in the fort, it 
being, of course, forged. 
44 mitram: this is theally of the besieged enemy. 45 prakriibhih seems to be ‘sub- 


jects’. — diisyamukhya-are those of the ally orforestchief. — mitraghdiakah describes 


ne enemy On whom the blame is thrown for the murder, so that the other allies may leave 
im. 


—a,— o* = 
ad 


hd eeOrusces 
. ae 


18. 4. 46 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 4.90 


4G Or, one posing as a friend should inform the enemy about (the ally 
ete.) wanting to attack. 47 Securing a position of trust, he should get his 
brave warriors slain. 


48 Or, making peace with him, he should induce him to settle the 
country. 49 When settled, he should, unknown, destroy his country. 


50 Or, after causing an injury to be done and getting part of the 
(enemy’s) troops led against treasonable or forest troops, he should capture 
the fort by a sudden assault. 


51 Treasonable, alien and forest troops, hostile men and deserters 
(from the enemy) who have come over, being given money and honour and 
supplied with signals and signs, should attack the enemy fort. 


52 When attacking the enemy’s fort or camp, they should grant safety 
to those fallen down, those turning back, those surrendering, those with loose 
hair, those without weapons, those disfigured by terror and to those not 
fighting. 


53 After obtaining the enemy’s fort, he should enter it after it is cleared 
of the enemy’s party and after precautions against silent punishment are 
taken inside and outside. 


54 After thus conquering the enemy’s territory, the conqueror should 
seek to seize the middle king, after succeeding over him, the neutral king. 
55 This is the first method of conquering the world. 


56 In the absence of the middle and neutral kings, he should overcome 
the enemy constituents by superiority of policy, then the other constituents. 
57 This is the second method. 


46 vikramitukdmam refers to mitram dtavikam vd of 5.44. 47 Thisisdoneasin 13.3.18- 
14 and other places, through faked letters. 


49 janapadam hanydat: this goes counter to Kautilya’s own opinion as stated in ss. 
2-5 above. The tricks seem to be simply repeated from earlier writers. 


50 The idea seems tc be that the vizigisu causes some injury to the enemy through his 
disya and dtavikatroops; the enemy would send a part of of his troops against them, where- 
upon the fort, with depleted troops, may be seized. For balaikadescm atiniya, cf. 12.5.25. 
atiniya has the sense of the causal. The usualidea of smuggling troopsinto the fort, which 
Meyer understands, does not seem meant here. 


51 pratyapasriais apparently a descrter (from the enemy) who has come over to him ; 
cf.7.16.16. Meyer construes this word with each of the other wordsin tte compound; that 


isnotlikely. — samjrdisa signal for acting at a particular time or place ; cihnais a sign 
for recognizing One’s own side. 
-52 abhipanna: cf. 1.18.6. — -éastra- is to be construcd with the preceding mukta, 


rather than with the following bhaya. 


56 gundligayena : guna would seem to refer to the ‘ policy ’ pursued, thcugh ‘ qualities 
in himself and his constituents ’is not unlikely. — ariprakrith, i.e., the enemy and his 
allies. — wuftardh,i.e., the other kings of the circle. 


491 MEANS OF TAKING A FORT [ 13. 5.8 


58 In the absence of the circle he should overcome by squeezing from 
both sides the ally through the enemy or the enemy through the ally. 59 
This is the third method. 


60 He should first overcome a weak or a single neighbouring prince ; 
becoming doubly powerful through him a second prince; threc times powerful, 
a third. 61 This is the fourth method of conquering the world. 


62 And after conquering the world he should enjoy it divided into 
varnas and dsramas in accordance with his own duty. 


63 Sccret instigation, secret agents, drawing out (of the fort), 
laying siege and storming, these are the five means of taking a fort. 


CHAPTER FIVE 
SECTION 176 PACIFICATION OF THE CONQUERED TERRITORY 


1 The (object of the) conqueror’s activity is two-fold : forests and 
so on, and a single city and soon. 2 Its acquisition is of three kinds ; 
new, formerly possessed and inherited. 


8 After gaining new territory, he should cover the enemy's faults with 
his own virtues, his virtues with double virtues. 4 He should carry out what 
is agreeable and beneficial to the subjects by doing his own duty as laid down, 
granting favours, giving exemptions, making gifts and showing honour. 
5 And he should cause the (enemy’s) seducible party to be favoured as pro- 
mised, and more if they had exerted themselves. 6 For, he who does not 
keep his promise becomes unworthy of trust for his own and other people, 
also he whose behaviour is contrary to that of the subjects. 7 MHence he 
should adopt a similar character, dress, language and behaviour (as the 
subjects). 8 Andheshould show the same devotion in festivals in honour of 
deities of the country, festive gatherings and sportive amusements. 


58 mandalasya abhdce, i.e., when there are only two states to be tackled, one friendly, 
the other hostile. 


60 sgakyam: cf.6.1.8. — ekam,i.c., without anally. 


62 svadharmena refers to the king’s own duties rather than to those of the varnas and 
dgramas, asin Cs. 


63 These are the titles of the Sections in the first four Chapters of this Book. 
13.5 


1 samutthénam refers to engaging in military and allied activity for conquest ; afaui 
etc. are its objects. — atavyddikam refers to extensive dominion Over all kinds of 
territory, while ekhagrdmddikam refers to the capture of a single city orfort. 2 piiryam 
‘inherited from the father’. Cs has ‘lost by the father and recovered by theson’. That 
is not meant. 


4 svadharmakarma, i.c., carrying Out tasks prescribed as his speciel duty; cf. 1.4.16. 


5 upagrahayet, i.e., do for them what he has promised in return for their help against 
their master. The causal has little significance. 8 It seems that ufsava is to be construed 
with degadaivata and samdja, while vihdra is to be understood independently. 


18.5.9 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 492 


9 Secret agents should frequently point out the enemy’s misconduct 
to chiefs in the country, towns, castes and corporations, the master’s great 
good fortune and love for them, and the master’s great regard for them. 10 
And he should make use of them by looking after their customary rights, 
exemptions and protection. 


11 And he should cause the honouring of all deities and hermitages, and 
make grants of land, money and exemptions to men distinguished in learning, 
speech and piety, order the release of all prisoners and render help to the 
distressed, the helpless and the diseased. 12 (He should order) the stopping 
of slaughter for half a month in every four months, for four nights (and days) 
on the occasions of full moon nights, for one night (and day) on the days of the 
constellations of the king and thecountry. 18 He should prohibit the killing 
of females and young ones and the destruction of a male’s virility. 


14 And discontinuing whatever custom he might regard as harmful to 
the treasury and the army, oras unrighteous, he should establish a righteous 
course of conduct. 


15 And he should cause a change of residence, not in one place, of those 
in the habit of robbing and of Mleccha communities, and of chiefs of forts, 
country andarmy. 16 Andhe should cause ministers, chaplains and others 
favoured by the enemy, to reside on the enemy’s frontiers, not in one place. 
17 He should put down by silent punishment those capable of injuring or 
those brooding on the master’s destruction. 18 In the places of those re- 
moved, he should establish men from his own country or those in disfavour with 
the enemy. 


19 And if any pretender from the (enemy’s) family be capable of seizing 
easily recoverable territory, or a nobleman staying in a frontier forest be 
capable of troubling him, he should give him worthless land or a fourth part 
of valuable land, after fixing a tribute in treasury and army, such that while 
paying it he would rouse the citizens and country people to revolt. 20 He 
should get him killed through these, when they are roused. 21 He should 
remove one denounced by the subjects or station him in a dangerous region. 


9 degajati- etc. : cf. 3.10.45. samghais not tobe construcd with dega, grdma and jati, 
as Jayaswal (Hindu Polity, II, 65 ff.) thinks. 

ll vidydodkyadharmasira : it seems better to understand sira with the preceding as 
* brave in i.e., distinguished in ’, rather than independently as ‘brave’. 18 yonibdla- 
refers to females and young ones of all species, particularly animals. Meyer has ‘female 
children ’ only ; Russ. has ‘ young females’; K. Nag has ‘ girls and the newly born’ (Les 
Théories etc., p.112). — pumstva is also that of all creatures. 

15 In view of the position of ca, coraprakrtindm is different from mlecchajdtindm. 17 
anuksiyatah, in the context, has the sense of ‘brooding over’. Cf. 5.1.55 for the normal 
sense Of ‘to survive’. 18 aparuddhdn ‘in disfavour’, not necessarily thrown in prison, 
asin Cs. 

19 kogadandadanam avasthdpya : the amount is not stated, but must he assumed to be 
exorbitant. It cannot be supposed to be stated in caturbhdgam ‘ one-fourth of the produce ’ 
as Meyer thinks. That would hardly lead to a rising of the people. 21 wupakrustam : this 
would apply to any Officer, not to tatkulina or abhijdia alone. 


498 MEANS OF TAKING A FORT [ 18.5. 24 


22 In the case of territory formerly possessed (and reconquered), he 
should cover up that defect of the constituents because of which he had to 


leave and should strengthen that quality on the strength of which he has 
returned. 


23 In the case of inherited territory, he should cover up the father’s 
defects and display his virtues. 


24 He should institute a righteous custom, not initiated before and 
continue one initiated by others; and he should not institute an unright- 
eous custom, and should stop any initiated by others. 


Herewith ends the Thirteenth Book of the Arthagastra of Kautilya 
‘Means oF TakInG A Fort’ 


28 Yor labdhapragamana in the casc of an inherited kingdom, cf. Raghuvamga 4.14 and 


preceding verses. Weneed not suppose piirya to have been lost by the father and recovered 
by the son, us that passage clearly shows. 


BooK FOURTEEN 


CONCERNING SECRET PRACTICES 


SECTION 177 SECRET PRACTICES FOR THE DESTRUCTION OF ENEMY 
TROCPS 


1 For the sake of protecting the four varnas, he should use secret 
practices against the unrighteous. 


2 The group of poisons, kdlakita and others, should be introduced into 
articles used on his person by the enemy, by approved men and women of the 
Mleccha communities, disguised as humpbacks, dwarfs, Kiratas, dumb or deaf 
persons, idiots, or blind persons, in an appearance credible as to country, 
dress, profession, language and birth. 


3 Sccret agents should introduce weapons in the articles for the (encmy) 
king’s sports and in.objects:from the stores used by him, and agents following 
a secret activity, moving about at night, and those living by fire, should put 
fire (in those objects). 


4 ‘The powder of the speckled frog, the insects kaundinyaka and krkana, 
the pajicakustha and the centipede, the powder of uccidiiga, kambali, sata- 
kanda, idhma and the lizard, the powder of the house-lizard, the ‘ blind reptile’, 
the Irakantaka, the ‘ stink-insect ’, and the gomdrikd, mixed with the sap of 
bhallataka and avalguja, causes instantaneous death, or the smoke of these 
(causes it). 


The Fourtcenth Book describes various secret remedies and occult practices intended 
forthe destructionoftheenemy. <A great deal of magical and other lore is incorporated here. 


14.1 

We have in this Chapter recipes intended to kill, maim or disfigure a person. The 
ingredients cannot often be identified; in fact, sometimes it is not even clear if a name 
stands fora plantorsomecreature. The cfficacy ofthe recipes cannot, of course, he tested. 


1 It may be noted that these preparations are to le used against the unrighteous, the 
o)bject being the protection of the four varnas. 


2 vigavargah: see 2.17.12. —- $ruddheya- etc.: cf. 1.12.6. -— mlecchajdtiyath 
suggests that Aryans were not favoured for the work of administering poison. — abhipre- 
ath ‘liked’, i.e., enjoying the confidence of the king on whom pOisoning is to he tried. — 
$artropabhogesu ‘articles used on the person ’ appears better than ‘on the body andin the 
articles used by him.’ 

3 * rajakrida- etc.: upabhoga can be construed with kridabhanda ‘ articles for sport’ 
and nidhdnadravya ‘goods from stores’; but it secms preferuhle to understand it with 


nidhanadravya only. —- gustranidhdnam: nidhana ‘placing’ is practically ‘using’ the 
weapon. — satirdjivinuh is little more than satirinah. —- trdiricdrinah: the agents 


appear as night watchmen cte. 


4 panculustha iv, rccording to Cs, the five products of the kustha plant (bark, Icaf, 
flower, fruit und root). It muy, however, be the name of some insect. The other words 
in the compound refer to insects. — idhma ‘fuclof palasa’ (Cs). Meyer has idhmakr- 
kalasa as one ‘alizardlivinginfuel’. idkama, however, seems to be the name ofa plant ora 
creature. Cf. s.10. — andhdhika ‘blind reptile’ is a kind of fish, according to Cs. 

— gomarikd ‘some sort of reptile’ (Meyer) ; ‘a kind of herb’ (Cs). — avalguja is as 
sugecsted by Meyer for avalgukd of the mss. avalguja is the name of a. plant, known to 
this text: cf. 13.4.10. 


495 CONCERNING SECRET PRACTICES { 14.1.18 


5 Or, any one of the insects, boiled along with the black serpent and 


priyangu—one should dry up (this mixture) ; this mixture is believed to 
cause instantaneous death. 


6 The root of dhdmargava and ydtudhdna, mixed with the powder of 
bhallataka flowers (is a preparation) for bringing on death in a fortnight. 


7 The root of vydghataka, mixed with the powder of bhallataka flowers 
(and) a mixture of insects, brings on death in a month. 


8 Only a minute portion (is the dose) for men, double for donkeys and 
horses, four times for elephants and camels. 


9 The smoke of satakardama, uccidinga, karavira, the bitter gourd and 
fish, with the stalks of madana and kodrava or with the stalks of hastikarna 


and paldsa, when cerried forth in a breeze blowing forward, kills everything 
to which it blows. 


10 The powder of the ‘stink-insect’, fish, bitter gourd, éatakardama, 
idhma and the indragopa insect, or the powder of the ‘ stink-insect ’, ksudrd, 
arala, hema and vidadri, mixed with the powder of the horns and hooves of a 
goat, makes a smoke that blinds (one). 


11 The leaves of putikaranja, yellow orpiment, red arsenic, guiija@-seeds 
and stalks of red cotton plant, made into a dough with the sap of dsphota, 
kdca and cow-dung, make a blinding smoke. 


12 The slough of a serpent, the dung of the cow and the horse and the 
head of a ‘blind reptile’, make a blinding smoke. 


18 The urine and dung of pigeons, frogs and carnivorous animals and of 
elephants, men and boars, green sulphate of iron, asafoetida, the husk and 
broken and whole grains of barley, the seeds of cotton, kutaja and koésataki, 
the roots of gomitrika and bhdndi, bits of nimba, Sigru, phaninjaka, aksiva 
and. piluka, the skin of a serpent and a female gaphara and the powder of the 


5 taptah‘ heated ’ seems to mean ‘ boiled’ with krsnasarpa-ctc. Weexpect kifam... 
taptam as the object of gosayet; thatis probably why Cshas ‘ aninsect by itself would dry up 
a person (sosayet); when mixed with black serpent and prizangu it killsimmediately’. Itis 
doubtful, however, if fosayet contains a reference to the effect produced by the recipe; more- 
over, the construction is far from natural. 


6 drdhamdsikah: we have to understand praénaharo yogah (Cs). — It seems kita- 
yogah is to be understood in this s. asin s. 7 ; the word seems to have dropped out accident- 
ally from this s. 

7 kitayogah refers to the mixture ofinsects mentioned in s. 4. 

8 kald: this measure is not mentioned in 2.19, clearly suggesting a difference in 
sources. 

9 Cs understands sata and kardama as two plants. — paldla ‘stalks’ or ‘grass’; 
it is this that makes the smoke. — pravatdnuodte, i.e., when the wind is blowing forward 
towards theenemy. — pranitah ‘led, directed’. 

11 kdca ‘a variety of salt produced from salty ground ” (Cs). 

18 kravydda: perhaps any carnivorous animal would do. — pratyekasah to be con- 
strued with md@rayati (Meyer). Cs understands the smoke of each one of the objects 


14.1.14 j KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 496 


nails and tusk of an elephant—the smoke of this produced with the stalks of 
madana and kodrava or with the staiks of hastikarna and paldga, kills each 
singly, wherever it moves. 


14 The roots of kali, kustha, nada and Satdvari, or the powder of the 
serpent, pracalaka, krkana and pajicakustha—this smoke produced in the 
manner mentioned before or with half-wet, half-dry stalks, (and) directed 
to (the enemy’s) coming on the battle-field or crowding in a sudden assault, 
by men who have taken precautions for their own eyes with ‘washing water’, 
destroys the sight of all creatures. 


15 The dung of the sarikd, the pigeon, the heron and the crane, kneaded 
with the milk of arka, akst, piluka and snuhi plants is a blinding eye-salve and 
a polluter of water. 


16 A mixture of the roots of barley and sdli-rice, the fruit of madana, 
nutmeg leaves and man’s urine, mixed with the roots of plaksa and viddari, 
(and) mixed with a decoction of mika, udumbara, madana and kodrava, or 
mixed with a decoction of hastikarna and paldsa, is a stupefying preparation. 


17 A mixture of sraigi, the gautama-tree, kantakdra and mayitirapadi, 
a mixture of gurija, ldngalt, visamilika and ingudi, a mixture of karavira, 
aksi, piluka, arka and mrgam4arani, mixed with a decoction of madana and 
kodrava, or mixed with a decoction of hastikarna and paldéa is a stupefying 
preparation. 


18 Or, all these are polluters of fodder, fuel and water. 


19 The smoke of krtakandala, the lizard, the house-lizard and the ‘ blind 
reptile ’ causes loss of eyesight and madness. 


20 A mixture of the lizard and the house-lizard causes leprosy. 21 The 
same, mixed with the entrails of the speckled frog and honey brings on a 
disease of the bladder; mixed with human blood, (it causes) consumption. 


mentioned, used singly; that appears less likely in view of ziyega dhiimah coming after the 
enumeration of all the ingredients. 

14 piirvakalpena (from Cs) refers to madanakodravapaldlena etc. — ardraguska- may 
be ‘half-wet, half-dry ’ or ‘ wet or dry’; the former seems preferable. —  mnejanodaka 
is proposed asin 14.4.2. tejanodaka in Cs is little likely. 

"16 mika: Cs paraphrases by ‘ avila jalam, turbid water’, whichis doubtful. Meyer 
suggests musiain place of mika. — madanayogah ‘a mixture that causes stupefaction or 
swoon’. Cs has ‘ cittavibhramakarah, causing maaness’. 

17 «érngi- ctc.: Cshas ‘ the fat (gautama) of the srigi-fish and the lodhra tree (urksa as 
lodhra)’. This is very doubtful. 

18 samastdah ‘all these ’,i.e., cach singly, not all mixed together, as Meyer thinks. 

19 krtakandalaseemsto be thenameofsome reptile. Cs, however, has * whose muscles 
have been cooked’ as adjective to krkaldsa etc., or ‘ mixed with the kapikacchiika plant’. 
Neither is satisfactory. Meyer thinks of krsakd a magic bird mentioned in the Pdraskara 
Grhya Sitra, 1.19.10. 

21 gosam ‘drying up’, i.e., consumption. 


497 CONCERNING SECRET PRACTICES [14. 1. 38 


22 The (poison) disivisa and the powder of madana and kodrava is a 
preparation for bringing on paralysis of the tongue. 


23 A mixture of mdtrudhaka, anjalikdra, pracalaka, the frog, akgi and 
piluka causes cholera. 


24 A mixture of paiicakustha, naundinyaka, the flowers. of rajaurksa 
and honey, causes fever. | 


25 <A mixture of (the flesh of) bhdsa and nakula and (the plants) jihvd 
and granthikd, kneaded with the milk of a’female donkey, makes one dumb 
and deaf, in a month or half a month. 


26 Only a minute portion for men and so on as before. 


27. The administration ofa decoction of bits in the case of plants, powder 
in the case of creatures, or the administration of a decoction in all cases, thus 
it becomes more potent. 28 These are the excellences of mixtures. 


29 The man, whom an arrow, prepared with the seeds of 4almali and 
vidari, joined with mila and vatsanabha and smeared with the blood of musk- 


rat, hits, bites, when wounded (by it), other ten persons, and those bitten bite 
other ten persons each. . 


30 The decoction of elaka, aksi, guggulu, and halahala, together with the. 
flowers of bhalldtaka, yatudhadna, avdnu, dhaémargava and bana, mixed with the 
blood of a goat and man, is a preparation causing biting. 81 A measure of 
one-half dharana of this preparation, introduced in water with barley meal 
and oil-cake, poisons a reservoir of water, one hundred dhanuses in extent. 
82 For, a shoal of fish bitten or touched by this, becomes poisonous, also - 
whoever drinks this water or touches it. 


88 An iguana, placed along with red and white mustard seeds ina camel- 
shaped vessel buried in the ground for three fortnights, (and) taken out by a 
man condemned to death, kills wherever it casts its glance, ora black serpent 
(does so). . | 


22 disivisam : ‘in medicinal works, a dry vegetable poison which does not cause 
death, but remains long in the system’ (J olly-Schmidt). ‘Cs has ‘ poison whose potency hes 
been remoy ed by herbs etc.’; thatis unlikely in view 0f 14.4.1. — apasihvikd ‘removal 
ofthe tongue ’seemsto refer to loss of its use. Cs, reading upajihvikayogah, includes it along 
with disivisam etc. i in the next s. in the sense of ‘a mixture of ants’. That oes not sound 
plausible. 3 


25 jihodand ts are einderstocd as names of Blanter ae itbe that the tongue 
and the muscles of bhdsa and nakvla are to be understood? — wmdsdrdhamdsikah: this 
seems to mean ‘ effectivein a month orina LY , » though; effectivein a month anda 
balta is also: ‘possible ; cf. 14.2.4 below.- 

“29 dhanya ‘ grains’ 5 i.e.; seeds. Cs understands Rtetien Deere by it. 
ay 30, avdnu is uncertain and seems due to a corruption of the text ; Cs drops it but. reads 
- apdmarga: for dhamargava ; for the latter, however, cf. s..6. — darnSayogah : probably 

the'same idea as in s.:29 is to be understood. 81 Kor dharana, see 2. 19.5-6. 82 dasta 
in the case Of fish prohably means Det! drunk by them, and thus introduced in their system. 


14.1.34 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 498 


84 A charcoal burnt by lightning or a flame (caused by it), caught and 
fed with wood burnt by lightning — this fire, with offerings made into it 
under the Krttikas or the Bharanis in a rite in honour of Rudra, burns, when 
directed (towards an enemy), without there being any remedy for it. 


85 Bringing fire from a blacksmith, he should offer honey in it 
separately, wine in the fire from the vintner, and ghee in the fire from the 
roads ; 


36 And, (he should offer) garland-flowers in the fire from a woman 
devoted to her husband, mustard seeds in the fire from a harlot, curds in 
the fire from a woman in confinement ard rice-grains in the fire from one 
who has kept the sacrificial fires ; 


37 Meat in the fire from a Candala, human flesh in the fire from a 
funeral pyre, the fat of a goat and human dhruva in all these together. 


88 He should offer the wood of rdjavrksa with mantras in honour 
of Agni. This is a fire against which there is no remedy, which confounds 
the eyes of enemies. 


89 O Aditi, a salutation to thee; O Anumati, a salutation to thee; 
O Sarasvati, a salutation to thee ; O God Savitr, a salutation to thee. 40 To 
Agni, hail! To Soma, hail! Earth hail! Atmosphere hail! 


84 -pradagdho "ngdro judlo va is proposed for the corrupt -pradagdhodgdarojvdlo vd. 
Cs has ajvalo; hut in view of ud, judlo (masculine) as ‘ flame’ appears preferable to ajudla 
(adjective) ‘without flame ’ describing angdra. — anuvdsiiah, i.e., maintained for some days. 
— raudrena karmand: Meyer refers to the Atharvaveda PariSista, 1. 406, 415. 

85 méargato ’gnimisa very tentative suggestion for bhdgam yo’gnim ofthe mss. Meyer 
proposes bhdgato’gnim, but his explanation ‘fire from a brothel (bhdga from bhaga the female 
Organ)’ is quite fanciful. Cs reads bhdrgydyognim ‘the fire from ayas, i.e.,ayaskdra, with 
the offering of the bhdrgi-plant and ghee.’ But ayaskdra could hardly be different from 
karmara, already mentioned. One might also suggest bhdrgavdgnim ‘fire of archers’, 
marganagnim ‘the fire of a beggar’, margikdgnim ‘the fire of a hunter’, or bhadrikagnim 
‘the fire ofa porter.’ But noneis satisfactory. 

86 sitikdsu: the locative is strange. 

37 samastdn : i.e., after the separate offerings are made, all fires are put together and 
the offering of bastavasd etc. made. — mdnusena dhruvena ca: Cs understands dhruvain 
the sense of the banyan tree, mdnusa being human flesh. Meyer proposes sravena ‘urine’ 
for dhrucena, orin the alternative manusyarudhirena ca asthe last quarter. dhruva, among 
others things, means ‘tip of the nose ’, but it can hardly be understood here. Canit mean 
flesh? Russ. understands ‘flat cakes.’ 

89-40 These are evidently formulas to be repeated after the offeringsin the fire. They 

themselves do not conetitute the agnimantra. The deities are mostly Vedic. 


499 CONCERNING SECRET PRACTICES [ 14. 2.8 
CHAPTER TWO 


SECTION 178 DECEIVING (BY MEANS OF OCCULT PRACTICES) 
(2) Working of Miracles 


1 The powder of Sirtsa, udwmbara and éami, mixed with clarified butter, 
is a recipé against hunger, effective for half a morth. 2 That, prepared out 
of kageruka, the bulbous root of the lotus, the root of sugar-cane, lotus- 
fibres, diirvd grass, milk, ghee and cream, is effective for one month. 


8 Drinking, with milk and ghee, the powder of mdsa-beans, barley, 
kulaitha and the roots of darbha grass, or valli, milk and ghee boiled together 
in equal quantities, (or) the paste of the roots of sala and préniparni along with 


milk, or partaking of milk boiled together with that, along with honey and ghee, 
one is able to fast for a month. 


4, Qil, prepared from mustard seeds kept for seven nights in the urine 
of white goats and kept ina bitter gourd fora month and half a month, isa 
means of disfiguring quadrupeds and bipeds. 


5 The oil of white mustard seeds, boiled with barley-grains (taken) 
from the dung of a white donkey fed on butter-milk and barley, after seven 
nighis, is a means of disfiguration. 


6 Mustard oil, boiled along with the urine and dung of either of these 
two, with the addition of the powder of arka, tila and patanga, is a means of 
' making (a person) white. 


7 A mixture of the dung ofa white cock and a boa constrictor, is a means 
of making white. 


8 White mustard seeds, kept in the urine of a white goat for seven 
nights, butter-milk, the milk of arka, salt and grains — this mixture kept 
for a fortnight is a means of making white. 


14.2 


The 178th Sectionis spread over this and the next Chapter. pralambhana is ‘ deceiving, 
ae y 


ksudyogah is a remedy for keeping off hunger. Apparently the mixture is to he 
taken only once at the start of the fortnightly period. 2 Meyer has kandeksu as a kind of 
grass. 

8 A vd seems necessary after payasd, so that we get four recipesinall. In the absence 
of vd, Meyer, proposing vallikstraghriabhyam, has ‘drinking as a drink (payasd ptivd) the 
pulp of the roots of sdlaand préniparnt prepared in squall quantities with the juice of rallt 
and ghee.’ The rendering of payasd pitud is doub 

4 mdsérdhamdsa-: sérdhamdsa would have been better for the sense intended. ‘A 
month or half a smonth ’ is possible, but seems less likely. 


5 lendayavath *barley-grains picked from the dung’ (Meyer) is preferable to ‘dung 
and barley-grains ’ (Cs). 


6 etayohi.e., of the white goat or white donkey. — patarga ‘moth ” (Meyer), ‘ éalik’ 
oy — prativapa: cf. 2.25.2 


In this recipe, Cs hasin eats arka, tila, katuka, matsya and vilanga, but no Tavana 
and enaapt ee — After this, Cs has two additional recipes for making white: ‘A mixture. of 


14. 2.9] KAUFILIYA ARTHASASTRA 500 


9 The flour of white mustard seeds, kept for half a month in a bitter 
gourd while still on the creeper, is a means of making hair white. 


10 The insect that is known as alojuna and the white house-lizard 
— hair smeared with this paste would become as white as a conch-shell. 


11 One, with his body rubbed with cow-dung or with the pulp of tinduka 
and arista, (and) smeared with the sap of bhalldtaka, gets leprosy within a 
month. 


12 Guitja-seeds kept for seven nights in the mouth of a black serpent 
or in the mouth of a house-lizard is a means of causing leprosy. 


18 Application all over the body of the bile and the liquid of the egg of 
a parrot iSs.a means of causing leprosy. 


14 A decoction of the pulp of priydla is a remedy for leprosy. 


15 One, eating (food) containing the roots of kukkuta, kosdtaki and 
§atavari, becomes fair-complexioned in a month. 


16 One, bathing in a decoction of vata (and) smeared with the pulp of 
sahacara, becomes black. 


17 Yellow orpiment and red arsenic, mixed with the oil of gakuna and 
kangu, are a means of making dark. 


18 The powder of the fire-fly, mixed with mustard oil, burns at night. 


19 The powder of the fire-fly and the insect gandipada, or the powder 
of the flowers of samudra-jantus, bhrigakapdlas, khadira and karnikdra, mixed 
with the oil of gakuna and kangu, is a powder that makes (an object) glow. 


20 The soot of the bark of paribhadraka, mixed with the fat of a frog, is 
a means of making limbs burn with fire. 21 The body, smeared with the 
pulp of the bark of the paribhadraka and sesamum seeds burns with fire. 


the female sea-frog, conch-shell, sudAd, i.¢c., mirvd grass, kadali, salt and butter-milk, is a 
means Of making white. The soured juices of kadal?, avalgtja and ksara, mixed with wine, 
butter-milk, arka, tala, snuhi, and salt and the sour grucl of grains, — this mixture kept for 
a fortnight is a means of making white.’ The ss. seem to be derived from the mss. which 
cannot be traced now. These recipes may well be genuine, though the possibility of 
addition by later copyists cannot be ruled out. 
9 For gatam Cs reads nagaram which is explained as ‘ dricd ginger’; this is very 

doubtful. 

‘10 Cs has arkatillo ’rjune kitah in the first quarter, ‘arka, tala, two kinds of arjuna 
(viz., kakubha and yavasa) and an insect (to be learnt from tradition).’ This is not very 
convincing. 


14 kalkakasayah ‘decoction of the pulp’ (Cs); ‘pulp and decoction’ (Meyer). 

15 (Cs reads kukkuti- for kukkuta-. Either word must be understood as referring to 
some plant. 

17 sakunakangu ‘ vulture and the priyangtu-plant ’ (Cs) ; ‘ the fins of birds’ (Meyer). 
If akuna means a bird, taila would apparently refer to its fat. — 

19 samudrajantu etc. appear to be names of plants, as puspaciirnam is to be understood 
of them, though Cs construes the latter only with khadirakarnikdrdndm (looking upon 
samudrajantu as sea-creatures, bhrniga as the kalinga bird and kapdla as skull). — tejana- 

. pone that makes an*object glow’; cf. 18.2.28. Cs, interpreting it as ‘the 
powder of bamboo ’, construes it with the next s., which does not appear right. 


501 CONCERNING SECRET PRACTICES [ 14.2. 37 


22 <A lump, consisting of the soot of the bark of pilu, burns in the hand. 
28 Smeared with the fat of a frog, it burns with fire. 24 The body, 
smeared with that, or, sprinkled with the oil of the kugdmia fruit (and) mixed 
with the powder of a female sca-frog, sea-foam and sarja-exudation, burns. 


25 il, boiled with equal quantities of the fat of the frog, crab and so on, 
causes the blazing of limbs with fire all over. 


26 The body, smeared with the roots of bamboo and moss, (and) smeared 
with the fat of a frog, burns with fire. 


27 One, with his feet smeared with oil boiled together with the fat of a 
frog and the pulp of the roots of pdaribhadraka, pratibald, vaiijula, vajra and 
kadali, walks on burning charcoal. 


28-29 One should prepare oil from the pulp of these, namely, 
upodakd, pratibald, vatijula and paribhadraka, by boiling together with 
the fat of a frog; after smearing one’s clean feet with this (oil), one may 
walk on a heap of burning charcoal as on a heap of flowers. 


30 Lamps of reeds, tied to the tails of swans, herons and peacocks or 
of other big birds swimming in water, is a manifestation of meteors at night. 


81 Ashes caused by lightning are a means of extinguishing fire. 


32 Mdsa-beans, soaked in a woman’s menstrual fluid (and) the root of 
vrajakulz, mixed with the fat of a frog, is a means of preventing cooking even 
when the oven is burning. 33 Cleansing the oven is the remedy for it. 


34 A ball made of pilu, with fire in the interior, with a knot of the root 
of suvarcald or with a knot of thread, encircled by cotton, is (a means of) 
emitting fire and smoke from the mouth. 


35 Fire, sprinkled with the oil of the kusdmra fruit, burns in rain and in 
strong winds. 


36 Sea-foam soaked in oil, burns floating on water. 


37 Fire, kindled by churning a speckled bamboo-reed in the bones of 
swimming birds, is not put out by water, (but) burns with water. 


28 -digdho: we have to supply pindah from the preceding, hardly hasiah. 24 kus- 
dmra- etc. and samudra- etc. constitute a single yoga, an Option to tena (pindena) pradig- 
dham. 


25 mandiikakulirddindm is proposed for mandikavasakulirddindm of the mss. vasayd 
is there Outside the compound; its use also in the compound is unlikely. — abhyangam 
is proposed for abhyango ; there isno word in the masculine with which the latter can be 
construed. — The repetition of s. 23 after this s. is clearly due to a scribal slip. 

28 Apparently, upodakdis the same as vajra ofs. 27, of which these two stanzas appcar 
to be only a versification. 

30 ulkd may mean ‘a meteor’ ora ‘ fire-brand, a flame’ floating on water. 

34 pilumayo manih, i.c., a ball made of pilu wood, which is hollow inside. It cannot 
be the lump of the soot ofits bark mentioned ins. 22,as Meyer thinks. — granthirefers to 
the stopper at the mouth of the ball; this grantht encircled by cotton (picu) burns and 
produces the fire and smoke coming out of the mouth. 

87 plavamdandndmis proposed for plavamadnam of GM ; plavangamanam ‘ of monkeys * 
is not very likely in the context. 


14, 2. 88 | KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 502 


- 88 Wherea fire kindled by churning a speckled bamboo-reed in the ribs 
from the left side of a man slain with a weapon or impaled on the stake, (or) 
a fire kindled by churning the rib of a human being in the bones of a woman or 
& man, goes round three times left-wise, there no other fire burns. 


89 The musk-rat, the wag-tail and the salt-insect are ground to 


powder ; mixed with the urine of a horse, (they are) a means of breaking 
chains. 


40 Or, the load-stone, made doubly powerful by the smearing of the fats 
of the crab, the frog and the salt-insect, (is a breaker of chains). 


41 The foetus of a calf, ground together with the sides of the heron and 
the bhasa, lotus and water, is a foot-salve for quadrupeds and bipeds. 


42 Smearing sandals made of camel-hide with the fat of the owl and the 
vulture, covering them with leaves of the banyan tree, one walks fifty yojanas 
without being fatigued. 


48 The bone-marrow or the semen of the hawk, the heron, the crow, the 
vulture, the swan, the plover and the viciralla (enables one to walk untired) 
for one hundred yojanas, or the bone-marrow or semen of the lion, the tiger, 
the leopard, the crow and the owl. 


44 After pressing in a camel-shaped vessel the aborted foetuses of all the 
varnas or dead infants in the cemetary—the fat produced from that (enables 
one to walk untired) for one hundred yojanas. 


45 He should cause fright to the enemy with (these) evil, miraculous 
portents ; because it is for the consolidation of the kingdom, a similar 
blameworthy conduct is recommended when there is a revolt. 


88 This is. the mdnusa agni; cf. 1.20.4. 


39 Meyer remarks that khdra- here andinthe next s.is a Prakrtism for ksdra-; that 
appears plausible. 


40 kulira- is from Meyer for kulinda; Cs has kultrdnda, where anda would appear 
oddly placedinthe compound. — We have tosupply nigalanam bharijanam as the predicate. 
Cs, however, has a stop after pdsanah (so that this itself is a means of breaking chains), and 
includes the restin the nexts. Meyer readsa stop after pradehena and another after nadraka- 
garbhah of the next s. He explains ‘it becomes doubly powerful when human fat (ndraka- 
garbha) is added to it’. This is very doubtful. 


41 ndarakagarbhah: the Medini gives ndra in the sense of a fresh-born calf; that sense 
may be understood for ndrakagarbha. Cs, reading daraka-, explains it by ‘pig’. — utpala 
is a kind of fish (Cs). 

44, abhisiya refers to infusing or distilling. 


45 drdjyaya: this seemsto mean ‘for securing the kingdom on all sides, consolidating 
the kingdom ’. — niroddah ‘censure, blame’, i.e., blameworthy conduct implicit in the 
use Of these manifestations. — kope, i.e., when there is revolt among the Officers etc. Cs 
construes arajyaya ‘for depriving (the enemy) of his kingdom ’ with the first half and then 
goes On this activity is common (to the vijigigu and the enemy) when paseions are aroused 
(Kope) ; hence it is described here (ucyate)’. Among a bewildering variety of explanations 
and suggestions offered by Meyer (here and in his das Wesen usw., p. 400 n.) one is to 
read @ rdjyaya * till the kingdom is obtained ’ or suardjydya, further nirodhah (for nirvddah) 
as ‘means Of doing things’. This latter suggestion appears not unreasonable. Russ. 
renders the second half: ‘ but if rumour spreads that (such an.action) does not serve the 
interests of the state, then there will be a general uprising.’ 


503 CONCERNING SECRET PRACTICES [ 14. 8.12 


CHAPTER THREE 


SECTION 178 (Continued) 
(ii) The use of Medicines and Spells 


1 Taking the right and the left eyes of one, two or more of (the following), 
the cat, the camel, the wolf, the boar, the porcupine, the flying fox, the napitr, 
the crow, the owl or other creatures roaming at night, one should prepare 
two separate powders. 2 Then anointing the right eye with (the powder of) 


the left (eye) and the left with (that of) the right, one is able to see at night 
and in darkness. 


8 One amlaka-fruit, the eye of a boar, the fire-fly, the black $ariva--- 


one with his eyes anointed with this (preparation), sees objects at night 
time. 


4 After fasting for three (days and) nights, one should sow, on the 
pusya day, barley-seeds in earth in the skull ofa man killed with a weapon or 
impaled on the stake, and sprinkle them with sheep’s milk. 5 Then wearing 


a garland of the sprouts of barley, one is able to move about with one’s 
shadow and form invisible. 


6 After fasting for three (days and) nights, one should, on the pusya day, 
powder separately the right and the left eyes ofa dog, a cat, an owl and a flying 
fox. 7 Then anointing the eyes with the (powder of the) corresponding (eyes), 
one moves about with shadow and form invisible. 


8 After fasting for three (days and) nights, one should prepare, on the 
pusya day, a pin and a salve-container out of the thigh-bone of a murderer. 
9 Then, with eyes anointed with the powder of the eyes of any one of these, 
one moves about with shadow and form invisible. 


10 After fasting for three (days and) nights, one should prepare, on the 
pusya day, an iron salve-container and a pin. 11 ‘Then, filling the skull of 
any one of the night-roaming creatures with an eye-salve, one should insert it 
in the vagina ofa dead woman and cause it to be burnt. 12 Taking out that 


14.8 


1 vagult appears to be a Prakrtism for valguli, the flying fox. — vdmé@ni caksini is 
emended as in Meyer for vdmdni vdksini. The former is necessary as shown by what 
follows as well as s. 6. 

8 amlaka ‘lakuca, the bread-fruit’ (Cs); ‘tamarind’ (Meyer). — kdlasdrivd is ‘a 
black plant known as bhadrd’ (Cs). Meyer thinks that we should read kdlasarikd. 

4 yavdn avdsya: for the correctness of this reading from Cs, cf. the parallelsin ss. 64 
and 79 below. 5 yavaviridha-, i.e., the sprouts of the barley sown as above. 

7% yathdsvam,i.e., the powder of the right eyes in the right eye and that of the left in 
the left. 

8 kdndaka means a thigh-bone oran arm-bone. 9 anyatamena seems to refer to any 
one of the creatures mentioned ins. 6. If the option were between the powder of the 


right eyes and that of the left eyes, we would have had anyatarena. Meyer's proposal to 
read tatra nyastena (for tato ’nyatamena) is unnecessary. 


14,3. 13) KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 504 


salve on the pusya day, one should keep it in that salve-container. 18 With 
cycs anointed with that, one moves about with shadow and form invisible. 


14 Where one sees a Brahmin, who has maintained the sacred fires, 
cremated or burning on the pyre, there, after fasting for three (days and) 
nights, one should, on the pusya day, make a bag out of the garment of a man - 
who has died naturally and fill it with the ashes of the funeral pyre ; wearing 
that (bag), one moves about with shadow and form invisible. 


15 Theskin ofa serpent, filled with the powder of the bones and marrow 
of that bull which is slaughtered in the funeral rites of a Brahmin, is a means 
of making animals invisible. 


16 The skin of a pracalaka, filled with the ashes of one bitten by a ser- 
pent, is a means of making deer invisible. 


17 The skin ofa serpent, filled with the powder of the tail, the dung and 
the knee-bones of an owl and a flying fox, is a means of making birds invisible. 


18 ‘These are the eight recipes for making invisible. 


19 ‘I bow to Bali, the son of Virocana and to Sambara of the 
hundred guiles, to pbandirapaka, to Naraka, to Nikumbha, as well as to 
Kumbha. 


20 I bow to Devala (and) to Narada; I bow to Savarni Galava. 
According to the prescupuon of these this great sleep has been brought 
on you. . 


21 As the boa constrictors sleep, as also the camikhalas sleep, so 
may men sleep, also those who, in the village, are curious. 


22 With a thousand vessels and with a hundred fellies of chariots, 
I shall enter this house; let the vessels remain silent. 


28-24 Bowing to Manu and tying the dog-kennels, and (bowing) to 
those who are gods in the worlds of the gods and are Brahmins among 
men, to holy men who have completed their study and to ascetics on the 
Kailasa-mountain, (bowing) to all these holy men, this orca sleep has been 
brought on you. 


. 14 svayammrtasya: cf. 2.2.9. — citabhasmanda: this is that of the Brahmin. 


15 bhastraé is a bag made of the creature’s skin. — pasiindm: these are other than 
mrga, referred to in the next s. 


17 janvasthi can hardly be ‘ knee and bones’ (Cs) ; knee-bones would appear meant. 


19 The spells are clearly prasvdpana-mantras, intended primarily for thieves. Asuras 
and sages are invoked to send people tosleep. 20 anuyogena: this seems to mean ‘ teach- 
ing, instruction, prescription’. 21 camikhaldh is obscure. Some creature is apparently 
meant. Meyer proposes ca mirkhalah ‘ and fools,’ which is not convincing. 22 bhandaka 

seems to be the same as bhandaka * vessel ’iu which apparently the lootis to be carried away. 
Meyer would read bhandakdndm ‘ something for the dogs (from bhand to bark), i.e., kennels’ 
and understand bhdndakdh at the énd as ‘dogs’. This is very doubtful. — dsantu : the 
Parasmaipada is archaic. 28 phelakdh ‘boxes, caskets’ may refer to kennels; can it 


505 CONCERNING SECRET PRACTICES [ 14. 8. 41 


25 As Igo beyond, may all together go away. 
26 O Alita, O Valitaé, hail to Manu! ’ 


27 The method of using this is: 28 After fasting for three (days and) 
nights, one should, on the fourteenth of the dark half of a month with (the 
moon in) conjunction with the pusya-constellation, purchase from a Svapaka 
woman the scrapings made by bilakhas. 29 Placing them with mdsa-beans 
in a basket, one should bury it in an uncrowded cremation-ground. 80 
Taking it out on the fourteenth of the next fortnight and getting it pounded 
by 2 maiden, one should make pills out of it. 81 Then wherever one throws 
one pill after reciting this mantra over it, there one sends all to sleep. 


82 In this same manner, one should bury the quill of a porcupine with 
three black and three white lines in an uncrowded cremation-ground. 88 
Taking it out on the fourteenth of the next fortnight, wherever one throws it 


along with ashes from the burning ground, reciting this mantra over it, one 
sends all there to sleep. 


84 ‘I bow to Brahmani with the golden flowers and to Brahman 


with the flag of kusa-grass and to all the deities; and I bow to all the 
ascetics. 


85 May Brahmins come under my control, and may the Ksatriyas 


who protect the earth; may the Vaisyas and the Sidras be ever under 
my control. 


86 Hail! O Amila, O Kimila, O Vayucara, O Prayoga, O Phakka, 
O Vayuhva, O Vihala, O Dantakataka, hail ! 


87 May the dogs sleep happily, and those who, in the village, are 


curious ; and this quill of the porcupine, white in three places, is created 
by Brahman. 


88 For, all successful men are asleep; this sleep has been brought 


on you, up to where the end of the boundary of the village is and till the 
rising of the sun. 


89 Hail!’ 


40 The use of this (mantra is as follows): 41 The quills of a porcupine 
with three white lines (should be taken) ; after fasting for seven (days and) 


possibly mean ‘ muzzles’? Russ. has funakaphelakdh ‘a pack of hounds’. 26 Alite 
mgy be a corruption of Adite, and Valite only a name formed by analogy. 

28 bilakha ‘a mouse-like burrowing creature’ (Cs). The word literally means ‘a 
hole-digger’. 29 Russ. has asamkirne ‘not desecrated ’. 

84-89 also contain a prasvdpana-mantra. 36 The names of these female spirits are 
unknown elsewhere ; the correct form of the namesis also uncretain. 88 siddhdh may be 
the same as siddharthah (s. 46), i.e., successful or wealthy men. 

41 After trigceldni,Cs supplies ddahane nikhdnayet asin s.82. But there is no Teference 
in the sequel to ‘ taking out ’as there isin s. 88 there. Meyer supplies grhntydt or grhttod ; 
that appears better. — mpdiam : this means little more than that 108 sticks of 


LAA LAL LALA AOD 
enn 


A LE 


14,8. 42 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 506 


nights, one should, on the fourteenth of the dark fortnight, offer into the fire 
sticks of khadira accumulating them to one hundred and eight, along with 
honey and ghee, reciting this mantra. 42 Then where at the village-gate or 
the door of a house, one of these is buried, with the recitation of this mantra, 
one sends all there to sleep. 


48 ‘I bow to Bali, the son of Virocana and to Sambara of the 
hundred guiles, to Nikumbha, to Naraka, to Kumbha, to Tantukaccha, 
the great Asura ; 


44 (I bow) to Armialava, to Pramila, to Mandolika, to Ghatodbala, 
and to the service of Krsna and Kamsa, and to Paulomi, the successful. 


45 Consecrating with mantras, I take the dead Sarika for the sake of 
success ; may it succeed, and it does succeed ; salutation to quill-beings. 


Hail ! 


46 May the dogs sleep happily, and those who, in the village, are 
curious. May those who have achieved their object—the object which 
we seek—sleep happily till the rising (of the sun) after its setting, till the 
object is mine as the fruit. 


47 Hail!’ 


48 The use of this (manira is as follows) : 49 One who has fasted for four 
meals should make an offering in an uncrowded cremation-ground on the 
fourteenth of the dark fortnight, and taking, with this mantra, a dead $Sarika 
should tie (it in) a bag made of a hog’s snout. 50 Piercing it in the middle 
with the quill of a porcupine, where it is buried with this mantra, one sends 
all there to sleep. 


51 ‘I seek refuge with Agni and the deities, the ten quarters ; and 
may all go away, may they be ever under my control. 


52 Hail!’ 


khadira are to be Offeredin the agni. Csinterprets sampdta as homa ‘ offering as oblation’ 
and adds that the quills are to be dug out after the homa is over. Thatis possible, though 
there is no reference to burying and digging out, as there isin ss. 55-56 below. 


48-47 is again a prasvdpana-manira. 44 krsna-kamsopacadram ‘the service of Krsna 
and Kamsa, i.e., those who wait upOn these two spirits’ (Meyer). That Krsna and Kamsa 
here are unrelated to the heroes of the Harivaméa is likely, though not certain. So Paulomt 
may Or my not refer to Sact, Indra’s wife. 45 siddhyartham is proposed for siddhartham ; 
if the latter is “‘ mustard seeds’, there is no reference to them in the prayoga that follows. 
46 siddhdrthah refers to wealthy men in the town. — ydvad asiamaydd udaypo, i.e., from 
sunset to sunrise. — artham neuter is unusual ; Meyer remarks that artha neuter is found 
in the Mahabharata, 12.142.14. The Critical Edition of the Mahabharata (12.140.14), how- 
ever, has atha, not artham in that passage. It is possible to look upon ydavadartham as an 
adjective to phalam ‘in which the totrc! (ydvat) wealth is secured.’ 


49 caturbhaktopavdst would mean ‘ who fasts for four meals’, i.e., fasts for two days, 
rather than ‘abstaining from four days’ food’ (Cs); for the latter, we would have had 
catirdtropositah like trirdtrcpogitah above. — pautripottalikam : potrt means ‘ a hog’s snout’; 
pautri seems used in the same sense. Cs reads poiri- but undeserstands by it ‘a piece of 
garment ’; Russ. understands ‘a bundle of pigs’ bristles’. pottalikais an obvious des word. 


58 The use of this (mantra is as follows): 54 After fasting for three 
(days and) nights, one should, on the pusya day, make an aggregate of twenty- 
one pebble-stones and offer oblations of honey and ghee (in the fire). 55 Then, 
worshipping them with incense and flowers, one should bury them. 56 
Taking them out on the next pusya day, one should consecrate one pebble with 
this mantra and strike a door-panel with it. 57 Within four pebbles, the 
door is opened. 


58 After fasting for four meals, one should, on the fourteenth of the dark 
fortnight, make a bull out of the bone of a broken man, and should consecrate 
it with this mantra. 59 A bullock-cart with two bullocks yoked is brought 
to him. 60 Thereafter, he moves about in the sky. 61 Becoming akin 
to the sun, he penetrates everything beyond the gate-bar. 


507 CONCERNING SECRET PRACTICES [ 14. 8. 67 | 
' 


62 ‘Thou art possessed of the bitter strength of the pitcher-gourd - 
of a Candala woman, and possessed of a woman’s organ; hail!’ 68 Thisis 
a means of opening locks and sending (all) to sleep. 


64 After fasting for three (days and) nights, one should, on the pusya day, 
sow tuvari-seeds in earth in the skull of a man killed with a weapon or impaled 
on the stake, and sprinkle them with water. 65 When grown, he should take 
them on the pusya day itself and twist them into a rope. 66 Then, the 
cutting of it in front of bows and machines fitted with strings causes the 
snapping of (those) strings. 


67 One should fill the skin of a water-snake with the earth into which a 
woman or a man has breathed ; this is a means of blocking the nostrils and 
choking the mouth. 


54 ekavimSatisampdtam: cf. s. 41 above. Though agni is not mentioned here, the 
offering of madhu and ghria could Only bein fire. 57 Theinterpretationin Cs ‘a hole four 
Sarkards in diameter is made in the door’ seems quite unlikely. 


58 bhagnasya evidently refers to a murdered man. Meyer suggests magnasya 
‘drowned ’forit. 61 ravisagandhah parigham ati saroam prnatiis proposed with hesitation 
and understood to mean that the person is able to move about in the sky like the sun, flying 
over the bars of city-gates. With sadd raviravih sagandaparighdti saroam bhandli, Cs in- 
includes thisin the manirain s. 62. But the next mantra seems addressed to the gate-bar 
or lock and has asi in the Second Person, whereas in this s., we have bhandti in the Third 
Person. Russ. reads ‘and announces everything that appears under the sun and up to the 
limit of the horizon.’ Meyerin the Nachtrag ultimately agrees with Cs (only proposing 
bhrndti for bhandti) and explains ‘ always as loud roarer (raviracvik from the frequentative of 
ru to cry) the full-cheeked (sagandah) or the stinking (with sagandhah) bar bears above every- 
thingelse’. Thisisfarfrom satisfactory. Thes. appears better as a further description of 
akdge vikrdmati of s. 60. 


62 -kumbhitumba- and -sdraughah are tentatively proposed for the uncertain -kumbit- 
tamba- and -sarighah. Meyer understands Canddlikumbd ‘the petticoat of a Candala woman’ 
as a separate upamadna. He also proposes parigha (for sdrighah) and looks upon it and 
-katuka as vocatives, i.e., ‘0 bar! you who are bitter like a Candala woman’s petticoat and 
like a gourd etc.’ Russ. reads ‘0 bolt, you have a sharp smell like the skirt or milk-bucket 
of a Candala woman.’ — sandribhagah : this apparently has reference to the hole in the side- 
wall in which the bar is fixed when the gate is closed ; it may also refer to the hoop-like 
brackets fixed to the gates through which the baris passed when the gate is closed. 


64 tuvarth refers to a kind of pure. 66 Theidea is, when this rope is cut in front of 
the enemies’ bows, etc., the latter have their strings cut automatically. ‘ 


67 ndsikdbandhanam (from Cs) is preferable to -oardhanam ‘ growth ’, or ‘cutting’. 
— mukhagraha refers to obstruction of the functions of the mouth. 


14.3. 68 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 508 


6&8 Filling the skin of a boar with breathed-in earth, one should tie it 


with a monkey’s tendons; this is a means of causing suppression of urine and 
stools. : 


69 On the fourteenth of the dark fortnight, one should anoint (the eyes 
of) an effigy of the enemy made out of rdjavrksa wood with the bile of a 


tawny-coloured cow killed with a weapon; this isa means of making (him) 
blind. 


70 One who has fasted for four meals should make an offering on the 
fourteenth of the dark fortnight and make pins out of the bones of a man 
impaled on the stake. 71 One of these planted in the dung or urine (of an 
enemy) causes suppression of stools and urine, planted in his foot-step or seat 
it kills by consumption, planted in his shop, field or house, it destroys the 
source of his livelihood. 


72 With this same procedure are explained wedges made out of a tree 
burnt by lightning. 


78-74 He, in whose house the punarnava turned downwards, the 
nimba and the kamamadhu, the hair of a monkey and the bone of a 
human being, tied up in the garment ofa corpse, are buried, or to whose 
foot-step one takes it after seeing it, does not survive beyond three 
fortnights with his sons and wife and his wealth. 


75-76 He, in whose foot-step are buried the punarnava turned down- 
wards, the nimba, the kdmamadhu, the svayamgupté and the bone of a 
human being, at the gate of the house or army (camp) or village or city, 
does not survive beyond three fortnights with his sons and wife and his 
wealth. 


77 One should procure the hairs of a goat and a monkey, of a cat 
and an ichneumon, of Brahmins and Svapakas, and of a crow and an owl ; 
the ordure (of an enemy) pounded with this causes immediate destruction. 


68 vardhabhasirdm is proposed for varadhahastim of M. Cs reads vardhahastibhastram, 
where -hasti- seems unlikely. dndha ‘ suppression of urine and stools’. 


69 pratimdm ajijyat: the collyriumis put in the eyes of the effigy. 


71 pade is proposed for pdde as suggested by Meyer, supported by ss. 74, 75 and 78. 
pada, aoe can hardly mean ‘the place where he moves about, i.e., the living room’ 
(Meyer). : 

72 elenaiva kalpena is emended from elena lepakalapena of the mss. Cs drops eva, 
which, however, may appear necessary for emphasis; cf. s. 82 above. 

73 punarnavam may be the same as the plant punarnacd ; cf. 14.4.2. — avdcinam 
* turned downwards “is not clear; may it be the name ofsome plant? 74 drstud 0d yatpa- 
dam nayet : (yatpadam is proposed for yam padam). The object of drstud as of nayet is 
padam. Itis clear that padam nayct means the same as pade nikhdnayet. Cs reads pistud 
ud yam prapayayet ‘whom he givesit asa drinkaftergrindingit’. There seemsto be nothing 
in the prescription that can be given as a drink. For drsjud, Meyer suggests dvistua or 
srgtud or srstyd (by placing), all unnecessary. 

76 dodre from Cs is better than pdre; in the case of send, it would refer to the entrance 
tothe camp. 


(T7 ~=vlsthd-isclearly right, not pistd-. 


509 CONCERNING SECRET PRACTICES [ 14. 8. 88 


78 He, in whose foot-step are buried flowers removed from a corpse, 
fermenting stuff, the hairs of an ichneumon and the skins of a scorpion, 


a bee and a snake, becomes immediately impotent so long as that is not 
removed. 


79 After fasting for three (days and) nights, one should, on the pusya 
day, sow gu7ijd-seeds in earth in the skull of a man killed with a weapon or 
impaled on the stake, and sprinkle them with water. 80 When they have 
grown, one should cause the gufijd-creepers to be taken on the new moon night 
or full moon night when there is conjunction (of the moon) with the pusya- 
constellation, and make rings out of them. 81 Vesscls with food and drink, 
placed on them, are never exhausted. 


82 When a night show is going on, one should cut out the udders of a 
dead cow and burn them in the flames of a lamp. 83 When burnt, he should 
grind them with the urine of a bull and smeara new jar inside (withNt). 84 
When one takes it round the village leftwise, whatever butter may have been 
kept there by those (villagers), all that comes (into it). 


85 On the fourteenth of the dark fortnight when there is conjunction 
(of the moon) with the pusya-constellation, one should insert into the vulva 
of a bitch in heat an iron signet ring. 86 One should pick it up when fallen 
of its own accord. 87 Fruits from trees come to one when called with it. 


88 Practices accompanied by mantras and medicines and those that 
are caused by illusion—with them he should destroy the enemies and 
protect his own people. 


78 vrscikdlyahi-: Cs understands alt ‘a variety of scorpion ’, not ali ‘a bee’. 
79 It is proposed to drop the ca found in the mss. after udakena. Cf. s. 64 above. . 
80 mandalikdni ‘rings’on which vessels are placed so that they may remain steady and . 
upright whether on the ground or on the head and the contents do not spill over. — 
84 esdmclearly refers to the villagers. 


85 uno lagnakasya: Cs has ‘the masculine is notintended ; hencea bitch is to be 
understood ’. 


88 yogd mdydkridg ca ‘from Cs is quite necessary in place of yuogamdyé- etc. of the 
mss. It provides the substantive yogah. 


14.4.1] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 510 


CHAPTER FOUR 


SECTION 179 COUNTER-MEASURES AGAINST INJURIES TO 
ONE’S OWN TROOPS 


1 Counter-measures against disivisa and other poisons used by the 
enemy against one’s own party (should be taken as follows) : 


2 Washing water, mixed with a decoction of slesmataka, kapittha, danti, 
dantasatha, goji, Sirisa, patali, bald, syondga, punarnavd, and svetdvarana, 
(and) mixed with sandalwood and the blood of a female hyena, is a wash for 
the private parts of women to be enjoyed by the king and an antidote against 
the poisoning of the army. 


8 The powder of mahiraji, mixed with the bile of the speckled deer, the 
ichneumon, the peacock and the iguana, (and) the mixture of sinduvdrita, 
varana, varuni, tanduliyaka, the tips of sataparvan and pinditaka, remove the 

evil effects of a stupefying mixture. 


4 A drink of the decoction of one or of all of the roots of (the following), 
srgalavinnd, madana, sinduvarita, varana, varana, and valli, together with 
milk, removes the evil effects of a stupefying mixture. 


& The oil of kaidarya, piti and sesame removes madness, when used in 
the nostrils. 


6 The mixture of priyangu and naktamala cures leprosy. 


7 The mixture of kustha and lodhra cures whiteness of hair and consump- 
tion. 


8 The powder of kataphala, dravanti and vilanga, used as snuff, removes 
headaches. 


9 The mixture of priyangu, manjisthi, tagara, lac-juice, liquorice, turmeric 
and honey, is a means of bringing back to consciousness those who have lost 
it through rope (strangling), water (drowning), poison, beating or fall. 


14.4 | 

1 ddgivisa: cf. 14.1.22. gara would refer to poisons other than this. 

2 sendydé ca: Cs construes this with the preceding guhyapraksdlanam ; it seems better, 
however, to construe it with vigapratikdrah as in Meyer. 

3 It seems better to read -yuktam separately. — mahirdji: Cs reads magirdji and 
explains ‘the blue éephdlikd (mast) and the royal mustard (raji)’. mahirdji appears to be 
the name of a single plant. — éataparvan is ‘a bamboo’. 

4 vdranais ‘ gajapippalt’ (Cs). 

7 pakasopaghnah : Cs has ‘ whiteness of the hair (pdka) and consumption (Sosa) ’. 
Meyer thinks of ‘suppuration and consumption’ or ‘ scrofulous tuberculosis ’. 

Serene: Cs reads katphala; Meyer proposes katuphala. — nastahkarma is here 
‘een 
9 The mes. favour the form mafifistht ; Cs reads mafifigthd. 


511 CONCERNING SECRET PRACTICES [ 14. 4.14 


10 A measure of one aksa (is the dose) for men, double for cattle and 
horses, four times for elephants and camels. 


11 And a pill made of these, with gold inside, removes (the evil effects of) 
all poisons. 


12 A pill made of jivanti, sveta, mnuskaka and puspavandaka (and) of 
asvattha growing on moist soil, removes (the evil effects of) all poisons. 


13 The sound of drums, smeared with these, destroys poison ; 


by looking at a flag or a banner, smeared with these, one becomes free 
from poison. 


14 After using these remedial measures for the safety of his own 


troops and himself, he should use against enemies poisonous smoke and 
pollution of water. 


Herewith ends the Fourteenth Book of the Arthagastra of Kautilya 
“CONCERNING SECRET PRACTICES’ 


10 aksa is not mentioned umong the weights in 2.19. According to Cs it is equal 
to 16 mdsas. Thelexiconsshow this measure. 


11 cgdm refers to priyangu etc. of s. 9. 

12 Cf. 1.20.5. We should read aksive asin thats. Cs understands pugpa as a separate 
plant here. — Themaniis apparently to be worn round the neck or the wrist as an amulet. 

18 liptadhoajam patakdm vd: perhaps it might be better to read liptam dhvuajam and 
understand lingaviparindma in the case of patakam. — The difference between dhvaja and 
patakd is hardly that the former refers to the staff and the latter to the cloth, as Cs has it. 
The difference seems due to their size or purpose. Cf. 10.6.46. 


14 visadhimadmbudigandn: we have to supply yogdn, because -diigandn appears in 
the masculine. 


Boox FIFTEEN 
THE METHOD OF THE SCIENCE 


CHAPTER ONE 
SECTION 180 DEVICES USED IN THE (TREATMENT OF THE) SCIENCE’ 


1 The source of the livelihood of men is wealth, in other words, the 
earth inhabited by men. 2 The science which is the means of the attainment 
and protection of that earth is the Science of Politics. | : 


3 That contains thirty-two devices of treatment: topic, statement 
(of contents), employment (of sentences), meaning of words, reason for (esta- 
blishing) something, mention, explanation, advice, reference, application, 
indication, analogy, implication, doubt, (similar) situation, contrary (corollary), 
completion of a sentence, agreement, emphasising, derivation (of a word), 
illustration, exception, one’s own technical term, the prima facie view, the 
correct view, invariable rule, reference to a future. statement, reference to a 
past statement, restriction, option, combination, and what is understood. ° 


4 The object, with respect to which a statement is made, is the topic. 
5 For instance: ‘ This single (treatise on the) Science of Politics is composed 
mostly by bringing together (the teachings of) as many ‘treatises on the Science 
of Politics as have been composed by the ancient teachers for the acquisition 
and protection of the earth.’: (1.1.1) . 


15.1 a 
The Fifteenth Book, ina snete Chapter, expiains end illustrates the various stylistic 
devices used to-elucidate a scientific subject. tantra meansa science. The Suérutasamhita 
(Uttaratantra, Ch. 65) describes closely allied 82 tantrayuktis ; we read there ‘ dodtrimsad 
yuktayo hyetds tantrasdragavegane, mayd samyag. vinihitah sabdanydydrthasamyutah.’ The 
Carakasamhita (Siddhisthana, Ch. 12)enumerates 84 tantrayuktis ; the two additional seem 
to be pratyuccdra (repetition) and sambhava (possibility). S. Vidyabhusan (History of 
Indian Logic, pp. 24-25) remarks that the tantra-yukti “was compiled possibly in the 6th 
century B.C. to systematize debatesin parisads or learned assemblies. . It is distinctly stated 
in the Sufrutasamhitd-: asadoddiprayuktandm vakyandm ies ean eee eee 
ca kriyate tantrayuktitah.’ 

3 ortti is livelihood, i.e., means of livelihood. ‘It may aie ean ‘exinteneat » 1.€., 
men’s existence on earth (Cf. Jayaswal, Hindu Polity, I, 5 n.8). According to P Masson- 
Oursel (Ancient India, p- 106) ortti, which is the basis of vdrtid, refers to the whole of. human 
activity ; artha raises the question of ends, vdritd that of means. ’ The idea here is, the earth 
inhabited by men following various occupations constitutes artha ; the science dealing with. 
such an earth is Arthaéastra. Its main concern is, how to obtain such earth and how to 
protect it; in other words, it is the Science of Politics. Russ. renders'the s.: ‘ Riches, 
valuables ‘sustain human existence ; (in the present case) valuability i is land populated 
by people.’ 2 prthivyahetc.: cf. 1. 1. se 7 

4 Thoillustration implies that by adhikarana ‘the sub ject-matter of the entire work is 
to be understood. It may be presumed, however, that the definition proud cover the sub- 
ject-matter of each of the fifteen adhikaraynas in the text. 


518 THE METHOD OF THE SCIENCE [ 15. 1. 26 


6 A serial enumeration of the sections of the science is statement 
(of contents). 7 For instance: ‘Enumeration of the sciences, association 
with elders, control over the senses, appointment of ministers,’ and so on. 
(1.1.8) 


8 The arrangement of a sentence is employment (of sentences). 9 For 
instance : ‘ The people, of the four varnas and in the four déramas.’ (1.4.16) 


10 That which has its limit in the word is the meaning of the word. 
11 For instance: miulahara is the word. 12 ‘He who consumes in unjust 
ways the property inherited from the father and the grandfather is miahara,’ 
(2.9.21) is the meaning. 


18 A reason proving a thing is the reason for (establishing) a thing. 
14 For instance: ‘ For, spiritual good and sensual pleasures depend on mate- 
rial well-being.’ (1.7.7) 


15 A statement in brief is mention. 16 For instance: ‘Control over 
the senses is motivated by training in the Sciences.’ (1.6.1) 


17 A detailed statement is explanation. 18 For instance: ‘* Absence 
of improper indulgence in (the pleasures of) sound, touch, colour, taste and 
smell by the senses of hearing, touch and sight, the tongue and the sense of 
smell, means control over the senses.’ (1.6.2) 


19 ‘One should behave in this manner,’ is advice. 20 For instance; 
‘He should enjoy sensual pleasures without contravening his spiritual good 
and material well-being ; he should not deprive himself of pleasures.’ (1.7.8) 


21 ‘So and so says this’ is reference. 22 For instance: ‘ “‘ He should 
appoint a council consisting of twelve ministers,” say the followers of 
Manu. ‘‘ Sixteen,” say the followers of Brhaspati. “ Twenty,” say the 
followers of Uganas. ‘‘ According to capacity,” says Kautilya..’ (1.15.47-50). 


23 Setting forth (a thing) with what is already said is application. 24 
For instance: ‘ Non-conveyance of gifts is explained by the non-payment of 
debts.’ (8.16.1) 


25 Setting forth (a thing) with what is going to be said is indication. 
26 For instance: ‘ Or, by means of conciliation, gifts, dissension and force, 
as we shall explain in (the Section on) troubles.’ (7.14.11) 


6 vidhdna appears to be little more than a table of contents. 


8 vdkyayojand seems to refer to a syntactical arrangement of words so as to form a 
sentence, though the illustration does not give a complete sentence. Theillustration does 
not justify the explanation ‘ arrangement of sentences, so as to establish a mutual relation 
between them’. 


21-22 Theinclusion of Kautilya among those referred to as asau is taken to imply that 
he himself could not have been the author of this work. But asau is ‘80 and-go’, not ‘some 
other person’; and if an author has chosen to refer to himself in the third person, there 
would be nothing strange in referring to himself as asau. 


15.1. 27 ] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 514 


27 Setting forth an unknown (thing) with the help of the known is 
analogy. 28 For instance: ‘He should, like a father, show favours to those 
whose exemptions have ceased.’ (2.1.18) 


29 That which, though not stated, follows as a matter of course is 
implication. 80 For instance: ‘ One conversant with the ways of the world 
should resort to a king endowed with personal excellences and the excellences 
of material constituents through such as are dear and beneficial (to the king).’ 
(5.4.1) 81 That he should not resort through one who is not dear and 
beneficial follows as a matter of course. 


82 A thing with reasons on both sides is doubt. 33 For instance: 
‘(Should one march) against a king with impoverished and greedy subjects 
or a king with rebellious subjects?’ (7.5.12) 


84 A thing common to another topic is (similar) situation. 35 For 
instance; ‘In a place assigned (to him) for agricultural work and so on, 
exactly as before.’ (1.11.10) 


86 Setting forth (a thing) with the help of the opposite is contrary 
(corollary). 87 For instance: ‘The opposite, as those of one displeased.” 
(1.16.12) 


88 That by which a sentence iscompleted is completion of a sentence. 
39 For instance; © And there is loss of all activity on the part of the king, as 
ofa (bird) with clipped wings.’ (8.1.9) 40 There, ‘ofa bird’ is the comple- 
tion of the sentence. 


41 The statement of another, not contradicted, is agreement. 42 For 
instance ; “ Two wings, a centre and reserves,—this is the arrangement of a 
battle-array according to USanas.’ (10.6.1) 


48 The description of a speciality is emphasising. 44 Yor instance: 
* And in particular, in the case of oligarchies and of royal families having the 
character of an oligarchy, there are dissensions caused by gambling and 
destruction caused by that; hence it is the most evil among vices, as it favours 
evil men and leads to weakness in administration.’ (8.3.64) 


45 Deriving the meaning of a word through its components is derivation. 
46 For instance: ‘It throws out a person from his good, hence it is called 
vyasana. (8.1.4) 


47 Exemplifying by means of an example is illustration. 48 For 
instance: “For, going to war with the stronger, he engages as it were in a 
fight on foot with an elephant.’ (7.8.8) 


41-42 The author, however, recognizes two kakgasin addition to whatis supposed to be 
approved byhim. See 10.6.1. 


48 As 7.3.8 shows, hastindis to be read asin Ce for hastinah of the mss. 


515 THE METHOD OF THE SCIENCE [ 15. 1. 68 


49 Taking away from a rule of universal application is exception. 50 
For instance : ‘He should always station alien troops in close proximity 
(to himself), except in case of fear of a rising in the interior.’ (9.2.6) 


51 A word, not agreed to by others, is one’s own technical term. 52 
For instance: ‘(The would-be conqueror is) the first constituent ; one im- 
mediately next to his territory is the second; one separated by an intervening 
territory is the third.’ Cf. 6.2.18-15). 


53 A statement to be rejected is the prima facie view. 54 For instance: 
‘Of calamities befalling the king and the minister, the calamity of the minister 
is more serious.’ (8.1.7) 


55 A statement giving the final view on that is the correct view. 56 
For instance ;: ‘ being dependent on him; for, the king is in the place of the 
head.’ (8.1.17-18) 


57 What is applicable everywhere is invariable rule. 58 For instance: 
* Therefore, he should himself-be energetically active.’ (1.19.5) 


59 ‘This will be stated afterwards’ is reference to a future statement. 
60 For instance: ‘ Weights and measures we shall explain in (the Section on) 
the Superintendent of Standardisation.’ (2.18.28) 


61 ‘This has been stated before’ is reference to a past statement. 
62 For instance: ‘The excellences of a minister have been stated before.’ 
(6.1.7). 


63 ‘Thus and in no other way’ is restriction. 64 For instance: 
‘Therefore, he should instruct him in what conduces to spiritual and material 
good, not in what is spiritually and materially harmful.’ (1.17.88) 


65 ‘ Hither in this way or in that’ is option. 66 For instance: ‘Or, 
daughters, born in the pious marriages.’ (3.5.10) 


67 ‘In this way and in that’ is combination. 68 For instance: 
‘Begotten by oneself, the (son) becomes the heir to his father and kinsmen.’ 
(8.7.18) 


49 abhipluta ‘whutis spread allover’ refers to a rule of general or universal application; 
vyapakarsana is ‘ taking away ” from it. 

51 asamitah ‘not agreed to, not accepted;’ paraih would seem to refer to other 
sciences, rather than to other authors of this science. The passage given in illustration is 
found with some variationsin 6.2.18-15. We have there vijigisuh, ariprakrtth and miirapra- 
krtih, not prathamd prakrtih etc. But dvitiyd, trttya and other terms are known to the text ; 
cf. 7.6.1; 7.7.1° 7.18.1-2. The discrepancy in quotationis, however, difficult to explain. 
Understanding sva to refer to Kautilya alone (and not to the science), Meyer thinks that the 
use of the word prakrti for princesis aninnovation by Kautilya. That could hardly be right. 

59 andgataveksana differs from prade§a (s. 25) in that a future statement is not made 
applicable to a present case ; there is only a reference to a future discussion. Similaris the 
difference between atikrdntdveksana (s. 61) and atidega (s. 23). 

68 For niyoga, vikalpa and samuccaya, cf. 9.7.78-76 above. 

64 dharmyam etc. is read here asin the actual passage, 1.17.38. 

68 svayamjdiah is read here asin the actual passage (8.7.18) for soasarhjdiah, which, 
however, means the same thing. 


15. 1.69] KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 516 


69 The doing of what is not expressly stated is what is understood. 
70 Yorinstance : ‘And experts shall fix revocation in such a way that neither 
the donor nor the donee is injured.’ (3,16.5) 


71 Thus this science, expounded with these devices of a science, 
has heen composed for the acquisition and protection of this world and 
of the next. 


72 This science brings into being and preserves spiritual good, 
material well-being and pleasures, and destroys spiritual evil, material 
loss and hatred. 


78 This science has been composed by him, who in resentment, 
quickly regenerated the science and the weapon and the earth that was 
under the control of the Nanda kings. 


Herewith ends the Fifteenth Book of the Arthasastra of Kautilya 
‘THE METHOD OF THE SCIENCE’ 


(Seeing the manifold errors of the writers of commentarics 
on scientific treatises, Visnugupta himself composed the sitra as well 
as the bhasya). 


HEREWITH ENDS THE ARTHASASTRA OF KAUTILYA 


70 Asthe actual pussage shows, we have to read yathd ca for yathdvad of the mss. 
71 parasya ca: with this pdlane is not to be understood, only avdptau. 


73  dstram ca gasiram ca: apparently the Science of Politics had fallen into neglect in 
the author’s day. The uddhdra of gastra or weapon seems to refer to his ‘ raising’ it for 
striking dOwn enemies. It could hardly mean a resurrection of the science of fighting. 
Meyer would interpret gastra as ‘the prime minister’s office (from gas to rule)’. That does 
not appear possible. — Kamandaka, 1.6, refers to the fact that Visnugupta extracted 
(uddadhre) the nectar of Nitiéastra from the vast ocean of Arthaégastra. 


The stanza that follows the colophon of the final Book is clearly a later addition. It 
refers to the text as containing a sifra as well as a bhdsya on it by the same author. But 
the text contains only sitras and no bhdsya. It is erroneous to look upon the titles of the 
prakarants as constituting the siira portion and the entire text asa bhdsya on it, as the 
commentators do. The fact that the authoris referred toin the stanza by his personal name 
Visnugupta and not by his gotra name Kautilya used throughout in the text also raises 
doubts about the genuineness of the stanza. 


INDEX OF PRINCIPAL TOPICS 


Accounts, checking Of, 2.7.16-40. 

Adultery, sce Sexual offences. 

Agents, secret, 1.11-12. 

Agreements, see Conventions. 

Agricultural operations, 2.24. 

Ally, types of, 7.9; calamities affecting, 
8.5.22-30 ; treatment of, 7.18.81-42. 

Anviksiki, study of, 1.2.10-12. 

Armoury, 2.5.5 ; 2.18. 

Army, excellences of, 6.1.11; march of, 
10.2; mobilisation of, 9.2.1-9; troubles 
affecting, 8.5.1-18. 

Arrays for battles, 10.5.1-47 ; 10.6.1-48. 

Arrest On suspicion etc., 4.6. 

Artisans and craftsmen, control over, 4.1. 
ramas, 1.3.9-18. 

Audit and Records Office, 2.7. 


Balances (for weighing), kinds of, 2.19. 
11-28 ; defective, 2.14.19. 

Battle-arrays, see Arra 

Battle, see Fighting. 

Belligerency, see Hostility. 

Betting, 3.20.18. 

Boats, 2.28. 

Boundaries, disputes concerning, 8.9.10- 


Buildings, regulations about construction 
of, 8.8; sale of, 3.9.1-9. 


Calamities, natural, steps to overcome, 
4.3; affecting constituents of the 
State, 8. 

Camp, setting up of, 10.1. 

Capital, see City. 

Castes, mixed, 8.7.20-40. 

Cattle, care of, 2.29; trespass and damage 
caused by, 3.J0.22-84. 

Census in rural areas, 2.85.1-10; in the 
city, 2.36.1-4. 

Chariots for war, 2.88.1-6; 10.4.15; 
10.5.55. 

Charms, occult, 14.8. 

Circle of Kings, 6.2.13-29. 

City, fortified, lay-out of, 2.4; adminis- 
tration of, 2.386. 

Coins, minting of, 2.12.24. 

Conciliation, policy of, 9.5.10; 9.6.21-23 ; 
9.7.68-81 ; 2.10.48-53. 

Confederacies, forming of, 7.4.19-22. ; 
7.5.88-49 ; dealing with, 7.14.1-18. 

Conquered territory, treatment of, J3.5. 

Conquerors, types of, 12.1.10-16. 

Conspiracies, 9.5. 

Constituents of the State, 6.1. 

Conventions, non-observance Of, 8.10.85- 

Corruption, see Officers. 

Cotton cloth, 2.11.115; manufacture of, 
2.28. 

Council of Ministers, 1.15.47-59. 


Councillors, appointment of, 1.15.1-46. 
Country, excellences of, 6.18. 
Courtesang, 2.27. 

Crimes, miscellaneous, 4.18.1-29. 
Criminals, suppression of, 4. 
Custome-duties, 2.22.1-8. 

Custom-house regulations, 2.21. 


Dacoit gangs, rounding up Of, 4.5. 

Dandaniti, study of, 1.4.3-16. 

Death, sudden, investigation of, 4.7. 

Debts, law of, 8.1].1-24. 

Decrees, writing of, 2.10. 

Defamation, see Injury, verbal. 

Defence against a confederacy, 7.8.1-10; 
against a strong enemy, 7.15.1-12; 
12.1-5. 

Departments, activity of heads of, 2. 

Deposits, law of, 8.12.1-7. 

Deserters who return, dealing with, 
7.6.22-41. 

Diplomatic fight, 12.1; 12.2.1-7. 

Disaffection, between husband and wife, 
$.8.12-19 ; among subjects, 7.5.19-27. 

Dissensions, policy of creating, 9.5.12-28 ; 
9.6.26-52 ; 9.7.€8-81 ; 2.10.55. 

Divieions of space and time, 2.20. 

Documents, types of, 2.10.88-46. 

Drinks, spirituous, manufacture and use 
of, 2.25. 

Dual policy, 7.7. 

Duties, custom and excise, 2.22. 

Duties of tarnas and déramas, 1.8. 


Elders, association with, 1.5. 
Elephants, care and training of, 2.81-82 
in war, 10.4.14; 10.5.54. 
Embezzlement, ways of and steps 
against, 2.8. 
Emergency affecting treasury, steps in, 
2 


Enemy, types of, 6.2.16,19 ; outwitting 
by making agreements, 7.6 ; 7.8.11-84; 
2.9-12. 

Envoys, duties of, 1.16. 

Espionage, see Agents, secret. 

Evidence, law of, 8.11.25-50. 

Excise duties, 2.22. 

E itions, preparing for, 9.1-2; gains 
Fea 9.4. = 

Expenditure, State, 2.6.11,28-26. 


Factories, metal, 2.12 ; forest goods, 
2.17 ; textile, 2.28. 

Ferries, 2.28. 

Fighting, kinds of, 7.6.40-41 ; modes of, 
10.5.58-56 ; diplomatic, 12.1; 12.2.1-7 ; 
tactical, 10.8.1-25 ; secret, 12.2-5. 

Fines, seales of sdhasa-, 8.17.8-10. 


ee - - 


ee re 


KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 518 


Fire, precautions against, 2.86.15-25. 

Food-rations for men, 2.15.43-49; for 
cattle and other animals, 2.15.51-58 ; 
2.29.43-46 ; for elephants, 2.81.18-15 ; 
for horses, 2.30.18-25. } 

Force, usc of, 9.6.53-55 ; 9.7.68-81 ; 
2.10.56. 

Forcible seizure, 3.17. 

Forest produce, 2.17. 

Forts, construction of, 2.3; laying siege 
to and capture of, 13.3-4. 

Fraud by artisans and craftsmen, 4.1; 
by traders, 4.2. 


Gambling, control of, 3.20.1-12. 

Gems, 2.11.28-42. 

Gifts, making, as a policy, 9.5.11 ; 
9.6.23-25 ; 9.7.68-81 ; 2.10.54; non- 
conveyance of, 3.16.1-9. 

Gold, mining and treatment of, 2.12; 
2.18.1-27 ; working in, 2.18.80-G61 ; 2.14. 

Goldsmith, Royal, 2.14. 

Government service, sce Service. 

Grammatical terms, 2.10.18-21. 


Horses, care of, 2.30; in war, 10.4.18; 
10.5.38. 

Hostage, keeping of, 7.17.1-31 ; escape of, 
7.17.82-61. 

Hostility, policy of, 7.1.14,33 ; 7.4.5-12, 
14-17. 


Houses, see Buildings. 
Husband and wife, relations between, 


3.3-4. 


Income, secret ways of earning, 4.4; 
State, 2.6.1-10,17-22. 

Infantry, training of, 2.33.7-8; in war, 
10.4.16 ; 10.35.56. 

Inheritance, law of, 3.5-7. 

Injury, physical, 3.19. 

Injury, verbal, 3.18. 

Investigation of theft, 4.6 ; 4.8 ; of sudden 
death and murder, 4.7, 

Irrigation-works, 2.1.20-24; 3.9.32-38 ; 
3.10.1-2. 


Judges, concerning, 3. 


King, calamities affecting, 8.2 ; daily life 
of, 1.19; excellences of, 6.1.2-6 ; safety 
of person of, 1.20; 1.21; training of, 1. 

Kings, Circle of, 6.2.18-29. 


Labourers, conditions of work by, 8.14.1- 
11; wages of, 3.13 27-87; unions of, 
$.14.12-17. 

Land, acquisition of, 7.10; new settle- 
ment On, 2.1; 7.11. 

Law and its administration, 8. 

Lay-out of the capital, 2.4. 

Legal procedure, 3.1.17-87. 

Liquor, see Drinks. 

Lost property, recovery of, 8.16.10-28. 


Madhyama king, 6.2.21 ; 7.18.1-25. 
Magistrates, 4.1.1. 


Maidens, violation of, 4.12. 

Manifestations, supernatural, 18.1.1-10. 

March On expedition, 10.2. 

Marching, policy of, 7.1.16,35 ; 7.4.14, 
18. 


Markets, control of, 4.2. 

Marriage, law of, 3.2-4. 

Measurements of space and time, 2.20. 

Measures, capacity, 2.19.29-45. 

Metal-ores, 2.12. 

Method of the science, 15.1. 

Mines, working of, 2.12. 

Ministers, choice of, 1.8; excellences of, 
1.9.1-2 ; secret tests for probity of, 
1.10. 

Miracles, 14.2; 14.8. 

Murder, investigation of, 4.7. 


Offences, miscellaneous, 3.20-14-19 ; 
sexual, 4.12 ; 4.13.30-41. 

Officers, corruption among, 2.9; offences 
by,4.9; salaries of, 5.3. 

Oligarchies, see Samglas. 

Ornaments, manufacture of, 2.14. 

Ownership, law concerning, 3.16.29-36. 


Pacification of conquered territory, 18.5. 

Palace, constriction of, 1.20.1-13. 

Partnership, law of, 3.14.18-38. 

Passports, 2.34.]-4. 

Pastures, care of, 2.34.5-12. 

Peace, policy of, 7.1.13,32; 7.3. 

Pearls, 2.11.2-27. 

Pledges, law concerning, 3.12.8-17. 

Police cificers, 4.1.1. 

Policy, six measures Of, 7.1.6-19. 

Post-mortem examination, 4.7.1-13. 

Power, ti:reefold, 6.2.33 ; 9.1.2-16. 

Practices, secret and miraculous, 14. 

Precious stones, 2.11.28-42. 

Prices, regulation of, 2.16.1-10; 4.2.28-36. 

Prince, in disfavour, 1.18 ; treatment of, 
1.17. 

Prisoners, maltreatment of, 4.9.21-27. 

Procedure, law of, 3.1.17-37. 

Property, sale of, 3.9.1-9 ; see Lost 
property. 

Prostitutes, see Courtesans. 

Punishments, capital, 4.11 ; corporal, 
4.10. 

Purohita, 1.9.9-11. 

Purchase, rescission Of, 3.15.9-18. 


Quiet, staying, policy Of, 7.1.15,84; 
7.4.2-33. 


Rainfall, 2.4.5-10. 

Rain-gauge, 2.5.7. 

Ransom, see Redemptions. 

Rations, see YFood-rations. 

Rear, attacks in the, 7.13. 

Records, 2.7.1-2. 

Redemptions from corporal punishments, 
4.10. 

Remarriage of women, 8.4.24-42. 

Remedies, destructive and harmful, 
14.1; 14.2. 


519 INDEX OF PRINCIPAL TOPICS 


Republics, see Samghbas. 

Revenue, State, 2.6. 

Revolts, 9.3. 

Rule, preservation of dynastic, 5.6. 
Rulership, abnormal, 8.2. 


Salaries, 5.3. 

Sale, rescission of, 3.15.1-8 ; without 
Ownership, 3.16.10-23. 

Sales-agents, 3.12.25-82. 

Samghas, subjugation of, 11.1 

Sandalwood and fragrant substances, 
2.11.43-72. 

Seasons for expedition, 9.1.84-52. 

Seducible persons, 1.14. 

Seizure by force, 3.17. 

Senses, control of, 1.6. 

Service, State, seeking and retaining, 
5.43 5.5. 

Settlements, new, 2.1. 

Sexual offences, 4.12; 4.18.30-41. 


Shelter, seeking, policy of, 7.1.17,86 ; 7.2. 


Shipping, control of, 2.28. 

Silk and ellied cloth, 2.11.102-114. 

Silver, working in, 2-14. 

Skins, 2.11.78-96. 

Slander, see Injury, verbal. 

Slaughter of animals, 2.26. 

Slaves, law concerning, 3.18.1-25. 

Sons, different kinds of, 3.7.4-19. 

Sovereignty, continuity of, 5.6. 

Spells, magical, 14.3. 

Spies, see Agents, secret. 

Stores, State, 2.5; 2.15. 

Stratagems against an attacking enemy, 
12.2,3,4,5. 

Stridhana, 3.2.14-37. 

Succession to rulership, 1.17.58-58 ; 
5.6.33-48. 

Superintendents, activity of, 2. 


Taxes during emergencies, 5.2.2-80. 


Terrains suitable for fighting, 10.4.1-12. 


Territory, see Country, Land. 
Tests of integrity, 1.10. 
Textiles, manufacture of, 2.28.8-10. 


Thefts, investigation of, 4.6; 4.8. 

Tortures for eliciting confession, 4.8. 

Trade in State goods, 2.16. 

Traders, control over, 4.2. 

Training of the ruler, I. 

Traitors (Treasonable persons), dealing 
with, 5.1. 

Transactions, valid and invalid, 3.1.2-16. 

Treasure-trove, finding of, 4.1.51-55. 

Treasury, replenishment of, 5.2. 

Treaties, kinds of, 7.8.22-86; 7.6.4-13. 

Tricks for destroying an attacking enemy, 
12.5 ; for recovering entrusted articles, 
8.12.85-51 ; for replenishing the treasury 
5.2.31-68. 

Troubles affecting the State, $.4; from 
hostile elements and enemies, 9.6. 


Udasina king, 6.2.22 ; 7.18.25-27. 
Unions of workmen, 8.14.12-17. 


Varnas, 1.38.5-8. 

Vartta, study of, 1.4.1-2. 

Vassals, conduct appropriate to, 7.15.21- 
80; treatment of, 7.16. 

Vedas, study of, 1.3. 

Vices of man, 8.3. 


War, preparations for, 9.1-2; see also 
Fighting. 

Water-rate, 2.24.18. 

Water-works, see Irrigation-works. 

Weapons, 2.18. 

Weighing machines, 2.19.11-28. 

Weights, 2.19.8-10 

Wife, offences by, 8.8.10-82; 8.4.1-28 ; 
maintenance Of, 3.3.3-5. 

Witnesses, evidence by, 3.11.14-37. 

Woman’s property, see Stridhana. 

Woollen cloth, 2.11.97-100. 

Workmen, see Labourers. 

Writing, defects of, 2.10.57-62 ; excel- 
lences of" 2.10.6-12. 


Yarn, manufacture of, 2.28. 








22 f wl b 
4 ok eee. % 


Ser t 


yy 
“ 


. aa ees’ 7 
Pemeecg SS Son es 
ng “ . * 
. 
* 
— » 
4 ; ~~, . 
a -_ 
, 
‘ a 
= iby 5 
: > ss we is 
fe > 4 
me. 8 Tr se 
ial ee lic 3 


_ 
v 


Sey eng 
_ Ps ie i H 








Mn" rod 
PS Pe Na 
te 


a 
oy 





Ce OK 
In History and Historical Memory 
eae 3 _ Ed. PATrick OLIVELLE 













The current volume, which contains the presentations at a symposium sponsored by the — 
South Asia Institute and the Department of Asian Studies of the University of Texas at 
Austin (February 4, 9006) is intended to advance the study of Asoka both as history and 
historical memory. The authors of these papers take as historically significant not only 
the ‘‘historical truth’’ of Asoka but also the ways in which Asoka presents himself and his 
political, nationalistic, and religious purposes by succeeding generations both in India 
and in other parts of Asia, especially eaten the expanding Buddhist communities and — 
nations. : 
AGE OF THE NANDS & MAURYA 
Ed. K. A. NILAKANTHA SASTRI 
The present work deals with the period c. 400-185 B.C. which saw great changes in the 
political, eoconomic and artistic life of India. Alexander, Candragupta, Canakya and 
Asoka dominate the period. We get vivid pictures of the outstanding events of the period— 
as of Alexander’s conquests and their influence on the cultural life of India, of the fusion 
of Brahma-Ksatra in the early Mauryan rule after the overthrow of the Nandas and of 
the rule of Asoka and his successors. 

The work consists of eleven chapters contributed by eminent historians like Profs. 
H.C. Ray Chaudhuri, K. A. Nilakantha Sastri, J. N. Banerjee, P.C. Bagchi, S.K. Chatterjee, 
V. Raghvan, and Niharranjan Ray. 

‘The reader would find the chapters on Mauryan Polity, Industry, Art, Religion, — 
Language, and Literature very interesting and instructive. < 


_AN CIENT INDIAN WARFARE 


= - Sarva Daman SINGH | | 

ie Ancien oben Warfare, the author has pieced together all the available sichacolowiell 
_ dataand made a through study of the entire range of Vedic literature in a bid to present — 

_ for the first time as complete a picture of warfare as these sources permit. He deals with — 

a period sof ar given scant attention, or none at all. He ack where ee al ue other 

‘ writers on the subject begin, = 7 esas 

* The Epic: and Buddhist eeual has been used to support, cedars and fori 
ne | ohe picture of the early period. The archaeological evidence has been. utilized as fully as_ 
paar _ possible to add the weight of material proof to literary testimony. ' The author exploes, : 








She domestication of horses" and elephants and their use for mili ary pur nce 
ven ention | of wheeled vehicles and the battle-chariot; the use of metals fo or tt ifacture 


— of: ae ae tk a J ature of ancient arms and armour; forts. and forticaon 
Ae ee! ler a soley uisat tion; ae Sune birth of notes ess © 






Full text of "Artha Shastra Part 3 R. P. Kangle"





i. at 
heen 











Sted 
. cs wos ~~ 





‘> 
i 
a 
a 
* 


. SIR Te 
AMD A 
a —~ 
ae ; 
, » 
oe 1“ 
he 
“~ 7 
- 1 
~ 
4 


bs 


“7 


THE KAUTILIYA A 


PART II 





THE 
KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


PART Ii 
A Study 


R.P. Kancre 


MOTILAL BANARSIDASS PUBLISHERS 
PRIVATE LIMITED ¢ DELHI 


7th Reprint : Delhi, 2010 
Second Edition : Bombay University, 1965 


© MOTILAL BANARSIDASS PUBLISHERS PVT. LTD. 
All Rights Reserved 


ISBN : 978-81-208-0039-7 (Part I) 
ISBN : 978-81-208-0040-3 (Part IT) 
ISBN : 978-81-208-0041-9 (Part ITI) 
ISBN : 978-81-208-0042-7 (Set) 


MOTILAL BANARSIDASS 


41 U.A. Bungalow Road, Jawahar Nagar, Delhi 110007 
8 Mahalaxmi Chamber, 22 Bhulabhai Desai Road, Mumbai 400 026 
203 Royapettah High Road, Mylapore, Chennai 600 004 
236, 9th Main III Block, Jayanagar, Bangalore 560 011 
Sanas Plaza, 1302 Baji Rao Road, Pune 411 002 
8 Camac Street, Kolkata 700 017 
Ashok Rajpath, Patna 800 004 
Chowk, Varanasi 221 001 


Printed In India 
By Jainendra Prakash Jain at Shri Jainendra Press, 
A-45 Naraina, Phase-I, New Delhi 110 028 
and Published by Narendra Prakash Jain for 
Moulal Banarsidass Publishers Private Limited, 
Bungalow Road, Delhi 110 007 


PREFACE 


This Part is intended to serve as a general introduction to the 
study of the Kaufiliya Arthasdstra. It attempts to deal with questions 
about the origin of ArthaSastra as a branch of learning in ancient India, 
the authorship and date of the Kaufiltya Arthasdstra, its sources and 
its style. It also seeks to present a broad outline of its teaching on 
the various topics connected with its subject-matter. It is hoped 
that no question of importance that is likely to be helpful for a study 
of this work has been overlooked. 


Since its first publication in 1909 the Arthagdstra has been the 
object of critical study by many distinguished Indologists. I have 
naturally availed myself of the learned contributions of these eminent 
scholars. My indebtedness to their labours is incalculable. It is, 
of course, not claimed that I have been able to read everything written 
so far on the subject. I hope, however, that I have not missed any 
significant contribution made to the study of this important work. 


Though I have freely drawn on the contributions made by earlier 
scholars, there have been occasions when I have differed from them 
and have tried to controvert their opinions. I hope that while doing 
so I have not anywhere misunderstood their views nor been guilty 
of misrepresenting them. Of course, it cannot be expected that the 
opinions expressed or conclusions reached here will be found entirely 
acceptable. In fact, I shall be satisfied if they are regarded as worthy 
of serious consideration. Perhaps it may not be presumptuous to hope 
that this study will provoke further work on this text. 


I am thankful to a large number of friends who encouraged me in 
this work and offered many useful suggestions and comments after 
going through a part or the whole of it. In particular, I must express 
my thanks to Professor H. D. Velankar and Dr. G. S. Ghurye of the 
University of Bombay, Principal K. T. Merchant of the Sydenham 
College, Bombay, Professor G. C. Jhala of the St. Xavier’s College, 
Bombay, Dr. S. S. Hoskot of the Kirti College, Bombay and Shri G. G. 
Gokhale, formerly with The Times of India, Bombay. I have largely 
benefited from their helpful suggestions. 


I have included inthe Bibliography information about translations 
of the Arthasdstra in Modern Indian Languages. Many of them have 
not been seen by me. Nevertheless, the information, which was 
obtained through the courtesy of the National Library, Calcutta, and of 
my friend Professor S. A. Upadhyaya of the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, 
Bombay, has been incorporated with the intention of making the 


vi PREFACE 


Bibliography complete as far as possible. I hope that the inclusion 
of these titles, not personally seen by me, in the Bibliography will 
be considered excusable. 

I owe special thanks to Professor Oscar Botto of Turin for sending 
me a copy of H. Berger’s article ‘ Kaufalya ist alter als Kaufilya’ 
published in a Munich journal that was not available here. 

Shri B. A. Olkar, Superintendent, Publications Section, University 
of Bombay, has most enthusiastically rendered invaluable help in 
seeing this work through the Press. To him my sincere thanks are 
due. In like manner Shri V. G. Moghe, Sperintendent of the Bombay 
University Press, and his staff deserve my best thanks for bringing out 
this neat volume with promptitude. 

Finally, I must once again give expression to my gratitude to the 
authorities of the University of Bombay for having undertaken the 
publication of this three-part venture. 


May, 1965 R. P. KanGLe 


omen Oo ff &© NH = 


mt pd 
ws = © 


CONTENTS 


ArthaSistra : Scope and Origin 
The Kautiliya Arthasastra : Content and Form 
Sources 

Author and Date 

The State in Kautilya 

Society and Social Life 

State Economy 

State Administration 

Law and Administration of Justice 
Internal Security 

Defence and External Affairs 
Concluding Remarks 

Bibliography 

Word Index 

General Index 


19 

40 

59 
116 
1438 
166 
194 
215 
282 
244 
266 
285 
295 
297 





ABORI 


AOr 

HD 

HP 

IA 

IC 

THQ 
JAOS 
JBBRAS 


JBORS 
JOR 
JRAS 
KA 

KSt 
Mbh 
RSO 
SKPAW 


WZKM 


ZDMG 


ZII 


ABBREVIATIONS 


Annals of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute 
(Poona) 


Archiv Orientaln{ (Praha) 

P. V. Kane’s History of Dharmasdastra 

K. P. Jayaswal’s Hindu Polity (1st edition) 

Indian Antiquary (Bombay) 

Indian Culture (Calcutta) 

Indian Historical Quarterly (Calcutta) 

Journal of the American Oriental Society (Baltimore) 


Journal of the Bombay Branch of the Royal Asiatic 
Society (Bombay) 


Journal of the Bihar and Orissa Research Society (Patna) 
Journal of Oriental Research (Madras) 

Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society (London) 

The Kaujiliya Arthasdstra (Bombay, 1960) 

B. Breloer’s Kaufaliya Studien 

The ifahdabharata (B.O.R.I. edition, Poona) 

Rivista degli Studi Orientali (Roma) 


Sitzungsberichte der K6niglich Preussischen Akademie 
der Wissenschaften (Berlin) 


Wiener Zeitschrift fiir die Kunde des Morgenlandes 
(Wien) 

Zeitschrift der Deutschen Morgenlandischen Gesellschaft 
(Leipzig, now Wieshaden) 

Zeitschrift fiir Indologie und Iranistik (Leipzig) 





CHAPTER ONE 
ARTHASASTRA $: SCOPE AND ORIGIN 


THE Kautiliya Arthasdstra, as the name indicates, is a treatise on 
ArthaSastra. A definition of this Sastra is found in the concluding 
section of the work. We read there, “artha is the sustenance or 
livelihood (vrétth) of men ; in other words, it means ‘ the earth inhabit- 
ed bymen.’ ArthaSastra is the science which is the means of the acquisi- 
tion and protection of the earth.’”! In the same manner, the first ° 
sutra of the work refers to “ ArthaSastras composed by earlier teachers 
for the acquisition and protection of the earth.’ 


Since very early times artha has been regarded as one of the #ri- 
varga or three goals of human existence, the other two being dharma 
and kama. In this connection, artha is understood to stand for material 
well-being as well as the means of securing such well-being, particularly, 
wealth. Like the other two goals, artha also has primarily the indivi- 
dual in view. It is the individual who is to pursue artha as one of the 
goals of his life.3 Now, an essential condition of a man’s material 
well-being is security of livelihood. That is probably the reason why 
artha is, in this text, defined as vrtiz or livelihood. 


K. P. Jayaswal is of the opinion that ortiz in this definition is to 
be understood in the same sense as vartana, i.e., ‘ existence’, so that 
according to him manusydndm ovrttith means ‘human population.” 
This might seem to accord better with the explanation which follows, 
that artha in effect means ‘ the earth inhabited by men.’ However, 
the mere ‘ existence ’ of men appears hardly adequate as the primary 
meaning of artha. Material well-being and its means are ideas very 
closely associated with it. Hence vr#fz as ‘sustenance’ or ‘ livelihood ’ 
is closer to artha than as ‘ existence’. From the word vrtiz is obviously 
derived vdrtid, the three-fold economic activity of agriculture, cattle- 
rearing and trade, which constituted the usual means by which men 
obtained their livelihood on earth. 


1 wae afaes:, aqaadt afafead: | cea: Gfrert erated: 
areaneianreatfatar | KA, 15.1.1-2. 
2 qfreat ort Ted + Mart AeA Tataa: Meatathst Haare 
7 HAA | KA, 1.1.1. 
8 In the present ‘text it is declared in Kautilya’s own words that artha is 
the rhost important of the three, the other two being dependent on it : AT Uq Tat 
afer aitfeca: 1 eaqer fe atarafatt | KA, 1.7.6-7. 


4 HP, TI, p. 5, n. 8. 


KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


to 


D. R. Bhandarkar denies that artha in this definition is one of the 
trivarga.’ He argues that artha in the sense of ‘wealth’ belongs to the 
province of Vartta, whereas artha in the sense of ‘ territory inhabited by 
men’ belongs to the province of Dandaniti (that is, of Arthasastra). 
It is true that artha as understood in the definition of Arthasastra has 
a wider significance than is usually associated with that term. But that 
appears to be only an extension of its usual meaning. This is clearly 
indicated by the fact that artha is first defined as vrite (which term can 
hardly be dissociated from vdrttd) and then only by implication (ityar- 
thah) explained in the sense of ‘ the earth inhabited by men.’ 


With artha understood. by implication, in the sense of the earth 
where men live and seek their material well-being, it ceases to be the 
goal pursued by individuals and appears as the means of ensuring the 
well-being of men in general. This extension of meaning makes it 
possible for ArthaSastra to be regarded as the Sastra concerned with 
general well-being on earth. And since state activity alone can make 
such general well-being possible, the protection of the carth and its 
acquisition, which are an essential part of state activity, are declared 
to be the province of this Sastra. It is thus defined as the Sastra which 
shows how this activity of the acquisition and protection of the earth 
should be carried out. 


This definition implies that ArthaSsastra has a twofold aim. First, 
it seeks to show how the ruler should protect his territory. This pro- 
tection (pdlana) refcrs principally to the administration of the state. 
Secondly, it shows how territory should be acquired. This acquisition 
(labha) refers principally to the conquest of territory from others ; 
that involves a consideration of the foreign policy of the state. These 
two cover the whole range of state activity. One may say, therefore, 
that Arthasastra is understood as the science dealing with state affairs 
in the internal as well as the external sphere ; in other words, it is the 
science of statecraft or of politics and administration. 


It may be remarked in passing that the rulcrship of ‘ the earth ’ 
contemplated in the $astra does not necessarily imply the conquest of 
the whole world. The field open for the operations of the would-be- 
conqueror (vijigisu) appears restricted to the region lying between the 
Himalayas and the sea. Territories beyond the borders of India are 
not included in ‘the territory of the Sovereign Ruler.’® One of the 
reasons for this may be that the conqueror, according to the Sastra, is 
expected to establish a social order based on the varna and dérama 


5 Some Aspects of Ancient Hindu Polity (Benares, 1929), pp. 12-13. P 
6 aq: gfrat | deat ference faa a4- 
aftaaay | KA, 9.1.17-18. 


ARTHASASTRA : SCOPE AND ORIGIN 3 


system in the conquered territories,’ and the establishment of such a 
social order outside the limits of India was perhaps considered im- 
practicable or even undesirable. It may also be that such con- 
quest beyond the borders of India was regarded as unjust. Arrian, 
the Greek historian, has remarked, “‘On the other hand, a sense of 
justice, they say, prevented any Indian king from attempting con- 
quest beyond the limits of India.’”® 


The name Arthas&stra for the science of politics and administra- 
tion, though unusual, appears to be quite old. The Mahabharata 
mentions it in two places. In 12.161.9 Arjuna is described as ‘an 
expert in Arthasastra’® and in 12.290.104 Arthasastra is described 

s ‘ followed by the best of kings.1° However, the name does not 
appear to be in common use in later times. Despite the great influence 
of the Kautiliya Arthasdstra, most later writers on this Sastra have 
preferred another name for it, namely, Nitisastra, which may stand 
either for Dandanitisastra or Rajanitisastra. This is shown by the 
names of such works on this Sastra as the Nittsdra of Kamandaka, the 
Nitivakyamrta of Somadeva, the Nitiprakasika of Vaisampayana and 
soon. It seems that Dandaniti is the oldest name for the sastra. The 
Mahabharata, in 12.59.78, gives the name Dandaniti to the work com- 
posed by Brahmadeva at the beginning of creation for the protection 
of the world. And one of the four lores, the study of which is regard- 
ed as essential for a prince, is Dandaniti. The earlier schools, whose 
opinions are mentioned in the Kautiliya Arthasdstra, 1.2.2-7, thought 
that the study of one or more of the other three lores (Anviksiki, Trayi 
and Vartta) may be dispensed with, but not the study of Dandaniti. 
This lore, considered essential by all, is concerned with the administra- 
tion of the state. Dandaniti literally means ‘ the use or employment of 
the rod ’, and obviously refers to the earliest method of inflicting punish- 
ment on wrong-doers by the ruler. Danda, as the sceptre held by the 
menarch, has everywhere been the symbol of state authority. It is 
possible that Dandaniti, in its origin, was concerned primarily with 
the administration of justice. But it is reasonable to suppose that all 
topics connected with the running of the state came within its purview 
since very early days. The Dandaniti, the study of which is essential 


7 facat a qfaet fraarattat ceed YSsitet | KA, 13.4.62. 


8 Arrian’ s Indika, Ch. IX, in J. W. McCrindle, India as Described by Megas- 
thenes and Arrian (Calcutta, 1926), Pp: 2095; ee Jayaswal, HP, II, p. 191. 


9 qaIdMaaad 

ardt aubdacaat at eae: 1 Mbh, 12.161.9. 
10 qeaqraanet THASSHES | Mbh, 12.290.104. 
ll asa Had Va avs aaa Aa | 

Senta Maat AVeataraade I Mbh, 12.59.78. 


4 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


according to every school of this sastra, could hardly have been con- 
cerned with judicial administration alone. 


U. N. Ghoshal has expressed the view that ArthaSastra is a com- 
prehensive science of which Dandaniti is only a branch.!* There do 
not appear to be sufficient grounds for making such a distinction. As 
stated in the Kautiliya Arthasdstra, Dandaniti is concerned with 
alabdhalabha and labdhaparipdlana along with other things.!* These, 
it is obvious, are to be understood as activities of the state. Now 
ArthaSsastra, as we have seen, is concerned with nothing more than 
these two state activities of labha and pdlana. It may also be pointed 
out that according to the Nittvadkydamrita of Somadeva, Nitisastra 
consists of tanira and dvdpa. The former of these is said to be concerned 
with the protection of one’s own territory, while the latter is concerned 
with the acquisition of territory belonging to others.“ This clearly 
shows that Nitisastra has the same full scope as ArthaSastra and is 
not to be regarded as merely a branch of that sastra. 


The view that Arthasastra has a wider scope than Nitisastra 
seems to be due to some difference that is noticeable between the cen- 
tents of the Arthasdstra and those of such works as the Nitisdra of 
Kamandaka, regarded as representative of works on Niti or Dandaniti. 
An outstanding feature of this difference is the absence in works like 
the Nitisdra of a code of law corresponding to the dharmasthiya section 
(Book 3) of the Arthasdsitra. The reason for this is clearly the fact that 
in those later days when the Nitisdra and similar works were composed 
law had been completely appropriated by Dharmasastra works and no 
need was felt to retain it in manuals on statecraft. But it is hardly 
conceivable that Dandaniti, which in its origin was probably the science 
of the administration of justice, was in the beginning unconcerned 
with law. That Kamandaka himself makes no distinction between 
ArthaSastra and Nitisaéstra appears evident from the circumstance 
that in the opening verses of his work, where he pays homage to 
Visnugupta, he states that the latter had taken out the nectar of Niti- 
Sastra from the ocean of Arthasastras.15 Now this is clearly a reference 
to the present work called the ArthaSastra, attributed to Kautilya or 
Visnugupta, and it is significant that Kamandaka refers to it as the 


12 A History of Indian Political Ideas (O. U. P., Bombay, 1959), p. 84. 
18... Qselid:, Too STC Catalaarnt Tacs ats she- 
Great Ff | KA, 1.4.3. 


14 TAMU AhtMIeAA | CANIS STA MAMET AT | TAS HTAT CA Ta T 


ATay: | Nitivdkydmria, 30.45-47. 
15 Altea a ATATAAAUTE AMSA: | 
SEM AHeteH froma TAA 11 Nitiséra, 1.6. 


ARTHASASTRA: SCOPE AND ORIGIN 5 


‘nectar in the form of Nitisastra’. According to him, therefore, 
ArthaSastra and Nitisastra had the same scope. 


Nitisastra, however, may also be understood to stand for Rajaniti- 
Sastra, the science laying down conduct proper for the ruler. But the 
name does not appear to be very old. The Mahabharata uses names 
like Rajasastra and Rajadharmah, but not Rajaniti.1¢ Kamandaka, 
in one place, refers to this science as Rajavidya.17 The significance of | 
these names is quite obvious.1® 


The origin of this saéstra is obscure. An account of its supposed 
origin is found in Chapter 59 of the Santiparvan of the Mahabharata. 
The account is no doubt mythical; but it is not without interest, since 
it does throw some light on this question. We read there that at the 
beginning of creation, in the Krta Yuga, men acted according to dharma 
though there was no ruler nor any punishment, but that in course of 
time men were overcome by delusion, greed, love of pleasures and other 
base passions, and that in consequence there was anarchy everywhere. 
The gods were filled with apprehension and approached Brahmadeva, 
the Creator, to seek a way out. The latter reassured them and com- 
posed a treatise in order that an orderly and peaceful existence may be 
ensured for men on earth. The treatise, it is said, contained one 
hundred thousand chapters and dealt with the trivarga of dharma, 
artha and kama. It is added that the four lores of Trayi, Anviksiki, 
Vartta and Dandaniti were also treated in that work ?® ‘Then follows 
a detailed analysis of its contents. This list of contents makes no 
mention at all of topics connected with Trayi, Anviksiki and Vartta, 
but refers only to topics that are germane to Dandaniti. In fact, the 
analysis concludes with the statement, ‘* All those means by which 
men can be prevented from deviating from theAryanpath were de- 
scribed in the Nitisastra.”2° This shows that Brahmadeva’s treatise 
was in reality a work on Nitisastra alone. What is more, in Sloka 78 
which follows this statement, the treatise is definitely given the title 
Dandaniti21 We are further told that God Samkara first took this 
Niti and reduced it to ten thousand chapters having regard to the fact 


16 See Mbh, 12.58.1-3 ; 12.68.16 ; 12.57.43 etc. 
17 Nitisdra, 1.7-8. 


18 For a discussion of the various names of this science, cf. P. V. Kane, 
HD, III, pp. 4-8. 


19 ACSA At Ah Kata | 
TA TARAAATS: -BATAATTA AT: | Mbh, 12.59.29. 
wat areatteat Aa atat + ALITA | 
qisdttaead faget frees frafetat: 1 Mbh, 12.59.83. 
20 qaatialars A Adaaaca: | 
qed Uses atferareasqateray i Mbh, 12.59.74. 


21 See Note 11 above. 


6 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


that the life of men becomes shorter and shorter in succeeding Yugas.** 
This abridged text is said to have been known as the Vaisalaksa (Sdastra). 
Indra reduced this text further to five thousand chapters, his work 
being known as the Bahudantaka (Sdstra). Then the text was reduced 
further to three thousand chapters by Brhaspati in a work called the 
Barhaspatya (Sastra). Finally, it is stated that Kavya (that is, USanas) 
reduced the work still further to one thousand chapters ; and though 
that is not expressly stated, we are to presume that his work was 
known as the Auganasa (Sastra).2* All these abridgments, like 
Brahmadeva’s original work, were supposedly concerned with Niti or 
-Dandaniti. 

This aceount of the origin of the Sastra is no doubt fanciful. It is 
clearly intended to claim a high antiquity for it and to seek divine 
sanction for its teaching. Yet the account does throw some light on 
the question of the origin of this Sastra. There seems little doubt, for 
example, that a Barhaspatya Sdastra and an Auéganasa Sastra dealing 
with Niti were at one time in existence. For, the Mahabharata not . 
only refers to Brhaspati and USanas as teachers of this Sastra, but also 
cites some slokas purporting to be quotations from their Sdstras. 
Thus, in 12.56.88ff. it refers to ‘‘ Slokas set forth in the old days in the 
Barhaspatya Sastra” and quotes some of them.** In 12.122.11 King 
Vasuhoma is said to have studied “ the entire teaching of Brhaspati 
as well as the Auganasa Sastra.”*® In 12.28.14-15 a gatha is repro- 
duced which Brhaspati is said to have uttered, though in 12.57.2-3 the 
same is quoted with a little variation as a Sloka uttered by USanas.”® 
In 12.68 there is a discourse on the necessity and importance of a king 
which is said to have been delivered by the great sage Brhaspati to 
Vasumanas, King of the Kosalas. In 12.104 we have a dialogue. bet- 
ween Indra and Brhaspati on how a king should deal with his enemies ; 


220 qaeaT Waa Ta AWTS ARE | 


28 Sce Mbh, 12.59.86-92. 
% qectea 4 Wea 4 Wlal fafqaat: FAT! Mbh, 12.56.38. 
25 qecdtad UIA Whe aT | 

qAalaaad Wer Casta A ALATA Ut Mbh, 12,122.11. 
26 aft Walaa ANT FASCIA CATA II 

afaeat faficta- att faearartrs | 

WH Alacare ATA AMAA | Mbh, 12.23.14-15. 

WIAA Ale WiHar frais t... 

Sladt Waa Ala: ATt fawaartrs | 

Wot Afactalx ATA ATTATAAT || Mbh, 12.57.2-8. 


ARTHASASTRA: SCOPE AND ORIGIN 


“I 


Brhaspati is there described as rdjudharmavidhdnajnah “who knows 
rules laying down the king’s duties.’ In 12.140.17 we read of barhaspata 
giana, which Maghavan (that is, Indra) himself is said to have taught.?? 
The teaching of Brhaspati is referred to also in 12.57.6-7, 12.58.13, 
12.69.23, 12.164.12 and other places. Similarly, in 12.136.184-186 
two gathas of USanas are quoted, while 12.187.66-68 contain two other 
gathas said to have been taught by USanas to Prahrada.?* In 12.203.18 
Bhargava (that is, Usanas) is said to have set forth the Nitisastra, 
which is beneficial to the world.2® These passages leave little room for 
doubt that works attributed to Brhaspati and USanas or their schools 
were known to the author of this part of the Mahabharata and that the 
teachings of these two sages were mainly concerned with the science 
of politics. The tradition that Brhaspati and Usanas (otherwise known 
as Sukra) were the founders of this Sastra is, in fact, quite old. 
ASvaghosa, for instance, says that Sukra and Brhaspati created the 
Rajasastra, which their fathers, Bhrgu and Angiras respectively, had 
not done though they were the founders of celebrated families.*° 


Concerning Brhaspati and USanas we get some information from 
early sources. In the Rgveda, Brhaspati appears as a divinity, who 
helps Indra in winning the cows. In that exploit, Brhaspati seems to 
have played a role analogous to that of a purohita or priest and pre- 
ceptor helping his king to obtain a victory on the battle-field. And 
in later days he actually came to be regarded as the purohita of Indra 
and the gods and became known for his great wisdom. He is, in fact, 
the prototype of purohitas on earth. The Rgveda also refers to him 
as an Angirasa, born in the family of Angiras. Asvaghosa, as we 
have seen, mentions Brhaspati, the son of Angiras, as one of the founders 
of the Rajasastra. As regards USanas, he is, according to tradition, 
the purohita of the demons, Asuras or Daityas. The Mahabharata 
represents him as the preceptor of Vrtra in 12.270.15 and as the teacher 
of Prahrada in 12.187.66. He is regarded as a Bhargava, born in the 
family of Bhrgu, and as Agvaghosa tells us, Sukra (which is another 
name for USanas), the son of Bhrgu, was the other founder of the Raja- 
astra. It would not be unreasonable to suppose that Brhaspati and 
Uganas were real persons who served as purohitas to some kings and 
instructed them in the art of government, and that regular instruction 


a7 aft areca Alt Wlata AAA TAA | Mbh, 12,140.17. 

23 ufearaa ama ¢ faatetaaar He | Mbh, 12.186.184. 
FIATATA TT F A BlAMTAaCTT | Mbh, 12,187.66. 

29 APal aliaaret FT WIT Sat featH | Mbh, 12.208.18. 

30 MATAR TRA A A AGTH TA at | 
Ta: gat at = aaigarenled UAT FECT I Buddhacarita, 1.46. 


8 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


in this art was unknown before their time. Even if we suppose, 
however, that Brhaspati and USanas are purely mythical beings and 
cannot be regarded as historical personages, there still can be no denying 
that these two names were very closely associated with the founding 
of this Saéstra since very early times, and that specific teachings of 
the Sastra were supposed to be derived from works attributed to them 
or to their schools, these works being known as the Barhaspatya Sastra 
and the Auganasa Sastra. That there were schools of Nitisastra claim- 
ing to be founded by Brhaspati and USanas is also shown by the Kautt- 
liya Arthasgastra, as will be seen in Chapter 3 below. 


The Mahabharata account of the origin of the Sastra mentions two 
still earlier works, namely, the Vatsdlaksa and the Bahudantaka. The 
supposed authors of these, gods Samkara and Indra, are, of course, 
entirely mythical. Yet, it would not be quite right to conclude that 
works ascribed to them must therefore be regarded as purely imaginary. 
For, we find that the Kautiliya Arthagdstra frequently mentions the 
opinions of Visaélaksa and Bahudantiputra. These two are mentioned 
along with Bharadvaja, Pisuna and others, who are quite obviously 
human authors. It is not unlikely that Visalaksa and Bahudantiputra 
are also names of human authors and that their identification with 
the two gods is due to some confusion. It is also possible that the 
human authors claimed that their teaching was inspired by these gods, 
so that it was thought to have originated with the gods and the human 
authors were forgotten. In any case, it would not be altogether un- 
justifiable to suppose that the Vaisdlaksa Sastra and the Bahudantaka 
Sdstra were at one time in existence, though the Mahabhdiata account 
of their authorship and size may be regarded as fanciful. It should 
be added that the mutual relationship between the different works 
stated in the Mahabharata need not be accepted as based on facts 
nor may one safely draw any chronological conclusions from that 
account. 


~The Mahabharata, in 12.58.1-8, mentions seven promulgators of 
the science of rulership, rdajasdstrapranetdrah, namely, Brhaspati, 
Visalaksa, Kavya (that is, USanas), Mahendra (that is, Indra), Pracetasa 
Manu, Bharadvaja or Bharadvaja and Gaurasiras. A work on politics 
attributed to Pracetasa Manu was clearly known to the Mahabharata. 
For, in 12.57.48-45, we have two Slokas said to be quotations from the 
Rajadharmah of Pracetasa Manu.*4 The use of the plural in Rdja- 
dharmesu suggests that it is the name of the work composed by Prace- 
tasa Manu. This work cannot be identified with the Manusmrti, 


81 sTAdat Gael AATaTET | 
aa ae afaeHaat: YT i) Mbh, 12.57.48. 


ARTHASASTRA: SCOPE AND ORIGIN 9 


which does not contain the two Slokas or anything similar to them. 

Moreover, the Manusmrti claims to be the work of Svayambhuva 

Manu and not Pracetasa Manu. Whoever the latter was, a school of 

politics, claiming to be founded by him, was apparently in existence ' 
once. And it is this school which may be supposed to be referred to 

as that of the Manavas in the Kautiliya Arthaégdstra. As will be seen 

later, when the present text refers to the opinions of the Manavas, in 

none of those places can the Manusmrti be understood as intended.** 

The work on Niti by Pracetasa Manu is, of course, now non-existent. 


As to Bharadvaja, or more properly Bharadvaja, it may be men- 
tioned that the Mahabharata (Chapter 12.188) contains a discourse on 
politics said to have been delivered by Bharadvaja to King Satrum- 
tapa. This teacher is there referred to also as Kaninka.** It may be 
assumed that the Mahabharata was acquainted with the teaching of 
Kaninka Bharadvaja. It is quite likely that this teacher is the same 
as the Bharadvaja whose opinions are frequently referred to in the 
Kautiliya Arthasdstra. This text also mentions once a minister 
Kaninka Bharadvaja, and on the strength of the evidence of the 
Mahabharata he may safely be identified with the teacher Bharadvaja. 
About GauraSiras, another teacher of this Sastra mentioned in the 
Mahabharata, nothing is known and it is idle to speculate on his identity. 


The circumstance that Brhaspati and Uganas, who are credited 
with the founding of this Sastra, are both said to have been purohitas 
is significant. In the earliest days, as the Rgveda shows, the purohita 
was always there by the side of the king to advise, to guide and to help 
him in all spheres of his activity. As a state functionary, the purohita 
was next in importance only to the king.** It may well be that in the 
very early days he was the only state functionary beside the king and 
that separate ministers, mantrins or amatyas, came to be appointed 
only gradually when in course of time the secular tasks of the state mu!- 
tiplied and the functions of the purohita were more and more restricted 
to the religious sphere. Even when this happened, however, the pre- 
eminent position enjoyed by him in the earlier days was still retained 
in the teaching of the sastra. The first among the state dignitaries 
to whose appointment the Kautiliya Arthasastra refers is the purohita. 
And after enumerating the qualities necessary in a purohita it adds 


32 See Chapter 4 below. 
83 WIXI Aale Ua: Waa F U 
UT UAT ATA Sat AI<A 
GeaRaeee 1 ca 12.188.3-4. 


34 The See of a purohita to the king is referred to in the Aitareya Brah- 
mana, VIII.24-27 and elsewhere. The Asvalayana Grhya Sitra, 3.12, refers to the 
purohita’s work on the battle-field, reciting mantras etc. 


10 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


that the king should obey him as a pupil does his teacher, a son his 
father or a servant his master.*®° Even in the teaching of the Artha- 
§dstra the purohita is expected to be present in the camp and on the 
battle-field (10.1.6; 10.83.82), as in the old days. This high position 
which the purohita occupied in the state hierarchy naturally made him 
fully conversant with matters connected with the running of a state. 
Such intimate knowledge of statecraft may reasonably be supposed to 
have led to the formulation of the Nitisastra by the early purohitas. 
Hence the tradition that Brhaspati and Usanas, who occupied the 
position of purohitas, were the founders of this Sastra may be regarded 
as based on facts, even if the historicity of these two be regarded 
as open to question. 

However, though purohitas may be supposed to be the founders 
of this Saéstra, it was naturally the mantrins or ministers who, in course 
of time, became more and more concerned with its study and propa- 
gation. Some of the earlier teachers whose opinions are mentioned in 
the Kautiliya Arthasastra appear to have been ministers rather than 
purohitas. Thus Bharadvaja, as remarked above, appears to be iden- 
tical with the minister Kaninka Bharadvaja, who is said to have escaped 
from the wrath of his king on seeing some sign of his displeasure (5.5.11). 
Similarly, the teacher Pisuna mentioned in this text may well be iden- 
tical with the minister Pisuna who also managed to escape from the 
displeasure of his king (5.5.11). 

The formulation of the precepts of this science seems to have begun 
very early. With the establishment of the institutions of the king 
and the purohita, the ground was ready for the Sastra to come into 
being. Precepts or rules bearing on matters of administration and of 
state policy at home and abroad may be supposed to have been framed 
by the early purohitas for the guidance of the kings whom they served. 
Such rules were obviously found useful for the instruction of other 
kings as well. The precepts may be supposed to have been collected 
together and to have thus constituted a sort of manual for the guidance 
of rulers in general. Though one cannot say definitely when such a 
manual or text-book came info being for the first time, it appears that 
it was composed in quite early times. Unfortunately, all early works 
on this Sastra are lost. The Kautiliya Arthagdstra is the earliest work 
on it that has come down tous. But it clearly marks the culmination 
of along period of speculation on matters which form the subject-matter 
of this Sastra, not its starting point. It not only refers to vakirs and 
prayoktrs of the sastra in 1.5.8, but quotes the opinions of alarge number 
of individual teachers and schools devoted to its study. When we 


35 garam farsa: frat gat ya: carfrafaa apace | KA, 1.9.10. 


ARTHASASTRA : SCOPE: AND ORIGIN 1] 


find that already the earlier authorities appear to regard certain doc- 
trines, like that of the four wpdyas or the six gunas or the seven prakrtis 
or the three Saktis, as well established, we may reasonably conclude 
that the beginnings of this science must have preceded the composition 
of the Kautiliya Arthasdstra by a few centuries.*¢ The opinion of K. 
P. Jayaswal that Arthasastra as a science originated prior to 600 B.C. 
does not appear to be wide of the mark.*’ 

However, U. N. Ghoshal thinks that 650 B.C. suggested by D. R. 
Bhandarkar (Some Aspects of Ancient Hindu Polity, pp. 6-7) for the 
beginning of this science as much too early and regards even 500 B.C. 
suggested by A. S. Altekar (State and Government in Ancient India, 
pp. 4-8) as inadmissible.2® But there does not appear to be any valid 
reason why the beginnings of this science cannot be placed as early as 
600 B.C. or even a little earlier. It is known that territorial kingdoms 
had been in existence since the days of the Mahabharata war. A number 
of these had attained prominence at the time of the rise of Buddhism. 
Buddhist sources frequently refer to sixteen Mahajanapadas, prominent 
among them being Kosala, Vatsa, Avanti and Magadha.*® Many of 
these kingdoms had continued the practice of appointing purohitas 
and there can be no doubt that all of them had one or more ministers. 
The Majjhima Nikdya mentions Dirgha Caraéyana as an important 
official of King Pasenadi of Kosala.#° It is not unlikely that this 
Dirgha Carayana is identical with the minister of that name mentioned 
in the Kautiliya Arthasdstra along with Kaninka Bharadvaja, Pisuna 
and others (5.5.11). Similarly King Ajatasatru of Magadha succeeded 
in overthrowing the powerful Vajjis (Vrjis) through the policy of bheda 
or dissension effectively pursued by his scheming minister, Vassakara.** 
It may be assumed that problems of internal administration and of 
relations with neighbouring states must have been tackled by those 
appointed to high offices in these states long before this period which 
witnessed the growth of the power of Magadha at the expense of its 
neighbours. It is, therefore, not at all unreasonable to suppose that 
questions which form the subject-matter of this Sastra had begun to 
engage the attention of the practical administrators in these kingdoms 
even before the historical period which saw the rise of Buddhism. 


36 Cf. Kane, HD, III, p. 2. 

37 HP, I, pp. 4-5. Cf. also D. R. Bhandarkar, Some Aspects of Ancient Hindu 
Polity (Benares, 1929), pp. 6-7. 

38 A History of Indian Political Ideas, p. 105, n. 1. 

39 Cf. H. C. Raychaudhury, Political History of Ancient India (5th ed., Cal- 
cutta, 1950), pp. 199ff.; also The Age of Imperial Unity (ed. R.C. Majumdar, 
Bombay, 1951), pp. 1-15. 

40 H.C. Raychaudhury, op. cit., p. 199 and n. 1. 

41 See A. L. Basham, The sWonder that was India (London, 1954), p. 97. 


12 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


And this science undoubtedly has its genesis in the thoughts and pre- 
cepts of such practical administrators. 


Probably because the Sastra originated with purohitas, it has a 
few distinctive features. It is principally instructional in character. 
It is intended to teach a ruler how he should conduct himself in the 
various situations that are likely to arise in the course of hisrule. That 
is in keeping with the role of the purohita, who, as the king’s preceptor, 
could lay down rules for the king to follow, telling him what he should 
do and what he should avoid. As a result of this, again, the astra is 
pre-eminently practical in aim. There is little theorizing, hardly any 
sustained discussion of theoretical problems about the origin of the 
state, the best kind of state, the functions of the state and so on. It 
seems also that the association of this S4stra with purohitas, who were 
experts in the magical rites of the Atharvaveda, is responsible for the 
inclusion of the aupanisadika section (Book 14 of the Kautiliya Artha- 
sdstra) in a work on politics and administration. 


It is sometimes assumed that ArthaSastra is later in origin than 
DharmaSastra. J. Jolly, for example, says, ‘‘ The Dharmasastra has 
far better claims to a high antiquity than ArthaSsastra, which in turn 
is older than KamasSastra... the three sciences on trivarga followed 
each other in time as well as in rank and value... It was only when 
special schools for each separate branch of learning replaced the ancient 
Vedic schools that schools of ArthaSaistra could take their rise as a 
branch of Dharmasastra first and then as an independent branch of 
study.”#2 Arthasastra is thus regarded as only an offshoot of Dhar- 
masastra, and in particular, the Kautiliya Arthasdastra is believed to be 
indebted to works on Dharmasastra for its teaching. 


In support of his thesis Jolly collected over two hundred passages 
from Books 38 and 4 of the present work, which are concerned with law 
and the punishment of offenders, and pointed out the great similarity, 
in doctrine as well as in wording, which these passages bear to what we 
find in Dharmasastra works, particularly the Smrtis.4* In the Intro- 
duction to his edition of the text, he further drew attention to thirty- 
three passages from other Books of the Arthasdstra to which close paral- 
lels are found in DharmaSastra works. At the end of this comparison, 
Jolly concludes: “‘One cannot help arriving at the conclusion that 
Kautilya must have been acquainted with the whole body of Dharma- 
Sastra literature much as we now have it, from the earliest Dharma- 
sutras to the most recent metrical Smrtis and Smrti fragments.’’44 He 
would thus appear to be of the view that the Kautiliya Arthasastra 


42 Introduction to the Punjab edition of the Kautiliya Arthasdstra, p. 20. 
43 ZDMG, 67 (1918), pp. 49-96. 
44, Introduction, p. 17. 


ARTHASASTRA : SCOPE AND ORIGIN 13 


has borrowed not only from the early Smrtis of Manu and Yajnavalkya, 
but also from the later Smrtis of Narada, and even of Katyayana 
and Brhaspati. Such a view is altogether untenable. The particular 
question of the relation of the present work to the Smrtis of Manu 
and Yajiiavalkya will be considered later in Chapter 4 below. For the 
present it will be sufficient to consider the general question of the relation 
of Arthasastra to Dharmasastra. 

It is not possible to accept the view that Arthasastra is only an 
offshoot of Dharmagastra, because the two Sastras are essentially differ- 
ent in origin and scope. Arthasastra or Dandaniti is primarily con- 
cerned with rulership, which involves questions of administration, 
including the administration of law and the punishment of criminals. 
With these subjects Dharmasastra in its origin had nothing to do. 
As is well-known, the earliest extant works on that sastra, the Dharma- 
sutras of Apastamba and Baudhayana, are a part of Kalpa or Ritual, 
one of the six Vedangas, and as such are a part of the curriculum of 
the Vedic schools. ‘They were composed with the object of expounding 
the sdmaydacarika dharmas ‘ duties or practices sanctified by custom ’ 
or varndasramadharmas ‘duties of the four varnas and désramas.’** 
The word dharma in these texts refers primarily to ‘duties’. The 
fact that the word also means ‘ law ’ has created the impression that the 
Dharmasiitras are primarily works on law. They are nothing of the 
kind. They, no doubt, contain a few rules which fall within the pro- 
vince of law proper, but these happen to be included only incidentally. 
Meyer has pointed out that inheritance is the only title of civil law 
with which all early Dharmasiiras deal and he has argued that this is 
so because inheritance is intimately connected with sapinda-relationship 
and éraddha, with which these works were primarily concerned.4* In 
any case, it is quite unlikely that the formulation of legal rules was 
the primary concern of the Vedic schools. 


Moreover, the standpoint of the Dharmasitras is not that of a 
law-giver, but that of a moral preceptor who lays down duties and 
regards deviations from them as sins to be expiated by the individual 
himself rather than as crimes to be punished by the state. That is 
why works on Dharmaégastra contain large sections on prayascitta 
‘ expiation for sins ’ with which no law-giver can be seriously concerned. 
With reference to the different points of view which characterise the 
two Sastras, Jolly says, “‘ The general tendency of the Arthasastra is 
thoroughly realistic and worldly, as opposed to the vague idealism 


45 Cf. Apastamba Dharmasitra, 1.1.1.1 etc. 
46 Uber das Wesen der altindischen Rechtschriften etc. (Leipzig, 1927), pp- 
62-63. 


14 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


and strictly religious principles of the Dharmasastra.”4? Similarly, 
Winternitz remarks that the Arthasastra is concerned with actual 
things, while the Dharmagastra sets forth only ideal require- 
ments, and that what is of special importance to one appears secondary 
to the other and is passed over.4® The fact is that the essence of the 
difference lies in the circumstance that Dharmasastra is in its origin 
addressed to the ordinary individual and is concerned with the strict 
observance of his duties by him, while Arthasastra is primarily concerned 
with the administration of a state by its ruler. The points of contact 
between the two Sastras arise from the fact that Dharmasastra 
also thought of dealing with the ‘ duties ’ of the king and of referring 
to certain matters belonging to the sphere of law proper. But it is 
hardly right to suppose that the Vedic schools, in which the Dharma- 
Sastra works arose, were the originators of the rules on the adminis- 
tration of the state or of the legal rules. It would seem obvious that 
the few rules on Jaw and state administration which we find in the early 
DharmasSsastra works were derived by them from some other source.‘ 


Moreover, we find that it is only gradually that works on Dharma- 
Sastra came to devote more and more attention to questions of law 
and administration. Thus, while Apastamba has only 189 siitras 
dealing with these topics out of a total of 1,372 sittras (that is, about 
one-tenth of the whole) and Baudhayana has 147 in a total of 1,248 
stitras (or over one-eighth), Vasistha devotes 189 out of 1,039 (or a 
little less than one-sixth) to these topics and Gautama has 261 out of 
1,000 siitras (or more than one-fourth) similarly devoted.*® In the 
Smrtis of Manu and Yajniavalkya, which admittedly belong to the. 
second phase in the growth of Dharmasastra, these topics cover roughly 
one-third of the entire work and receive for the first time a fulness of 
treatment that was lacking in the early Dharmasiitras. Manu is the 
first DharmaSsastra writer to treat law in a more or less systematic man- 
ner, though he does not forget his role of a moral preceptor even in these 
sections. It is Yajiiavalkya who treats law much more systematically 
and without an admixture of moral cxhortations in his Chapter on 
vyavahara or law. Thus it is clear that it is only in course of time 
that DharmaSastra works came to be more and more interested in ques- 


47 Introduction, p. 3. 
48 Geschichte der indischen Litteratur, III (Leipzig, 1920), pp. 506-7; also 
Some Problems of Indian Literature, pp. 88-84. 
_ 49 Cf. Demétre Makrydimas, La Royauté Hindoue @’aprés les Codes Brahma- 
niques (Trieste, 1923), pp. 20-21. 
50 This is the more likely relative chronology of the four Dharmasutras. 
Cf. Meyer, op. cit. ; also Batakrishna Ghosh, IHQ, III (1927), pp. 607-611. 


ARTHASASTRA: SCOPE AND ORIGIN 15 


tions of law and administration, and that the systematic treatment of 
these topics belongs to a later phase in the growth of that sastra. Now, 
it is well-known that works belonging to this later phase, such as the 
Smrtis of Manu and Yajnavalkya, are in no sense original works but 
are compilations made from earlier sources. Their sections on the 
duties of the varnas and the asramas and on prdyascittas are clearly 
derived from early Dharmasiiras. They cannot, therefore, be regarded 
as original in respect of their sections on law and administration. It 
is impossible, for example, to suppose that Manu is the originator of 
the detailed rules laying down the duties of the king in Chapter 7 or 
of the classification of law under eighteen heads and their detailed treat- 
ment in Chapters 8 and 9. He must be supposed to have compiled 
these sections on the basis of some other works. 


If, then, the Dharmasastra works cannot be regarded as source- 
books so far as the topics of administration and law are concerned, they 
must themselves be supposed to have derived their material on these 
topics from some other source. This source was quite obviously the 
works on Nitisastra or Arthasastra. For, there can be no doubt that 
rajadharmas ‘ duties of the king, ’ i.e., rules regarding the governance 
of a state form the legitimate subject-matter of this sastra. They are, 
in fact, the special province of this sastra alone. When Apastamba 
gives rules about the king’s residence in II.10.25.1-6, about state 
officers in II.10.26.4-8, about exemptions from taxes in II.10.26.9-17, or 
when Baudhayana states rules about taxation etc. in I.18.18-15, they do 
so obviously on the basis of Nitiséstra works known tothem. Similarly, 
when Manu in Chapter 7, refers to the circle of twelve kings or the six 
measures of policy or the rules of warfare, he must be supposed to have 
derived his material from Nitisastra works. Even Jolly admits as 
much in one place. He says, ‘“‘ The detailed description of the rajadhar- 
ma in Manu and Yajnavalkya could have been derived from the Artha- 
§astra,”’ and he refers to Biihler, who, even though he was not aware of 
the existence of Kaiutilya’s work, had correctly translated samakhyata 
(in Manu 7.156) by “‘ are enumerated (in the Institutes of Polity).”™ 


But what is true of rdjadharmas is equally true of law. There 
seems to be a general impression that Niti or Arthasastra was originally 
not concerned with law. But as remarked above, Nitisastra, which, 
in its origin, was Dandanitisastra, must have been concerned with law, 
the violation of which calls for danda or punishment.*? Moreover, the 


51 ZDMG, 67 (1913), p. 96. 
52 Sec p. 3 above. 


16 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


fact that early works on this sastra did deal with law is clear from the 
references, in the present work, to the conflicting opinions of earlier 
teachers on such questions as punishment for false testimony (3.11.44- 
46), punishment for the forcible seizure of goods (3.17.3-14), special 
shares for sons according to. their seniority (3.6.1-5), desertion by the 
wife on account of ill-treatment by the husband (3.4.9), right over the 
ksetraja son (8.7.1-2), payment of wages when an agreement for work is 
violated (3.14.6), punishment for scuffle and injury (3.19.19) and 
punishment in suits arising out of gambling (3.20.4). There can be 
little doubt that Nitisastra was concerned with law from the earliest 
days. It follows that the Dharmasastra works are indebted to this 
Sastra for the law which they have incorporated. The Apastamba 
Dharmasjira, one of the earliest extant works on Dharmasastra, 
already shows acquaintance with Arthasastra. It describes the puro- 
hita as one who is an expert in dharma and artha. This is rightly in- 
terpreted by the commentator Haradatta to mean ‘an expert in 
DharmaSastra and in ArthaSastra.’5 


Winternitz expressed the opinion that like the legal sentences, 
precepts for the benefit of the ruler, the oldest teaching on artha and 
mitt, were current for long in the form of memorable verses or maxims 
before there were any schools or Sastras.54 A similar view is expressed 
by L. Renou.55 Regarding this theory of what is usually called ‘a 
floating mass ’ of maxims or gnomic verses, it may be pointed out that 
all that it amounts to is that the actual authors of those maxims or 
verses cannot now be traced, and that they were freely appropriated 
by later writers. For, one must suppose that they were composed by 
some one at some time. When Winternitz refers to such a stanza as 
prajasukhe sukham rajfiah etc. (KA, 1.19.84) as an instance of such a 
memorable verse, that only means that we do not know who composed 
it. But some one must surely have composed it in those very early 
days when those concerned had started thinking about behaviour 
proper for the king. This and similar ideas must have been put in 
words by the early thinkers on these matters and then communicated 
to others. That, in fact, was the beginning of this Sastra. The verses 


Suited qataHaed Apastamba, 1.5.10.14, and * FH MT EACTAMEAT 


Zq ” Haradatta on the same. See Jayaswal, HP, I, p.4,n.4. Fora rer” 
tation of Jolly’s arguments about the priority of Dharmasastra to Arthaéastra 
see K. A. Nilakanta Sastri, Age of the Nandas and the Mauryas (Banaras, 1952), 
pp. 198-194. 

54 Géschichie der indischen Litteratur, III, p. 507. 


55 L’Inde Classique, Tome II (Paris, 1958), pp. 124-125. 


ARTHASASTRA : SCOPE AND ORIGIN 17 


must have originally formed part of a body of teaching handed down 
from generation to generation. But in view of the ancient method 
of oral transmission of all teaching, most of the earlier teaching, as 
transmitted in different schools, is no longer extant. The incorporation 
of all that teaching in the Kaufiliya Arthagdstra seems also to have 
been responsible for its disappearance in later times. The Mahabha- 
rata seems to have preserved stray pieces from that ancient teaching. 
As Winternitz himself says, “‘ Many pieces in the Mahabharata appear 
as small Nitisastras or abstracts thereof.”5* There can be no reason- 
able doubt that the Mahabharata has derived its material from early 
treatises on this Sastra. There is no reason, therefore, why the ex- 
istence of a large mass of memorable verses, unconnected with any 
treatise, should be postulated. 


While agreeing with Jacobi that politics and law were closely 
related, A. Hillebrandt has nevertheless expressed doubts about their 
being studied in the same schools. He has also questioned the existence 
of separate Arthasastra schools.5’? There does not appear to be any 
reason for such doubts. If, as indicated above, DharmaSastra was 
not primarily concerned with politics and law but derived its material 
on these topics from other sources, it must be supposed that these 
topics were originally studied in circles outside the Dharmasastra 
schools. Nor are there sufficient grounds for supposing that politics 
anc law were not studied in the same schools. Nitisastra or Arthe- 
Sastra was concerned with both from the start. 


Batakrishna Ghosh, while reviewing Meyer’s Uber das Wesen etc., 
has questioned the existence of independent works on forensic law to 
which the Smrtis could be indebted. He says, ‘““We do not know of 
any such systematic work on law proper spoken of by Meyer,” and 
adds, ‘“However unpleasant the fact may be, we have to admit that 
Hindu law was never duly systematised and the administration of 
justice therefore always depended to some extent on the whims and 
caprices of the particular individual who was entrusted with this 
sacred task.’’58 One may perhaps grant the operation of whims and 
caprices in some cases. An individual’s predilections can nowhere 
always be kept out in the administration of justice. But it is hardly 
proper to assume that the administration of justice in ancient India 
was without the guidance of recognised law. Apart from desadharmas, 


56 Geschichie etc., III, p. 507. 
57 ZDMG, 69 (1915), p. 364. 
58 IHQ, V (1929), p. 871. 


18 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


kuladharmas, ja@tidharmas and so on, which could not have been ignored 
by any administrator, since all texts insist on their due observance, 
there must have been in existence a body of civil and criminal law to 
which an appeal could be made in a court of law. Asa matter of fact, 
the Smrtis do imply the existence of such law to which they feel in- 
debted. The Manusmrti, for example, refers to the king’s duty to 
try the cases of litigants in accordance with procedure laid down in 
the Sastra (Sastradrstath hetubhih, 8.8). Again, it refers to punishments 
for false testimony ‘laid down by wise men’ (proktdn dandan manisibhih, 
8.122). One cannot, therefore, reasonably deny the existence of 
clearly formulated law. on the ground that texts containing that law 
have not come down to us. In fact, the Smrtis, which appropriated 
this law from those texts, are themselves primarily responsible for their 


disappearance. 


CHAPTER TWO 
THE KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA: CONTENT AND FORM 


Tue Kautiliya <Arthasdstra contains fifteen adhikaranas or Books. 
Of these, the first five deal with what is called tantra or the internal 
administration of the state, the next eight deal with dvdpa or its 
relations with neighbouring states, while the last two are miscellaneous 
in character. 


Book One deals with the equipment of the king for the performance 
of his duties as aruler. It discusses such topics as the training of the 
king, the appointment of ministers and other officers of the state, 
the daily routine to be normally followed by the ruler and so on. 
Book Two principally describes the duties of the various executive 
officers of the state. It gives a fairly full picture of state activity in 
various fields. It also includes a discussion on such questions as 
settlement on unoccupied land, building a fort, laying out the capital 
andsoon. Book Three, which is concerned with law and its administra- 
tion, reproduces a complete code of law. Book Four deals with 
suppression of crime. It shows how to track and punish thieves, 
murderers, dacoits and other criminals. Book Five is rather miscel- 
laneous in character. It dwells on measures that may be necessary 
in emergencies, describes the steps to be taken against seditious persons 
and lays down scales of salaries for the different categories of state 
servants. It also explains how a candidate for a high office in the 
state should endeavour to secure and retain it. Finally, it gives 
advice to the chief minister on ensuring continuity of rule on the 
demise of the ruling monarch. 


Book Six, which is very short, enumerates the qualities which make 
each of the seven prakrtis or constituents of the state ideal; it also 
describes the rdjamandala or circle of kings as a preliminary to a discus- 
sion on the state’s relations with its neighbours. Book Seven contains 
an exhaustive discussion on the way in which each of the six gunas or 
measures of foreign policy may be used in the various situations that 
are likely to arise. The ultimate goal set before the ruler is conquest 
of the world. Consequently, we have a description of the various 
ways in which rivals may be outwitted by stratagem or overcome by 
force. Book Eight is concerned with vyasanas, that is, calamities, 
shortcomings or weaknesses affecting the various prakrtis. It is 
necessary to overcome the vyasanas before any aggressive activity 
can be undertaken. Book Nine deals with preparations for war and 


20 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


describes the kinds of troops that should be mobilised for an expedition, 
the proper seasons for starting on an expedition, the precautions to be 
taken and the dangers to be guarded against before starting and so on. 
Book Ten is concerned with fighting, and describes the camping of the 
army, its march, various modes of fighting, types of battle-array and 
other topics. Book Eleven, which contains a single chapter, explains 
how the vijigisu or would-be-conqueror should subjugate samghas or 
independent oligarchical principalities. Book Twelve shows how a 
weak king, when threatened by a stronger king, should frustrate the 
latter’s designs and ultimately overcome him. Book Thirteen is 
mainly concerned with the conquest of the enemy’s fortified capital 
by subterfuge or by fighting. It also describes how the conquered 
territories should be ruled by the vz2gisu. 


Book Fourteen describes various secret remedies and occult 
practices useful for getting rid of enemies or traitors. Finally, Book 
Fifteen defines and illustrates from the text itself the thirty-two tantra- 
yuktis or methods of treating a subject. 


This brief glance at the contents of this work shows clearly that 
it deals exhaustively with all topics connected with internal administra- 
tion and foreign relations, and that it sets before a ruler the goal of 
conquest of the world and describes ways of attaining that goal. 
These, as we have seen, are the declared aims of ArthaSastra.} 


The first Chapter of the work furnishes a detailed table of contents 
and enumerates the prakaranas in each adhikarana. There is a 
statement, towards the end, that the Sastra contains 150 chapters, 
180 prakaranas and six thousand Slokas in all.* Now, the present 
work itself is mainly in prose with only about three hundred and 
eighty Slokas or stanzas, mostly occurring at the end of the various 
chapters. How then are we to understand this statement about six 
thousand Slokas? One explanation would be that a Sloka is to be 
understood as standing for a group of thirty-two syllables even if these 
be in prose. That is how copyists usually calculate the extent of a 
work. However, on a rough calculation it is found that the text 
contains less than five thousand such units of thirty-two syllables, 
so that ‘six thousand Slokas’ is not quite true of the extent of this text 
even on that basis. Moreover, it is doubtful if an author would him- 
self compute the extent of his work in this manner, particularly when 
the work, though mainly in prose, contains at the same time a number 
of real Slokas. The work principally contains what may be called 


1 Sce p. 2 above. 


es 2 METAR TIAA AA AA THAT TE > 


CONTENT AND FORM 21 


sutras in prose. Their number, together with that of the real slokas, 
comes to about 5,370 in the new edition. It is about 6,880 in the 
Punjab edition of J. Jolly and R. Schmidt. It is doubtful if the 
statement about six thousand Slokas can be understood to refer to the 
number of siitras in the text. The statement thus hardly appears 
to come from the author himself. It may be noted that the old Mala- 
yalam commentary (Cb) does not contain stitra 1.1.18 in which the 
statement occurs nor the Sloka that follows, 1.1.19, which attributes 
the composition of the text to Kautilya. However, the earliest 
available manuscript, that from the Patan Bhandar (D), contains 
the passage, indicating that it is fairly old. In the Dagakumdaracarita 
of Dandin, too, the present work is said to be ‘ abridged in six thousand 
Slokas.’"* It would appear that the passage, 1.1.18-19, was already 
there in the present text when the DaSakumdaracarita was written. Itis, 
of course, also possible to argue that the remark about six thousand 
Slokas as the extent of this work was first made by the author of the 
Dasakumdaracarita, and that it was from that work that the passage 
in question was derived. That possibility, however, appears to be 
remote. In any case, the statement about six thousand slokas being 
the extent of the Sastra is not quite true of the present text. It seems 
reasonable to assume that it does not stem from the author himself. 


On the strength of the discrepancy between this statement about 
six thousand Slokas and the actual extent of the text calculated on the 
basis of 32 letters to a Ssloka (which comes to about 4,800 Slokas), 
D. D. Kosambi has come to the conclusion that the printed text ‘would 
have to be augmented by about twenty-five per cent in order to reach 
the original extent of the work.’ He thinks that the original text 
‘has leaked away over the centuries for lack of application to current 
administrative problems,’ and that ‘small bits have disappeared 
from every portion.’ It is not possible to accept this very high 
estimate of the loss suffered by the text in course of transmission. 
Most manuscripts no doubt show here and there a siitra missing or a 
line. But considering the extent of the work such lacunae are indeed 
remarkably very few. And in all such cases they can almost 
invariably be explained as being due to scribal errors. It must be 
remembered that the six thousand Slokas are stated to be contained 
only in the 150 adhyayas and the 180 prakaranas mentioned at the 
same time. All these chapters and sections are preserved in the 


3 galrertiarafasyycadt Aaa Vela: TatlHaee: AAA | Dasaku- 
mdracarita, VIII. 

4 Preface to 4 Fragment of the Koutalya’s Arthasdstra alias Rajasiddhania, 
edited by Muni Jina Vijaya (Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Bombay, 1959), pp. 4-5. 
The Preface had earlier appeared with a slight variation in JAOS, 78 (1958), pp. 169- 
178 under the title ‘ The Text of the ArthaSastra’. 


22 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


present text. The leakage, if it is to be assumed to have taken place, 
must be supposed to have occutred in these chapters themselves. 
The leakage of a whole chapter or a section cannot be assumed. Now, 
if we look at the contents of the various chapters as they have come 
down to us, we find that the treatment of the topics in practically 
all cases is so full that it is difficult to conceive that each chapter 
originally contained on an average twenty-five per cent more material 
on its subject-matter. Consider Book Three, for instance. It is 
concerned with law, a topic dealt with alsoin the Smrtis. A comparison 
with the Smrtis of Manu and Yajnavalkya shows that there is no single 
topic dealt with in the latter, of which we do not find a full, exhaustive 
treatment in the present work. In fact, in many cases, as for example 
in the treatment of the relations between husband and wife or of the 
question of slaves and workmen, we have a far more detailed discussion 
in this text than is to be found in the Smrtis. It is, therefore, not 
at all possible to imagine what the twenty-five per cent, supposed to 
have leaked away from this Book, could have been about. Or consider 
Book Seven, which is concerned with the topic of foreign relations. 
The discussion here takes into account all possible situations in this 
connection in such an exhaustive manner that it seems quite unlikely 
that originally there was twenty-five per cent more of it in the text. 
The same can be said of most of the other Books. We never get 
the impression that there is a serious lacuna anywhere in the text. 


However, in illustration of his point Kosambi refers to two places 
in the text where he thinks original matter seems to have dropped 
out in the course of transcription. The first is the passage 1.7.3-7, 
where the question of the relative importance to be attached to dharma, 
artha and kdma by the ruler is discussed. Kosambi is of the opinion 
that the text which precedes the statement of Kautilya’s own view 
appears disjointed for lack of some discussion of dharma, artha and 
kama in relation to each other and that therefore such a discussion was 
absolutely required, the conclusion apparently being that such a 
discussion which was originally there came to be dropped in the course 
of transcription.® But if this means that a discussion of the nature 
of each of the three goals of life, of what each of them stands for, of 
how far they are mutually contradictory or reconcilable and so on, 
was expected in this place, one can hardly agree. These three con- 
ceptions have been taken for granted in the text. The question with 
which the text is concerned in this place is how the ruler, whose 
responsibilities are quite different from those of an ordinary person, 
should conduct himself in the matter of the pursuit of these three ends 


5 Loc. cit., p. 7. 


CONTENT AND FORM 23 


of life. ‘Three different views are stated on this question, the last of 

them being attributed to Kautilya himself. There was no need for 
a general discussion of the nature of the three, or of their mutual 
relationship. 


The other instance suggested by Kosambi is that concerning tactics 
to be employed by the four arms, patti, asva, ratha and hastin, which 
he thinks are not sufficiently developed in the text as it has been 
preserved.® Now, we find that the text gives a long list of the func- 
tions (karmdni) to be carried out by the four arms during war in Section 
154 (Chapter 10.4). It also enumerates in Section 157 (Chapter 
10.5) the different modes of fighting (yuddhdnt) appropriate to the 
four arms. The text also discusses the question of terrains suitable for 
fighting for the four arms (10.4). And it describes in full the tactics 
to be used against enemy troops in the course of actual fighting 
(10.3.1-25: .kutayuddhavikalpah). Under the circumstances it is very 
difficult to see what other material could possibly have been there about 
tactical considerations, which apparently came to be dropped out 
because ‘the structure and purpose of the army changed’ in later 
times. As a matter of fact, the plea that portions of the text leaked 
away because of inapplicability to conditions of a later age can hardly 
be sustained. A great deal of what is actually preserved in the present 
text, both in the administrative sphere as well as in the sphere of 
foreign relations, must have ceased to be applicable in later times. 
And if the argument about loss of text due to ‘lack of application to 
current administrative problems’ had really any validity, a very large 
part of Book 2, for example, or Book 11 in its entirety should also 
have been lost. The fact is that the statement about six thousand 
§lokas is an extremely rough guess and cannot be regarded as a 
trustworthy guide. As remarked above, it could hardly have been 
made by the author himself. 


Kosambi has also suggested that there is a discrepancy in the 
number of sections as enumerated in the table of contents (1.1) in the 
Devanagari manuscript (D) and the other manuscripts. The former 
is supposed to give a list of 184 prakaranas, with the addition of 
seven more (Book Two: three, Book Seven: one, Book Ten: one and 
Book Fourteen: two), and with the omission of one each from 
Books Three, Nine and Thirteen. It is surmised that the extra pra- 
karanas in D contained additional matter equivalent to about 250 
Anustubh Slokas.? But the discrepancy is altogether illusory. The 
supposed omissions appear to be so merely because of the failure on 
the part of the scribe to put the mark of the stop (danda) between the 


6 Loc. cit., p. 7. 
7 Loc. cit., p. 6. 


24 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


names of two adjoining prakaranas, namely, between asvdmivikrayah 
(Section 69) and svasvdmisambandhah (Section 70) in the case of Book 
Three, between disyasatrusamyuktah (Section 144) and arthanarthasam- 
Sayayuktah (Section 145) in Book Nine, and between upajdpah 
(Section 171) and yogavdmanam (Section 172) in Book Thirteen. There 
is not the slightest difference in actual fact between D and the other 
manuscripts. The so-called addition in Book Ten is, on the other 
hand, due to the scribe wrongly putting the danda after paksakaksora- 
syanam. This expression cannot by itself be the name of a prakarana. 
It must be read with what follows, viz., balagrato vytihabhagah to form 
a single prakarana (155). In Book Seven the additional samdhdya- 
prayanakam is nothing but the samhitaprayanikam of the other manu- 
scripts. This latter has been inserted in the edition of the Devanagari 
fragment on the authority of those other manuscripts. If both these 
names are assumed to have been there in the manuscript, one of them 
has to be regarded as due to a scribal error, for the two are not 
concerned with two different things. As for the two additional names 
in Book Fourteen, namely, adbhutotpddanam and mantrabhaisajyapra- 
yogah, these are merely names of the two sub-sections which form 
part of the prakarana (178) called pralambhanam. As the colophons 
of Chapters 14.2 and 14.3 clearly show, they are not names of inde- 
pendent prakaranas, but merely the two aspects of pralambhana. In 
incorporating the two sub-sections here, the scribe seems to have been 
influenced by the colophons of the Chapters. In any case the two 
could not have been about anything different from what is found in 
these Chapters. The same is true of one of the additions in Book 
Two. We have in D -vyavaharah after sulkddhyaksah (Section 39). 
This stands for gulkavyavaharah, a sub-section of that prakarana, as a 
reference to the colophon of Chapter 2.22 clearly shows. The supposed 
additional section could not have been about anything else but what 
is contained in that Chapter. The other two ‘ additions ’ in Book Two 
are entirely due to scribal errors. Manuscript D shows koéaprdvegah 
and rainapariksa as two separate sections. There can be no doubt 
that this is wrong, and that we have to read -pravesyaratna- together 
as in the other manuscripts. The inspection of gems etc. is connected 
with their being received in the treasury; kogaprdveéah by itself has 
no significance. The same is true of aksasald and suvarnddhyaksah read 
separately for aksasdldyam suvarnddhyaksah. As sitra 2.18.1 shows, 
it is the suvarnddhyaksa who gets the aksasala built. The latter 
could not have been an independent topic for a prakarana. Again, 
the illegible title in Book Two was evidently nothing new, but only 
sutradhyaksah, which the scribe seems to have read after sitadhyaksah 
(wrongly read as simadhyaksah there) instead of before it. There is 


CONTENT AND FORM 


to 
we 


thus no justification whatever for assuming that therc is any real dis- 
crepancy in the number of prakaranas as enumerated in manuscript 
D and in the other manuscripts. In fact, the former manuscript also 
gives the same total for the number of prakaranas, namely, 180. There 
is therefore no scope for any conjecture about a possible loss suffered 
by the text as a result of prakaranas supposedly missing from the 
other manuscripts. 


There is another slight discrepancy in the statement in sutra 1.1.18. 
It says that the work contains 150 adhyayas or chapters and 180 
prakaranas or sections. In these calculations the first Chapter itself 
is taken into consideration when counting the number of chapters, but 
not when counting the number of sections. For, the 180 prakaranas 
are contained in the following 149 chapters, the first Chapter itself 
containing no prakarana. Itis difficult to see how the 180 sections have 
been made to correspond to 150 chapters. Perhaps the first Chapter 
giving the table of contents was regarded as suitable for constituting 
a separate chapter, though it contained no section dealing with the 
actual sastra. The possibility that one of the longer chapters is the 
result of two adjacent but originally separate chapters getting combined 
together in course of time does not appear to be great. In any case, 
this circumstance raises further doubts concerning the genuineness of 
this passage. 


That the work should be divided into prakaranas as well as adh- 
yayas is itself rather unusual. Of the two, the former division appears 
more natural. A prakarana, as a rule, deals with some clear-cut, spe- 
cific topic of the gastra. An adhyaya, on the other hand, does not 
always deal with a single topic. Sometimes a long prakarana is spread 
over two or more adhydyas, as is the case, for example, in Chapters 
1.2-4, 8.2-4, 7.9-12 and so on. Ina few cases, a number of small pra- 
karanas are included in a single adhyaya as, for example, in Chapters 
7.4, 8.4, 9.2 andsoon. A few prakaranas, in fact, contain only a single 
sutra each, as for example 104 and 106 (in 7.4), 181 and 132 (in 8.4). 
Though the topics are clear-cut, their treatment is, in the nature of 
things, not extensive. In a few cases, the demarcation line between 
two adjacent prakaranas is not clear, for example, between 140 and 
141 (in 9.8), 166 and 167 (in 12.4) andsoon. The topics are so closely 
related that their treatment cannot be separated. Nevertheless, there 
can be no doubt that the division into prakaranas is more natural, being 
germane to the science. The other division has a practical aim, namely, 
to present the text in more or less equal divisions convenient for pur- 
poses of study, adhyaya being the same as adhyayana, i.e., study. It 
may be argued that the former division being natural is original and 


26 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


that the division into chapters was imposed on it later. However, it 
is not altogether unlikely that the two-fold division stems from the 
author himself, who may be supposed to have intended that his work, 
besides being suitably divided into sections, should also be the object 
of study by others. 


The possibility that the passage 1.1.18-19 was added to the text 
by a later hand would lead one to suppose that there may be other similar 
additions made to the text in later times. And it cannot be denied 
that a few such additions or interpolations can be traced in the text 
asithascomedowntous. Very often such interpolations are the result 
of some remark or comment made in the margin finding its way into 
the text on a fresh copy being made from that manuscript. Sometimes 
parts of a commentary manage to get into the text in this way. The 
present text shows instances of such accretions. Very curiously, so 
old a manuscript as the Devanagari fragment D shows some clear 
cases of such additions getting into the text, and considering the extent 
of the fragment, they are, without doubt, comparatively far too many. 
These are found at 1.15.61, 1.19.7 and 38, 1.20.15, 2.2.16 and 2.3.20. 
There can really be no doubt about these being later additions. How- 
ever, in the course of the discussion of the differences between manu- 
script D and the other manuscripts, Kosambi has suggested that this 
additional material found in D is original and that it came to be lost 
in the other manuscripts during the period of at least six centuries 
which separates them from that manuscript ; the loss is considered as 
due to ‘long neglect and progressive dying out of tradition.’® It is 
quite impossible to accept such a view. Furtunately, the commentary 
of Yogghama on Chapters 2.2 and 2.3 is available and is printed along 
with the edition of the manuscript D. It clearly shows that the pas- 
sages in the latter found at 2.2.16 and 2.3.20 are actually derived from 
that commentary. Yogghama clearly reproduced some mnemonic 
verses (7 Slokas in the first case and 3 in the second) in elucidation of 
the text. If these verses had really belonged to the text of the Artha- 
sdstra, Yogghama would naturally have provided a commentary on 
them. But there is no commentary on them by him, as a reference to 
pp. 12-18 and 20 of the printed commentary will show. The addi- 
tional passages at 1.19.7 and 1:20.15 are also so obviously derived from 
some commentary that they cannot by any stretch of imagination be 
regarded as part of the original text. Even assuming that the work 
contains both sutra and bhasya (about which more later), we nowhere 


§ Cf. A. B. Keith, 4 History of Sanskrit Literature, 2nd ed. (Oxford, 1941), 
Pp. 452, “There is the possibility that this division (into adhyayas) is secondary, 
possibly also the verses which mark it out.” 

9 Preface to the edition of the Devanagari fragment, pp. 3-4. 


CONTENT AND FORM : 27 


else find in any supposed bhasya portion of the text such expressions 
as tadeva dha, atidegam aha, uttaratra anuvartate, etc., which we find 
in these passages and which are characteristic only of a commentary. 
The two Slokas after 1.15.61 are apparently quotations from Brhaspati, 
being introduced with the words tathd ca Brhaspatih. Nowhere else 
do we find in this text any earlier authority quoted in this manner. 
Though the opinions of the Barhaspatyas are frequently quoted, 
Brhaspati himself is nowhere mentioned by name, except in the salu- 
tation at the beginning of the work. The whole passage is clearly 
derived from a marginal gloss or some commentary like that of Yog- 
ghama. This is equally true of the Sloka at 1.19.38 which is introduced 
with the words tathd coktam. There is thus not the slightest reason 
for supposing that the Devanagari manuscript has, in these places, 
preserved portions of the original text, which came to be lost in the 
centuries following the age of that manuscript. That manuscript, no 
doubt, is older than the other manuscripts and in numerous cases pro- 
vides better readings. Nevertheless, it is quite indisputable that it 
somehow shows additional material that could not possibly have been 
original. For its size the fragment preserved shows far too much con- 
tamination with commentarial matter. Not only does it not provide 
any evidence of 4 whittling down of the original text due to neglect 
or dying out of tradition, but it contains clear proof of the original 
text being added to in course of time. 

Similar additions to the text, probably going back to a much older 
age, may also be traced in other places. Already in 1912 H. Jacobi 
had suggested that the prose mantra which comes after the last stanza 
in Chapter 14.1 is probably a gloss intended to supplement the Agni- 
mantra mentioned in that stanza.t° Jacobi, however, believed that 
this text, like the Nirukta and the Mahabhasya, was held in high esteem 
and therefore was ‘ saved also from the hand of the meddlesome inter- 
polator.”!1_ But there can be little doubt that the text does show a 
few later additions. Some of these have been pointed out by J. J. 
Meyer in the course of the notes to his German translation of the text. 
A reference may be made to a few of these and other likely additions. 


1. After the enumeration of the pratiloma castes which include 
the Siita and the Magadha, we read: “ The Sita and the Magadha of 
the Puranas are, however, different; there is distinction from the 
Brahmana and the Ksatriya.’’!2 A comment in this form is little 
likely from the author himself. And the expression itself is grammati- 


10 ‘The Authenticity of the Kautiliya’ in IA, 47 (1918), p. 192, n. 13. 
11 Loc. cit., p. 195. 


12 Ghefpecata: Yat APTA TeeTATaAT: | KA, 8.7.29. 


28 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


eally very odd. It is an obvious comment by some one else which has 
crept into the text from the margin. 


2. After the rule that the mixed castes should follow their own 
profession or that of the Sidra, we read : “Only by acting in this manner 
does the king attain heaven ; else he goes to hell.’’!* There is no occasion 
for such a statement here. In the preceding sitras there is no reference 
to any particular conduct recommended for the king. This again 
appears to be a comment in the margin getting into the text. 


8. In the Section on physical injury, we read: ‘‘ He should cause 
that limb with which a Sidra strikes a Brahmana to be cut off. In 
case he menaces him with it, redemption (by payment of a fine may be 
allowed) ; in case he touches him with it, half the fine (shall be imposed). 
By that are explained Candalas and (other) impure persons.”** As 
Meyer has pointed out, the siitras are out of context. After dealing 
with spargana ‘touching’ in the preceding siitras, the author should 
have proceeded first to avagirna ‘menacing’ and then to prahata 
‘striking’. That is done in the siitras that follow this passage. The 
reference to abhi-han in it violates the context. Moreover, the re- 
ference to the two varnas alone is strange. We expect all the four 
varnas and the antdvasdyins to be referred to as in.3.18.7. Besides, 
the special animus against the Sidra is foreign to the spirit of this 
work. The passage seems to have been added at a later date on the 
basis of Yajnavalkya, 2.215 and Manu, 8.279-284. 


4. Towards the end of the Chapter on torture for obtaining a 
confession from a suspect, we read: ‘“‘In all offences, a Brahmana 
shall not be harassed. On his forehead (shall be branded) the mark 
of the guilty for excluding him from all dealings : (the mark of) a dog 
in case of theft, a headless trunk in case of murder, the female organ 
in case of violation of an elder’s bed and the emblem of the vintner in 
case of drinking liquor.’45 These siitras are clearly out of place in this 
Chapter, since they lay down actual punishment for the four heinous 
offences. The passage seems to have been added on the basis of Manu, 
9.237, where, however, branding is recommended for all varnas, not 
Brahmins alone. 


5. In connection with the preparations for actual fighting, we 
read: ‘Collecting the troops together, he should address them,- ‘I 


13 Fao ACHAT: TAMA TT, ACHAAAT | KA, 3.7.38. 

14 Fal AAGa AITAMeay Teer vSaad | ea frewT:, eqese- 
QUs: | At ASTHMA CATEATAT: | KA, 3.19.8-10. 

15 AaTTASat Salat AAT: | TAHARI Gl Sole Ale AacaaAM, 
eta RAT, aa H4eT:, Tater a4, qa Aqeqay: | KA, 4.8.27-28. 


CONTENT AND FORM 29 


receive an equal wage; this kingdom is to be enjoyed (by me) along 
with you. Being asked by me, you should strike down the enemy.’ 
Iiven in the Vedas it is stated on the occasion of the concluding baths 
of sacrifices, in which the fees have been fully received, ‘ That shall be 
your condition (after death) which brave men attain.’ Moreover, 
there are two Slokas in this connection: ‘ Brave men, giving up their 
lives in good battles, in a moment reach even beyond those (worlds), 
which Brahmanas attain by a large number of sacrifices, by austerities 
and by gifts to worthy persons. A new pot, full of water, well conse- 
crated and with an upper clothing made of darbha grass,—may this 
not fall to the lot of him and may he go to hell, who does not fight-in 
return for the food obtained from the master.’ Through the mantrin 
and the purohita, he should enthuse the soldiers with the excellence of 
his battle-array.’’4® In this passage, siitras 28-31 do not appear to be 
genuine. It seems that the king’s exhortation is over in sutra 27, as 
shown by the itz at the end. It is little likely that a comparison with 
successful sacrificers would be made on the battlefield as in siitra 28. 
Still less likely is the quotation in siitras 29-31. It is inconceivable 
that the king or any one else would use the expression apiha slokau 
bhavatah when addressing soldiers on the battle-field. Such quotations 
would be in order only in literary works while quoting from earlier 
authorities. This again is a case of a comment in the margin getting 
into the text. 


6. After the description of a treaty without stipulations, we read: 
‘* As to that, the following is found: The wise (conqueror), after making 
a neighbouring prince engage in fight with (another) neighbouring prince, 
should then seize the territory of another after cutting off his party on 
all sides.”4?7 The Sloka is unconnected with the preceding passage. 
Moreover, its introduction with the words tatraitad bhavati is quite 
unusual. 


16 IGT TS TMT ‘ qeadaaister, Wats: Te Arata Tsay, waisted: 
qusfaarted: sft ia0l Aasqcqqsat Tarcafenat AMAAaAAT “At 
Tfrat aera’ Sf RSI ATS Balt Waa: 1 YS I— 


‘ar aaaeerrer a fast: eathaort Taser atier 
ATT AAA Aa UA: AMA FST Tasted: U3 
wd Ula afore Wt Gatad SAI | 


TMT AT HAH A Mosel Adfirseq Ht A AAT URN” 
ofa 1 afagufeanaryareaeareard SASATET UR KA, 10.8.27-82. 
7 qadgata |\— 
ards aed frataraisy fare | 
adisuea state feral Tat Tarde: Ul KA, 7.6.14-15. 


30 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


7. The case of 7.9.87-49 appears to be quite similar. There we 
have twelve slokas introduced with the words tatrattad bhavati. The 
Slokas contain definitions of various types of allies. Some of the types 
are referred to elsewhere and their definitions are not quite necessary, 
while other types are not mentioned elsewhere. Much of this appears 
to be an unnecessary elaboration. 

It is possible that apart from the passages indicated above, there 
may be a few other siitras that are of doubtful authenticity. But 
considering the extent of the work, the interpolations do not appear to 
be either extensive or significant. Of a wholesale incorporation: of 
later material there does not appear to be any indication at all. How- 
ever, A. Hillebrandt has expressed doubts about the genuineness of 
the fourteenth adhikarana, which appears to him like an appendix to 
the Kausika Sutra.* Notwithstanding the nature of the contents of 
this Book, however, there do not appear to be sufficient grounds for 
such doubts. As we have seen, the purohitas, who were expected to 
be experts in the magical practices of the Atharvaveda,’® were the found- 
ers of ArthaSastra. It need not be surprising if they incorporated a 
description of these practices in their teaching. Besides, the use of such 
secret practices is recommended in many places in this text.2° A de- 
scription of these was naturally expected for the sake of completeness. 


A similar doubt can be entertained about the genuineness of the 
fifteenth adhikarana, which enumerates and illustrates the thirty-two 
tantra-yuktis.21 These constitute the various methods in which the 
Sastra is treated. Some of them are concerned with the contents of the 
text ; for example, upadesa ‘ advice or instruction ’, apadesa ‘quotation’ 
of some one’s opinion, and so on. But the majority refer to stylistic 
peculiarities natural in a work professing to expound a Sastra. Thus 
we have upamdna ‘analogy’, nidargana ‘illustration’, arthapatti 
‘implication ’, vydkhydna ‘ special emphasis’, nirvacana ‘ etymological 
explanation ’, puirvapaksa and uttarapaksa ‘ the prima facie view’ and 
‘conclusion ’ respectively, and soon. These yuktis show an awareness 
of the various devices which the author of an expository work will find 
himself bound to use if he is to make it systematic as well as interesting. 
Similar lists of tantra-yuktis, with slight variations, are found in Caraka 
and SuSruta, the two earliest medical Samhitas. It is not necessary 
to suppose that they are original in either of the Samhitas. It seems 
rather chat the yuktis were formulated independently of any particular 


18 Altindische Politik (Jena, 19238), p. 156. 


19 aqat eaqarasroAaar eta TerHatey | KA, 1.9.9. 


20 Cf. 4.3.13, 7.1. 82, 7.15.12, 9.1.15 etc. 
21 Cf. D.R. Bhandarkar, Some Aspects of Ancient Hindu Polity (Benares, 


1929), pp. 62-68. 


CONTENT AND FORM 31 


Saistra, but came to be incorporated in works on different Sastras. 
And if we assume, as we may reasonably do, that the yuktis were known 
when the present text was written, their mention in it would appear 
quite natural, and there would be no need to consider the Chapter in 
which they occur as a later addition. 


K. Nag finds that the exposition in the sections on diplomacy 
(i.e., in adhikaranas 6 and 7) is more homogeneous than elsewhere and 
the order perfectly logical. The implication that these two Books 
show a difference in style and method and consequently a difference in 
authorship and date can hardly be accepted. The entire text, in fact, 
appears to be composed on a well thought-out single plan. Matters of in- 
ternal administration are dealt with first, questions of foreign relations, 
war and conquest being considered afterwards. We are able to 
discern a near-perfect order in the arrangement of the topics, not only 
as between the various athikaranas, but in each single adhikarana as 
well. Only the fifth adhikarana does not appear homogeneous in 
character. But that is because some of the topics of internal adminis- 
tration are by their nature such that they cannot be brought under 
any broad head of discussion. The second adhikarana also may appear 
to be lacking in ‘ logical’ order. But in the description of the activity. 
of the various state departments, one can hardly think of a more ra- 
tional arrangement of topics than is to be found here. As regards the 
other Books, one will not find anywhere else a more logical order in the 
treatment of topics than the one we find, for example, in the legal code 
in Book Three, in the discussion of the vyasanas in Book Eight, in the 
description of the preparations for war in Book Nineand soon. There 
can thus be no distinction made in the different adhikaranas from the 
point of view of homogeneity or orderliness in the treatment of topics. 


Pran Nath has referred to the fact that many prakaranas in the 
present text are not to be found in Kamandaka’s Nitisara, that the order 
of the sections is different in the two works and that on some topics, 
e. g., on kantakagodhana or suppression of criminals, Kamandaka 
differs to a great extent from the present text. From this he concludes 
that the present text was originally in verse and that the order of the 
prakaranas in that original work was different.** It is extremely 
doubtful if any valid conclusions can be drawn regarding the order of 
prakaranas in this text from a comparison with Kamandaka’s work. 
The latter is no doubt based on the present text. But there is nothing 
to show that Kamandaka intended to follow the present work in every 
detail or to stick rigorously to the order of its treatment. He omits 


22 Les Théories diplomatiques de Inde ancienne et VArthagdstra (Paris, 1923), 
p. 114. 


23 IA, 60 (19381) p. 178. 


32 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTR.\ 


a great deal, modifies the original in some places, while sometimes he 
adds material derived from other sources like the Manusmrti (as in 
1.16), the teaching of the Vaisesikas (as in 1.28-37) or some other un- 
traced sources (as in 8.26-39, 9.24-42, 14.1-17 etc.). There can be no 
doubt that for a full treatment of the sastra, the arrangement of the 
topics in the present text is far more natural than that in Kamandaka’s 
work. 


The other suggestion of Pran Nath that this text was originally 
written in verse and was later changed to prose was already made 
before him by D. R. Bhandarkar. The latter had referred to what 
he regarded as the difference between .the subject-matter of the 
Arthasastra, which is ‘ Mauryan or pre-Mauryan’, and the style of its 
composition, which “ belongs to the early period of the Christian Era.’ 
That the work was originally in verse is shown, according to him, 
by the evidence of the Dasakumdracarita. And since the prose version 
was in existence before the time of Bhavabhiti, who quotes a prose 
sutra from this work in his Mahdviracarita, he concluded that the trans- 
formation of the work from verse to prose took place in about the 
fourth century A.D. and that both the metrical and prose versions of 
the text were current simultaneously for about two or three centuries. 
The reason for making this change in the form of the work was, according 
to him, the circumstance that Kautilya’s work had become a dargana 
or a school and the fact that every school had to have its work in the 
sutra form.?® 


This reasoning appears to be based on extremely shaky founda- 
tions. The reason suggested for the supposed change is hardly accept- 
able. Kautilya’s work is not a darsana in the sense in which the 
philosophical schools are darsanas. And there is no reason for assuming 
that this work was the object of only sporadic study by individuals 
during many centuries after its composition and that in the fourth 
century A.D. or thereabouts it became a dargana and only as such a 
subject of study in a school. As a matter of fact, there does not 
appear to be any valid motive for the supposed transformation of a 
metrical work into prose. One can understand the versification of a 
prose work, since it helps memorizing. A possible motive could be 
abridgment ; but the present work is not an abridgment. And if a 
metrical work was changed to prose, it is difficult to see why some 
three hundred and eighty slokas which are found in the present text 
should have been retained in the prose work. Moreover, the view that 
the style of composition of this work belongs to the fourth century 


24 ABORI, VII (1927), pp. 77, 84. 
25 Loc. cit., p. 83. 


CONTENT AND FORM 38 


A.D. or so is also unacceptable. In style the present work belongs to 
the period of the early siitra works, such as the Grhyasitras and the 
Dharmasitras. Its style is in no way comparable to the more or less 
cryptic style of the philosophical sitras of a later age. 

However, though the view that the present work itself was origi- 
nally written in verse and was later turned into prose is unacceptable, 
it seems possible to suppose that it is based on sources that were in the | 
main metrical in form. As Keith remarks, “ Doctrines of artha seem 
early to have found, like those of dharma, expression in didactic verse.’’2® 
It may be assumed that the writings of the earlier teachers, which were 
admittedly used in the preparation of this text, abounded in verses, 
perhaps were entirely metrical in form. A large number of stanzas 
in this work appear to have been taken over from these earlier works, 
and do not appear to be composed by the author himself. Such ap- 
pears to be the case with the sfanzas at the end of many chapters, 
e. g., 8.1.385-47 (apparently derived from divergent sources), 2.12.85-37, 
2.13.60-61, 2.24.81-88 and other places. Sometimes, as in 3.3.32, 
5.3.47 and 7.6.40-41 the slokas appear unrelated to the topics discussed 
in the respective chapters, suggesting that they are not the work of the 
author. Even in the forty odd cases where the concluding Slokas 
contain a sort of summing up of the discussion in prose which precedes 
them, they may well have been taken over just as they were found 
in the earlier sources. It is to be noted in this connection that two 
entire prakaranas, namely, 102 and 134, are in verse only. But they 
form at the same time the concluding verses of Chapters 7.3 and 8.5 
respectively. It would be reasonable to suppose that the author has 
allowed these prakaranas to remain in verse just as he found them in 
his sources. Concerning the few stanzas found in the middle of a dis- 
cussion in prose, there can be little doubt that they are taken over 
from earlier sources. Such is clearly the case with 2.12.10 (describing 
the process for softening metals), 2.24.9-10 (describing the kind of rain 
that is beneficial to crops), 2.24.26 (giving a recipe for keeping snakes off 
the fields), 2.24.27 (the mantra to be recited at the time of the first 
sowings), 7.5.19-27 (enumerating the causes that lead to disaffection 
among the subjects), 7.13.24-25 (describing the three types of pdrsnt- 
graha) and the numerous metrical recipes and mantras in Book 14. 
Four stanzas occur in what appear as quotations from earlier authorities. 
Thus 1.8.9 is attributed to the ParaSaras, 1.15.17 and 5.6.31 to Bharad- 
vaja, and 1.15.22 to Visalaksa. There is no reason to doubt that these 
stanzas are taken over from works ascribed to these teachers. And 
it seems quite likely that the prose part accompanying these four 
stanzas is due to our author, being abstracted by him from verses in 


26 1 History of Sanskrit Literature (Oxford, 1941), p. 451. 


34 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


the earlier works. We find, in one place, what may be regarded as an 
illustration of the author’s practice of turning the original verses into 
prose. Towards the end of Chapter 4.12 we have first a statement in 
two prose sutras to the effect that a man who rescues a woman from 
enemy troops, foresters, floods etc. may enjoy her as agreed to before- 
hand, unless she belongs to a higher caste or has children or is unwilling, 
in which case he should be satisfied with a monetary reward instead.?’ 
Then follow three Slokas which repeat the same rule but add the proviso 
that the woman should not have been rescued through the power of the 
king or the efforts of her own kinsmen.”* The proviso implies that the 
rule does not apply when the rescuer happens to be a state servant 
or a kinsman of the woman. The wording of the rule in the two places 
is so closely similar that one of them must be supposed to be derived 
from the other. It is, of course, possible to argue that the rule in 
prose is original and that the extra proviso in the Slokas is a later 
addition. However, in view of the possibility that a number of slokas 
occurring at the end of chapters in this text are derived from earlier 
sources, it seems more likely that. these Slokas too are similarly derived, 
the prose being due to our author. If the prose were to be regarded 
as original and the slokas as based on it, it would be difficult to under- 
stand why the rule in prose should have been retained. 


Although quite a number of slokas appear to be borrowed from 
earlier sources, it does not, of course, mean that sll the Slokas in this 
text are derived from earlier sources. Many of them are obviously 
-by the author himself. Slokas 1.10.16-20, in which Kautilya in his 
own words criticises the views of the earlier teachers about the secret 
tests, must be regarded as composed by him. So, too, the slokas in 
Chapter 2.10 (containing the Section on royal decrees), which is definitely 
attributed to Kautilya, must be supposed to have been composed by 
him. Probably the concluding slokas in those cases where they are 
syntactically connected with the preceding prose (namely, 1.8.29, 
1.15.60-61, 2.18.20, 4.2.86, 7.5.45, and 9.8.42) are also by him. Some 
other concluding Slokas may also be ascribed to him. 


7 Wamledieatareqerreeay gira aT aaa TaTATaA TST at TAT 
eter aad MATS | wfafafaserraravarcradl frst 


ST | KA, 4.12.86-37. 


28 SSS UAS SRST TTY 
Pretietacal Breast sat AA aT 1 
ySita Kaqaeast Aaraatfad AX: | 
T FT WIAs THA SAAT AT I 
TAA AT ATRIA Garett 7 A 
Sq caqery fremrrqaredd || KA, 4.12.38-40. 


CONTENT AND FORM 85 


That some of the sources of the present work were in verse appears 
likely for another reason also. The Mahabharata in some places quotes 
what are called Slokas or gathas from the Sastras of Brhaspati and 
others. Thus we read: Barhaspatye ca sdstre vai slokd viniyatah pura 
(12.56.38); api gatham imam capi Brhaspatir abhdsata (12.23.14); 
bhagavdn Uésand cadha slokam atra visdmpate (12.57.2); asminnarthe 
ca gathe dve nibodkosanasd krte (12.186.184); Prdcetasena Manuna 
Slokau cemdvuddhrtau (12.57.48) and so on. One may reasonably 
conclude that the works of these authors known to the Mahabharata 
were in verse. The possibility that the Mahabharata itself has versified 
the original prose of these authors does not appear to be very great. One 
may, therefore, take it that the works of Brhaspati and others on which 
the Kautiliya Arthasdstra is based were in verse. T. Ganapati Sastri 
has drawn attention to Visvariipa’s commentary on Yajnavalkya, 1.328, 
where a Sloka from Visaliksa is quoted, though two passages from 
Brhaspati quoted in the same commentary on 1.307 and 323 are in 
prose.2® One cannot be sure that these are quotations from those early 
works of Brhaspati and Visaélaksa which were presumably known to 
the Mahabharata and the present text. 


That the earlier works should have been in verse is not surprising. 
The tendency in ancient India to versify the teaching in many branches 
of learning, particularly if they had a practical use or application, is 
well known. Versification is useful for memorizing. Meyer has argued 
that secular law was originally in verse.*° That was most probably 
also the case with politics and administration. The present text is 
in prose probably because it is intended as an abstract of the entire 
earlier teaching on the subject. Perhaps samhrtya in 1.1.1 implies 
this. Dandin’s samksiptd in the description of this work also seems 
to suggest only the same. 


A stanza found in the manuscripts after the final colophon of 
the work contains the statement that Visnugupta composed both 
the siitra and the bhasya himself as he found that Bhasyakaras 
or commentators on sastras often differed in their interpretations.** 
The stanza is obviously a tag added by some later hand. However, 
the view that the present text contains siitras as well as bhasya 
has been generally accepted. The commentators, in fact, usually 
look upon the titles of the various prakaranas as the sutras and 
the entire contents of the chapters as the bhasya on those sutras. 


29 Introduction to the Trivandrum edition of the text, Vol. I, pp. 5-6. 
30 Uber das Wesen der altindischen Rechtschriften etc. (Leipzig, 1927), p. 331. 
31 Cf. Keith referred to in n. 26 above. 


32 geal fantasia agar WA AMATI | 
TATA qt + AT FI 


36 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


Such a view is quite untenable. The titles of the one hundred 
and eighty prakaranas are so clearly marked out as such that they 
cannot be regarded as siitras in any accepted sense of that term. One 
cannot accept the position that there are only 180 sutras in the present 
work, the rest being all bhasya. The chapters in fact contain not 
bhasya, but a full and independent treatment of the topics named in 
the prakarana-titles. 

Besides, we nowhere get the impression that a particular sentence 
is a sutra and that what follows is a bhasyaonthe same. There are, in 
many places, enumerations followed by definitions or explanations of 
the same. But that is the method of this as of other sastras. The 
definitions or explanations cannot be regarded as a bhasya on the 
sutra containing the list of the things defined or explained. For 
example, it is not possible to maintain that 7.6.24-29 is a bhasya on 
7.6.28 which enumerates the four kinds of deserters, or that 10.6,4-7 
is a bhasya on 10.6.8 which enumerates the four kinds of battle-arrays, 
or that 2.29.2-15 is a bhasya on 2.29.1 which enumerates the various 
things to be noted in connection with the care of cattle-herds. 


A bhasya on a sitra work usually takes every word in the sitra 
and explains it fully, often justifying its use in that siitra. Patanjali’s 
Mahabhasya, for example, not only explains the words in Pdnini’s 
sutras, but often critically investigates the reason for the use of a par- 
ticular word in a sitra.%? The same is more or less true of the Bhdasyas 
of Sabara, Pragastapada, Vatsyayana and others. Of a bhasya of 
this kind there is no trace in the present work. The fact is that 
though many scholars have assumed that it contains both sutra and 
bhasya, no serious attempt has ever been made to point out which is 
the siitra and which the bhasya thereon. There can be little doubt 
that the work contains only siitras and no bhasya. The statement in 
the above-mentioned stanza that it contains both is clearly wrong. 
‘The stanza is a very late tag added after the last colophon of the work 


and has little value. 


Jacobi has stated that alongside of sections in whieh the author 
attempts the shortness of the siitras, there are others where the author 
indulges in a certain amount of breadth and prolixity after the manner 
of the Bhasyas.** This implies that two different styles are noticeable 
in this work, the suceinct sitra style on the one hand and the prolix 
bhasya style on the other. It is doubtful if such a difference in style 
can really be made out in this work. It is a characteristic of this work 
that it goes into full details on every point connected with its subject- 


33 Cf. P. Thieme, JAOS, 76 (1956), p. 21. 
34 IA, 47 (1918), p. 190. 


CONTENT AND FORM 37 


matter. There is hardly any section where the treatment can be re- 
garded as concise. The impression of prolixity that is sometimes 
created (as, for example, in many of the chapters in Book 7 or in 
Chapters 9.5, 9.7 and so on) is due to the author’s endeavour to imagine 
every possible eventuality in any particular situation. It does not 
show any difference in style, such as that between the sitra style and 
the bhasya style. 


The style of the work is that of the early sitra works. As Jolly 
says, ‘“‘ In point of style, the Arthasdsira exhibits that mixture of prose 
and verse which is so common in siitra works, e.g., in the Dharmasi- 
tras.’’35 Its terseness is not that of the philosophical or other similar 
stitras. If the text is found difficult, it is mainly because of the tech- 
nical nature of its contents and the many technical words it has used. 
The claim made on its behalf that it is easy to understand and grasp*6 
is not unjustified, provided the technical nature of its contents is borne 
in mind. The siitras are mostly simple in construction and free from 
obscurity caused by long compounds or involved expressions. 


The Sslokas, many of them probably derived from earlier sources, 
are characterised by extreme simplicity. Breloer has remarked that 
the style of the verses deviates from the stitra style of the prose and 
that in the prose itself various types of style and a certain variation in 
terminology are found.%” It is true that the stanzas appear to be much 
simpler in style than the prose. But simplicity is natural to the 
Anustubh sloka metre. If the prose, in some places, appears more 
difficult, that is due to the technical nature of the subject rather than 
to any essential difference in style. There is, no doubt, a certain 
variation in terminology, which seems to be due to the difference in 
the sources from which the material is derived. But it is hardly pos- 
sible to maintain that the prose shows different types of style. The 
general impression is one of uniformity of style throughout the vork 
in spite of the use of material from different sources. In fact, Breloer 
himself, who holds the view that the author could have brought together 
this compilation of rules only with the help of many learued men, 
just as Tribonian did when he framed the Justinian Code, adds at the 
same time: ‘‘ Yet, or rather because of that, a single strong hand, a 
sharp voice, a hard spirit is not to be missed in this work. In affirma- 
tion or negation, the unbending view appears, which differs sharply 
and clearly, and gives quickly the grounds for differing before we have 
asked for them.”’%® 


35 Introduction to the Punjab edition, p. 5. 
36 FAUST atay | KA, 1.1.19. 


37 KSt, III, p. 8. 
38 KSt, III, p. 10. 


38 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


The language of the text shows a few archaisms. A common 
feature is the use of the gerund in -tvd even when the root has a pre- 
position attached to it. There are fourteen such cases : apakdrayitua 
(13.8.16,26 and 13.4.50), abhimantrayitud (14.3.31,45,56), avaghosayitva 
(12.4.8), addipayitud (5.1.45), adudhayitvd (5.6.16; 13.2.19), utsdhayitud 
(13.8.29), wnmddayttud (5.2.52), upakhdnayiivd (7.17.83), nistdrayitud 
(4.12.86,38), pralobhayitud (5.2.59), pravdsayitvd (12.4.4), prasarijayitua 
(1.18.15), prasvdpayitod (4.5.5), and sampurayitvd (13.4.9). In practi- 
cally all these cases the root is in the causal. Most of these forms are 
found in passages which describe some stratagem or ruse to outwit a 
person or some practice for producing a miraculous effect. It seems 
that these passages retain the linguistic peculiarities of the earlier 
sources from which they are derived. It may be noted that this usage 
is a sign of archaism. For, according to Panini, it is restricted to the 
Vedic language. Similar forms have been preserved in Pali, for 
example, wpasamkamitvd, parivattetod, otdretud etc. in the Jatakas. 
The Ardhamagadhi of the Jain Canon, too, shows forms like sama- 
yariltd, paccdyayitta and so on. The usage clearly belongs to an age 
before the classical language attained its fixity. 


In a few cases the potential passive participle seems to be used 
in an active sense. Thus udvejaniya in 1.4.8 is ‘that which causes fear 
(or disgust) ’, uddharsaniya in 10.38.47 is ‘one who gives encouragement’. 
Sometimes, as in marmajiabhaya (1.8.6,8) and sarvajfiakhydpana 
(4.5.18, 10.38.83) the suffix -tva is not used to form the abstract nouns 
marmajnatva and sarvajiatva. Other archaisms may be seen in 
akankseta (2.7.26,28 etc.) and rdhyatam (2.24.27) used is the Atmane- 
pada, rajjund (4.7.26) used for rajjud, varsdradtram (4.3.6) for -ratrim 
anyatamad (4.7.17 etc.) for anyatamam and so on. 


It is in the vocabulary, however, that the language of this work 
shows striking peculiarities. There are numerous technical terms. 
Many of them are defined in the work itself, but there are others that 
are not defined. Apart from the technical words, there are a very 
large number of words which are rarely found used elsewhere in 
Sanskrit. A few may be mentioned, to bring out the richness of the 
language used in this text: anarthya ‘a harmful person’, anvddhi ‘a 
guardian’, apasdra ‘an excuse, 2 means of exoneration from guilt’, 
avastha ‘a surety’, avasthd ‘a guarantee’, dbandhya ‘ ornaments, jewel- 
lery’, upalingana ‘an indication, proof’, cakrayukta ‘a wheeled carriage’, 
durbhaga “a wife disliked by the husband’, prakarman ‘violation of a 
maiden’, prahavana (or pravahana) ‘a party, a picnic’, bharmanyd 
‘maintenance to a wife living separately’, mdnava ‘a dacoit, an adulterer 
or such other criminal’, ripajivd ‘a prostitute’, vivita ‘pasture-land’, 
visikha ‘the market-road’, vivadha ‘supplies of men and materials for 


CONTENT AND FORM 39 


the army’, sazhydna ‘sea-voyage’, samvadana (or samvanana) * winning 
of love by occult means’, sthadpyd ‘endowment made on a woman at 
the time of her marriage’. The following roots also may be mentioned : 
atyadhdray ‘to over-tax, to extort money from’, anuksi ‘to survive’ or 
‘to brood over the death of’, abhiman ‘to covet, to entertain a sinful 
desire for’, utkofay ‘to maim, to cripple’, cdray ‘to spread reports ’, 
niskas ‘to leave home’, nispat ‘to run away, to abscond’, pratyddié 
‘to report, to communicate’, praripay ‘to point out, to disclose’, viyat 
‘to arrange for, to provide’, éru ‘to bear witness’, saméru ‘to promise’, 
and so on. A few words seem to show the influence of the Prakrits. 
Thus we have tufa ‘name of a division of time’, pasthauhi ‘a cow bearing 
a calf for the first time’, samiddhayoga ‘an occult practice for securing 
prosperity ’, makkuna ‘a tuskless elephant’, and so on. A few words 
appear to be Desi in origin. Such are cella ‘garment’, bollana ‘talking’, 
lenda (or landa) ‘dung’, kandolikd ‘basket’, mendhaka ‘a ram’s head’, 
vikka ‘a young elephant’, potfalika ‘a bag’ and so on. 

It is true that we cannot be quite sure of the meaning of many 
words and expressions in this text. So, too, the interpretation of 
many passages in the text must remain uncertain. Nevertheless, 
after all allowances have been made, it can be maintained that the 
text is not difficult in style. In Chapter 2.10 of the work we have a 
section on the writing of decrees, which is said to have been composed 
by Kautilya himself.s® It contains an enumeration of the excellences 
of writing or lekhasampad. There are six of these: arthakrama ‘proper 
order in the presentation of a matter’, sambandha ‘maintaining a 
connection from beginning to end’, paripirnatd ‘completeness’, so that 
neither more nor less words are used and the meaning is made clear 
by stating reasons and by giving examples and illustrations, madhurya 
‘sweetness’ consisting of the use of words conveying their meaning 
with ease, auddrya ‘elevatedness’ or absence of vulgar expressions, 
and spastatva ‘clearness’. There is also a reference in that Chapter 
to defects in writing, lekhadosah. The principal defects are vydghdta 
‘contradictions’, punarukta ‘repetitions’, and apagabda ‘the use of 
words and constructions not sanctioned by grammar.’ It would 
not be wrong to say that the present text, on the whole, uniformly 
shows qualities which it expects in good writing and is free from the 
defects which it mentions. 


39 AMAA TAMIA FI 
Sifecad Atala wAlaaer fafa: He: 1) KA, 2.10.63. 


40 See KA, 2.10.6-12 and 59-61. 


CHAPTER THREE 
SOURCES 


THE first sitra of the text contains the statement that the present 
Arthasastra was composed mostly by bringing together all treatises 
on Arthasastra written by earlier teachers.1 The work is thus declared 
to be a compilation made from earlier works on the Sastra. This 
description of the text is not incorrect. For, there is no doubt that 
it is based on earlier sources and is not an original work in the sense 
that the author has thought out everything contained in it inde- 
pendently. The very nature of its contents, which required a thorough 
knowledge of many diverse subjects, makes it unlikely that any single 
author, howsoever gifted, could have produced this work by relying 
on his own intellectual powers alone. 


The existence of earlier sources is clearly indicated in other places 
in the text as well. Thus, in 1.10.16 we read, ‘‘ The (earlier) teachers 
have laid down that the king should appoint officers after putting them 
to the secret tests etc.” In 4.11.26 there is a statement that the 
various forms of corporal punishment ‘are prescribed in the sastras of 
great men.’® And in 8.2.26 it is stated that the relative importance 
or otherwise of the different prakrtis has been mentioned ‘in the order 
as traditionally handed down.”4 


The fact that the work is based on earlier works is also borne out 
by another consideration. A close study of the text reveals that 
material from different sources has been used in its preparation. We 
find differences in terminology in some cases and, in very rare instances, 
contradictory statements. A few examples may be mentioned: 
(1) In 1.12.6 we have apparently a list of tirthas or high dignitaries in 
the state. The dignitaries are mentioned again in 5.8.3-7 in connection 
with the scales of salaries. There is a difference in the two places. 
Two officers mentioned earlier, the dandapdla and the durgapdla, are 


1 Gfaeat ret Wert AH Ara Tatar: Tea TTeTRTEATAT 
Senet Bar KA, 1.1.1. 


2 faa TSeMAaIeay FA 

a I! KA, 1.10.16. 
3 Ud Meas: FAUST AAA | 

aS F WIA THT: Tera: TAA: UN KA, 4.11.26. 
4 galedleada: Tada ToTaay | 

TAM A CATA A BT Ul KA, 8.2.26. 


SOURCES 4) 


not referred to in Chapter 5.8, which, however, mentions an officer, 
the rdstrapdla, unknown to the earlier list. What is more important, 
officers are mentioned in these two places whose functions are not 
described anywhere in the text. Such are the dauvdrika, the antar- 
vamnsika, the pauravydvahdarika, the karmantika, the dandapala and the 
rastrapala. On the other hand, officers whose duties are described at 
length elsewhere, for example the dharmastha and the nagartka, find 
no mention in either of these places. As things stand, there seems 
to be no provision for the salary of these two. We have clearly a 
divergence of terminology here, which indicates that material from 
different sources has been incorporated in the text. (2) At the end of 
Chapter 3.1 we have two sets of Slokas, 39-40 and 48-45, which are 
concerned with the question of the relative authoritativeness of dharma, 
vyavahara, caritra and rdjaédsana in deciding law cases. Apart from 
the fact that caritra and rdjagdasana of the first set seem to be replaced 
by samstha and nydya in the other set, it appears that the word dharma 
is used in different senses in the two sets. What is more, the two sets 
are separated from each other by two intervening Slokas, 41-42, which 
are quite unrelated to the subject-matter of the two groups. It may 
be assumed that material from different sources has been taken over 
in this case. (8) O. Stein has compared Chapter 2.4 (Layout of the 
City) with Chapter 2.86 (The City Superintendent) and pointed out 
some contradictions between the two. He argues that the city life in 
2.86 is more developed than thatin 2.4. He also refers to some terms 
occurring in 2.4 which are not found in the later chapter.’ It is 
possible to explain away some of the apparent contradictions on the 
ground of a difference in the stand-point of the two Chapters. But 
it seems quite likely that here also we have a case of the use of different 
sources in the two places. (4) We have in two Chapters, 9.3 and 9.5, 
a discussion on likely conspiracies between officers stationed in the 
capital and those in the outlying provinces. The discussion in the 
latter Chapter is much more elaborate than that in the former. It 
seems that borrowing from two different sources is responsible for 
much of the repetition in this instance. (5) The sendpati, who generally 
occupies in the text one of the highest positions in the state hierarchy, 
appears in 10.6.45 to be junior to the ndyaka, who is said to have ten 
sendpatis under him. The task of fixing signals and passwords is 
assigned to the sendpati in 2.88.11, while in 10.6.46 the ndyaka is said 
to be in charge of that work. The discrepancy is obviously due to)a 
difference in sources. (6) Towards the end of the Chapter on salaries, 
5.8, we have matter in sttras 35-45 that is totally unrelated to the 
subject-matter of that Chapter. They refer to the necessity of drill 


5 AOr, IX (1987), pp. 348ff. 


42 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


for the troops, the care to be taken of weapons and soon. ‘The passage 
seems at least misplaced, and may possibly have been derived from a 
source different from that of the rest of the Chapter. (7) In a few 
cases, we get the impression that the slokas at the end of the chapters 
are derived from different sources as compared with those for the prose 
portion in the chapters. Such appears to be the case, for example, 
with Slokas at the end of 2.12, 2.18, 3.8, 3.18, 5.8 and some others. 


Finally, there is the fact that the text refers to a number of earlier 
authorities and mentions what are apparently opinions held by them. 
There are in all one hundred and twelve places in the text where such 
opinions are mentioned. In twenty-five of these cases, the opinions 
are attributed to schools of the Sastra, namely, the Barhaspatyas (in 
six places), the AuSanasas (in seven places), the Manavas (in five places), 
the Paragaras (in six places) and the Ambhiyas (once). In twenty- 
eight places, the opinions are ascribed to individual teachers, Bharadvaja 
(seven times), Visalaksa (six times), Pisuna (five times), Kaunapadanta 
(four times), Vatavyadhi (five times) and Bahudantiputra (once). 
In the remaining fifty-nine cases, the opinions are attributed to 
dcaryah, ‘the teachers’, a term referring to most or all of these 
predecessors ; twice we have eke ‘some’ used, once apare ‘others’. 
Ordinarily, there would be little reason to doubt that these are genuine 
references to opinions actually held by the earlier authorities. But 
there are certain peculiarities about some of these quotations that 
have given rise to doubts concerning their authenticity. It isnecessary 
to consider them in detail.® 


The conflicting opinions of the various schools of Arthasastra 
are mentioned in the following places: (1) In 1.2.2-8 the opinions of 
the Manavas, the Barhaspatyas and the AuSanasas concerning the 
number of vidyds or lores are stated and all of them are rejected in 
favour of Kautilya’s own opinion. (2) In 1.15.47-50, the different 
opinions of these same schools on the question of the number of amatyas 
to be appointed in the mantriparisad are mentioned and rejected in 
favour of Kautilya’s opinion. (8) In 2.7.11-15, the views of these 
three schools together with that of the PardSaras are mentioned in 
connection with the punishment to be meted out to officers who cause 
loss of revenue to the state. Kautilya again adds his own different 
view. (4) In 3.11.44-49 the opinions of the same three schools con- 
cerning the nature of punishment for false testimony are stated and 
rejected in favour of that of Kautilya. (5) In 3.17.8-5 the opinions 


6 The question is considered by H. Jacobi in SKPAW, 1912, pp. 882ff. 
(English translation in IA, 47, 157-161 and 187-195) and is touched upon by J. Jolly, 
A. B. Keith, J. J. Meyer and others. F. Wilhelm discusses it in full in Politische 
Polemiken im Staatslehrbuch des Kautalya (Wiesbaden, 1960). 


SOURCES 43 


of the Manavas and the AuSanasas about the punishment for sdahasa 
are mentioned and rejected in favour of Kautilya’s opinion, while in 
3.17.11-14 the opinion of the Barhaspatyas regarding punishment for 
abetment of sdhasa is stated and modified by Kautilya. (6) In 10.6.1-2 
the divisions of a battle-array according to the AuSanasas and the 
Barhaspatyas are mentioned. No opinion is expressed by Kautilya 
in this place. But in 15.1.42, anumata, i. e., “agreement with another’s 
opinion’ is illustrated by reproducing the opinion of the AuSanasas, 
though the discussion that follows in Chapter 10.6 seems to favour 
the scheme of the Barhaspatyas rather than that of the AuSanasas. 
(7) In 3.6.1-5 the opinion of the AuSanasas alone is mentioned in 
connection with unequal shares at the time of partition. There is no 
comment on it. 


There is no adequate reason to doubt the genuineness of these 
references to the opinions held in the different schools of Arthasastra. 
We know that works attributed to Brhaspati, Usanas and Pracetasa 
Manu are mentioned in the Mahabharata, which contains a few quota- 
tions from them.’ If none of these opinions can be traced in any extant 
work associated with the names of Brhaspati, USanas or Manu, that is 
because all such works are either very late, like the Barhaspatya Artha- 
Sastra (edited by F. W. Thomas in the Punjab Sanskrit Series) and 
the Sukranitisdra (translated by B. K. Sarkar and now shown to be a 
very modern fabrication), or unconnected with a school of Arthasastra, 
like the Manusmrti. That would not disprove the existence in the 
ancient days of the three Arthasastra schools and the works studied 
in them. Jacobi agrees that these three are old and highly respected 
schools. The ParaSaras were evidently a comparatively younger 
school. More often their opinions are referred to along with those of 
individual teachers like Bharadvaja and others. 


Because of the meagreness of the evidence indicated by these 
references it is not easy to form aclear idea of the distinctive fea- 
tures of the teaching of the various schools. The AuSanasas required 
the study of Dandaniti alone, recommended the largest number of 
amdatyas, 20, in the mantriparisad, prescribed the highest fine for the 
officer causing loss to the treasury, also a higher fine for sahasa, and 
laid down a varying scale of fines for false testimony according as it 
concerns the place, the time or the object itself. The Barhaspatyas 
wanted that Vartta should also be studied in addition to Dandaniti, 
recommended a smaller mantriparisad of 16 amdatyas, prescribed for 
the delinquent officer fines half those laid down by the AuSanasas, 


7 See pp. 6-8 above. 
8 IA, 47 (1918), p. 160. 


44 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


but prescribed the very severe penalty of death for witnesses respon- 
sible for miscarriage of justice, and seem to have been concerned with 
abetment of sdhasa more than with laying down punishment for sdhasa 
itself. ‘The Manavas, on their part, required that the Trayi should 
also be studied in addition to Vartté and Dandaniti, recommended a 
still smaller mantriparisad of 12, prescribed still smaller fines for the 
delinquent officers which are to vary according to circumstances, laid 
down a smaller fine for sdhasa, and required that the punishment for 
false testimony should conform to the loss suffered by the litigants. 
From all this we get the general impression that the AuSanasas tended 
to be very severe in the matter of punishments, whereas the Manavas 
appear to have been more moderate and reasonable, the Barhaspatyas 
occupying, on the whole, an intermediate position. It is to be noted 
that in these cases Kautilya himself is represented as adopting an 
eminently reasonable stand. Instead of laying down rigorous and 
fixed scales of fines, he generally recommends that the punishment 
should be ‘in accordance with the offence’. Similarly, he says that the 
number of amdtyas in the mantriparisad should be in accordance with 
the state’s requirements, its size, its capacity etc. And he insists 
that the training of the prince should include the study of Anviksiki 
or philosophy as well. 


Turning to the references to the opinions of individual teachers, 
we find that as a rule these authorities are mentioned in the same 
order. The opinions of Bharadvaja, Visalaksa, the ParaSaras,® Piguna, 
Kaunapadanta and Vatavyadhi are mentioned in this order in four 
places, with the opinion of Bahudantiputra added at the end once. 
In Chapter 1.8 we have a discussion on the type of persons who should 
be selected for appointment as ministers. Here we find each later- 
named teacher criticising the opinion of the one mentioned immediately 
before him and offering his own opinion instead. At the end, Kautilya 
adds his own opinion that there is something acceptable in the opinions 
of all the teachers mentioned earlier. The same procedure is found 
in Chapter 1.17 which discusses the question of the treatment to be 
meted out to the prince. Here, too, at the end of a series of successive 
criticisms, Kautilya in his turn criticises the opinion of the last-named 
teacher, Vatavyadhi. The Chapter then goes on to mention the 
opinion of the Ambhiyas, which is also criticised by Kautilya. The 
procedure in Chapters 8.1 and 8.8 is different. Kautilya here criticises 
and rejects the views of each of the six teachers, who hold different 


9 Itis tempting to regard ParaSara in these cases as the name of an individual 
teacher like the others, as Wilhelm (op. cit., p. 8) does. But except in one or two 
places the mss. show ParaSaraéh as a school name. Jacobi (loc. cit., p. 160) had 
pucedy wugecsted ParaSarah throughout. In 2.7.12, the school seems to he clearly 
intended. 


SOURCES 45 


opinions about the relative seriousness of the calamities of the seven 
prakrtis (in 8.1) and about the relative seriousness of the various vices 
(in 8.8). In these cases, there is no criticism of each earlier teacher 
by another. 


In another place, 1.15.13ff., the opinions of only four authorities, 
Bharadvaja, Visalaksa, the Paraésaras and Pisuna, on the question of 
the appointment of councillors are mentioned. Here, again, each 
later authority criticises the opinion of his predecessor, Kautilya 
criticising the opinion of only the last-named, Pisuna. In 12.1.1-9 
the contrary views of Bharadvaja and Visalaksa on what the weak 
king should do when attacked by a strong king are stated; both are 
then criticised and rejected by Kautilya. In 7.1.3-5 the opinion of 
Vatavyadhi that there are only two policies, peace and war, is rejected 
by Kautilya who sticks to the usual scheme of a six-fold policy. 


The reference to the opinion of Bharadvaja in Chapter 5.6 raises a 
peculiar problem. We have first in siitras 1-22 the recommendation 
that the chief minister should try to keep the fact of the serious illness 
or death of the monarch concealed till arrangements are made to 
announce his successor, thus forestalling a scramble for the throne 
or an uprising among the chieftains. This is concluded with the 
remark that in this way continuity of rule in the dynasty should be 
ensured by the minister. This remark is specifically attributed to 
Kautilya.1° Then follows the statement of Bharadvaja’s opinion 
entirely disapproving of this procedure and arguing in favour of the 
minister himself seizing this opportunity to grab the kingdom and not 
spurning the Goddess of Fortune when she smiles on him. This 
view is then rejected in Kautilya’s own words on the ground that such 
a course is likely to rouse the subjects to revolt, that it is unrighteous 
and that its success is uncertain.12 This juxtaposition of the views 
of Bharadvaja and Kautilya is not easy to explain. If, as is obviously 
to be presumed, Bharadvaja was one of the earlier authorities on the 
§astra used by Kautilya, how could the former have taken note of and 
argued against an opinion held by the latter? A. B. Keith has sug- 
gested by way of an explanation that the present text is not the work 
of Kautilya himself, but of some follower of his who was thoroughly 
aware of the views of the master.1® This does not quite get over the 
difficulty presented by the fact that Bharadvaja’s opinion here appears 
in the form of a rejection of an opinion held by Kautilya, as may be 


10 wanHeqaAara: Hieatata ptfeca: | KA, 5.6.23. 
11 qafafe AST: IVI... AAAI eAa AAMT 1281 KA, 5.6.24-31° 
12 yafaatreaatasondaticach Adtate Hifecr: | KA, 5.6.32. 


18 JRAS, 1916, pp. 135-137. 


46 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


seen from naivam in Bharadvaja’s remark in s.24 coming immediately 
after evam in Kautilya’s statement in s.28. A follower of Kautilya 
could certainly not have been unaware that it was impossible for 
Bharadvaja to have controverted his master’s views in this manner. 
P. Y. Kane says in this connection that Jacobi and Keith are both 
wrong in thinking that the view of Kautilya is criticised by Bharadvaja. 
He argues that Kautilya states his position first and then mentions 
the view of his predecessor.14 But the significance of the juxtaposition 
of evam and naivam in the two sitras does not seem to be fully taken 
into account in this explanation. A likely solution might be to suppose 
that naivam is put in Bharadvaja’s mouth, by Kautilya himself to 
emphasise the distinctive character of Bharadvaja’s views. 


The foremost among the individual teachers mentioned is Bharad- 
vaja. The commentators usually identify him with Drona, the teacher 
of the Kauravas and the Pandavas in the art of war. That seems 
hardly right. Unlike Bhisma, Drona is not known for his mastery 
of the political science. Jolly and Schmidt, in their Notes, have 
suggested his identification with the minister Kaninka Bharadvaja, 
who, according to sitra 5.5.11 of our text, managed to escape on 
noticing some sign of his king’s displeasure. This appears quite 
likely. There is in the Mahabharata, Chapter 12.188, a discourse on 
politics delivered to King Satrumtapa by Bharadvaja, also called 
Kaninka there.15 


The opinions attributed to Bharadvaja in this text make him out 
to be a ruthless and unscrupulous teacher of this Sastra who held 
extreme and one-sided views. He is said to have recommended that 
the prince should be secretly got rid of before the father begins to 
entertain feelings of affection for him (1.17.4-6), that when the old 
king is dying or dead, the chief minister should seize the throne 
(5.6.25-81), as he thought that the minister is more important than the 
king himself (8.1.6-11). He was of the opinion that kama and kopa 
are quite necessary for the ruler and should not be regarded as the 
source of vices (8.8.8-12). He recommended that in order to maintain 
secrecy the ruler should not hold consultations at all with anyone else 
(1.15.13-17). He was also of the opinion that a weak king, when 
attacked by a powerful king, should always submit to him (12.1.1-2). 


Finding that the teaching ascribed to Bharadvaja in this text 
has a bad odour about it and that the same is true of his teaching as 


14 ABORI, VII, p. 89. 

15 The Yasastilakacampi of Somadeva (N. S. edition, Part II, p. 100) quotes 
two slokas said to be from the Sddgunyaprastava of Bharadvaja. These are found 
spread over 7.5.19ff. in our text. One cannot be sure that Somadeva had really 
the work of Bharadvaja before him. 


SOURCES 47 


found in the Mahabharata, Wilhelm set out to investigate all those 
passages in Sanskrit, Pali and Prakrit where the name Bharadvaja 
occurs. He has found that in some places, for example in some 
Jataka tales, the name has an obloquy attached to it, while in other 
places it appears as highly respectable.“* This is not surprising, 
since Bharadvaja is a gotra name, not the personal: name of a single 
individual. It is quite conceivable that some member or members of 
this family had got a bad name; but there is no reason to suppose that 
the Bharadvajas as a family were looked down upon or denigrated. 


About Bharadvaja’s individuality we are able to form some idea 
from his teaching. That cannot be said of the other teachers mentioned. 
Even the names of some of them have a queer ring about them. Visa- 
laksa ‘ the broad-eyed one’ is, according to the Mahabharata tradition, 
the name of God Samkara himself. If, as the Mahabharata indicates, 
there was once in existence a Vaisdlaksa Sastra, that may be supposed 
to have been the work of some person claiming inspiration from that 
god and attributing'the teaching to him.!’ Similarly, Bahudantiputra 
is supposed to be the name of God Indra. The name apparently 
signifies ‘ the son of one whose arms are her teeth.’ Such a description 
of Indra’s mother, Aditi, is not known elsewhere. In fact, the Maha- 
bhadrata mentions the Bahudantaka Sastra, implying that Indra himself 
was known as Bahudanta, or perhaps Bahudanta ‘ having many teeth.’ 
Pisuna, according to the commentators, is the sage Narada, perhaps 
because the name signifies ‘ a tale-bearer’. Thisis doubtful. It seems 
more likely that he is to be identified with the minister Pisuna who, 
according to 5.5.11 in the present text, left his king’s service when he 
saw some indirect sign of his displeasure.1® In any case, PisSuna cannot 
be identified with the author of the Ndradasmrti, since that Smrti 
concerns itself with law alone and nothing else. About Kaunapadanta, 
the commentators say that he is to be identified with Bhisma, who was 
called by this name because his father Samtanu had decayed teeth. 
The identification may be correct. In the Santiparvan, Bhisma is 
made to appear as a teacher of this sastra. One cannot suppose, 
however, that the Santiparvan contains his original teaching. That 
Parvan is a compilation of material derived from diverse sources and 
there is little in it that can be pointed out as the specific teaching of 


16 Wilhelm, Politische Polemiken etc., pp. 56-74. 


17 Somadeva (loc. cit.) quotes a prose passage from the upanisad section of 
Visalaksa. The passage with a few omissions is found in the labdhaprasamana section 
(13.5.12) of the present text. The reference to the upanisad section is clearly wrong. 
In this case it seems almost certain that Somadeva knew no early text by Visalaksa, 
but has only derived the passage from the present text, misreading the section in 
the process. 


18 It may be noted in passing that the amdtya of King Dusyanta in the 
Sakuntala is named Piguna (Act VI). 


48 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


Bhisma. In any case, the opinions ascribed tv Kaunapadanta in this 
text cannot be traced in the Mahabharata. T. Ganapati Sastri has 
suggested that the Ambhiyas were the followers of Bhisma, since Ambhi, 
in the sense of ‘the son of Ambhas (water, ij.e., the Ganges)’ can be 
understood as the name of Bhisma.!® This identification is uncertain. 
As regards Vatavyadhi, the commentators identify him with Uddhava, 
the minister of Sri Krsna. About him or his teaching, nothing is known 
from any source. It appears that some of the names of these teachers 
are nicknames given to them because of some physical or mental pe- 
culiarity. 

Lastly, there are those numerous cases in which the opinions of 
acaryah or teachers in general are stated and, in most cases, refuted 
by Kautilya, who then adds his own opinions. The principal topics 
on which we find such controversial opinions are: (1) the manner in 
which danda or punishment should be inflicted by the ruler (1.4.5-10) ; 
(2) the use of secret tests for finding out if an officer is upright and 
loyal or not (1.10.16-20) ; (3) the person to whom the ksetraja son be- 
longs (8.7.1-3) ; (4) the type of enemy against whom it is more advanta- 
geous to march (7.5.8-8,12-15) ; (5) the type of ally whom it would be 
more advantageous to secure (7.9.9-34) ; (6) the kind of state undertaking 
which should be preferred in newly acquired territories (7.11.13-16, 
7.12.9-24) ; (7) the choice between diplomatic moves and actual war 
(7.13.29-33) ; (8) the relative merits of different types of rulership 
(8.2.5-25) ; (9) the relative seriousness of the various calamities of a 
divine or human origin (8.4.2-43); (10) the relative importance of the 
saktis and of Sakti, desa and kala (9.1.2-15,26-33) ; and (11) occasions 
suitable for marching against an enemy (9.1.42-44). 

In 8.1.5 the opinion of the dcdryas, which is stated first, is defended 
by Kautilya in the rest of the chapter against the divergent views of 
six individual teachers. That refers to the question of the relative 
seriousness of the calamities of the seven prakrtis. Similarly, in 7.1.2-5 
the opinion of the dcdryas concerning the six gunas is defended by him 
against the opinion of Vatavyadhi. In 3.17.6-10, the various scales 
of fine for sdhasa of different types are laid down in the words of the 
dciryas, and these are obviously accepted by the author without 
comment. 

In 3.4.9-12 (on the question whether a wife living separately should 
stay with her husband’s family when there are male members in it) 
and in 3.5.23-25 (on the question of the partition of a poor man’s 
goods), the opinion of Kautilya appears as a mild criticism of the view 


19 Sanskrit Introduction to Vol. III of the ‘Trivandruin edition of the text, 
p. 2, also English Introduction, p. 2. 


SOURCES 49 


of the teachers, and not a vigorous refutation of it in the usual manner 
starting with neti Kautilyah. That is also true of his criticism of the 
view of the dcdryas in 7.1.80-31, that when sthdna or staying quiet is 


equally advantageous to the vijigisu and his enemy, the former should 
make peace with the latter. . 


Who are the dcdryah whose opinions are so frequently referred to 
in the text? The view that the expression means ‘my teacher’, 
i.e., the teacher of Kautilya, as in Shamasastry’s translation, is clearly 
not right. P. V. Kane has shown how dcadrydh cannot mean ‘ my 
teacher’. He refers to the use of the expression in Yaska, Panini, 
the Mahabharata and the Kdmasiira and points out how in 3.7.1-2 the 
use of apare for referring to those who differ from dcdarydh precludes 
the possibility of the latter term signifying Kautilya’s teacher.*° By 
dcdryadh we have clearly to understand those earlier teachers (pirva- 
caryah) whose works on Arthasastra were used in the preparation of 
this text as stated insiitral.1.1. Itseems that it is a general term which 
includes those teachers mentioned elsewhere by name. Often, as in 
8.1, it seems to stand for some, not all, of those earlier teachers. The 
expression prayasah in 9.1.42 clearly indicates that most of the earlier 
teachers, but not all, are meant there. And an identical group of tea- 
chers need not be understood every time the dcarydh are referred to. 


In Chapters 1.8, 1.15 and 1.17, each later-named teacher is re- 
presented as criticising the views of the one mentioned just before him. 
From this it might appear that the order in which these individual 
teachers are invariably mentioned is chronological, Bharadvaja being 
the oldest among them and Kaunapadanta the youngest. There are, 
however, difficulties in accepting the order as chronological. It would 
indeed be strange if the chronological order were to coincide exactly 
with the order of enumeration of the prakrtis (as it does in Chapter 8.1, 
where the relative seriousness of their calamities is discussed) or with 
the order of enumeration of the vices (as in 8.8). The circumstance 
that each later author regards each later prakrti as more important or 
each later vice as less serious has too much the appearance of being 
neatly contrived to appear genuine. Jacobi, therefore, expresses 
the opinion that the order cannot be regarded as chronological. He 
adds that the serial sequence probably expresses the degree of estima- 
tion which Kautilya entertained with regard to the respective prede- 
cessors and that Bharadvaja stood in the eyes of Kautilya the lowest 
in the scale.2! In this connection, Wilhelm compares the method adopt- 
ed in the Sarvadarganasamgraha, where the author begins with the 


20 ABORI, XXIII (1942), pp. 206-213. 
— 21 IA, 47, pp. 187-188. 


50 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


school of thought (the Carvakas) which is the lowest in his estimation 

and proceeds to gradually more and more approved schools by a process 

in which each later school refutes its predecessor and expounds its own™ 
doctrines.” | 


This raises the possibility that the opinions attributed to the 
earlier teachers in this text are not actual quotations from their works, 
but are statements worked up by Kautilya himself and put by him in 
their mouths. In fact, Jacobi expresses the opinion that Kautilya 
utilised the names of his predecessors for staging an imaginary con- 
troversy as a means of enlivening his discourse. He adds, “‘ This 
solitary artifice strikes one as something extraordinary in a manual 
of instruction otherwise so sober and pertinent.”*> Similarly, Keith 
says, ‘‘ The view that this is a sober setting down of actual views 
(of predeeessors) may be regarded as improbable in the extreme; it 
is doubtless rather a device, introduced to lend liveliness and to set 
out conflicting views which might actually or more often conceivably 
beheld. The same device is adopted in Buddhist texts, where possible 
philosophical opinions are asserted to be actually held.’’*4 


Now it cannot be denied that there is an element of artificiality 
in the manner in which the opinions of the earlier teachers are pre- 
sented in this text. It would, however, hardly be right to conclude 
from this that the opinions themselves are all invented by Kautilya. 
When Jolly remarks that our author found these names of earlier 
teachers in some such tradition as that represented in the Santiparvan 
of the Mahabharata and put different opinions in their mouths, he seems 
to imply that all these opinions are the inventions of Kautilya himself.*° 
It should be remembered that the Mahdbhdrata tradition shows ac- 
_quaintance not only with the names of the ancient teachers, but also 
with their teaching. It mentions a few earlier s4stras and some indi- 
vidual teachers and evidently quotes from them or refers to their 
opinions. It is not easy to seé why the author of this text could also 
not have been acquainted with those Sastras or with the opinions ex- 
pressed by the earlier teachers. What was known at the time of the 
compilation of the Santiparvan could not have disappeared altogether 
when this text was composed, even if the late date (8rd or 4th century 
A.D.) suggested by Jolly for this text be accepted. Besides, many of 
the names of earlier authorities, for example the Parasaras, Pisuna, 
Kaunapadanta and Vatavyadhi, are unknown to the tradition of the 
Mahabharata. And in this respect there is no other ancient tradition 


22 Wilhelm, Politische Polemiken etc., p. 76. 

28 IA, 47, p. 188. 

24 <A History of Sanskrit Literature, p. 457. 

25 Introduction to the Punjab edition of the text, p. 44. 


SOURCES dl 


besides that in the Mahabharata. Moreover, many of the opinions 
attributed to the predecessors can be shown to have been actually held 
in earlier times or at least as having been conceivably held before 
this text was written. Thus when two different views concerning right 
over the ksetraja son are stated as being held by earlier teachers (8.7.1-2), 
that, as we know from the Smrtis, is a reference to genuinely held views 
on the matter. When Vatavyadhi is said to have recognised only 
two gunas or policies, namely, peace and war (7.1.8), such an opinion 
could quite conceivably have been held in very early days. Nor can 
it be said that the opinions attributed to Bharadvaja in this text are 
all the inventions of our author. In fact, to assume that all the diver- 
gent opinions have been invented by the author himself would mean 
that there were no earlier works on this Sdstra on which he could rely 
and that he has created the entire science as found in this work by his 
own single-handed effort. Such a claim cannot reasonably be sustained 
and is certainly not made on his behalf. Nevertheless, it seems néc- 
essary to concede that the opinions of the earlier authorities have 
probably been worked up and schematically arranged by the author. 
It is this which creates the impression of artificiality in some places. 
It is also possible that in a few cases, for example, in Chapter 7.9, 7.11 
or 8.4, the opinions attributed to the dcdryah may have been thought of 
by Kautilya himself; there one may detect a desire to present all the 
pros and cons of a question rather than an attempt to controvert a 
genuinely held opinion. But even in such cases, the possibility of the 
opinion being really held by someone cannot be altogether ruled out. 


Wilhelm has drawn attention to the circumstance that the opinions 
of the earlier teachers are expressed in a uniform style. Referring to 
Chapter 1.8, he points out the stylistic peculiarities in the various 
opinions expressed there, such as the use of the ablative of the abstract 
noun for stating the reason for rejecting the opinion of the predecessor, 
the use of drsta- in four of those cases, the use of hz in three cases and 
so on.** He refers to the fact that the clause pratyaksaparoksanu- 
mey@ hi rdjavritth occurring in Visalaksa’s opinion in 1.15.19 appears 
again in 1.9.4, so that the verbal form of the clause may be inferted to 
be due to Kautilya himself.2?7 He regards nrsamsam adustavadhah in 
Visaliksa’s statement in 1.17.7 as stylistically reminiscent of prakrtt- 
kopakam adharmistham in Kautilya’s words in 5.6.382.28 He thinks 
that expressions like kulyakumdramukhya, prakrtikopa (Bharadvaja in 
5.6.25ff.), vyasanapratikdra, rajyaraksana, kumdraraksana etc. (Bha- 
radv4ja in: 8.1.8) are characteristic of Kautilya’s style, indicating that 

26 Wilhelm, op. cit., p. 10. 


27. Ibid., p. 14. 
28 Ibid., p. 23. 


52 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


Bharadvaja’s opinions are here reproduced in Kautilya’s words.*® 
Similarly, the repetition of the clause vallabhais ca suayamgraha- etc. 
in Kautilya’s own view in 8.4.28 and in the opinion ascribed to the 
Gcaryah in the next siitra is, according to him, an indication of the 
latter being worked up by Kautilya in his own words.*° 

It may be pointed out, however, that if this implies that certain 
words and expressions were coined by Kautilya for the first time and 
were non-existent before him, that would hardly be acceptable. For 
example, kulya ‘a member of the family ’, kusmdra ‘ a prince’, mukhya 
‘ a principal officer’, rdjyaraksana ‘ protection of the kingdom’, kuma- 
raraksana ‘ guarding of the prince’, prakrtikopa ‘ an uprising of the 
subjects ’, vyasana ‘ calamity ’ and its pratikdra ‘ overcoming ’, contain 
ideas so germane to the Sastra from its very inception that it is hard 
to conceive that these expressions for conveying them were non- 
existent before Kautilya wrote. Unless we believe that the entire 
Sastra was created by Kautilya himself, it would have to be assumed 
that its terminology and the general method of its treatment are quite 
ancient. Expressions common to Kautilya and the earlier teachers are 
no sure indication of a stylistic working up of earlier teaching. 


Again, we have in four places a Sloka incorporated in the opinions 
of earlier teachers, viz., in 1.8.9 (P&raSaras), 1.15.17 (Bharadvaja), 
1.15.22 (Visdélaksa) and 5.6.81 (Bharadvaja). It is hardly possible 
that these slokas are composed by Kautilya himself. It was argued in 
- the preceding chapter that the works of the predecessors of Kautilya 
were probably in verse.*! If that be so, these four slokas may well be 
supposed to have been reproduced from the works of the predecessors 
exactly as they were found there. The accompanying prose portion, 
however, may be then supposed to be the working up of the original 
metrical part into prose by Kautilya. In the process of such ‘ working 
up ’ some compression of the original matter or its expansion in some 
cases 1S quite conceivable. But there is little indication of any new 
terminology evolved by our author. Nor is there sufficient evidence 
for regarding any stylistic features as peculiar to him, when compared 
with the earlier teachers. 


In some cases, views or teachings are specifically attributed to 
Kautilya without there being any attempt to refute the opinions of 
other teachers. There is the most prominent case of the Chapter on 
written decrees, 2.10, at the end of which we are told that the rules 


29 Ibid., pp. 34-85 and 40. 
80 Ibid., p. 124. 
81 See pp. 88-35 above. 


SOURCES 53 


concerning decrees have heen framed by Kautilya for the sake of kings.®2 
It is reasonable to suppose that a corresponding chapter was not there 
in the works of his predecessors. In 1.7.6-7 it is asserted in Kautilya’s 
name that artha is the most important of the three goals of life. Though 
this is not stated in refutation of a view ascribed to anyone else, it is 
to be noted that in the preceding siitras, 8-5, two other points of view 
are mentioned, which were presumably held by some of his predecessors. 
In 3.4.86, Kautilya asserts that causing the frustration of a wife’s 
tirtha or period suitable for conception is destructive of religious merit. 
In 7.15.11 he insists that when a king is forced to seek shelter in a fort 
he should first see to it that it has adequate supplies of stores and men 
and that it is provided with means of escape. And in 18.4.5 he de- 
clares that there can be no country without the habitation of men and 
no kingdom without a country. In all these cases there is no reference 
to any contrary opinion. From the circumstance that the text is thus 
particular about giving credit to Kautilya for views specifically -held 
by him as well as from the circumstance that he appears very keen on 
“ giving expression to his differences with the predecessors, it would be 
reasonable to conclude that except in those cases where his differences 
with others are stated, his teaching does not materially differ from that 
of the earlier authorities. This would corroborate the statement in 
the very first sitra that the present work is mostly based on the treatises 
on this Sastra composed by earlier teachers, that, in other words, these 
treatises were our author’s source-books. 


It may be noted that the opinions of earlier authorities are not cited 
on a large number of topics treated in the present work. There are no 
citations, for example, in Books 4, 6, 11, 18 and 14. There is only one 
in Book 5 and two in Book 2. It may be asked why these Books do 
not contain references to the opinions of the earlier teachers. We 
may leave out of account the very short Books 6 and 11 as well as Book 
14 which deals with secret and occult practices. As regards the other 
Books, especially Books 2, 4 and 5, it is possible to argue that the general 
absence of references in them to the opinions of the predecessors means 
that the topics treated in these Books were not found in their works 
and that Kautilya himself is the first to treat those topics. That is, 
in fact, the conclusion reached by Jacobi concerning these three Books, 
According to him the peculiarity of these Books is that they deal 
more with details of practical affairs than with matters of general 
principles as in the other Books. The only two citations in Book 2, 
namely 2.7.11-14 (about punishment for causing loss to the treasury) 


32 TAMA UT HA TATA TI 
aifecat Atrata Uracten fafa: set: 11 KA, 2.10.68. 


54 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


and 2.9.10-11 (concerning ways of detecting cases of embezzlement by 
Officers), belong to the law of punishment and hence do not belong to 
the general run of topics in that Book.’ Wilhelm supports this view 
of Jacobi and rejects the conclusion that the absence of references to - 
earlier teachers in these Books is to be explained on the assumption 
that Kautilya did not differ from his predecessors on the topics discussed 
in them.*4 


It is true that these three Books deal principally with matters of 
practical administration. But there is hardly sufficient warrant for 
supposing that these matters were not the object of study before Kauti- 
lya’s day. Arthasastra is essentially a practical science ; its declared 
aim is fo teach the ruler how to govern his kingdom. What general 
principles it enunciates are all connected with practical affairs. We 
do not have purely theoretical speculations, for example, on monarchy 
or kingship in Book 1 or on foreign policy in Books 7-18. Everywhere 
it is matters of practical concern to the ruler that are discussed in this 
work. Now Book 4 deals with the investigation of crimes and the 
punishment of criminals. It is difficult to believe that these questions 
were not treated by any teacher before the days of Kautilya. Some 
of the earlier teachers of the Sastra, Bharadvaja and Pisuna for example, 
were in all likelihood ministers. As such they could not have avoided 
concerning themselves with the suppression of crime. The same is 
also true of subjects like the steps to be taken against traitors and 
measures necessary during emergencies, which-are treated in Book 5. 
It is, of course, possible that not all the predecessors of Kautilya had 
dealt with all the topics found in Books 4and 5. But itis hardly likely 
that Kautilya alone is responsible for their entire contents. Had that 
been really so, the fact would have been specifically mentioned as is 
done in the case of Chapter 2.10. 


The case of Book 2 is a little different. Apart from the details of 
state administration, which could have been derived from the earlier 
works on Niti, the Book contains a number of chapters dealing with the 
technical details of various sciences and arts, such as mining and met- 
allurgy, working in gold and jewellery, building of forts, farming, 
making of liquors, cattle-tending, care of horses and elephants and so 
on, with which a minister-author is not likely to be directly acquainted. 
It seems reasonable to suppose that many of these chapters had no 
place in the earlier works on Niti, which were concerned with politics 
and administration. Nevertheless, one can hardly suppose that their 
contents stem from Kautilya himself, implying that he was an expert 


38 IA, 47 (1918), pp. 160-161. 
_ 84 Wilhelm, op. cit., pp. 80-81. 


' SOURCES 55 


in all these technical studies. He probably derived material for these - 
chapters from manuals on these various subjects. It is true that such 
manuals on these subjects supposedly written before the days of Kau- 
tilya have not come down to us. But they could conceivably have 
existed, just as earlier Niti works must be presumed to have existed, 
though none of them has come down to us. In this connection, a re- 
ference may be made to the opinion of Breloer, who thinks that Kautilya 
took the help of a number of assistants for collecting material from 
different sources, his own role being that of an editor of the vast material 
collected.** But if we grant the existence of earlier treatises on the 
Sastra as well as of manuals on the technical subjects, we need not sup- 
pose that Kautilya needed the help of any assistants. Even assuming 
that such manuals did not exist, we can still believe that he himself 
collected such material from experts in those subjects. In any case, 
so far as the technical and other chapters in Book 2 are concerned, there 
was hardly any real scope for difference of opinion. Perhaps there 
was as little scope for any significant difference of opinion on the 
topics discussed in Book 4 as well. That would partly explain the 
absence of reference to the opinions of earlier teachers in these Books. 


To conclude, it appears reasonable to suppose that except in those 
cases where divergent opinions are specifically attributed to Kautilya, 
the bulk of the teaching in this text is materially the same as he found 
it in the source-books on which he relied. Such material may have 
been derived, in some cases, from sources other than works on Niti. 
But with the exception of the contents of Chapter 2.10, no significant 
addition to the teaching of the Saéstra can reasonably be credited to him. 


In the last of the concluding Slokas at the end of the text we read 
that it was composed by that person by whom the Sastra, the weapon 
and the land in the possession of the Nanda kings were ‘rescued’ or 
‘raised ’ (uddhrtdnz).**® That the kingdom of the Nandas was snatched 
from them for Candragupta Maurya by Kautilya is‘an ancient tradition. 
That the weapon was lifted up by him may suggest that he had, in his 
anger, occasion to use it. As regards the Sastra, we have probably to 
understand by uddhdra its resuscitation, the idea being that in his day 
it had fallen into neglect or disuse. The amarsa ‘ anger’ or ‘ resent- 
ment’ in this case would seem to refer to the distress of Kautilya 
that the study of this important science should be neglected and its 
teaching ignored by those for whose guidance it had come into being. 


35 KSt, III, p. 10. 
36 Yat WEA A MEA FT AACA FF: I . 
FATT AATATY aq Ucarae HAT Ul KA, 15.1.78. 


56 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


It is also possible, though not certain, that amarsa indicates the vehe- 
mence with which the opinions of the earlier teachers are rejected by 
Kautilya. Jacobi says, for example, ‘‘ He is vexed with the narrow- 
mindedness of his predecessors; he has without a moment’s hesitation 
(dsu) thrown overboard their dogmatism ; it implies the sense of con- 
tempt in which the ‘ Professors’ are held by the statesman, which even 
Bismarck was at no pains to conceal.’’’? It is doubtful if the prede- 
cessors, Bharadvaja and others, can be designated ‘ Professors’ in the 
sense of theoreticians unacquainted with practical affairs. And a 
sense of contempt for their opinions is hard to find in this text. It is 
almost always a straightforward statement of a difference of opinion. 


U. N. Ghoshal understands the expression used in the Ssloka to 
mean that in Kautilya’s day the science had become ‘ a tangled maze of 
divergent ideas’, that he overhauled it and that the present text is 
therefore to be looked upon as ‘ a virtual reconstruction of the science.’® 
It is undoubtedly true that where Kautilya is represented as differing 
from the earlier teachers, his is generally the sane and moderate stand- 
point as compared with many extreme, often one-sided, sometimes 
irrational view-points of the predecessors. Wilhelm has shown that 
where the earlier authorities recommend a rigid norm, Kautilya tends 
to free himself from a fixed scheme and to offer a pragmatic view (e.g., 
yathaparddham, 2.7.15, yathadsdmarthyam, 1.15.50, sarvam upapannam, 
1.8.27 and so on).*® He condemns on practical as well as moral grounds 
an earlier view that the prince should be kept engrossed in vulgar pleas- 
ures or that a suggestion should be made to him that he should rise 
against his father and seize the kingdom (1.17.22-30). On the same 
grounds he rejects the opinion that the minister should himself seize 
the throne (5.6.32). He warns against bringing in the king or the queen 
for the purpose of the secret tests (1.10.16-19). He shows a keener 
appreciation of the various dangers threatening the state (Chapter 
8.4) and has more reasonable ideas about the importance of the various 
_ state undertakings (Chapters 7.9-12). It is, therefore, possible to say 
that the Sastra as it emerges from Kautilya’s hand is more sober, more 
rational and inevitably more advanced than was the case in the earlier 
writings. There can be no doubt about his superior political insight 
and practical wisdom, to which Ghoshal refers. Yet to say that this 
work is a reconstruction of the science is to exaggerate his role to some 
extent. The Sloka which speaks of the ‘ uddhdra’ of the Sastra reminds 
one of Kamandaka’s remark that Visnugupta ‘ had extracted the nectar 


87 IA, 47 (1918), p. 194. 


38 A History of Indian Political Ideas, p. 111. Cf. also K. Nag, Les Théories 
etc., pp. 61-62. 


39 Wilhelm, op. cit., pp. 188-139. 


SOURCES 57 


of-Nitisastra from the ocean of Arthasdstra.’*#° It is significant that 
the verb used there is the same, uddadhre. 


It was argued in the first chapter that Arthasastra cannot be 
regarded as indebted to Dharmasastra for its teaching on administration, 
politics and law.*! That sastra is, however, old and clearly known to 
our text. Though Dharmasastra is directly mentioned only in what is 
probably a spurious siitra (1.5.14), the author’s acquaintance with that 
Sastra cannot be in doubt. The description of the duties of the four 
varnas and the four asramas in Chapter 1.8 is obviously derived from 


Dharmasastra works, by which we have to understand the early 
Dharmasitras. 


The sitra in which Dharmasastra is directly mentioned supposedly 
explains the term Itihasa used in the preceding stitra and states that by 
Itihasa we have to understand Purana, Itivrtta, Akhyayika, Udaharana, 
Dharmasastra and Arthasastra.** This is a very unusual description 
of what constitutes Itihasa. Purana is always distinguished from Iti- 
hasa.4#8 And Dharmasastra and Arthasastra are also not regarded as 
forming part of Itihasa. Moreover, this description is not in conformity 
with the position assigned to Itihasa, that of a Veda, elsewhere in the 
text.44 It is obvious that the siitra, 1.5.14, is a marginal gloss, explain- 
ing the word Itihasa occurring in the preceding siitra, which got into 
the text. But the explanation is far from accurate. By Itihasa the 
author may be understood to mean only the ancient tales either of a 
mythical or of a historical character. 


The text refers to such tales, some of which can be traced to the 
two epic: the Mahabharata and the Ramdyana, in the same or in a 
different form. In 1.6.5-10 a number of kings are mentioned who are 
said to have perished through lack of control over their senses. In1.6.12 
are mentioned kings who ruled over the earth for a long time because 
they had perfect control over their senses. In 8.3.41-48 we have a 
mention of kings who won or lost in gambling. The story of Mandavya 
is referred to in 4.8.12. It is to be noted in this connection that the 
epic account differs in at least four of these cases from what is stated in 
this text. Thus, according to our text it was Dvaipayana who caused’ 
the destruction of the Vrsnisamgha, but according to the Mahabharata 
the sages ViSvamitra, Kanva, and Narada, were responsible for that.** 


40 <ithrareargdt STATA ARSE: 
OVE aAeaee Faso TaA TAA U1 Nitisara, 1.6. 
41 See pp. 12-16 above. 
42 TUNA Sah eTELT THMEAMAMA Acittrera: | KA, 1.5.14. 
43 Cf. Brhaddranyaka Upanisad, IV.5.11 ; Chhaéndogya Upanisad, VII.1.2, etc. 
AaTeAAEAAT 


44 ATH | qaaaafrerraal @ Bet: 1 KA, 1.8.1-2. 
45 Mbh, 16.2.4ff. 


58 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


This text says that Jamadagnya ruled over the earth for a long time ; 
but no epic account refers to Jimadagnya as a king. It appears from 
this text that the name of the brother of Nala was Jayatsena, but the 
Mahabharata mentions Puskara as his name.*® According to our text, 
Mandavya remained silent and tacitly admitted the. guilt of theft be- 
cause he was afraid of being put to tcrture; according to the Maha- 
bhdrata, however, he did not say anything because of his vow of 
silence.‘? In view of these divergences from the epic accounts, we shall 
be justified in concluding that this text knew a different, and most 
probably an earlier, tradition. It may be noted that Agvaghosa in 
Buddhacarita, 11.81, and Saundarananda, 7.89 and 44, refers to some 
of the kings who are here said to have perished because of lack of self- 
control. It would hardly be right to look upon those poems as the 
source of the tales mentioned in this text. Evidently both relied on a 
common source, namely, an old epic tradition. 


Some of the other tales referred to in this text appear to have a 
non-epic origin. In 9.7.36 Suyaétra and Udayana are mentioned as 
kings who were able to recover their lost kingdoms. The commenta- 
tors identify Suyatra with Nala. But Udayana is definitely unknown 
to the epics. He is admitted to be a historical king, more or less con- 
_temporancous. with Gautama Buddha. The kings who, according to 
1.20.15-16, were murdered in their queens’ apartments, are also un- 
known to the epics. The same kings are mentioned in the. same con- 
‘ nection in the Brhatsamhita of Varahamihira, 78.1-2, the Harsacarita 
of Bana, pp. 199-200 and elsewhere. The tales evidently go back to a 
common source, now lost, which may have been of a historical-or quasi- 
historical character. So far as the Brhatsamhitd and the other works 
are concerned, however, it may well be that they knew no other source 
for these tales than the present Arthasdastra itself: 


Concerning the technical branches of study, many details of which 
are found in Book 2, it was suggested above that the material of these 
chapters was probably derived from manuals on the various sciences, 
arts and crafts.4® Such old manuals have, of course, not been preserved. 
But works dealing with these subjects, mostly belonging to the medieval 
period, have come down to us. That these works could not have been 
the sources of this text would appear to be quite obvious. However, 
it is sometimes suggested that it is based on or at most contemporaneous 
with these medieval works. That view will be considered in the next 
chapter, 


46 Mbh, 3.56.4ff. 

47 Mbh, Ch.1.101. For a discussion of the divergences between this text 
and the Mahdbhdrata, see Jacobi, IA, 58 (1924), pp. 144-145. 

48 See pp. 54-55 above. 


CHAPTER FOUR 
AUTHOR AND DATE 


EveER since the publication of the Kaufiliya Arthaédstra by R. Shama 
Sastry in 1909, the question of its authorship and date has been the 
subject of a rather heated controversy. The traditional view in this 
matter is that Kautilya, also known as Canakya or Visnugupta, who 
destroyed the power of the Nandas and placed Candragupta Maurya 
on the throne of Magadha, is the author of this work. And as Candra- 
gupta is known to have come to the throne in 821 B.C. or thereabouts, 
the date of the composition of the work is assumed to.be the end of the 
fourth century B.C. This traditional view is reinforced with a number 
of arguments by Shamasastry in the Preface to his English translation. 


This view about the author and his date is accepted by many 
scholars, notably. by J. F. Fleet (Introductory Note to Shamasastry’s 
English translation), H. Jacobi (articles in SKPAW, 1911 and 1912), 
J. J. Meyer (Introduction to his German translation of the text), 
B. Breloer (KSt, I-III) -and others. Many, as for instance F. W. 
Thomas (Cambridge History of India, Vol. 1), though uncertain about its 
date, assume that the work falls within or near the Mauryan period 
and use it for an understanding of that period. The traditional view is 
contested principally by J. Jolly (Introduction to the Punjab edition 
of the text), M. Winternitz (Geschichte der indischen Litteratur, Vol. III, 
and elsewhere), A. B. Keith (A History of Sanskrit Literature, JRAS, 
1916, and elsewhere), O. Stein (Megasthenes und Kautilya, articles in 
AOr and elsewhere), K. Nag (Les Théories diplomatiques etc.), Pran 
Nath (IA, 1931) and others. Attempts to meet the arguments against 
the traditional view have been made by K. P. Jayaswal (HP), N. N. 
Law (Calcutta Review), D. R. Bhandarkar, P. V. Kane, K. A. Nila- 
kanta Sastri, V. R. Ramachandra Dikshitar, D. D. Kosambi and many 
others. It is necessary to review the salient features of the controversy 
on this important question. 


A statement about the authorship of the work is found in the first 
Chapter, where towards the end we read that the astra was composed 
by Kautilya, avoiding all prolixity, etc.1 At the end of the work, 
again, we read that the Sastra was composed by that person who, in 
resentment, rescued the earth from the Nanda kings and soon.* There 


1 atfecdat aot wet fayaraeaiserca | KA, 1.1.19. 


2 See p. 55, n. 86 above. 


60 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


is also the fact that the work is called Kautiliya Arthasdstra ‘ the Artha- 
gastra of Kautilya, i.e., composed by Kautilya’ in the colophons at 
the end of the various adhikaranas or Books in the text. Finally, there 
are those numerous places in the text where we find criticism of the opi- 
nions of the earlier teachers, followed by the assertion of Kautilya’s 
own opinion. In all these cases, Kautilya’s opinions are stated last, 
indicating that the statement of the controversies proceeds from him. 
From this it can be presumed that the rest of the work is also composed 
by him. 

The tradition that Kautilya is the author of this text seems to 
have been generally accepted since fairly ancient times. The Nitisdra of 
Kamandaka, for example, asserts that the wise Visnugupta, who had 
destroyed the Nandas by his magic lore and given the earth to Candra- 
gupta, extracted the nectar of Nitisastra from the ocean of Artha- 
$astra works.? This undoubtedly refers to the present work, on 
which the Nitisdra itself is based. Similarly, there can be no doubt 
that Dandin has the present work in mind when he refers to the 
Dandaniti composed by Acarya Visnugupta for the sake of the Maurya 
King.‘ In fact, the Dasakumaracarita, in the same Ucchvasa, directly 
refers to numerous passages from the present work. Thus, it re- 
produces the daily routine recommended for a king in Chapter 1.19 of 
our text, with the object of holding it up to ridicule. In another 
place it testifies to the truth of a statement of Canakya concerning 
men who are able to find favour with the king and those who are unable 
to do so.5 This statement is actually found in our text in 5.4.138-14. 
It also refers to the forty ways of embezzlement described by Canakya.® 
These are, in fact, actually described in 2.8.20-21 in our text. Itis true 
that Dandin mentions Visnugupta or Canakya as the name of the 
author and does not refer to the name Kautilya. But there can be 
little doubt that in the ancient tradition all the three names belong 
to the same individual. The Mudrdrdksasa of Visaékhadatta clearly 
shows that Kautilya is another name for Canakya, who is the central 


3 Fea TSAI: | 
Maded: AA Wal Arata: tt 
Upaet AANA A: MAT UlseqLTa: | 
Aaet AAeald Aaa Aleatsy I 
areca AAT TAAMTeAASIea: 
T See AMaed faopcaa Jaa | Nitisara, 1.4-6. 
4 See p. 21, n. 3 above, +. 
5 ante aaa: — faaarqatrnsteat ahs frat: eq: 1 afer athe 
aaiaatesea eT wag: eft 1 Dasakumara, VII. . 
6 Walled aerestaserrecnaary "ol Dasakumdra, VIII. 


AUTHOR AND DATE 61 


figure of that play of political intrigue. Though the play does not 
refer to the Arthasdstra composed by Canakya or Kautilya, it shows a 
very close acquaintance with the present work. It makes use of the 
various stratagems, diplomatic moves etc. recommended in it and 
in some places refers to its teaching.? The Jain Canonical work, 
Nandistiira, mentions Kodillaya among the mithydésdstras or false 
doctrines. That obviously refers to the present work. Bana, in his 
Kadambari, refers to the Kautilyasdstra, which is declared to be mostly 
very wicked or cruel in its teaching.® By this-is undoubtedly meant 
the present work. Thus we find that at least from the fifth or sixth 
century A.D. onwards the present work is believed to have been 
composed by Kautilya, also known as Canakya and Visnygupta, who 
was instrumental in overthrowing the Nandas and placing Candra- 
gupta Maurya on the throne. 


However, all this evidence,cannot be regarded as decisive. The 
indications found in the work itself concerning its author may be said 
to be of questionable value. The Sloka, 1.1.19, for example, does not 
appear to be original and seems to have been added by some later 
hand.® The same would also appear to be the case with the last sloka, 
15.1.73. As for Kaufiliya appearing in the title and the colophons, 
it can also be understood in the sense of ‘as taught or expounded by 
Kautilya,’ which does not necessarily imply its composition by him. 
And as regards the passages where Kautilya’s own opinions are stated 
by the side of those of other teachers, the inference would rather be 
that someone else, and not Kautilya himself, has referred to his opinions 
inthis way. Keith, for example, says, “‘The mode of citation is prima 
facie that of an authority; no one, for example, holds that the 
Kausitaki Brahmana was written by the Kausitaki whom so often it 
quotes as authoritative.’’!° It is, therefore, possible to hold that there 
are no definite indications in the text which prove the authorship of 
Kautilya. 

Besides, many arguments have been advanced for rejecting the 
authorship of Kautilya for this work. To start with, the very existence 


of such a person as Kautilya at the time of Candragupta Maurya is 
regarded as doubtful. R. G. Bhandarkar, for example, refers to the 


7 Cf. fatrttquen~rdre: fraferarrata sft | Act IV, which is 


the same as KA, 5.4.1 ; also compare Age AaNTHT LTT UY AAA A{eaeT 
wanfaaeqtatiaat aafafadata | Act IV, with KA, 9.1.42-48. 

8 fe aT ast and AaTAaUAMaTeATaAT AiecrMET TAT | in 
Sukanasa’s advice to Candrapida. 

9 See p. 21 above. 


10 JRAS, 1916, p. 185. Cf. also Winternitz, Some Problems of Indian Literature, 
p- 98. 


62 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


circumstance that Patafijali in his Mahdbhdsya does not mention 
Kautilya, though he refers to the sabhd of Candragupta and to the 
Mauryas. He, therefore, concludes that Kautilya must be assigned 
to a date later than that of the Mahdbhasya.™' Similarly, Winternitz 
regards it as remarkable that Megasthenes, who was at the court of 
Candragupta as an ambassador of Seleucus, does not mention 
Kautilya.12 These arguments, however, are hardly tenable. Pataiijali 
does not profess to give the names of those who adorned the sabha of 
Candragupta or to describe the reign of that emperor. Beyond the 
bare reference to the sabhd of Candragupta, Pataiijali says nothing 
about the entourage of that monarch. It is, therefore, not quite 
reasonable to expect him to mention the minister of Candragupta 
by name. He refers to persons or events only incidentally, when 
there is occasion for doing so in the course of his grammatical dis- 
cussions. As to Megasthenes’s silence, it may be pointed out that he 
does not mention any minister of Candragupta by name. One cannot 
suppose that Candragupta ruled without the help ofa minister. 
Moreover, the Indika of Magasthenes is preserved only in fragments. 
One cannot be definite about what the lost portions contained or did 
not contain. 


But, it is urged, even if there was such a person as Kautilya as 
the minister of Candragupta, he cannot be supposed to be the author 
of the present work. For, it is pointed out, this work makes no 
reference to Candragupta or his Empire, does not even mention Patali- 
putra, the Capital of that Empire, though some other localities are 
mentioned and ‘though rules for the building of a royal residence are 
given.’ Keith remarks that the Arthasdstra ‘‘never anywhere hints 
that its author had any knowledge of the overthrow of the Nandas 
and the wars which brought Candragupta his empire and the cessions 
made by Seleucus. His sovereign’s name, his family, what is still 
more amazing, his country, his capital are passed over in absolute 
silence by this alleged ancient statesman meditating in his days of 
retirement on the maxims of policy.”!4 Again, referring to the defence 
of the traditional view by Jayaswal and Law, he adds that “ neither 
of these authors explains why the author knows nothing of the Empire 
or of Pataliputra.’’!® 


Such reasoning appears to be based on a misunderstanding of 
' the nature of this work. It is unfortunate that the comparison of 


11 Proceedings of the 1st Oriental Conference (Poona, 1919), pp. 24-25. 
12 Geschichte der indischen Litteratur, III, p. 519. 

18 J. Jolly, Introduction to the Punjab edition of the text, p. 43. 

14 A History of Sanskrit Literature, p. 459. 

15 Ibid., p. 461, n. 1. 


AUTHOR AND DATE 63 


Kautilya with Bismarck by Jacobi should have led to a belief that the 
former’s Arthashastra is comparable with Bismarck’s Memoirs. There 
is, however, a basic difference between the two works. The former is 
not Kautilya’s Memoirs, but a treatise on a branch of study composed 
in the traditional manner and based mainly on the earlier teaching on 
that subject. One has a right to expect a reference to contemporary 


personalities, events, situations and so on in a work of the kind of 


Bismarck’s Memoirs. But it seems hardly fair to expect the same in a 
work which is altogether of a different kind. To a modern mind it 
might appear strange that an author should completely ignore con- 
temporary events, particularly if he is supposed to have directly helped 
in shaping them. But we have to admit that in ancient India referen- 
ces to contemporary events in works of any kind are, as a rule, hard to 
find. And in the case of scientific works in particular, which often 
claimed to be based on the teaching of some mythical sage, if not of the 
Creator himself, a reference to any contemporary event or person would 
appear to be almost mconceivable. 


The absence of a reference to P&ataliputra is easy to explain. 
Except in very few cases, the Arthasdstra does not refer to any place, 
person or event. The exceptions are the kings or ministers, mentioned 
to illustrate certain aspects of the teaching of the sastra, as in 1.6.4ff., 
1.20.15-16, 5.5.11 etc. The names are derived from epic tradition or 
from ancient history. As to place-names, they are mostly referred to 
in connection with the products for which they may have been known. 
Thus we have naipdlaka blankets, paundraka, kasika etc. silks, madhura, 
adparantaka etc. cotton fabrics and so on in Chapter 2.11, or mdgadha 
and mekala stones for manufacturing weights in 2.19.10, or kambojaka, 
Grattaja etc. horses in 2.80.29, or kdlinga, daédrna etc. elephants in 
2.2.15-16. A reference to P&ataliputra would have been justifiably 
expected if the city were known for any special product. Nowhere is 
a city or a region mentioned to show the author’s connection with it. 
It is difficult to see the point of Jolly’s contention that since rules for 
the building of a royal residence are given, a mention of the city of 
Pataliputra was expected if it is assumed that the author knew the 
city. It is not the intention of the author to describe a particular 
palace in a particular city. His aim is to describe in general terms 
how a palace should be built, in any city and in any kingdom. 


It is also urged that the minister of Candragupta could not have 
written this work which deals only with the problems of a moderate- 
sized state. It js true that the text is primarily addressed to the ruler 
of a comparatively small state, normally a member of a cirele of twelve 


<q 


16 Ibid., Preface, p. xviii. 


64 . KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


more or less similar states. But such has been the basis of the theory 
of this $astra and the author had no intention of materially departing 
from the tradition. Besides it must not be forgotten that the text sets 
before such a ruler the ideal of the viigisu, the would-be-conqueror, 
who is to try to establish suzerainty over the whole world. But even 
this ideal is no invention of our author; it was there in the teaching of 
the Séstra before him. 

The argument from the size of the state implied in this text is 
sometimes used to prove that it could not have been composed in 
any period when there was an Empire in existence in India. Beni 
Prasad, for example, says, “‘ The author is wyiting of very small states. 
The idea of a big state never enters his horizon. It seems improbable 
that he flourished during the days of the Maurya, Kalinga or Andhra 
Empire. For the same reason he cannot be placed during the Gupta 
period.’’!” He thinks that the work reflects the same political condi- 
tions that are found in the Smrtis of Manu, Yajiavalkya and Visnu, 
written when India was fragmented in ‘small states feudally related.’!8 


A number of misconceptions underlie this reasoning. It assumes 
that all these authors have taken the political conditions of their day 
into consideration, and that each of these works faithfully reflects the 
contemporary political situation. There is no basis for this assump- 
tion. All these works have derived their teaching from earlier autho- 
rities, and none of them ever intends to make a reference to any 
contemporary event. In the case of the Arthasdstra, the earlier 
authorities may reasonably be supposed to have formulated the 
science in days before the rise of the Maurya Empire when there were 
only small states, which can, however, hardly be accurately described 
as ‘feudally related’. Besides, it is not correct to say that the idea of 
a big state never enters the author’s horizon. The vijigisu in the text 
is expected to ‘conquer the world’ which implies the conquest of the 
whole of India, designated as the cakravartiksetra.1® Again, it seems 
strange that the composition of this work should be regarded as in- 
conceivable even during the days of the Kalinga and Andhra Empires. 
Surely the Kalinga Empire was neither so extensive nor so long- 
lasting as to prevent an author in some part of India from continuing 
to write as if that Empire had no significance for him. As for the 
Andhra Empire there is certainly no proof that it was spread over 
the whole of India so that no writer, anywhere, say, in North India, 


17 Beni Prasad, The State in Ancient India, p. 252. 
18 JIbid., pp. 258-259. 


19 aa: ofadt | cent fencer yaa seers ok TF 
afteqay, | KA, 9.1.17-18. | 


AUTHOR AND DATE 65 


could avoid taking note of its existence. It is thus quite unreasonable 
to draw any conclusions about the date of this work from the size of 
the state which is at the basis of its theory. 


To disprove the authorship of Kautilya for this work it is further 
argued that it is not the work of a practical statesman at all, but the 
composition of a pedantic Pandit, filled as it is with ‘endless and 
pedantic classifications and definitions.’2° It may be conceded that 
the Arthashastra is the work of a Pandit. But the assumption that no 
Pandit could be a practical statesman at the same time is hardly 
justified. Ministers in India were, as a rule, expected to be Pandits, 
men learned in the Sastras, particularly learned in Nitisastra. There 
are numerous instances in history of learned men or Pandits being 
successful ministers, the most conspicuous instances being those of 
Heméadri at the court of the Yadava kings and of Séyana and Madhava 
at the court of the Vijayanagara kings.2!_ The association of Pandits 
with administration was inevitable, since ministers were for the most 
part drawn from the class of Brahmins. 


It is also true that the work is filled with classifications and defini- 
tions. But classification and definition has been the method of treat- 
ment of all scientific subjects in ancient India. Nitisastra follows 
the same method. And our author only claims to have followed in the 
foot-steps of his predecessors in the matter of the treatment of his 
subject. Moreover, to characterise the classifications and distinctions 
as mostly puerile or pedantic is not quite just. One cannot seriously 
maintain that the classification of states in a rajamandala is pedantic or 
puerile; the basis of that classification, namely, that the state next to 
your own is hostile to you and the state beyond that friendly to you, 
is a well-attested fact of political life everywhere, since conflicts are, 
_as a rule, likely to arise among immediate neighbours and those with 
a common enemy tend to make common cause against him. Nor is it 
possible to say that the classification of a state’s constituent elements 
into the seven prakrtis is pedantic. It shows a sound awareness of 
the factors essential to every state’s well-being. The analysis of the 
various motives that are likely to impel the vijigisu or his enemy to 
follow different courses of action in the different situations that are 
likely to arise in their mutual relations is so thoroughly realistic that 
only men fully conversant with the running of a state and the admin- 
istration of its foreign policy could have made it. Only ‘very rarely 
can the classifications or distinctions be regarded as unrelated to the 
actual facts of political life. 


20 Winternitz, Some Problems of Indian Literature, p. 97. 
21 See D. R. Bhandarkar, ABORI, VII (1926), p. 78. 


66 KAUTILIYA ARTH *SASTRA 


An important line of investigation in connection with the relation 
of this text to the Empire of Candragupta is a comparison of the 
statements in Megasthenes’s fragments and those found in the Artha- 
sdstra. An exhaustive comparison between the two is made by QO. 
Stein in his Megasthenes und Kautilya, during the course of which he 
has translated a number of Arthasdsira passages into German, adding 
many useful notes. The result of his investigation is that the Artha- 
sastra does not reflect the same conditions that are revealed in the 
account of Megasthenes. The following are, according to him, the 
important points of divergence between the two: 


(1) According to Megasthenes, Palibothra (i.e., Pataliputra) was 
surrounded by a wooden wall, while Kautilya specifically warns against 
the use of wood in the fortifications, since fire lurks in it (2.3.8-9). 
Stein refers in this connection to Waddell’s Report on the Excavations at 
Pataliputra, according to which traces of ancient wooden palisades are 
found a few feet below the surface level. These are supposed to be 
the relics of the wooden wall mentioned by Megasthenes (Megasthenes 
und Kautilya, pp. 32-34). 

(2) In the matter of metals and their working, the various chapters 
of the Arthasastra show acquaintance with a large number of metals 
(with different types of colour, purity, quality etc.), a wonderful tech- 
nique of working them, and a large number of officers connected with 
the various aspects of working in metals. This, according to Stein, is 
an indication of a more highly developed cultural level than may be 
gathered from the statements in Megasthenes (Ibid., pp. 63-64). 


(8) Megasthenes refers to a board of officers working on the land 
(agoranomoi, which evidently stands for agronomoi) whose duty it 
was to measure land, to supervise canals, to control hunting, to bring 
in taxesandsoon. Ofsucha board there is no trace in the Arthasastra, 
which mentions a number of separate officers carrying out many of 
these duties (Ibid., pp. 233-248). 


(4) Megasthenes refers to the administration of the city of Pali- 
bothra, which consisted of six boards of five members each, who look- 
ed after (i) workers and craftsmen, (ii) foreigners, (iii) registration of 
births and deaths, (iv) trade and commerce, (v) manufactured goods 
and (vi) collection of one-tenth of the price of articles sold respectively. 
The Arthasdstra refers to no such boards; it only mentions the na@garika © 
and his assistants. And some of the functions assigned to the boards 
are unknown to this text (Ibid., pp. 248-266). 


(5) Megasthenes similarly refers to the military command consist- 
ing of six boards of five members each, who looked after (i) the navy, 
(ii) the military transport, (iii) the infantry, (iv) the cavalry, (v) the 


AUTHOR AND DATE 67 


chariot-divisions and (vi) the elephants respectively. The Arthasdstra 
does not mention any naval officers; and the officers who look after 
the four army divisions, asvddhyaksa, pattyadhyaksa and others do 
not constitute boards of five (Ibid., pp. 267-277). 


Stein remarks that for proving the contemporancity or otherwise 
of the two works, a comparison of the administrative system revealed 
in them is of very great importance-(pp. 232-233). For. he argues 
that Megasthenes could not have invented the administrative system 
described by him. His description must be supposed to have been 
based on his personal observation. Stein, however, admits that a 
certain artificiality, a schematism may also be present in his account 
(pp. 265-266). 


These arguments of Stein have been adopted and carried a little 
further by Jolly, Winternitz and Keith. Jolly, for example, argues 
that according to Megasthenes Indians knew only five metals and that 
they were inexperienced in mining and metallurgy, whereas in the 
matter of mining and metallurgy the Arthasdstra shows a highly deve- 
loped technical skill and a knowledge of chemical processes including 
a knowledge of alchemy.** It is also pointed out that whereas Mega- 
sthenes refers to only a few taxes, the Arthasdstra mentions a tax on 
almost every activity of life.*4 


Before proceeding to consider these and similar arguments based 
on the statements of Megasthenes, a few things must be made clear 
first. Stein’s entire work is based on the assumption that the Artha- 
Sdstra must be expected to describe the actual conditions as they 
prevailed at Pataliputra during the reign of Candragupta Maurya. 
Thus he has assumed, fot example, that when describing the building 
of a fort, the author, if he was really Candragupta’s minister, must 
be supposed to be describing only the fortifications at Pataliputra or 
that when describing the king’s life, he must be supposed to be describ- 
ing the actual conditions in Candragupta’s palace or that his description 
of the administration must be supposed to be based on Candragupta’s 
administrative system since he was the latter’s minister. There is 
however, no basis for such assumptions. The text does not profess to 
be a document describing the actual conditions in any particular 
kingdom. It is a theoretical treatise intended for the guidance of 
rulers in general, and it claims to be based mainly on earlier treatises 
of the same kind. It is, therefore, hardly justifiable to look upon the 


22 Jolly, Introduction, pp. 33ff. Winternitz, Some Problems of Indian Litera- 
ture, pp. 100 ff. Keith, Asutosh Memorial Volume, I, pp. 13ff. ; 4 History of Sans- 
krit Literature, p. 460. 

23 Jolly, Introduction, pp. 34-35. 

24 Ibid., p. 85. 


68 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


Arthasastra as a document purporting to describe the actual conditions 
in the kingdom of Candragupta Maurya. 


What is far more surprising is the circumstance that Stein himself 
is often very doubtful about the reliability of Megasthenes’s testimony. 
Thus he thinks it possible that the reference by Megasthenes to ‘the 
royal highway’ of 10,000 stadia (about one thousand miles) running 
from West to East is probably due to a transfer of the idea by him 
from Persia to India (p. 18). Similarly, the reference to mile-stones 
in Megasthenes may be a case of transfer from Persia or Egypt to 
India (p.21). Moreover, Stein clearly asserts that Megasthenes is 
wrong when he states that the width of the moat at Palibothra was 
6 plethra or 177.60 metres (p. 38), or that in India the king alone can 
own horses and elephants (p. 60), or that Indians are ignorant of writing 
in view Of what Nearchos (Alexander’s admiral) and others have stated 
(p. 71), or that all land belongs to the king, who received a ‘rent’ on it 
(pp. 98,99) or that there are no slaves in India (pp. 112,113). Stein 
further admits that some of the statements of Megasthenes are un- 
attested by other sources and are unlikely to be correct. Such are 
the statements that the king allowed himself to be massaged while on 
the seat of judgment (p. 74), that the king left the palace for acting as 
a judge or for performing sacrifices (pp. 80, 83), and that the wife who 
had killed the drunken king had the honour to live with his successor 
(p. 92). Stein regards this last as probably a tendentious statement. 
In the same category he would place some other statements, regarding 
them as due to Megasthenes’s idealizing aims. Instances of this, 
according to Stein, are the statement that things in houses are without 
a watchman (p. 42), or that agriculturists are left undisturbed when a 
battle is going on (pp. 127,129), or that in connection with deposits 
there are no processes, no witnesses, no seal (p. 205). He also thinks 
it possible that the agronomoi are probably taken by Megasthenes 
from Plato’s Laws, because of his idealizing aims (pp. 234-235, 248). 


Further, Stein himself considers it as surprising that Megasthenes 
has not referred to the King’s wife or wives, i.e., the harem, though 
female attendants are mentioned (p. 107), that he does not refer to 
the purohita or the priests when he refers to the king’s going out for 
sacrifices (p. 290). In some cases Stein concedes that Megasthenes’s 
statements are due to insufficient knowledge or observation on his 
part. Thus the statement about the purchase of a bride for a pair of 
cattle appears to Stein as a case of generalization from the practice of 
drsa marriages among some Brahmins, perhaps only in Magadha (p. 67). 
Similarly, the statement about the prohibition to drink wine is regarded 
as probably due to Megasthenes’s observation being restricted to 
Brahmins only (p. 91). That there is no mention of villages anywhere 


AUTHOR AND DATE 69 


in Megasthenes is evidence, according to Stein, that he had seen little 
of India’s land and the method of its management (pp. 194-196). 
The fact that while Megasthenes refers to many causes of polygamy, 
he shows no awareness ‘of the religious motive for having a son (viz., 
the necessity of pindaddna) is proof, according to Stein, that he was 
little acquainted with peculiar Indian customs (p. 68). Jolly also 
remarks that Megasthenes’s work, “though earlier in date, is far 
inferior in intrinsic value to the itineraries of the Chinese pilgrims 
and to the great Arabian work of Alberuni on India.’’5 


These are impressive doubts and reservations about the accuracy 
of Megasthenes’s statements. It should also be remembered that the 
Indika of Megasthenes is preserved only in fragments found in the 
writings of later historians like Strabo, Arrian, Diodorus and others, 
so that a full picture of Megasthenes’s description is not available to 
us. All this should ordinarily make one cautious in using his state- 
ments as testimony in the matter of the authenticity or otherwise of 
another work. It is, therefore, surprising, to say the least, to find it 
confidently asserted that the evidence of Megasthenes is against the 


‘authenticity of the Arthasdstra. We may now proceed to consider 
‘this evidence in detail : 


(1) As regards the supposed wooden wall at Pataliputra, it should 
be stated that in 1877 McCrindle referred to the discovery of a long 
brick wall, and not far from it and parallel to it a line of palisades 
with an opening in one place which had all the appearance of a door 
or gate-posts.2* The beams uncovered by Waddell himself are, in 
one place, two feet in diameter, in another place, 18 to 20 inches in 
diameter arranged in a double row, the individual posts appearing to be 
connected with transverse planks and the space between the double 
row of beams being probably filled with earth.*” In a third place 
Waddell found the posts clamped together with bands of iron and he 
is inclined to. think that it may have been a pier or the foundation of 
a tower. He admits that other beams appear more for drainage pur- 
poses than for defence.2® As a matter of fact, it is extremely doubt- 
ful if the wooden beams uncovered at stray points during the excava- 
tions formed part of a wooden rampart going round the entire city. 
The palisades at most places appear to be intended for preventing 
flood waters inundating the city. For, the so-called moat 6 plethra 
wide mentioned by Megasthenes, could hardly be anything else but 


25 Introduction, p. 41. 


26 L. A. Waddell, Report on the Excavations at Pataliputra (Patna), (Calcutta, 
; 1903), p. 21. 


"27 ~Ibid., pp. 22-23. 
28 Ibid., p. 24. 


70 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


the river Son itself. What is more, Stein himself adds that the 
Archaeological Survey, VIII, 33, refers to four high stone and earthen 
walls at the end of the city, and that Rennel’s Indian Atlas, Plate XV, 
refers to an earthen wall 32 feet high.2® It is therefore not at all correct 
to say that Megasthenes’s statement about the wooden wall at Pali- 
bothra is corroborated by modern excavations at the site of Patali- 
putra. And as already remarked, the present text cannot be supposed 
to be describing the actual fortifications at Pataliputra, even assuming 
that these corresponded to Megasthenes's description of them. 


(2) Jolly’s assertion that according to Megasthenes Indians 
knew only five metals is not true. Megasthenes mentions five metals 
by name, but adds ‘and other metals’. We read in Diodorus: “It 
(the soil) has also under ground numerous veins of all sorts of metals, 
for it contains much gold and silver, and copper and iron in no small 
quantity and even tin and other metals, which are employed in making 
articles of use and ornament, as well as implements and accoutrements 
of war.’°° Concerning the alleged ignorance of mining and smelting, 
it should be pointed out that Megasthenes speaks of this ignorance 
not in connection with Indians in general, but in connection with 
those people who lived in the neighbourhood of the gold-digging ants 
and who are called Derdai (i.e., Daradas). After referring to the plateau 
where the Derdai live, Megasthenes describes the activity of the gold- 
. digging ants ‘not inferior in size to wild foxes’ and goes on to add, “* The 
people of the neighbourhood, coming secretly with beasts of burden, 
carry this (gold) off .... This they sell to any trader they meet with 
while it is still in the state of ore, for the art of fusing metals is unknown 
to them.’’*! This clearly refers to the people of the neighbourhood. 
It is surprising that the statement should have been understood to 
mean that all Indians were ignorant of metallurgy in that age. That 
steel of the highest quality was produced in India in Alexander’s time 
and before is proved by the testimony of Ktesias, Curtius and others. 
Ktesias, who was a Greek envoy at the Persian court before the days of 
Alexander, mentions two wonderful swords of Indian make received 
by him from the Persian King and his mother.*? Curtius, a. historian 
of Alexander’s expedition, records that the Indian ambassadors (of 
the Malloi, who were defeated by Alexander) ‘‘ returned with presents 
for Alexander, which consisted of 300 horsemen, 1,080 chariots each 
drawn by four horses, 1,000 Indian bucklers, a great quantity of linen 


29 Megasthenes und Kautilya, p. 40. 

30 J. W. McCrindle, Ancient India as Described by Megasthenes and Arrian, 
p- 30. 

81 Ibid., pp. 94-95. 

82 Yule, Marco Polo, I, p. 94, quoted by J. W. McCrindle in Invasion of India 
by Alexander the Great, p. 251, n. 1. 


AUTHOR AND DATE 71 


cloth, 100 talents of steel, some tame lions and tigers etc.”33 M. 
Rostovtzelff, in fact, is inclined to think that the method of producing 
the best kind of steel was Indian in origin, being borrowed from there - 
by Asia Minor. He is of the opinion that the later damascene steel 
was produced. by the same methods as the excellent steel of which were 
made a bar found at the bottom of the Khan Baba Stone Pillar (before 
125 B.C.) and the famous Delhi Pillar (of about 800 A.D.).*4 


As for the production of ornaments, military accoutrements and 
other objects of metals, one may refer to Alexander’s historians, who 
testify to the gorgeous dresses and ornaments of the Indian kings 
.and other leaders, and to the powerful and well-organised military 
equipment that was everywhere put in the field against Alexander’s 
forces. Inmanyaplace one gets the impression that but for Alexander’s 
genius as a general on the battlefield, the Greek forces would have met 
more than their match in the Indian forces ranged against them. And 
soon after Alexander’s departure, Candragupta was able to force Seleucus 
to cede the eastern regions of that part of Alexander’s Empire which 
he had inherited. ‘These things would be inconceivable if it is believed 
on the supposed testimony of Megasthenes that Indians in his day had 


very rudimentary ideas about the working of metals and the manufac- 
ture of articles from them. 


As regards the alleged reference to alchemy in the Arthasdstra, it 
should be pointed out that this supposition is based on an erroneous 
interpretation of the word rasa occurring in the text. It is assumed 
that in the expressions rasapdka and rasaviddha, the word rasa means 
mercury or quick-silver.*> But nowhere in the text is that meaning 
for the word acceptable. In 2.12.1 the text refers to three kinds of 
ores, bhiimidhdtu, prastaradhdatu and rasadhatu, the last of which means 
‘liquid ore’. In the next sitra the text then describes the rasah 
kdiicantkah, 1.e., liquid ores containing gold. When, therefore, the 
earlier siitra contains a reference to rasapdka, the latter expression must 
be understood to refer to the smelting of this liquid ore for extracting 
gold from it, just as suvarnapdka in 1.18.8 means the smelting of gold 
ore. Therasadh karcanikah, it is stated, can transmute copper or silver 
when smelted along with them (éamraripyayoh satdd upari veddhdarah). 
But the detailed description of the kdficantkah rasah given in 2.12.2 
can by no stretch of imagination be regarded as a description of 
mercury. It is this process of smelting liquid gold ore with copper or 


38 McCrindle, op. cit., pp. 251-252. 

34 M. Rostovtzeff, The Social and Economic History of the Heltenistic Period 
(Oxford, 1941), II, p. 1218.) 

35 K. Nag, Les Théories diplomatiques etc., p. 117; Jolly, Introduction, pp. 
42-48 ; Winternitz, Geschichte etc., III, p. 523; Keith, Asutosh Memorial Volume, [, 
p.16, 


72 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


silver which produces the rasaviddha type of gold mentioned in 2.13.3. 
That is shown by the use of the same root vyadh as in 2.12.3 and 5. 
In fact, stitra 2.12.5 refers to gold ores from soil or rock (bhimidhatu 
and prastaradhatu) as being also capable of transmuting copper or 
silver. The same root vyadh is used, but there can be no question of 
mercury being thought of in this case. It is, therefore, not true that 
rasa in the Arthagdstra means mercury and that it is acquainted with 
alchemy which involves the use of mercury. The attempt to find an 
Arabian or Greco-Syrian origin for the supposed knowledge of alchemy 
in this text®* must be regarded as misdirected. 


(8) As regards the agronomoi, the officers working on land, Stein 
himself concedes the unreliability of Megasthenes’s testimony when he 
suggests that Megasthenes probably derived the idea from Plato’s 
Laws and when he further argues that Megasthenes, who does not 
mention villages anywhere, probably had seen little of India’s land and 
the method of its management. And considered by itself, his de- 
scription of the rural administration hardly appears likely in Candra- 
gupta’s Empire. But even if it were granted that such a rural admin- 
istration actually prevailed in Candragupta’s Empire, that would 
prove nothing about the Arthaédstra, which does not profess to de- 
' scribe the administrative system prevailing in any particular kingdom. 


(4) Similar remarks would apply to the administrative setup in the 
city described by Megasthenes. If what he says about the six boards 
is accepted as true, it would at most mean that Pataliputra under Can- 
dragupta Maurya was probably administered in that manner. Breloer 
has tried to show that the astynomoi described by Megasthenes were a 
reality in ancient Indian cities. He cites the instance of the city of 
Nysa, which sent an embassy of thirty officers under their leader 
Akuphis to Alexander, according to a statement in Arrian.*”?_ This may, 
for aught we know, have been true of the city of Nysa, which claimed 
to have been founded by Greeks long before Alexander’s days. Per- 
haps similar boards ran the city of Pataliputra, though that appears 
doubtful. But the city administration by the ndgarika in Chapter 
2.86 of the Arthasdastra is not meant to be that of Pataliputra under 
Candragupta, or of any particular city in a particular kingdom. 


(5) As for the six pentads concerned with military administration, 
it is quite true that the Arthasastra does not know such boards. But 
it is more than doubtful if there was really such an exactly parallel 
organisation in military matters as there is supposed to have been in 
civil administration. This is surely a case of that artificial and sche- 


86 Jolly, Introduction, pp. 42-48. 
87 ZDMG, 89 (N.F.14), 1985, pp. 61 ff. 


AUTHOR AND DATE 738 


matised description to which Stein refers. Even Jolly expresses the 
opinion that Megasthenes has probably transferred the organisation 
from the civil to the military.** It appears to be a questionable pro- 
cedure, therefore, to impugn the authenticity of the Arthaéastra on 
_the strength of evidence regarded as doubtful by oneself. Stein had 
laid stress on the importance of the description of the administrative 
machinery in Megasthenes for purposes of comparison. But it is quite 
clear that his description of rural administration and of the military 
organisation can hardly be regarded as based on his personal obser- 
vation ; that would also appear to be true of the city administration. 


(6) If Megasthenes refers to only a few taxes, that may be due to 
the fragmentary character of the information preserved from his work, 
perhaps also due to insufficient observation on his part. But it is not 
very likely that the Empire of Candragupta was sustained on the meagre 
resources mentioned by him. In Candragupta’s reign a vast army 
was mobilised and marched up to the Indus and beyond. According 
to Pliny, the Maurya army that met Seleucus consisted of 600,000 in- 
fantry, 30,000 cavalry, 9,000 elephants and about 8,000 chariots, all 
on daily pay. This would hardly have been possible without material 


resources more powerful and supple than the few taxes mentioned by 
Megasthenes.*® 


It may be pointed out in the end that a vigorous defence of Mega- 
sthenes’s account as to its truthfulness has been made by B. Breloer. 
He has argued, for example, that Megasthenes’s statement about all 
land being owned by the state is quite correct and that this statement 
is corroborated by the Arthaégastra.“° Similarly, he points out that 
Megasthenes’s statement about all Indians being free and there being 
no slaves, if properly understood after bearing in mind the point of view 
of a Greek of the fourth century B.C. looking at Indian conditions of 
the day, must be accepted as true.“4 Again, his statement about there 
being no processes, no witnesses, no seal in the matter of deposits is 
based on facts as it brings out, according to Breloer, the essential dif- 
ference in the matter of making deposits in Greece and in India.4# He 
has also made a valiant attempt to show that the seven classes of Indian 
society mentioned by Megasthenes really reflect the Indian social 
conditions of his day, provided we visualise how these would appear to 
a Greek of that age.4® There appears to be a great deal of validity 


38 Jolly, Introduction, p. 41. 

39 Cf. L. de La Vallee Poussin, Z’Inde aux Temps des Mauryas etc., p. 75. 
40 KSt, I, Das Grundeigentum in Indien. 

41 KSt, II, pp. 1-69. 

3 KSt, II, pp. 7Off. 


ZDMG, 88 (N.F.18), 1984, pp. 180-164 : Megasthenes iiber die indische 
Geselschatt 


74 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


in these and other contentions of Breloer. Nevertheless, it should be 
borne in mind that the statements of Megasthenes have really little 
bearing on the question of the date of the Arthasdstra, since the latter 
does not claim to describe conditions in Candragupta’s kingdom. 


We may now turn to other arguments bearing on this question of 
date. The text, particularly in the Second Book, refers to a number 
of place-names in connection with various products. It is argued 
that many of these regions could not have been known in India so 
early as the fourth century B.C. K. Nag, for example, says, “‘ Every 
serious historian will hesitate to consider as written in the fourth 
century B.C.-a treatise containing names like Harahiira and Kapisa, 
Kamboja and Aratta, Bahlika and Vanayu (Arabia), Tamraparni 
and Pandyakavataka, Suvarnakudya and Suvarnabhimi, Cina and 
Nepala.”4* Of these the most important undoubtedly is Cinabhimi 
mentioned.as the source of silk known as cinapalta in 2.11.114. This 
is naturally looked upon as a reference to China which is well-known 
for its silk since very ancient times. Many Sinologists are of the 
opinion that the name Cina came to be used for that country only after 
the Tsin or Chin dynasty had established its sway over the whole of 
China in the second half of the third century B.C. If that were really 
so, a reference to China would be impossible in a work assigned to the 
fourth century B.C. However, this view about the origin of the 
name is not acceptable to all scholars. It has been pointed out, for 
example, that the derivation of the name China from the feudal state 
of Tsin or Chin, which was first put forth by the Jesuit M. Martini, 
appears unlikely because to the Chinese the Chins were usurpers, theirs 
being an illegal rulership established by force that was very soon replaced 
by the Han dynasty.‘® Moreover, in the Chun Chin period, that is, 
from 722 to 481 B.C. and in the period of the Warring States, that is, 
from 481 to 221 B.C. the state of Chin was a member of the Chinese 
confederation. It came out victorious in the struggle for power among 
the six states ; but the victory proved short-lived, as the Han Empire 
was established very soon thereafter.“* The existence of the state of 
Chin from 722 B.C. is, therefore, notin doubt. Hence, even if the rela- 
tionship between Chin and China be accepted, it would still be possible 
to believe that this relationship was established in the minds of the 
rest of the world long before Chin came to power in the whole of China, 
particularly since the home state of Chin was Shensi in North-West 
China through which contacts with the outside world were mostly 


44 Les Théories diplomatiques etc., p. 118. 
45 See F. E. A. Krause in ZDMG, 85 (N. F. 10), 19381, p. 213. 
46 C. P. Fitzgerald, China (London, 1942), pp. 538-71. 


AUTHOR AND DATE 73 


made.*? Again, it should be noted that the identification of Sanskrit 
Cina with China has also been called in question. K. P. Jayaswal has 
suggested, on the authority of G. Grierson—Linguistic Survey of 
India, Part IV, p. 5—that Cina is rather to be identified with Shina, a 
Gilgit tribe. He points out that Cina in Sanskrit literature is associated 
with Darada, Khasa and other North-Western people and that, there- 
fore, it can hardly be identified with China, which does not lie in that 
region.43 This view, however unorthodox, cannot be lightly set aside. 
Finally, the possibility that the siitra containing the reference to 
Cinabhiimi is a tag added by a later hand cannot also be overlooked.“ 


As regards the other place-names referred to by Nag, there is 
nothing to show that products from those regions could not have come 
to India in the fourth century B.C. Pearls from the south or blankets 
from Nepal must surely have reached North India in that century if 
not much earlier. Harahtra and Kapisa, no doubt, lay beyond the 
North-West frontier of India. But the belief that regions beyond that 
frontier were unknown in India before the invasion of Alexander is 
hardly justified. We have proof of commerce between India and 
Babylonia and between India and Iran long before the fourth century 
B.C.. Sennacherib, the Assyrian king of about 700 B.C., is said to have 
planted, among others, cotton trees, of which he says, “‘ The trees that 
bore wool, they clipped and carded it for garments.” These cotton 
trees came from India.®° As to Iran, it is well-known that part of North- 
Western India was conquered by Darius I about 518 B.C. and incor- 
porated in the Achaemenian Empire to form the twentieth Satrapy. 
An Indian contingent consisting of infantry, cavalry and chariots, 
was included in the army of Xerxes that invaded Greece, as Herodotus 
tells us.51 This Iranian occupation of the region appears to have con- 
tinued during two or three reigns. There is evidence to show that 
even during the still earlier Elamite rule in Iran there was undisturbed 
commerce between the capital Susa and India. For, among the objects 
found there are statuettes, plaques etc. made of ivory and an ape exe- 
cuted in lapis lazuli.5? Besides, it has been shown that “‘ Indian vessels 
were coasting along Gedrosia to Arabia and the Persian Gulf before the 
time of Alexander, for Nearchus got a guide in Gedrosia who knew 
the coast as far as the Gulf of Ormuz; but from those points, Arab 


47 Fora resume of the views of Pelliot, Jacobi, Laufer and others, see K. A. 
Nilakanta Sastri, THQ, XIV (1938), pp. 380-387. 

48 HP, I, p. 212, n. 1. 

49 Cf. P. V. Kane, ABORI, VII (1926), p. 98, n. 29. 

50 J. H. Breasted, The Conquest of Civilization (New York, 1988), p. 172. 

51 A. V. Williams-Jackson in Cambridge History of India, Vol. I, pp. 
384-385. L. de La Vallee Poussin, L’Inde aux Temps des Mauryas etc., p. 18. 

52 See G. G. Cameron, History of Early Iran (Chicago, 1986), p. 208. 


76 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


peoples had a monopoly.’’®? It is, therefore, not at all unreasonable 
_ to suppose that regions beyond the North-Western frontier and their 
products were known in India even before the fourth century B.C. 
And there is no proof for showing that regions with names like Hara- 
hiira, Kapisa, etc. came into being only at a particular time and were 
unknown before that date. 


‘The text uses the word surungd very frequently ; it means ‘a 
subterranean passage, an underground tunnel. (eoin a learned article 


e+ “ye 


4 


ene ihe the word is to be found only in such enaratinels late 
works as the Dasakumdracarita, the Mudrdardksasa, the Harsacarita, 
the ‘Natyagédsira of Bharata and so on. The Greek word syrigz from 
which the Sanskrit word was supposedly derived is found used for the 
first time by Polybius who wrote in 180 B.C. Stein, therefore, concludes 
that a work making such frequent use of the word could not have been 
written so early as the fourth century B.C. In this connection it is to 
be noted that Polybius mentions a city called Sirynx and expressly 
says that it is a nickname. ‘“ It is obviously meant to sound like 
syrigx, which means either a covered gallery or a mine used in attacking 
a town.”’®> That would show that the word syrigx had a much earlier 
origin. Moreover, it is not at all certain that surungd has a Greek 
origin. Breloer regards it as far more likely that it has a Babylonian 
origin, since it was from the Babylonians that ‘ all peoples have learnt 
the art of siege.’®* A non-Sanskritic Indian origin for surugd is 
suggested by F. B. J. Kuiper, who thinks it possible that Khmer run 
in the sense of ‘a hole’ and Santali surun also meaning ‘a hole’ are 
at the basis of the Sanskrit suruzgd. He points out that one must be 
on one’s guard when postulating a linguistic influence from Greece on 
India.*’ A Greek origin for the word surungda can by no means be taken 
for granted. 


It cannot, of course, be denied that Greek influences are to be found 
in India in the sphere of art, astronomy, coinage and so on. But it 
is possible to show that in matters where Greek influence is undeniable, 
the present text shows no trace of that influence. 


The Arthasdstra, for example, is singularly free from Greek influences 
in astronomy and shows knowledge that belongs to a definitely early 
age. It does not refer anywhere to rds or the zodiacal signs and their 

astrological influences, a knowledge of which was clearly derived from 


‘ 


53 W.W. Tarn, The Greeks in Bactria and India (Cambridge, 1988), p. 367. 
54 ZII, III (1924), pp. 280-318 : Lupry& und surunga. 


55 W. W. Tarn, op. cit., p. 15. 
56 Kst, III, p. 252, n. 2. 
57 Acta Orientalia, Vol. XVII (Leiden, 1989), pp. 30-34. 


AUTHOR AND DATE v7 


the Greeks. On the other hand, there is a remarkable agreement be- 
tween what we find in this text and the teaching of the Veddnga Jyotisa 
and that of the Pitamaha and Vasistha Samhitaés as described in 
Varahamihira’s Paicasiddhantika. Its description of a yuga of five 
years with two intercalary months, the five-year cycle beginning with 
the Uttaraéyana on the first day of Magha, is in accordance with what is 
implied in the Vedanga Jyotisa.® It also accords with the teaching of 
Pitamaha in Varaéhamihira. Similarly, its statements about the in- 
crease and decrease in the length of the day agree with what we find in 
the Vasistha Siddhanta in Varahamihira. Now it is well-known that 
these two Samhitas are the earliest among those described by Varaha- 
mihira and are altogether free from Greek influences. 


Similarly, we find no trace of any Greek influence in the manufacture 
of coins as described in this text. Silver and copper coins of various 
denominations are to be manufactured by the laksanddhyaksa, according 
to this text (2.12.24). A characteristic feature of Greek coinage and 
of Indian coinage inspired by the Greek example is the engraving of the 
ruler’s effigy on the coin. To that there is no reference in the text. 
The word laksana in the designation of the mint-master refers to the 
mark made on the coin. Such marks of various types are to be found 
on what are known as punch-marked coins. And it is generally admit- 
ted that punch-marked coins are much earlier than the Greek-inspired 
coins, the Taxila hoard being dated as early as 500 B.C.*® According 
to Pran Nath, coining in the Arthasdasira is the king’s prerogative and 
that this is probably the result of foreign influence. The Arthasdsira, 
no doubt, mentions the minting of coins by the state. But coins manu- 
factured elsewhere are pre-s upposed by rules about different types of 
currency that are to be allowed to circulate provided they conform 
to the specifications laid down by the state (2.12.25, 4.1.44ff.). And 
even assuming that coining is a state monolopy in the Arthasastra, 
that would only be in keeping with the general trend of the teaching 
of this text which thinks of state monopolies in various fields and 
would not necessarily imply any foreign influence. The attempt of 
A. N. Bose to prove a late date for this work is based on the supposition 
that its silver coin is called dharana, its copper coin karsdpana and its 
gold coin suvarna.*! All this is entirely untrue. The silver coin in 
this text is pana, and_the copper coins médsaka and kdkant (2.12.24). 
And it does not mention any gold coin. 


58 See J. F. Fleet, JRAS, 1914, p. 998. 

59 Cf. E. H. C. Walsh, JRAS, 1987, pp. 303-304. 
60 IA, Vol. 60 (19381), p. 128. 

61 Indian Culture, Vol. IV (1987-19388), p. 437. 


78 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


The Arthasdstra is a treatise dealing with politics. In the fourth 
century B.C., the age of Plato and Aristotle, political thought in 
Greece was at its zenith. But contact with the Greeks in Alexander’s 
days and after has had no effect on Indian political thinking. It is 
not possible to point to a single element in Indian political thought, 
whether in the Arthasdstra or later, that can be regarded as due to 
Greek influence. *® 


The Arthasdastra deals with a number of topics which have formed 
the subject-matter of other independent works. Foremost among 
these is the topic of law and suppression of crime. This topic is dealt 
with in the Dharmasastra works at some length, particularly in Smrti 
works beginning with the Manusmrti. It was argued in the first 
chapter that Arthasastra is not likely to have borrowed its material on 
these questions from Dharmasastra works and that, on the other hand, 
it is the Dharmasastra works that are very likely indebted to Arthasas- 
tra for what they say on these topics.** It is necessary to compare the 
contents of the Smrtis on the one hand and those of the Kautiliya 
Arthasastra on the other to find out their mutual chronological relation. 
It will suffice to consider only the Smrtis of Yajnavalkya and Manu in 
this connection. Though Jolly was inclined to think that the Arihasastra. 
is indebted even to the youngest Smrtis, those of Narada, Brhaspati 
and Katyayana, he seems to have impliedly given up that position when 
he expresses himself in favour of a third or fourth century A.D. date 
for this work.* 


The Smrti of Yajnavalkya shows the greatest affinity to the Artha- 
sastra in its chapter on vyavahara. On a large number of topics the 
two works show the same rules which are often found expressed in iden- 
tical words. This is hardly explicable without the hypothesis of 
borrowing on the part of one from the other. And a close comparison 
of the two works leaves little room for doubt that the Smrti cannot be 
regarded as the source on which the Arthasdsira has drawn. For 
example, Yajnavalkya has nothing corresponding to kantakasodhana 
which is treated at length in Book 4 of the 4rthasdstra. But he found 
himself constrained to refer to many of the offences mentioned in that 
Book. What he has therefore done is to include some of them in one 
or the other of his titles of law without caring to consider the appro- 
priateness of that title to the offences so included in it. Thus, he has 
included in sahasa, which involves the use of force, such offences as 
the formation of cartels by traders for raising prices, the wearing of the 


62 Cf. Beni Prasad, The State in Ancient India, pp. 490-491. 

63 -See pp. 12ff. above. 

64 Jolly’s. earlier stand will be found in ZDMG, 67, pp. 49-96 and Introduction, 
p- 17. ° For 8rd century A.D., sec Introduction, p. 29. 


AUTHOR AND DATE 79 


customers’ garments by washermen, cheating in the matter of weights 
and measures by traders, even the laying down of rates of profit for 
traders.*5 Similarly, he has:included in steya or theft such matters as 
the investigation of murder, hitting a person with a weapon, causing 
abortion, murder of the husband by the wife and so on.®* There can 
be little doubt that Yajmavalkya has tried to accommodate as many 
rules of the Arthasdstra as possible in his scheme of the vyavahara- 
padas. It is impossible to believe that the Arthaégastra picked up these 
few rules so inappropriately placed and elaborated from them the 
entire suitably arranged Book on kanfakagodhana. Often Yajnavalkya 
appears to reproduce the words of the Arthasdstra with modifications 
necessitated either by the metrical form of the Smrti or by a desire to 
compress matter as much as possible. For instance, tryanga ‘ three 
limbs’ in Yajnavalkya, 2.297, can only be explained by vamahasta- 
dvipdda ‘ the left hand and the two feet’ of 4.10.14 in our text. The 
latter expression is found in a chapter laying down corporal punish- 
ment for a large variety of offences. For certain offences the penalty 
of the cutting off of the left hand and the two feet is prescribed. Yajiia- 
valkya, referring to only some of those offences, mentions the same pe- 
nalty, but uses the word tryanga, which cannot be understood without 
a reference to the Arthasdsira. As a number of the other rules in the 
chapter are ignored by Yajnavalkya, it is impossible to suppose that 
the latter is the source of that chapter. On the contrary, it is quite 
obvious that it is Yajiavalkya who is the borrower. Similarly, Yajna- 
valkya has compressed kastha-losta-pdsana-loha-danda-rajju-dravyanam 
anyatamena from 3.19.12 of our text into kdsthadibhih in 2.218. It 
can hardly be believed that it is the Arthasdstra which has expanded 
an original kdsthadibhih into its detailed expression. In 2.231 Yajiia- 
valkya reproduces the rule concerning punishment for abetment of 
sdhasa, which we find attributed to the Barhaspatyas in 3.17.11 of our 
text. It is hardly possible to suppose that the rule was originally 
framed by Yajiavalkya and that our author, after borrowing it 
from him, attributed it to an old ArthaSastra school. R. Shamasastry 
has referred to other instances, in some of which Yajnavalkya seems 
to have borrowed without quite comprehending the significance of the 
terms used in the Arthasdstra. Thus, he uses yogya to replace yukta 
which means ‘an officer’, a meaning unlikely for yogya.®? T. Ganapati 
Sastri’s attempts to refute Shamasastry’s arguments and to show 
that it is the Arthagdstra that is the borrower are far from convinc- 


65 Yaj., 2.250, 238, 240, 251-252. 
66 Yaj., 2.280, 277, 279. 


67 Compare TARA AvapAad of Yaj., 2.235 with THAT aac in KA, 
3.20.17. See Shamasastry, English translation, Preface, pp. XVff. 


80 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


ing, based as they are on the supposition that Ydajnavalkya, the 
author of the Smrti, is to be identified with the venerable sage 
Yajiiavalkya, the pupil of Vaisampayana, who is supposed to have 
lived in the Vedic Age.*® It is surprising to find scholars like Jolly 
and Keith, who would have been the first to repudiate any such hoary 
antiquity for Yajiavalkya, accepting as a fact fully demonstrated by 
Ganapati Sastri that the Arthasastra is posterior to Yajnavalkye.® 
It is, of course, possible to argue that though Yajiiavalkya is to 
be regarded as the borrower, his source may well have been some other 
ArthaSastra work. Such a conclusion is regarded as more probable by 
Winternitz.”° But it does not seem very likely that another work more 
or less exactly similar to the Arthasdstra was in existence when the 
Yajravalkyasmrit was composed, but that it has since disappeared, 
leaving the Arthasdstra as the sole survivor of that genre of works. 
The correspondence between the Arthaédstra and Yajiiavalkya in 
wording is too close to allow a third very similar work being thought of. 


If the indebtedness of Yajnavalkya to the Arthaésastra appears to be 
beyond doubt, that of the Manusmrti also can be shown to be no less 
evident. It must, however, be pointed out first that when the Artha- 
Sdastra refers to the school of the Manavas we cannot understand that as 
a reference to the Manusmrti. In three of the five cases where the 
opinions of the Manavas are referred to, namely, in 2.7.11 (punish- 
ment for officers causing loss to the treasury through negligence etc.), 
in 8.11.45 (false witnesses being liable to pay ten times the amount lost 
or gained through their evidence), and in 3.17.8 (fine for forcible seizure 
of gems etc. being equal to their value), there is nothing in the Manu- 
smrtt corresponding to the rules. In the fourth place, 1.2.2-3, the 
Manavas are said to have recommended the study of three vidyds 
enly, treating Anviksiki as only a part of Trayi. The Manusmrti in 
7.48 prescribes the study of all four vidyds just as Kautilya himself 
is said to have done in the present text. Finally, in 1.15.47 the Manavas 
are said to have recommended a mantriparisad with twelve amdatyas. 
The Manusmrti does not mention a mantriparisad, but only says in 
7.54 that the king should appoint seven or eight ministers. There 
can be no doubt that the Manavas mentioned in our text represent 
a school of ArthaSastra, quite unconnected with the Manusmrtt. 


On the other hand, the Manusmrti shows its indebtedness to the 
Arthasastra, for example, in 8.58-56, which enumerate the causes that 
lead to loss of suit. A comparison with the Arthagdstra, 3.1.19, leaves 
hardly any room for doubt that Manu has reproduced the latter’s rules, 


68 Trivandrum edition of the text, Vol. I, pp. 7ff. 
69 Jolly, Introduction, p. 18 ; Keith, Asutosh Memorial Volume, I, p. 18. 


70 Asutosh Memorial Volume, I, pp. 44-48. 


AUTHOR AND DATE $1 


though in his own words. In 8.182-184 Manu describes a stratagem 

to be used by the judge for the recovery of a deposit from one who 

denies having received it. The Arthasdstra in 3.12.88-50 describes half 

a dozen different devices for recovering a deposit from a fraudulent 

depositary. The possibility of the Arthasdstra being the borrower, 

responsible for expanding the single trick of the Manusmrii into six 

is very remote. It is far more likely that the latter contented itself 

with just one trick and that the most simple one in order to avoid 

encumbering itself with too many details. Similarly, the Manusmrti. 
in 9.252-292 refers to the necessity of exterminating the kantakas. 

By the latter it understands two kinds of taskaras or thieves, those who 

move about openly and those who act secretly. Among the ‘ open’ 

thieves are enumerated officers receiving bribes, deceitful artisans, 

gamblers, astrologers, clever prostitutes and so on. As we know, the 

Arthasastra contains a whole Book, the Fourth, dealing with kantaka- 

godhana, which describes offences by many large categories of offenders 

(including the few mentioned in the Manusmrti) and lays down punish- 

ment for them. It is impossible to suppose that the Arthasdstra has 

developed this whole Book from the few slokas in Manu. The same 

applies to Manu 7.201-208 which briefly state how a conquered territory 

should be treated. That appears to be a summary of the Section 

called labdhaprasgamana in the Arthashastra, 13.5. One cannot suppose 

that the latter prakarana is expanded from the three Slokas in Manu, 

who moreover shows his usual slant in favour of Brahmanas when he 

speaks of worshipping Brahmanas where the Arthasdstra speaks of 

honouring vidydvakyadharmasurapurusas in the conquered territory 

(18.5.11). In many cases the Slokas in Manu reproduce the rules of 

the Arthasdstra practically in the same words. Thus Manu 8.242, 

concerning cattle whose strgying on other people’s property does not 

involve a fine, is an echo of the Arthashastra, 8.10.24. So are the defini- 

tions of steya and sdhasa in Manu 8.882 identical with Arthasdstra, 

3.17.1-2. In Manu 7.205 appear statements about acts of divine and 

human agency, which are a summary of Arthasastra, 6.2.7-12, in 
practically the same words. It may also be pointed out that in 7.141 

Manu says that when the king feels tired he should ask the chief min- 
ister (amatyamukhya) to deputise for him and look into the affairs of 
the subjects ; there is no reference to the appointment of judges. But 
in 8.57 he mentions the dharmastha, who is undoubtedly ‘ the judge’ 
as in the Arthagdstra. What is more, in 9.234, he refers to pradvivaka, 
a term unknown to the Arthasdstra, but common in later works in the. 
sense of ‘a judge’. There is little doubt that the Manusmrt: in these - 
chapters is a compilation based on many sources, the Arthasastra being 
the most important among them. 


82 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


Jolly, however, has argued that “the description of politics in 
Kautilya from the fifth adhikarana onwards agrees in terminology 
with Manu, Chapter 7, but shows much more developed. views on. 
prakrtt, upadya, vyasana etc. than Manu, which does not exclude the 
possibility of Manu having used older Nitisastras.”7! It is difficult 
to see what exactly is understood by ‘more developed views’. The 
position is, whereas the Arthasdstra deals with these topics in full detail 
since they are germane to the Sastra,; the Manusmrti is concerned with 
mentioning only the salient features of the teaching of that Sastra. 
Nevertheless, Manu’s statements about the prakrtis cannot be regarded 
as primitive in comparison with what we find in the Arthasasira. In 
7.155-157 he mentions the twelve kings and their dravyaprakrtis, all 
together constituting 72 prakrtis. We have no development beyond 
this in the Arthasdstra, as a reference to 6.2.18-28 will show. In Manu, 
9.294-297, there is a reference to the seven prakrtis, the relative se- 
riousness of their calamities and their relative importance. We have 
a full discussion of this in the Arthasdstra, 8.1, but it cannot be main- 
tained that it shows any ‘more developed views’ as compared with 
Manu. The same is true of the treatment of updyas in the two works. 
The same updyas are mentioned, as also the same six gunas in the two 
works. The difference is in treatment, selective in one case and full 
inthe other. In the case of the vyasanas or vices, it is possible to argue, 
if we were to follow Jolly’s usual method, that it is the Manusmrtz 
that shows more developed views. For, while the Arthasdstra in 8.3 
mentions only seven vyasanas, four springing from lust and three spring- 
ing from anger, the Manusmrti in 7.45-52 mentions no less than cighteen 
vyasanas, ten kamaja and eight kopaja, though it goes on to mention 
the same seven vyasanas as the Arthashastra and to speak of their relative 
seriousness. ‘ Winternitz grants that Manu’s list of vyasanas is ‘ very 
probably an expansion of the shorter list.’"72 He also admits that the 
identification of Anviksiki with Atmavidya in Manu, 7.48, ‘ who thus 
gives to Anviksiki a theological turn’ represents a later stage than 
that of the Arthagdstra.73 It should also be pointed out that the theory 
of the mixed castes in the Arthasdstra is much simpler and may be said 
to be ‘ more primitive’ than that in the Manusmrti, as a comparison 
of 3.7.20-84 with Manu, 10.6-40, will clearly show. The latter refers 
to a large number of so-called mixed communities, of which there is 
no trace in the Arthasdsira. It should thus be obvious that it is the 
Manusmrti that is rather to be regarded as containing ‘ more developed 

views.’ 


71 ZDMG, 68 (1914), p. 355. 
72 Asutosh Memorial Volume, I, p. 38. 
78 Loc. cit., p. 44. 


AUTHOR AND DATE 83 


While admitting the possibility of Manu’s indebtedness to Kau- 
tilya, Winternitz has suggested the alternative possibility of the former 
being indebted to some other Arthasastra work, not the present text. 
Such a possibility in the case of the Manusmrti cannot be altogether 
overlooked. In particular, its reference to some vyihas like vardha, 
garuda and padma in 7.187-188, which are not found in Kautilya, 
and to six durgas in 7.70-72, which are different from the four types 
with two sub-divisions each in our text, would show that Manu had 
some other source before him. Its two-fold division of each of the six 
measures of foreign policy (7.162-168) may also have been derived 
from another source, though it is not unlikely that it is the creation of 
the author of the Manusmrti himself. But even if the existence of 
some other work on this science at the time of the composition of the 
Manusmrti be admitted, the points of close agreement between this 
Smrti and the present text referred to above cannot be ignored. That 
the Manusmrti derived its material from more than one source in 
this respect is quite conceivable. The Kautiliya Arthasdstra had 
probably not brought about a complete eclipse of other works cn the 
science by that time. 


It may, therefore, be safely concluded that the Arthasasira cannot 
be regarded as indebted to the Smrtis of Manu and Yajnavalkya and 
hence posterior to them in date. On the contrary, it seems extremely 
probable that these Smrtis knew and utilised this text of the Artha- 
$astra and are therefore later in date than this work.”® 


Another Ssastra which has points of contact with the Arthasastra 
is the Silpagastra. In a series of articles O. Stein has compared the 
Arthasdstra rules about the building of the fort and the palace, about 
the layout of the city and so on with the teaching of the Silpasastra as 
found in works like the Mayamata, the Mdnasdra, the Samardngana- 
sitradhara and others, which belong mostly to the medieval period.”* 
His general conclusion appears to have been that the Arthasastra is 
in point of time nearer these Silpasastra works if not even later than 
these. 


He points out, for instance, that it is the Devipurdna which, in 
Chapter 72, shows the closest affinity to our text in point of the number 
of forts and their nomenclature. He thinks that the source of that 
Purana was a metrical text and concludes that there was a connection 
between the Arthasdstra and this metrical source.” As a matter of 


74 Loc. cit., pp. 47-48. | 

75 Cf. P. V. Kane, ABORI, VII (1926), pp. 91-93. 

76 AOr, VII (1985), pp: 487-487 ; VIII (1986), pp. 69-90, 384-856 ; and X 
(1988), pp. 168-209. 

77 <AOr, VII, p. 480. 


84 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


fact we know nothing about this supposed metrical source and it is 
hazardous to make any assertion about the relation between the Artha- 
$astra and this alleged source of the Purana. Considering the fact that 
this minor Purana is not likely to be very old, it seems far more likely 
that its section on the forts is derived from the Arthasdstra itself. 
Further, comparing the details of the building of the fort in the Artha- 
sastra and those in the Samardnganasttradhadra, Stein concludes that 
only the latter shows a coherent description of the entire structure. 
It is true that some of the details in the description in Chapter 2.3 of 
our text are not quite clear. But it is hardly possible to say that the 
description is incoherent in the sense that it contains unrelated matter 
or contradictory statements. The Samardnganasitradhdra appears 
easy to understand because of the diffuseness of its style and its en- 
deavour to define most of the technical terms used. Stein remarks 
that the material of Kautilya’s Chapter was not unknown and was 
treated in the medieval and modern Indian texts and goes on to add, 
‘In the literature of ancient India, nothing of the kind has been dis- 
covered till now.’ The implication that the Arthasdstra must, there- 
fore, be assigned to the same age as these Silpasastra texts can hardly 
be accepted. Because no earlier works on the Silpagastra have come 
down to us we cannot necessarily assume that no such works existed. 
Even if it be assumed, however, that when the Arthasdstra was written 
there were no regular manuals dealing with the building of a fort, one 
may still suppose that the author could have collected material for this 
Chapter by consulting experts in the field. Unless it can be proved 
that the building of a fort was itself an activity unknown in ancient 
times, one would hardly be justified in assuming that no author, how- 
ever intelligent, could have gathered relevant information from those 
engaged in that type of work. And forts, we know, are referred to 
by Alexander’s historians. We read in Arrian how Alexander scaled 
the walls of the Malloi, stood there alone for a time and leapt inside the 
citadel, how he was sériously wounded and was on the point of death.’° 
Stein remarks in another place, “‘ It is noteworthy that the Arthagdastra 
stands nearer to the Silpagastra than to the DharmaSastra in the num- 
ber and nomenclature of fortresses, deviating also from Kamandaka’s 
Nitisadra.”®° He obviously wants us to believe that the Arthasastra must, 
therefore, be regarded as later than the DharmaSastra works, perhaps 
also later than the Nitisdra. The latter suggestion is so manifestly 
wrong that it raises doubts about the whole method of comparison of 
texts in this manner. The supposition that there has been an evolution 


78 AOr, VII, p. 487. 
79 McCrindle, Invasion of India by Alexander the Great, pp. 145ff. 
80 AOr, X, p. 205. 


AUTHOR AND DATE 85 


of ideas in this matter and that the fewer the types of forts mentioned 
in a work the earlier it must be assumed to be in date has no basis in 
ascertainable facts. 


The Silpasadstra contains only a few details about the layout of 
the fortified capital, whereas the Arthasdstra describes it at length in 
Chapter 2.4. The latter refers to the vdstuhrdaya ‘ the centre of the 
building area of the city’ and states that the king’s palace should- 
be built in the ninth part (navabhdge) to the north of this centre (2.4.7). 
According to Stein the vdstuhrdaya is the same as the brahma of the 
Silpasastra, which is at the centre of the paramagdyika plan of eighty- 
one padas or squares.*! That is possible, since the commentators too 
give that explanation. It should be pointed out, however, that this 
plan is not directly mentioned in the text. What is more, the parama- 
Sdyika plan refers to the ground-plan of a building, not to the entire 
city area.®* But even in the description of the building of the king’s 
palace in Chapter 1.19 there is no mention of any plan with eighty-one 
squares. The differences between the SilpaSastra and the Arthaédstra 
are so great in this respect that we would be justified in assuming two 
different traditions. And it is the tradition of the Arthasdstra that 
has to be regarded as earlier because the other tradition is found in 
admittedly modern works. 


Stein regards as noteworthy the fact that ‘temples of Hinduistic 
gods and goddesses are to be built in the fortified town.’ For, he 
says, there is some agreement between the Silpagastra and the Artha- 
sdstra concerning the function of these gods in protecting the town. 
But this, according to him, means that we have hete ‘ agreement with 
the religious views of comparatively late texts."®* ‘The supposition 
that the idea of tutelary deities for villages and towns is late in origin 
is hardly justified. That is probably one of the most ancient ideas, to 
be found everywhere in antiquity, though there are few literary re- 
ferences to it in Brahmanical literature! Besides, the deities mentioned 
in the Arthagdstra in this connection, Siva, Vaisravana, ASvins, Sri, 
Madiri3 (2.4.17) are unknown to the Silpagastra. It is to be noted 
that Siva and Vaisravana are mentioned in a devatddvandva compound 
by Patanjali on Panini, 6.3.26, suggesting an early date for them. 
The ASvins are well-known Vedic deities, whose worship in later times 
is not known. Clearly the tradition of the Arthasdstra must be re- 
garded as much earlier than that of the Silpasastra and not contem- 
poraneous with it. 


81 AOr, VIII, p. 80. 
82 Cf. TaTeAAT TS aah freq TTA | 
USA AAPAT ATSTRSTAT II SOR 15.9. 


88 AOr, VIII, p. 887. 


86 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


Again, most of the details about the building of the palace which 
we find in the Silpasastra are entirely different from those in the 
Arthasastra. One cannot explain away the differences by supposing, 
as Stein does, that the Arthasdstra has a specific point of view, namely, 
the protection of the king and his welfare.* Such a point of view can 
hardly be supposed to be absent in the case of palaces even in the Silpa- 
§astra. We have to assume that the differences are due to the fact 
that the two are unrelated to each other and are based on two different 
traditions, one earlier and the other later. 


The same conclusions would follow in the case of all other Sastras 
too. As already pointed out, this text does not refer to alchemy and 
it is therefore not possible to establish any relation between it and such 
texts as the Rasaratndkara of Nagarjuna, the Rasdrnava, the Rasa- 
samuccaya and others. These works do not know the metal vaikrntaka, 
but refer to vatkrdnta in the sense of a precious stone which can be used 
as a substitute for diamond and which is said to yield an excellent 
rasayana. On the other hand, the metals vanga and pittala are not 
known to this text by these names. The liquid ore of gold described 
at length in this text is unknown to these later works. All this shows 
that the Arthasdstra cannot be regarded as een on or contem- 
poraneous with them. 


Similarly, the knowledge of gems revealed in this text is different 
from what is found in such later works as the Brhatsamhita, the Yuktt- 
kalpataru, the Mdnasolldsa and others. The Brhatsamhita, for example, 
mentions eight places of origin of the diamond, namely, Venatata, 
Kosala, Surastra, Surparaka, Himavat, Matanga, Kalinga and Pundra.* 
Our text knows none of these. In 2.11.87 it refers to six altogether 
different places of origin, Sabharastra, Tajjamarastra and others. The 
Yuktikalpataru and other works agree almost entirely with the Brhatsam- 
hita. There can be no question of the Arthasdstra being dependent on or 
contemporaneous with these works. Again, the Brhatsamhitd in 81.2 
enumerates eight places from which pearls come; but only three of 
these, namely, Tamraparni, Pandyavataka and Haima are found among 
the ten places of origin of pearls mentioned in the Arthasdstra in 2.11.2. 
Stein concedes that it would be quite unsatisfactory to deduce mecha- 
nically that the longer list in the Arthagdstra is a sign of a later date. 
But he adds that some places of origin, particularly those from the south, 
could not have been so intimately known at so early a period as the 
reign of Candragupta.*? But certainly trade communications with 


84 AOr, X, pp. 178-179. 

85 For these works, see B. N. Scal, History of Indian Chemistry, Vols. I and II. 
86 Brhatsamhitd, 80.6-7. 

87 IHQ, IV (1928), pp. 781-782. 


AUTHOR AND DATE 87 


the south must be assumed to have existed long before that reign. A 
Northerner could, at that time, have been well acquainted with pearls 
coming from different regions of the south, his knowledge being derived 
from traders. What is true of diamonds and pearls is equally true of 
other precious stones, the ruby, the emerald and so on. What the 
Arthasastra says on ratnas is materially different from what we find in 
the other works. Its knowledge, which represents a different tradition, 
must therefore be assumed to belong to an earlier age. 


In Chapters 2.18 and 2.14 of the Arthagdstra we have many details 
about the art of the goldsmith and the jeweller, to which there is hardly 
anything corresponding in any other work. We cannot suppose that 
the art of making gold ornaments and jewellery was unknown in the 
days of Candragupta, when Alexander’s historians frequently refer to 
the gorgeous ornaments of Indian kings and other dignitaries. In 
the absence of a factual knowledge of the state of the various arts in 
the different periods of ancient Indian history it is hazardous to base 
any chronological conclusions on conditions revealed in a work. 


Investigation in other fields of study yields the same result. We 
have in the Arthasdstra, in Chapter 2.18, a very detailed classification 
of weapons. Descriptions of weapons in such works as the Yuktikalpa- 
taru of Bhoja or the Nitiprakasikd of Vaisampayana show little or no 
affinity with the contents of this Chapter.*® It mentions a large number 
of yantras, of which there is no trace in the other works. On the other 
hand, it is unaware of the fourfold classification of weapons found in 
those works, namely, mukta, amukta, muktamukta and mantramukta. 
Only a few names, like Sakti, prdsa, dhanus, asi etc. are inevitably found 
in all works. But the differences are so great that we must suppose 
that the material in the Arthasdstra represents a different tradition 
altogether. And we certainly cannot regard that tradition as being 
later than the age of Bhoja or VaiSampayana. 


The Arthasdstra contains many details about the care, the bringing 
up and the training of horses and elephants. This is a subject dealt 
with at great length in medieval texts, which claim to be based on 
the teaching of the founders of the ASvasastra and the Hastisastra, 
namely, Salihotra or Nakula and Palakapya respectively. A compa- 
rison with these works again shows that the Arthasdsira is based on 
different traditions. For example, the Asvactkitsita of Nakula mentions 
Tajika, Kharasana, Kekana, Sindhupara and so on as types of horses 
in accordance with the place of their origin. The Aévavaidyaka of 
Jayadatta Siri refers to Tajika, Parasika, Turuska-jata, SindhudeSod- 


88 Yuktikalpataru, élokas 1127-1476 ; Nitiprakaéikd, Chapters 4 and 5. 


88 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


bhava etc. as types of horses.*® Of these, the Arthasdstra knows only 
the horses from Sindhu, but refers to other types Kambojaka, Arattaja, 
Vanayuja, Bahlika etc. (2.80.29) of which there is no trace in the me- 
dieval works. Again, the Asvavaidyaka mentions four hastas (i.e., 96 
angulas), three and a half hastas (i.e., 84 angulas) and 76 angulas as the 
heights of the best, the middling and the lowest types of horses re- 
spectively. The Arthasdstra, on the other hand, mentions only 80, 
68 and 56 angulas as the heights of these three types.°° The medieval 
works assign the four varnas to horses, Brahmana, Ksatriya, Vaisya 
and Siidra.%! Of this classification the Arthasdstra knows nothing. 
There are similar divergences in the matter of the dhdrds or gaits of 
horses, food suitable for horses and so on. Clearly, the Arthasdstra 
shows a different tradition in the matter of horse-lore. 


The same is true of what it says about elephants. Later texts 
refer to the origin of elephants from Brahman, Prajapati, Indra and 
so on, or from the eight quarter-elephants (diggajas). They also 
classify elephants as deva, gandharva, vipra, ksatra etc., according to 
their sativa.** The Arthasdsira has nothing corresponding to this. 
There is only some agreement about the places of origin of the best, 
the middling and the lowest kinds of elephants.** But the ways of 
catching elephants described in the Manasolldsa and elsewhere are 
not to be found in our text, just as, on the other hand, those works 
have nothing in common with the description of the training of elephants 
found in the Arthasdastra.** 


It will thus be clear that in the matter of all these sciences, arts 
and crafts, the Arthasdstra represents a different tradition altogether. 
It is therefore impossible to maintain that it belongs to the same age 
as these medieval works on those topics. 


Stein has made a detailed study of the contents of the sdsanddhi- 
kara (Chapter 2.10) in our work with a view to find what chronological 
relation it might reveal to works on the branches of learning of which 
that Chapter shows a knowledge.** This is of special importance since 
it is claimed at the end of that Chapter that it was composed by Kautilya 
for the sake of kings (Kautilyena narendrarthe Sasanasya vidhih krtah, 
2.10.68). Stein rightly points out that the Chapter deals not only 
with the writing of decrees, but with lekha, i.e., writing in general. 
But that can hardly be considered irrelevant. A discussion of the art 


89 Asvavaidyaka, ed. Umesh Chandra Gupta (Calcutta, 1886), 6.2-17. 

90 Loc. cit., 8.188-4 and KA, 2.80.14-15. 

91 Asvavaidyaka, 7.4-5. 

92 Cf. Mdnasollasa, 2.226-281 ; Yuktikalpataru, élokas 1659ff. 

98 Mdanasollasa, 2.178-179 and KA, 2.2.15-16. 

94 See Manasolldsa, 2.186-220 and cf. KA, 2.82.1-9. 

95 ZII, VI (1928), pp. 45-71: ‘ Versuch einer Analyse des Sdsanddhikéara ’. 


AUTHOR AND DATE 89 


of writing and composition is certainly not out of place when the 
question of the writing of royal decrees is being considered. Stein 
thinks that the lekhasampad described in 2.10.6-12 and the lekhadosas 
mentioned in 2.10,57-62 are derived from Alamkarasastra, implying 
that the description belongs to a late period. It may be pointed out, 
however, that no extant work on Alamkarasastra mentions the six- 
fold lekha-sampad, though some of the excellences described here 
are recognised as gunas since very early times. Similarly, akanti 
and samplava as lekhadosas are unknown to the AlamkaraSastra. The 
Arthasastra obviously represents more primitive ideas on this question. 
Stein has also expressed the opinion that the grammatical definitions 
found in 2.10.18-21 are unrelated to the preceding or the following 
passages, that these definitions are primitive and naive and are only 
‘a learned ballast’ taken from somewhere else. The definitions, 
however, are not so unrelated as Stein thinks. In the preceding siitras 
we have a description of the lekhasampad, and in that connection the 
terms pada, aksara, Sabda etc. are used. It is in order to explain these 
terms that varna and pada are described and the parts of speech defined. 
In a discussion on writing and composition, a reference to grammar 
can hardly be regarded as irrelevant. Stein admits that the parts of 
speech defined in this text are those mentioned in the Pratiéakhyas 
and the Nirukta, not those in Panini, and that this represents pre- 
Paninian knowledge. He, however, hastens to add that “a corre- 
sponding choronological deduction can hardly be made.” Similarly, he 
recognises that the thirteen purposes, nindd, prasamsd, prechd etc., for 
which a written document is usually prepared according to 2.10.28-87, 
are old, being found partly in the Brhaddevatd and the Nirukta. 
But again he adds, ‘“‘ that the use of this scheme for documents was 
made in the days of the Brhaddevatd and the Nirukta is contrary to all 
we know.” But there is nothing profound about ‘the scheme’ of 
thirteen purposes. One or the other of these is bound to be present in 
any communication from one person to another whether it is oral or 
written. Any careful student of written communications could easily 
prepare the list for himself. And as Bihler long ago pointed out, 
writing in India is at least as old as the eighth century B.C. 


Stein also argues that the word zévara as used in this Chapter has 
the sense of ‘ an independent high officer’, that the word is not found 
used in this sense elsewhere in the text and that it is so used for the 
first time in an inscription of the second century A.D. This, according 
to him, would make an early date for our work unlikely. However, it 
should be pointed out that the word zévara, which occurs twice in this 


96 Cf. P. V. Kane, ABORI, VII (1986), p. 97. 


90 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


Chapter, seems to mean ‘a ruler’, not merely an officer. In sitra 4, 
it is required: that the vaméa of the tévara should be mentioned, while 
in the case of one who is not an 7évara, there is to be no mention of 
vaméa.®? The reference to vaméa or dynasty is possible in the case of 
a ruler, not in the case of an officer, however high he may be. In 
sutra 46, 7évara is mentioned along with adhikrta.*® This latter word 
refers to ‘ the officers appointed ’, and hence zévara must refer to some 
other persons, such as rulers like the sdmantas, neighbouring princes 
or vassals. Moreover, this meaning of ‘a ruler’ for 7évara is found in 
Patanijali in the second century B.C.* 


Stein further regards the treatment of the four updyas in this Section 
(stras 47-58) as extraordinary,. since according to him that belongs 
exclusively to the province of Niti. And he goes on to argue that these 
sutras on the updyas “‘ could not have been the source of Kamandaka, 
“not even of Somadeva ”’, and concludes that “this piece on updyas is 
the work of a redactor who has used works on Niti.’”’ This appears 
rather strange reasoning. It is not easy to see why a reference to the 
four updyas should be considered irrelevant in a discussion of documents 
issued from royal courts. Besides, there is no reason to suppose that 
Kamandaka or Somadeva relied only on this Section for their definitions 
of the four uwpdyas, when they could have found a discussion of these 
in this work in a context more suitable for their purpose, as in 9.5.9ff. 
and elsewhere. Again, the assumption that Niti was exclusively con- 
cerned with foreign policy, which involves the use of the four updyas, 
is hardly justified. The other implication of Stein’s conclusion, that 
these sutras are later in date than even the Nitzvdkydmrta of Somadeva, 
illustrates how scepticism can be carried too far. When he suggests 
that works on Niti formed the source of this Chapter, he is of course 
partly right, for sarvasdstradni anukramya would include Nitisastra as 
well. But the assumption that Niti works came into being for the first 
time only with the composition of the Nitisdra of Kamandaka and the 
Nitivakyamrta of Somadeva cannot be accepted as correct. 


Another assumption of Stein that the definitions of royal documents 
given in 2.10.39-46 of our work are derived from the Smrtis is based on 
the erroneous belief that the Smrtis of Yajnavalkya, Brhaspati and 
Katyayana, in which alone a few such definitions are found, are original 
treatises on the subjects with which they deal. As we have seen the 
Smrtis are compilations based on earlier works on Dharmagastra and 
Arthasastra ; and in many cases, these Smrtis seem to be indebted to 


97 2ARATATATAAAT ATA SAAT AAT ATA aCeT | «KA, 2.10.4. 
98 WACAUeaaadied Wo CalTHret WaHTATE | KA, 2.10.46. 
99 AACA ATM IA AT THAT: Tofed | Patasjali on Panini, 1.1.46. 


AUTHOR AND DATE 91 


the present Arthasdstra itself.1° ‘The idea that there has been only a 
gradual evolution of different kinds of documents, on the strength of 
which chronological conclusions could be safely drawn, is not borne 
out by facts. The absence of any discussion on documentary evidence 
in the Manusmrti, for example, does not mean that documents were 
non-existent in the days of that Smrti. 


Stein asserts that the Arthusdstra cannot claim a higher antiquity 
than those sciences which this Chapter presupposes, viz., stylistics, Niti 
and writing. That is true. But Niti and writing are certainly very 
old. What stylistics there is in this work is very primitive and cer- 
tainly cannot be brought into relation with the AlamkéaraSastra as 
it developed in later times. In fact, there is nothing in this Chapter 
which can be said to be definitely indicative of a later date. 


It is sometimes argued that the recommendation in the Arthagastra 
about the use of the Sanskrit language for the writing of royal decrees 
is an indication of a later date for the work, since it was the Prakrits 
that were in use for the purpose in the earlier days as evidenced by 
ASoka’s inscriptions and the practice of the Saétavahanas.2®! Such 
reasoning assumes that the Prakrits have been in use in all the kingdoms 
of ancient India and that Sanskrit was not used in ancient days at any 
court for purposes of communication. There does not appear to be any 
basis for such an assumption. Sanskrit certainly existed before the 
Prakrits came into being, and its use must have long preceded that of 
the Prakrits. This must be assumed to have been the case particularly 
when learning of any sort was in question. For, Sanskrit, it is admit- 
ted, has been the language of learning. Now the men in charge of 
administration in most states in the ancient days were expected to 
be and were often in actual fact learned men, the purohitas and the 
mantrins being mostly Brahmins. It is natural that these men should 
have had recourse to Sanskrit for most purposes at the court. It 
should be pointed out that all law as it has come down to us is couched 
in Sanskrit. This would be difficult to understand if it were assumed 
that royal courts eschewed the use of Sanskrit in their dealings with 
their subjects. For, law impinges on the life of the subjects in every 
sphere. It was only when kings like Asoka thought of addressing the 
people directly that they made use of the popular dialects. In that Asoka 
probably followed the example of the Buddha. But that does not mean 
at all that Sanskrit was not in use at any court before his days. It is 
wrong to suppose that Sanskrit was restricted to priestly circles onlyv.?% 


100 See pp. 12ff. and 78ff. above. 


101 H.C. Raychaudhuri, The Age of Imperial Unity (Bombay, 1951), pp. 285-287 
and in other works. : 


102 For a refutation of a similar view, see H. Jacobi, IA, 1924, pp. 188-186. 


92 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


E. H. Johnston has made a comparison of the works of Asvaghosa 
with the Arthasdastra to see what light it throws on the question of the 
date of the latter. Both the Buddhacarita and the Saundarananda 
contain a detailed description of an ideal king. Johnston remarks 
that there is a fundamental difference between “‘ the standpoint of the 
Arthaédstra on the one hand and that of the DharmasSastra including 
the Mahabharata on the other,” and adds that “‘ ASvaghosa’s ideas are 
within the limits of the DharmaSastra as popularly expounded in the 
Mahabharata.” He explains the difference in this way: ‘‘ According 
to the DharmaSastra, the institution of kingship exists for the main- . 
tenance of order and the preservation of the structure of society.: 
The Arthasastra, no doubt, pays lip service to this ideal, but the es-. 
sential doctrine underlying the entire work is that a king’s sole pre-- 
occupation is with his own self-aggrandizement and that in its pursuit 
he should be restrained by no considerations except those of enlightened 
self-interest. The originality of the Arthagdstra lies, in my view, not 
in the conception of this principle which was probably already in the 
air, but in the relentless logic with which all its implications are worked 
out,’’198 


All this shows the usual misunderstanding about the origin and 
nature of this Saéstra and of the relation of Dharmasastra to it. It 
has been already pointed out that politics and administration do not, 
in their origin, belong to the sphere of Dharmasastra and that they 
are the special province of works on NitiSastra or ArthaSastra.'°* 
What the Dharmasastra works and the Mahdbharata say on these 
questions is all derived from Nitisastra, as is clear from the fact that 
the Mahabharata refers to numerous Niti works and many teachers 
of this science. . DharmaSastra works are eclectic in character, 
whereas the Arthasdstra treats all topics fully and in a scientific 
manner. Even so, there is no essential difference in the standpoint 
of the two Sastras. It is quite unjust to say that the Arthasasira 
pays only lip service to the ideal of the protection of the subjects and 
the maintenance of the social order. Its ideal of a ruler is that he 
should be trained in the various sciences (vidydvinitah), he should 
have control over his senses (indriyajaya), he should listen to what 
elders say (vrddhasamyoga), he should possess excellences enumerated 
at length in 6.1.8-6 and so on. He is asked to protect the subjects 
according to dharma (8.1.41), for it is said that if dharma is allowed 
to be overpowered by adharma, it destroys the ruler (8.16.42). In 
the happiness of the subjects, it is stated, lies the happiness of the 
king, in their good his own good (1.19.84). It is laid down that the 


108 JRAS, 1929, pp. 77-81. 
104 See pp. 18ff. above. 


AUTHOR AND DATE 98 


king should show favour to those, whose tax-exemptions have ceased, 
like a father (2.1.18). Punishment is laid down for officers who are 
responsible for extortion from the subjects (2.9.15-16). Goods, it is 
said, should be sold in such a way that subjects do not suffer (2.16.5, 
4.2.85). The whole of Book Four, again, is concerned with the pro- 
tection of the subjects from the activities of anti-social elements. It 
also describes measures for their protection in the event of natural 
calamities like floods, fire, epidemics etc. (4.3). And even in conquered 
territories the king is asked to maintain the social order based on 
varnas and agramas (vibhaktavarnagramam, 18.4.62). It is impossible to 
believe that all this is merely lip service to the ideal of protection of 
the subjects and the maintenance of the social order. The Dharma- 
§astra works and the Mahabharata do not teach anything different 
from this. As a matter of fact, they do not go into many of these 
details at all. The statement that Asvaghosa’s ideas are within the 
limits of DharmaSastra and different from those of the Arthasdstra has, 
therefore, little meaning. 


When Johnston refers to ‘a king’s pre-occupation with his own 
self-aggrandizement’ as the essential doctrine underlying the Artha- 
sdstra, he fails to distinguish between a ruler’s attitude towards his 
own subjects and his attitude towards foreign states. It is not possible 
to maintain that the text visualises a policy of personal aggrandizement 
by the ruler at the cost of his subjects. Throughout, it insists on 
the ruler following a policy of benevolent paternalism towards the 
subjects. When it recommends extra levies on the subjects (Chapter 
5.1), it does so only in emergencies (pratyutpannarthakrcchrah, 5.1.1). 
When it describes secret ways of getting rid of traitors (5.2), it expressly 
adds at the end that the tricks recommended are to be used only against 
traitors and unrighteous men and not against others (evam dusyesu 
adharmikesu ca varteta netaresu, 5.2.69). The so-called policy of self- 
aggrandizement may appear to be recommended in the sections dealing 
with the foreign relations of the state. There is no doubt that the 
text requires that in all dealings with foreign states, the self-interest 
of the state must be regarded as supreme. But that surely is a policy 
that has been pursued by all states everywhere and at alltimes. And 
no exception can be taken to it on moral grounds, so long as no single 
state even to-day is prepared to forgo what it regards as its self-interest 
for any moral consideration. And the Dharmasastra in no way differs 
from the Arthasastra when it discusses the question of relations with for- 
eignstates. The Manusmrtt, for example, refers to the same four upayas, 
the same six gumas; it does not hesitate to recommend that the king 
should act like the heron or like the wolf (bakavac cintayed arthan... 
vrkavac cdvalumpeta, 7.106) or that he should so manage that his ally 


94 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


or foe or the neutral king does not get the better of him (sarvopdyais 
tatha kurydn nitijnah prthivipatih | yathasyabhyadhika na syur mitro- 
dasinasatravah, 7.177). And it must be remembered that self-ag- 
grandizement cannot imply the personal aggrandizement of the king. 
He is, in this connection, identified with the state, and his self-interest 
is the interest of his state. | 

It is also difficult to agree with Johnston that this doctrine of self- 
aggrandizement was only ‘in the air’ before Kautilya and that it is 
he who has worked out its implications with relentless logic. The 
Sastra is older than Kautilya and all its principal tenets were already 
formulated before his days. It is some of his predecessors who appear 
to have been responsible for extreme views, Kautilya himself generally 
recommending moderation and holding a balanced view. When Bharad- 
vaja recommends a policy of unscrupulous self-seeking to the chief 
minister, Kautilya differs from him, and one of the grounds on which 
he differs is that the policy is immoral (adharmistham, 5.6.32). This 
also shows how Johnston is not justified in arguing that if ASvaghosa 
had been acquainted with the Arthasdstra, he would have stressed the 
immorality inherent in kingship according to it when in the Buddha- 
carita he has to deal with the disadvantages of kingship. It is not 
true that immorality is inherent in kingship according to the Artha- 
sastra. That is only the modern moralist’s rather biassed impression 
of the teaching of this Sastra. 


Johnston also refers to the fact that Asvaghosa does not know the 
substantive vijigisu, but only the adjectival jigisan (Saundarananda, 
16.85), and jigtsu (op. cit., 17.56). The implication that the term 
vijigisu is an innovation of the Arthasdstra is hardly acceptable. The 
theory of the rajamandala, of which the central figure is the vizgisu, 
is certainly very old and cannot be regarded as an invention of the 
author of the present work. The forms used in the Saundarananda 
seem to be due to the exigencies of metre; they may also be due to 
the poet’s desire to coin new expressions. Similarly, when in Saundara- 
nanda, 2.45, the expression aéakyasakyasdmanta occurs, Johnston 
remarks, “It is.clear that ASvaghosa was playing on an expression 
current in the politics of his time, though its use need not have been 
confined to the school of Kautilya.” This is a roundabout and rather 
halting recognition of the fact that there was political thought before 
the days of Kautilya. But the implication that different schools of 
ArthaSastra differed significantly in their terminology is hardly accept- 
able. The expression sakyasdmania occurs in 6.1.3,8 and was obviously 
the common property of this Sastra. 

’ In the Saundarananda, 2.29, occurs the term rdtrisattra, which is 
found in the Arthasastra in 8.4.41, and nowhere else in language so far 


AUTHOR AND DATE 95 


as is known. Johnston thinks that it is a neologism which failed to 
hold its place in classical language. From this he concludes that no 
great interval of time separates the Arthasastra from Asvaghosa, only 
the former is later in date. It must be pointed out, however, that 
the expression is not used in the same sense in the two works. Whereas 
in Asvaghosa’s poem, it seems to mean ‘a nocturnal assembly of 
robbers,”2°5 in the Arthashastra the expression means either ‘night 
(rdtri) and a difficult place where people are waylaid (satira)’ as the 
commentators understand it or ‘an occasion for waylaying, namely, 
the night.’ The Arthasdstra frequently uses sativa in the sense of ‘a 
place or occasion for ambush or waylaying.’ Such places and occasions 
are enumerated in 10.38.24, rdtri or night being one of them. The 
expression rdtrisatira, therefore, occurs in this text most naturally, and 
there can be no question of the author having borrowed it from any 
poem like the Saundarananda. 


The Buddhacarita in 9.45 speaks of the king’s functions as relying 
principally on danda or punishment (dandapradhanah kva ca raja- 
dharmah). This, according to Johnston, refers ‘ to the many passages 
in the Dharmasastras eulogising danda as the supreme duty of a king.’ 
The implication that this is a special doctrine of the Dharmasastra 
and that the Arthasastra is not concerned with it can hardly be taken 
seriously. It is clear that the attempt to show that this Sastra is 
later in date than Asvaghosa must be regarded as quite unsuccessful. 
On the contrary, it appears extremely likely that Asvaghosa knew 
not only this sastra, but possibly also the present work on it. 

Other Sanskrit works, too, have been considered as having a 
bearing on the date of the Arthasdsira. One such is the Kamasutra of 
Vatsyayana, which clearly shows a close acquaintance with this work. 
R. G. Bhandarkar had referred to this fact and on the basis of Vatsya- 
yana’s likely date, namely, a century after Kuntala Satakarni to whom 
he refers, he suggested the first or the second century A.D. as the 
earliest date to which Kautilya can be referred.1% Jolly has made 
a more detailed comparison of Vatsyaéyana’s work with the Artha- 
Sdstra and arrived at the conclusion, mainly on grounds of similarities 
in style and language, that ‘‘no long interval of time can have passed 
between the composition of two such cognate productions.” Fixing 
then the date of the Kdmasiira as the fourth century A.D. he 
concludes that Kautilya could not have been more than a century 
earlier at the most, that is, the Arthagdstra is to be placed in the third — 


105 STSqr avedleal A UWharaartatatd | Saundarananda, 2.29. See J. Char- 
pentier, JRAS, 1984, pp. 113-114. 
106 Proceedings of the 1st Oriental Conference (Poona, 1919), pp. 24-25, and n. 


96 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


century A.D. at the earliest.°’ It is not necessary to go into the 
question of the date of Vatsyayana. Whatever his date it will not 
have a direct bearing on the date of the Arthaédstra. For, there is 
no fixed criterion for determining the interval of time separating an 
original work and another modelled on it. So far as language is con- 
cerned, it is well-known that Sanskrit has remained more or less static 
over all these centuries, and it is difficult to periodize its literature 
on the strength of any growth of language reflected in it. As regards 
style, if a person has consciously modelled his work on that of some 
predecessor, he may be supposed to be able to doso whatever the length 
of time that separates him from his model. Even after the lapse of 
many centuries it is not difficult even today to imitate the style of 
any Sanskrit author. And there can be no doubt that Vatsyaéyana 
had delikerately placed the Arthasdstra as the model before him. 


Similar considerations would apply to the Dasakumdaracarita, the 
Mudrdardksasa and other works, which show a definite acquaintance 
with this work. Jacobi had already shown how Jolly’s attempt to 
prove the contemporaneity of the Daéakumdracarita and the Artha- 
$dastra-on the strength of iddnim understood as ‘now’ and ‘Maurya’ 
understood as ‘a king’ (in Dandin’s idénim Mauryarthe ... samksipta) 
is based on a faulty rendering of Dandin’s text.1°® Recently, V. I. 
Kalyanov has pointed out a number of agreements between statements 
in the Dasakumdracarita and the Arthasgdstra, which according to him 
indicate that the two works were produced at about the same time. 
Among’ such agreements are the reference to the four vidyds (Trayi, 
Varttaé and others), to the trivarga, to arjana, vardhana and raksana. 
(of wealth), to krsi, pdsupdlya and vanijyd, to the bestowing of wealth 
on tirthas or worthy persons and so on.!° There can be no doubt 
about the agreements. But it is very difficult to see how they show 
the contemporaneity of the two works. In any case, this contempora- 
neity seems to have little significance, since Kalyanov is prepared to 
concede a third century A.D. date to the Arthasdstra, when the Dasa- 
kumdaracarita admittedly belongs to the sixth or seventh century A.D."° 


Referring to D. A. Suleikin’s categorisation of the periods of 
Indian History, Kalyanov mentions his opinion that the Arthasastra 
belongs to the period of transition from the decay of slave-owning 
society to the rise of feudalism, that is, the period from the first to the 


107 Jolly, Introduction, pp. 21-29. 

108 ZDMG, 68, pp. 6038-605. 

109 ‘ Arthashastra — vazneishii pamyatnik indiiskoi kulturi ’, appended to the 
Russian translation of the text (Moscow-Leningrad, 1959), p. 519. This article by 
Kalyanovy is expanded from his paper on ‘ Dating the Arthashastra ’ read before 
the XXIII International Congress of Orientalists, Cambridge, 1954. 

110 Ze. cit., p. 519. 


AUTHOR AND DATE 97 


third century A.D. This is supposed to be shown by the social order 
and state organisation, the economic and political institutions and the 
production relations reflected in this work.4! However, it can 
hardly be seriously maintained that slavery in India took the same 
form and lasted till about the same age as it did in ancient Greece.112 
Nor is there any proof that feudalism of the European type originated 
in India in the carly centuries of the Christian era. At any rate, 
it is extremely hazardous to base any chronological conclusions on a 
supposed change in the structure of society or a hypothetical change 
in the relations of production, about which little can really be said 
with any degree of certainty. 


Kalyanov refers with approval to Th. Stcherbatsky’s views about 
the rise of the stitra works, namely, that the philosophical sitras 
appeared not béfore the fifth century A.D. He would thus refer the 
present work to the same period.!43 What Stcherbatsky says may be 
true of the philosophical sittras. But the Arthasdstra does not belong 
to that category. There is a difference between these philosophical 
siitra works and the much earlier sitra works like the Srautasitras, 
the Grhyasttras and the Dharmasitras. The Arthasdstra in its siitra 
style belongs to this latter class. And it is well-known that these 
works belong to the centuries before the beginning of the Christian era. 


Kalyanoy also mentions Stcherbatsky’s view that the Arthasasira 
follows the same process of reasoning in its polemics as is used in the 
«Ladhydnta-vibhanga, a philosophical treatise of the Yogacara school 
of Buddhism attributed to the Bodhisattva Maitreya and belonging 
to the fifth century A.D. The process consists of stating opposite 
opinions and finding the truth in avoiding extremes and following the 
middle path." It is true that Kautilya in stating his own opinions 
as against those of his predecessors is found to adopt a more reason- 
able stand, characterised by moderation and sobriety.44® But it is 
not true that he generally states two opposite views and recommends 
& course lying midway between the two extremes. In a vast majority 
of cases, he merely states the views of the predecessors and simply 
rejects them, stating his reasons for doing so. It cannot be said that 
this method is similar to that used in such a work as the Madhyanta- 
vibhanga. 


This rather long review of arguments urged against the; traditional 
view about this work may be concluded in the words of H. Jacobi : 


11] Loc. cit., p. 510. 

112 Cf. Breloer, IxXst, II, pp. 1-69. 
113° Kalyanov, op. cit., pp. 516-517. 
114 Ibid., pp. 517-518. 

115 See p. 56 above. 


98 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


“Without weighty grounds, one must not push aside the unanimous 
Indian tradition; else one practises scepticism, not criticism.’’!¢ 


We may now turn to such evidence as might appear to bear on the 
question of the date of this work. It is quite clear that the Arthasastra 
was composed before Vatsyayana wrote the Kamasutra. He is usually 
assigned 'to the fourth century A.D. If, as was argued earlier in this 
chapter, the Yajiavalkyasmrit most definitely and the Manusmrti 
also most probably presuppose the existence of this work, its composi- 
tion will have to be placed much earlier than the second century A.D., 
the lower limit for the date of the Manusmrti. I. H. Johnston has 
collected evidence from Buddhist works and has shown how the Lanka- 
vatadrasttra of the fifth century A.D. already refers to Kautilya as a 
rsi or sage of antiquity, how the Jdtakamala of Aryagira of the third 
or fourth century A.D. refers to the Ksatriya science which ean only 
be understood as a reference to Kautilya’s work and how Nagarjuna, 
the author of Ratndvali, belonging to the second century A.D., refers 
to Arthavidyd in deprecatory terms which can only be understood of 
such a work as the Arthasdstra of Kautilya. Thus, according to 
Johnston, the work cannot be placed later than 150 A.D.1!? 


_ There are in the text a few indications that suggest an early date 
for it. In 3.20.16 occurs a rule laying down punishment for feeding 
Sakya, Ajivaka and other heretical monks at rites in honour of the 
gods and manes. It is significant that along with the Sakyas, that is, 
Buddhists, the Ajivakas (or Ajivikas) alone are mentioned and other 
heretical sects, especially the Nirgranthas or Jainas, are left to be 
inferred only from the use-of addi. This indicates that the Ajivikas 
were then a prominent sect. This is in keeping with the state of things 
as it prevailed in the age of the Maurya Emperors, and cannot be 
regarded as true of any later period. It is recorded in the Divydvaddna 
that an Ajivika mendicant attached to the court of Bindusara, Aéoka’s 
father, had correctly prophesied the future greatness of Prince Asoka.'1* 
Besides, there is the more important evidence of the inscriptions in 
the caves of the Barabar Hill, near Gaya, which record the grant of 
the caves to the Ajivikas by King Piyadasi or ASoka. And the nearby 
hill of Nagarjuni has three caves similarly dedicated to the Ajivikas 
by DaSaratha, a successor and grandson of Asoka.® In the Seventh 
Pillar Edict on the Delhi-Topra pillar, the Ajivikas are mentioned 
before the Nirgranthas, showing that the former sect ‘‘ seemed to 


116 ZDMG, 638, p. 6035. 

117 JRAS, 1929, pp. 86, 87 und JRAS, 1939, p. 225. 

118 See A. L. Basham, History and Doctrines of the Ajivikas (London, 1951), 
p- 146. 

119 Jbid., pp. 150-156. 


AUTHOR AND DATE 99 


the King to be either more influential or more worthy of support 
than the latter.’’!2° The present text reflects a similar state of affairs. 
The rule in 3.20.16 must, therefore, have been framed in the Maurya 
period. For, it is well-known that the Ajivikas disappear more or 
less completely from the scene after that period. 


In 11.1.4-5 are enumerated a number of samghas or what may be 
called oligarchies, belonging to either of two types, Kamboja, Surastra 
and so on of the first type and Licchivi, Vrji, Malla, Madra, Kukura, 
Kuru, Paiicala and others of the second type. Most of these samghas 
had disappeared after the Maurya period. Only the Licchivis survived 
till the Gupta age. The oligarchies of the period from the first century 
B.C. to the second century A.D. were the Yaudheyas in Southern 
Punjab, the Arjunayanas in Bharatpur and Alwar, the Udumbaras 
in Punjab, the Kulitas in the Kulu valley, the Kunindas in the Sutle} 
country and so on.!*4_ At the time of the rise of the Guptas there were 
the Abhiras, the Prarjunas, the Sanakanikas, the Kakas, the Khara- 
parikas and others, as is shown by Samudragupta’s inscription. As 
most of the samghas mentioned in the text could not have been in 
existence after the third century B.C. this would appear to be a clear 
indication of an early date for it.122 It would be odd indeed if an 
author were to dwell on facts of political life that had ceased to have 
any relevance in his day. 


The sense in which the term Anviksiki is understood in this text 
may also be regarded as an indication of an early date. It is asserted 
that Samkhya, Yoga and Lokayata constitute Anviksiki (1.2.10). This 
means that by Anviksiki are to be understood these systems of thought, 
which are clearly among the earliest philosophical systems to arise in 
ancient India. It is stated that a study of Anviksiki keeps the mind 
steady in adversity and in prosperity and brings about proficiency 
in thought, speech and action (1.2.11). It is significant that Manu, 
finding it impossible to accept the high position assigned to these 
systems and to Lokayata in particular, has identified Anviksiki with 
Atmavidya, that is, with Vedanta (7.43). That is also how the Brhat- 
samhitd, 19.11, and the Nitisdra of Kamandaka, 2.11, understand it. 
This is clearly a later development about the meaning of Anviksiki. 
Similarly, the Mahabharata in 12.173.45 regards Anviksiki as equivalent 
to Tarkavidya, and in later times Anviksiki is. understood as another 
name for the Nyayasastra. The explanation of Anviksiki by hetubhir 


120 Jbid., pp. 149-150. 
121 Cf. Cambridge History of India, Vol. I, pp. 528-529. 


122 See D. D. Kosambi, An Introduction to the Study of Indian History ontsy, 
1956), pp. 153-154. 


100 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


anviksamand in 1.2.11 might appear to lend support to.the view that 
in this text too Anviksiki stands for the science of reasoning and not 
for philosophy. But in this explanation, hetu is only the means of 
investigation, the object of investigation is what.is right and what is 
wrong. That belongs to the province’of philosophy, not to that of 
Tarkavidya, which is primarily concerned with determining the validity 
or otherwise of the hetw itself. And the description of Anviksiki as 
that which keeps the mind steady in adversity and in prosperity is 
hardly applicable to Tarkavidya. It is clear, therefore, that Anviksiki 
is understood in this text in a sense which was later modified or given 
up. Says Jacobi, ‘“‘ That the account of philosophy as we find it in 
Kautiliyam could not hold good a few generations after the life-time of 
Chanakya, speaks for the genuineness of its text that has come down 
to us.”123 In this connection a reference may be made to the opinion 
of W. Ruben who thinks that the working of Anviksiki as understood 
-by Kautilya is illustrated in the philosophy of the Bhagavadgiia. 
Samkhya as Jnanayoga and Yoga as Karmayoga lead to the same 
goal, the former by leading to knowledge (prajidavaisdradya of Kautilya) 
and the latter to right action (kriya@vaisdradya of Kautilya). In the 
Gitd, he says, samnydasa is superimposed on Sathkhya, and he concludes, 
‘‘One may say that the Gita in its present form is younger than Kautilya 
and that it contains only fragments of Karmayoga and the old practical 
Samkhya,’’!24 Whatever may be thought of this opinion, there can 
be no doubt that in Kautilya philosophy is regarded as practically 
helpful, as an illuminator of all other sciences (pradipah sarvavidyanam, 
1.2.12) and hence the foundation of all knowledge and through it of 
all life.1*5 With Vedanta gaining predominance, the value of philo- 
sophy for practical life disappeared. 


Attention may also be drawn to the circumstance that the drtha- 
sdsira refers to settlement on virgin lands. In fact, sinyanivesga is an 
important activity in which the state is expected to engage according 
to this text (Chapters 2.1 and 7.11). For such settlements on virgin 
territory on an extensive scale there would appear to be little scope 
after the Maurya period. Though it is possible that such activity had 
more significance in the early days of the formation of this Sastra, 
the fact that this text discusses in full this question of settlements on 
virgin land would show that it had not lost its relevance in the days 
of the author. 126 


123 IA, 1918, p. 109. 

124 ‘Zur Friihgeschichte des indische Philosophie’ in Fesigabe Hermann Jacobi 
(Bonn, 1926), pp. 350ff. 

125 Loe. cit., p. 351. 

126 Cf. Jacobi, IA, 1924, p. 1383. 


AUTHOR AND DATE 101 


It should thus be obvious that the text definitely impresses one as 
being composed in the age to which tradition assigns it. There is, 
however, one point that requires further consideration. The text 
refers to Kautilya in the third person and states his opinions in the same 
manner as it does those of the other teachers. This would ordinarily 
indicate that it is composed not by Kautilya himself, but by some one 
else. A reference was made earlier in this chapter to the opinion of 
Keith that the mode of citation is that of an authority, and that no 
one, for example, regards Kausitaki who is frequently mentioned as 
an authority in the Kausitaki Brahmana as the author of that work.!27 
It should be pointed out in this connection that there is a difference 
in the way in which Kausitaki’s opinions are quoted in the Brdhmana 
and the way in which Kautilya’s opinions are stated in this work. 
In the Brahmana, we invariably get the expression iti ha sma praha 
Kausitakih ‘so said Kausitaki’ (or, as Keith translates it ‘Kausitaki 
used to say or declare ’).1°® There can be no doubt that this is a 
reference to the opinion of an authority different from the writer. 
But that cannot be said of 7ti Kautilyah or neti Kautilyah that occur in 
this text. These expressions, as a rule, are found at the end of dis- 
cussions in which the opinions of other authorities are controverted 
and rejected in favour of those of Kautilya himself. It is nowhere 
the case that Kautilya’s opinion is referred to as that of an ancient 
authority, with the writer seemingly agreeing with it. His is always 
the final opinion that has to be regarded as the opinion of the author 
himself. 


A. Hillebrandt says in this connection, ‘‘ We must not accept the 
view that Kautilya himself is throughout the author of the present 
text. It springs only from his school which often sets forth the opinions 
of other teachers and after them (in the manner of the Sutra literature) 
places as contrast the views of Kautilya and occasionally gives them in 
direct form.”!2® To the objection that this method of citing oneself 
in one’s own work is common in India, he replies that the sitra authors 
Sankhayana, Agvalayana and others do not name themselves in their 
works, nor does Panini who mentions other authorities, nor Yaska 
who has polemics against some of his predecessors, nor Pataijali.1%° 
His conclusion is, ‘One can, therefore, allow Kautilya’s words as 
verba ipsissima only when they are expressly attested as such, for the 
rest, however, hold the book as the work of his juniors, among whom 


127 See p. 61 above. 


128 Kausitaki Brahmana, 2.9, 7.4 etc. and Rigveda Braéhmanas translated by 
A. B. Keith, pp. 356, 385 etc. 

129 Uber das Kautiliyasastra und Verwandtes (Breslau, 1908), p. 10. 

130 ‘Zu Kautilya* in ZDMG, 69, pp. 361-362; also his -tltindische Politik 
(Jenu, 1923), p. 4. 


102 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


his thoughts and expressions were continuously retained and brought 
forth by name in contrast with other teachers’ views or as a redaction 
made by them of an old text from his hand,’’!%2 


Now, it cannot be denied that the manner in which the opinions of 
Kautilya are cited in this work is unusual and is not to be found in 
early works.182_ The only exactly parallel cases are those of the Kdma- 
sutra of Vatsyayana and the Kavyamimdmsd of Rajasekhara. These 
two, however, are quite obviously inspired by the example of the 
Arthasastra itself and therefore of little use for corroboration of the 
practice. The example of the medieval poets writing in North Indian 
languages who usually mention their own names at the end of each 
poem, does not furnish an exact parallel and cannot reasonably be 
cited in support. The nearest parallel may perhaps be found in the 
Pirva Mimamsa Siiras of Jaimini and the Brahma Sutras of Badarayana, 
in which opinions attributed to these teachers are found stated in works 
of which they are regarded as the authors. But scholars are not pre- 
pared to admit that Jaimini and Badarayana themselves were personally 
the authors of these two Siitra works.!*5_ It may also be conceded that 
generally speaking the citation of a person’s opinion in the third person 
makes the authorship of that person for the work doubtful. Never- 
theless, the present case is peculiar. We do not have in this work a 
mere juxtaposition of the views of different authorities including the 
one claiming to be the author of the entire work, but almost invariably 
a resolute assertion, in a controversial tone, of this person’s opinion 
against those of others which are rejected as unacceptable. This 
reflects a rather unusual temperament in an author, implying impatience 
with the opinions which the author considers to be wrong and an eager- 
ness to assert his own right opinions in their place. Such indeed was, 
according to tradition, the temperament of Kautilya, who, in his in- 
tolerance of injustice and wrong, is said to have destroyed the ruling 
Nanda dynasty and placed his own protégé on the throne in their 
place. Such a person, even when writing a scientific treatise, is not 
unlikely to be intolerant of other people’s opinions which he regards 
as wrong and to be downright in his rejection of them and assertion 
of his own opinions. The absence of this practice of self-citation in 
the works of near-contemporary writers does not necessarily prove 
that no author could have resorted to this method. One must allow 
for peculiarities of temperament making themselves felt in an author’s 


181 Altindische Politik, p. 4. 

182 R.Shamasastry, however, in the Preface to the 2nd edition of his English 
translation of the text draws attention to the fact that Patafijali on Panini 7.2.101 
refers to his own views with the words Gonardiyas tudha (Preface, p. xxvii). 

188 Cf. A. B. Keith, JRAS, 1916, pp. 182-183. - 


AUTHOR AND DATE 103 


work, particularly if the author is known otherwise to have been a 
masterful personality. 


While admitting that opinions expressly put in the mouth of 
Kautilya may be regarded as stated in his own words, Hillebrandt has 
suggested two possibilities concerning the rest of the text. One is 
that the rest of the work springs from Kautilya’s juniors. By juniors 
he evidently means disciples or followers. His other suggestion is 
that there was an old text by Kautilya, but the present text is a re- 
daction of that old text made by his juniors. 


The suggestion that the bulk of the text, except in those places 
where Kautilya’s opinions are stated in his own words, is the work of 
his disciples or followers, implies that the teaching is that of the master, 
who is recognised as an outstanding teacher of the Sastra, but that the 
teaching is reproduced not in the words of the master but in those of 
his disciples or followers. Such a view seems to ignore the manner 
in which learning was transmitted in ancient India. When pupils 
learnt at the feet of some distinguished teacher, they usually committed 
to memory the teaching in the latter’s own words. They then passed 
this teaching on to their own pupils and so on. It is not conceivable 
that a pupil would learn only the substance of the teaching and feel 
himself competent to start composition on his own when he had nothing 
original to say and had to rely entirely on the master’s teaching. In 
the case of a Sastra, at any rate, the disciple would be acquiring and 
transmitting knowledge derived from his teacher in the latter’s own 
words, particularly if the teacher happened to have made a special 
study of the Sastra and to have expressed independent opinions of his 
own on many points. It can, therefore, be safely assumed that even 
if the present work be supposed to have passed through the hands of 
Kautilya’s disciples, these latter cannot be credited with its authorship. 
They must be supposed to have transmitted the teaching almost exactly. 
as it was received by them from the master, that is, in the latter’s own 
words. In other words, this would be the text as it was taught by him 
to his disciples, though he may not have composed it in the sense that 
he wrote it down by putting pen on paper. Works in ancient India 
were mostly composed in the sense that they were transmitted to pupils 
by word of mouth, these then committing them to memory and passing 
them on to others for similar oral transmission. In this process the 
original hardly ever suffered any significant change. 


A. B. Keith admits the possibility of a school founded by Kautilya, 
‘in the sense of a guru-sisya-samtdana (and not merely in the sense of 
tanmatanusdrita as Jacobi holds).’ But he goes on to add that the 
present text is not Kautilya’s own work, but the product of his school, 


104 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


‘based on Kautilya’s teaching, though not by his own hand.’!% 
However, if a school is assumed to have been founded by a teacher, it 
would necessarily follow that what is studied in the school is his original 
teaching. Commentaries or expositions of that teaching may be sup- 
posed to have been produced in the school in course of time, but the 
original teaching would be retained as it had come down from the origi- 
nal founder of the school. The Vedic schools of Asvaliyana or Apa- 
stamba, for example, would be studying the teaching of these founders 
-of the schools practically in the same words in which they were originally 
communicated to the first pupils. - Even if we assume that some later 
member of the schools ‘composed’ a text for study, this text would 
not differ materially and even verbally from what was known to be the 
teaching of the founder. ‘Composition’ of a text had a different 
connotation in ancient India with its persistent tradition of oral trans- 
mission from what it means in modern times. To the question, why 
is it then that only in some places in the text are opinions specifically 
attributed to Kautilya when the entire work originated with him, the 
answer is that these are the cases where he had differed from the ancient 
teachers and that this fact was intended to be emphasised by the self- 
assertive Kautilya himself. This feature of the teaching has been 
faithfully preserved by the disciples or followers of Kautilya or by his 
schoo], whichever way of transmission of that text we regard as pro- 
bable. P. Thieme has said in another connection, ‘‘ Books are not 
written by schools, but by single men, by individuals, who naturally 
had their own taste, their own inclinations and preferences adopting 
new styles, new methods and new points of view.’’1% 


Hillebrandt’s alternative suggestion is that the present text is a 
redaction of Kautilya’s original work by a later hand. It is here ad- 
mitted that Kautilya * wrote ’ a work on this science ; but, it is suggested, 
the present work is different from it, being a later version of it. It 
may be asked: Who made this later redaction and what could be his 
motive or motives in making a new version of the old text? If, as we 
would be justified in assuming and as Hillebrandt himself suggests, the 
redactor was a disciple or follower of Kautilya or a member of his 
school, he may be thought of as preparing a new version either in order 
to make a difficult text easy to understand, or with a view to summarize 
the teaching of the master in brief, or in order to change its form so 
that the task of committing it to memory would be facilitated. The 
same motives can be thought of as operating even if the redactor is 
supposed to be some admirer, unconnected with Kautilya’s school. 
We find that none of the three motives suggested could have operated 


134 JRAS, 1916, pp. 131-132. 
135 Indian Cultyre, Vol. IV (1987-1938), p. 209. 


AUTHOR AND DATE 105 


in the preparation of the present * version’ of the text. The claim 
made on its behalf that it is easy to learn and understand (sukhagraha- 
navijreyam 1.1.19) is with respect to the text as composed by Kautilya 
(Kautilyena krtam sdstram). It is not easy to sce how the latter’s work 
could have been more difficult or obscure. His language and style 
as they appear in what are admitted to be opinions expressed in his 
own words do not differ in any way from the language and style as we 
find them in the rest of the text. One cannot also suppose that the 
present text is an abridgment of an original work of Kautilya. No 
work can he more full than the present work in the treatment of its 
subject. Again, the text in prose cannot be understood as the result of 
a desire to help memorizing. Nor can one regard the present work as 
a redaction in the sense of an expansion of an original short work by 
Kautilya. It is not possible to point out any substantial parts of the 
present work as belonging to a later age or as the work of a later hand. 
A few interpolations have, no doubt, found their way in the text, mostly 
by way of marginal notes getting into the text at the time of the next 
copying. But considering the extent of the work such interpolations 
are very few.'8¢ These do not make the text appear as a new version 
or redaction of an earlier work. 


in attempt has recently been made to show that Kautilya or 
Canakya, the original author of a siitra work on polity, is to be differ- 
entiated from Visnugupta, responsible for the present redaction, which 
is an expansion of the original work.187_ According to K. C. Ojha, the 
present redaction was made out of the mass of bhasya literature that 


had accumulated round the original work of Kautilya. The latter’s ' 


stitras ‘“‘might have gone forward, like all other sitra literature, to the 
bhasya form at the hands of later generations.... Written in the, 


Stitra style, it developed a bhasya form of its own.’’ The reason for ” 


distinguishing Visnugupta from Kautilya is, according to Ojha, the 
circumstance that in the earlier works, the Puranas, the Pajicatanira, 
the Mahdvamsa, Nandisiitra etc. only Kautilya or Canakya is found, 
while in later works like the Nitisdra, the Dasakumdracarita, the Mud- 
rdrdksasa and so on, Visnugupta appears as another name for Kautilya 
or Canakya. He thinks that this Visnugupta was probably the teacher 
of Kamandaka. He adds that the name Visnugupta appears only after 
the sixth or seventh century A.D., when it was usual for commentators 
and writers ‘** to make fabrications about identifications of literateurs 
and authorship of works.*’ To prove this, he refers to the case of the 
Jyotirvidabharana, which claims to be written by Kalidasa, the author 
of the Raghuvatiésa. 


136 Sce pp. 26-80 above. 
187 K. C. Ojha, THQ, 28 (1952), pp. 265-272. 


- 


106 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


This attempt to reconcile the traditional view about the authorship 
of the work with the views of scholars like Jolly, Winternitz and others 
is altogether misconceived. It is based on the erroneous belief that the 
present work contains both siitra and bhasya, a belief shared by many 
scholars on the authority of the sloka that does not belong to this text. 
It is, however, impossible to agree that the work contains any bhasya.138 
No one has ever been able to point out which part is to be regarded as 
sitra and which as bhasya. .\nd what is one to understand by sutras 
having ‘ gone forward to the bhasya form’? Whatever this means, 
it has not happened to other sitra literature, as Ojha thinks it has. 
The bhasyas on the various siitra works, like those of Panini or the 
Srautasitras, Grhyasitras, Dharmasitras, or the philosophical sitras, 
are so entirely distinct from the siitra works that it is not at all possible 
to say that these siitras have ‘gone forward to the bhasya form.’ 
The suggestion that Visnugupta is different from Kautilya and belongs 
to a later age is also unacceptable. The Nitisdra of Kamandaka in 
paying homage to Visnugupta in the opening verses describes him as 
the wise man who by his occult powers brought about the downfall of 
the Nandas. This applies to Kautilya and not to any person of a 
later age. And when Ojha suggests that this later Visnugupta was 
probably the teacher of Kamandaka, he practically accuses Kamandaka 
of being responsible for the fabricated identification of his teacher with 
Kautilya of antiquity. There is no ground whatever for such an ac- 
cusation. And fabrication of identifications was not so common as 
Ojha seems to believe. The example of Jyottrviddbharana is of a differ- 
ent kind. It claims to be written by the great Kalidaésa; but its 
real author is unknown. There is no attempt here to identify a later 
author with an earlier one. But in the case of the Arthasastra, a 
later redactor with a definite name is supposed to have been deliberately 
identified with an earlier author. That is not at all likely. Besides, 
there is no need to try to reconcile two different views about the author- 
ship and date of the work when one of them. can be shown to be not 
based on satisfactory evidence, as has been attempted in the preceding 


pages. 

We may, therefore, conclude that there is no convincing reason 
why this work should not be regarded as the work of Kautilya, who 
helped Candragupta to come to power in Magadha. The question 
now is, in what circumstances did he come to write it? It is often 
assumed that it was written by him for the sake of Candragupta, to 
show how an Empire should be acquired and how it’should be adminis- 
tered, and that it describes the administration in actual existence at 


188 See pp. 35-36 above. 


AUTHOR AND DATES 107 


that time. Breloer, for example, says, ‘‘ We have a document rich in 
administrative law, a sketch of a magna carta, if not a law-book of the 
Emperor Candragupta.”!%® He finds an almost exact parallel with 
what was done by Tribonian at the instance of the Eastern Roman 
Emperor, Justinian. He says, ‘“‘ Both (Justinian and Candragupta) 
have in view an extension of the home law over the whole Empire by 
going back to old sources for creating a new law. Old codes are 
collected and turned by a school of learned men into a modern work 
under the guidance of here Tribonian, there Kautalya. Whom would 
this comparison not attract?’“® Attractive though the comparison 
might appear to be, there are certain fundamental differences which 
cannot be ignored. There is nothing in the whole of the Arthasastra 
to show that it was composed at the behest of any ruler or that it was 
intended to serve as a guide to any particular ruler in a particular 
kingdom. Throughout it is addressed to ‘the king’ or the ruler in 
general. It contains the teaching of the Séstra meant for the guidance 
of rulers in general. The attempts to find a reference to Candragupta 
in narendrdarthe (2.10.63)! or in tena guptah prabhavati (1.14.15) are 
far from convincing. Again, the present work shows no trace of a 
desire to extend the administration and law of the home state (pre- 
sumably Magadha) to an expanding Empire. No special administra- 
tive measures are recommended when new territories are acquired and 
‘ added to one’s own state, as we should have expected them in the Section 
on labdhaprasamana (Chapter 13.5). As for law, the situation in ancient 
India was entirely different from what it was in the Roman Empire. 
In Rome law was always state-made. The earliest Code of Laws, 
the Twelve Tables, was passed by the Senate and set up in the Forum. 
From time to time edicts were issued by the various Emperors. There 
was besides the common law embodied in a number of treatises by law- 
yers. The result was that by the time of Justinian, who ruled at By- 
zantium over the eastern part of the Roman Empire nearly a thousand 
years after the publication of the Twelve Tables in Rome, it was impos- 
sible to know which part of a statute was in operation and which had 
been superseded by some imperial decree. It was necessary to create 
order in this mass of legal literature. It is noteworthy that a committee 
of ten learned jurists appointed by Justinian took eight years to produce 
the Justinian Code, which they did by abridgment and consolidation, 
cutting out repetitions and contradictions. Such was never the case 
in ancient India. As Breloer himself admits, in India the king or the 
state did not appear as the law-giver.44* One cannot speak of a Code 


189 KSt, III, p. 11. 

140 Ibid., p. 12. 

141 K. P. Jayaswal, HP, I, p. 214; also IA, 47, p. 55. 
142 KSt, III, pp. 6-7 


108 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


promulgated in any particular state. At no time was there a Magadhan 
Code of Law in existence, which could then be supposed to have been 
made applicable to new regions as they were incorporated in the growing 
Empire. Apart from local or other customary law, law, regarded as 
sacred, was always held to be valid everywhere. In spite of some differ- 
ences among the learned on points of law, there was never confusion 
or chaos. And no body of learned men was necessary to put together 
the ancient law, as this was continuously studied in various schools. 
Old works were, of course, consulted when the present text was com- 
posed. But the help of a number of assistants was not at all necessary 
for the purpose. 


We must, it seems, resist the temptation to look upon the present 
work as written for instructing Candragupta or as intended to describe 
the constitutional and legal setup obtaining in his Empire. It must 
be admitted that the existence of that Empire is completely ignored in 
this work. In fact, no event that can be regarded as contemporaneous 
with the author is directly referred to in it. It does, indeed, appear 
strange to us that an author writing a work on politics should so com- 
pletely keep out all references to contemporary events, particularly 
when he is believed to have taken an active part in shaping the political 
events of his time. A partial explanation of this may be that he wished 
_ to stick to the method of the Sastra which was intended for the use 

of rulers in general, not of any particular ruler. It may also be that he 
had written this text before he took part in active political life. Tra- 
dition says that he was insulted by the Nanda king. It is possible 
that the desire for vengeance led him to a study of this Sastra with a 
view to find out means for destroying the Nandas. Finding that the 
Séstra as it was taught by the earlier teachers was often mistaken or 
extreme in its views, he may have composed a text of his own. And 
possibly it was afterwards that he became associated with Candragupta 
in the joint adventure. Be that as it may, this text cannot be regarded 
as written at the latter’s instance or with the intention of describing 
conditions prevailing in his Empire. 

Despite the legends about Kautilya or Canakya preserved in many 
works, information about him that can be regarded as absolutely re- 
liable is meagre. All sources, Brahmanical, Buddhist and Jain, are, 
however, agreed on one point, that he was responsible for the destruction 
of the Nanda rule in Magadha and the establishment of Candragupta 
Maurya on that throne. It is hardly worthwhile trying to find what 
truth there is in the different accounts of his life and doings that arc 
found, for example, in Hemacandra’s Parisistaparvan, the commentary 
on the Mahdvarnsa, the Kathdsaritsagaraandsoon. The Mudraraksasa, 
however, shows him in a character that appears to be based on fact. 


AUTHOR AND DATE 109 


That play further represents him as anxious to secure the services of a 
competent minister for Candragupta and, so far as he himself is con- 
cerned, to retire from further active politics. This desire to retire from 
active politics is not in keeping with the commonly held view, supported 
by some accounts of his. life, that he continued as the minister or Chan- 
cellor of Candragupta. But the Mudrardksasa version emphasising 
his desire to withdraw from active participation in public life after he 
had achieved his object of avenging the insult by the Nanda king ap- 
pears to be more reliable. A man of the temperament which he clearly 
possessed could not have continued as minister of an Emperor for long 
unless that Emperor happened to be a mere figurehead. And there is 
no reason to believe that Candragupta Maurya was a mere figurehead. 
Greek accounts make him out to be a powerful monarch, leading his 
forces right up to the Indus and beyond and entering into a treaty with 
Seleucus, and administering the Empire with a heavy, even a tyrannous, 
hand ; there is no hint there of any master mind behind his actions. 
The view that Kautilya continued as a minister even under Candra- 
gupta’s son, Bindusara,** appears, in any case, to be hardly plausible. 


There has been a difference of opinion about the correct form of the 
name of the author, some preferring the form Kautalya (with ta), 
others sticking to Kautilya (with ti). T. Ganapati Sastri preferred the 
form Kautalya in his edition of the text and has argued in favour of 
its adoption and the rejection of the other form as incorrect. J. Jolly 
examined the question at some length and expressed the opinion that 
the form with ti was changed to the colourless Kautalya, because of the 
former’s association with crookedness.4*4 P. V. Kane has also ex- 
pressed a similar opinion.145 There are many scholars, however, who 
prefer the form with ta. 


The form Kautalya is no doubt found in the Edappalli ms. (M, 
in the new edition) and the Devanagari fragment from the Patan Bhan- 
dar (D in the new edition). It should be noted, however, that in both 
these manuscripts an original ti seems to be changed to ta in a few 
places by rubbing off the sign for’. The Tanjore manuscript, on which 
the Mysore edition was based (G, in the new edition) has the form 
with ti throughout. Among the commentators, the old Malayalam 
commentary (Cb) has ta, so also the fragmentary Jayamangald on Book 
1 and the Canakyatikad on Book 2 and on 3.1 (Cj). Similarly, the com- 
mentary of Yogghama on 2.1-8, which was discovered along with the 
Devanagari fragment at Patan (Cnn) has the form Kautalva. But 


143 ‘larunath’s History of Buddhism referred to by K. P. Jayaswal, JBORS, II 
(191€), pp. 80-81. | 
144 ZII, V (1927), pp. 216-221. 
145 ABORI, VII (1926), p. 89. 


110 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


the Pratipadapanicikd of Bhattasvamin (Cp) as printed in the Journal 
of the Bihar and Orissa Research Society (Volumes XI and XII) 
shows the form Kautilya. And A. P. Banerji-Sastri, the joint editor 
of the commentary, expressly says in a review of Ganapati Sastri’s 
edition of the text that it is not correct to say that this commentary 
has the form with ta ; the Madras Government Library manuscript of 
the commentary, on the basis of which it was printed, has the form 
Kautilya.34® Similarly, the Nayacandrika of Madhavayajvan (Cn) as 
edited by Udayavira Sastriin Volume II of the Punjab edition of the text 
shows the form Kautilya (pp.70,72,91 and the colophons of the fikd 
in the Volume), though Udayavira Sastri himself had opted for 
Kautalya. It is, therefore, far from true that the evidence of the 
manuscripts and the commentators is all in favour of the form with ta. 


Practically all the earlier works refer to this name with ti. Thus 
the Visnu Purdna has Kautilya twice in IV.24.6-7, the Vayu Purana 
also twice in 87.324-325 and the Matsya Purdna once in 227.22. The 
Nandisiitra manuscripts have mostly the form Kodillayam, implying 
an original Kautilya. The Mudrdrdksasa in 1.7 has Kautilyah kuftila- 
matih etc., which clearly contains a pun on the name establishing its 
connection with kutila. Similarly, Bana in the Kddambari has Kaufilya- 
sdstram, which is described as very wicked and so on. All these 
authorities are earlier than any manuscript or commentary of this work. 


Among the later references to this name, we find some alternation 
between the two forms; but even there the preponderance appears to 
be in favour of the form with ti. The Updadhydyanirapeksanusdrini 
commentary on Kamandaka’s Nitisdra in the edition of R. Mitra 
(Calcutta, 1884) has the forrn with ta in five places, but that with ti 
in twelve places. The commentary Jayamazgald on the. Nitisara, 
which is edited by Ganapati Sastri himself, shows throughout only the 
form with ti, as a reference to pp. 4, 5, 65, 157, 207, 226 and 236 of that 
edition in the Trivandrum Sanskrit Series will show. The Nandrthar- 
navasamksepa of Kesava has Kutala as the name of a gotrakrtrsi. But 
the Abhidhanacintamani of Hemacandra has Kautilya as the.name of 
the individual in the Bhavnagar edition of Hargovinddas and Behc- 
chardas, as well as in the Surat edition printed in the Nirnayasagar 
Press, though it shows the form Kautalya in the edition of Bohtlingk 
pnd Jacobi. There is no doubt that a number of manuscripts of this 
koga of Hemacandra and his vriti on it show the form with ti. ‘“ Ksira- 
svamin on Amara has the form with ti according to Aufrecht. Malli- 
natha has Kautilya, so Nilakantha on the Mahabharata, and Caritra- 
vardhana on the Raghuvamsa. The Vayayanti koga as well as the 


146 A. P. Baunerji-Sastri, JBORS, XI (1925), p. 93. - 


AUTHOR AND DATE 111 


Namamald of Bhoja show the form with ti.”147_ The preponderance of 
the evidence in favour of that form can hardly be questioned. 


H. Berger refers to V. Trenckner’s view that in the Middle Indian 
dialects (e.g. Pali) the penultimate 7 or 7 of a word with more than 
two syllables is changed to a when a derivative requiring vrddhi in 
the first syllable is formed from it, as in purohita—porohacca, kulina— 
kolatiia, Kundina—Kondajiiia etc., and argues that Kautalya is a 
similar Middle Indian formation from kutila, and that it was later 
changed to Kautilya, a result of secondary Sanskritizing. He admits 
that the only word from which this name can be derived is kutila and 
that the so-called rsi Kutala is an artificial reconstruction, resorted 
to for explaining the form Kautalya,1* 


Trenckner’s view regarding these formations may be plausible, 
though W. Geiger, it seems, would regard these as simply cases of vowel- 
_assimilation. However, whatever happened in Middle Indian dialects 
has little relevance in the present case. There is nothing to show that 
the name of our author was originally current only in a Middle Indian 
dialect and not in Sanskrit. He does not appear to be connected with 
Middle Indian literature in any way, and his name would normally 
be expected to show the Sanskrit form, not Pali. And if, as Berger 
admits, the name can be derived only from kutila (and not kutala), 
the Sanskrit derivative from it must be assumed to be Kautilya and 
not Kautalya. The rule about the Pali derivatives would not apply to 
Sanskrit derivatives. It may be mentioned that Buddhist works refer 
to the Sanskrit form Kaundinya (and not Kaundanya) corresponding 
to the Pali Kondafifia. It is impossible to say that Kaundanya 
(derived from Kundina) is earlier than Kaundinya, because the Pali 
form Kondafiia shows a,’ not 7. 


D. B. Diskalkar refers to the fact that in an inscription at Ganesar 
near Dholka in Gujarat dated V. §. 1291, i.e., 1284 A.D., Vastupala, 
the famous Jain minister of the Vaghelé King Viradhavala, describes 
himself as the equal of Kautalya in statesmanship and that there 
the name shows the form with ta.!4°_ However, a much earlier inscrip- 
tion shows the other form. The Third Nidhanpur Plate of Bhaskara- 
varman of Kamaripa has in line 5 of the First Side, the word Kau- 
tilyo, followed by names of seven Brahmins belonging to this gotra. 
There can be no doubt about the word showing ti here.45° Bhaskara- 


147 Jolly, ZIT, V, pp. 218-219. 

148 H. Berger, ‘ Kautalya ist alter als Kaufilya’ in Miinchener Studien zur 
Sprachwissenschaft, Heft 6 (Miinchen, 1955), pp. 27-28. 

149 JHQ, I (1925), p. 786. 

150 Epigraphia Indica, Vol? XIX_(1927-1928), pp. 245-250. 


112 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


varman flourished in the first half of the seventh century A.D. being a 
contemporary of and referred to by the Chinese pilgrim, Yuan Chwang.'*! 


The name is clearly a gotra name as is shown by the Nidhanpur Plate 
as well as by the Kdmasiitra and the Kdvyamimamsd, in which, in 
obvious imitation of our work, the authors refer to themselves by their 
gotra names, Vatsyayana and Ydayavariya respectively. Now, the 
Gotrapravaramainjari of Purusottama-Pandita mentions this goira name 
with ti. It mentions the gotra Kautilya as one of the twenty-two Yaskas 
among the Bhrgus according to Baudhayana, also among the Bhrgus 
but not as a sub-division of Yaskas according to Katyayana and 
Laugaksi. It mentions Kautili among the Bhrgus according to the 
Matsya Purana. It also mentions Kautilyah among the Gautamas 
according. to’ Katyaéyana and Laugaksi.!5* There can be no doubt 
- that the author of the Gotrapravaramaiijari knew only the form Kautilya. 
“Moreover, a family with the surname Kulkarni among the Sukla 
Yajurvediya Mandhyandina Brahmanas in Maharastra still bears the 
gotra name Kautilya (with ti).453 And gotra-names in the families may 
be supposed to be transmitted from generation to generation without 
any change of form or corruption. It can hardly be supposed that the 
family changed an original Kautalya to Kautilya. On the contrary, 
the temptation to change the latter would have been great. 


Kutala is supposed to be derived from kufa ‘a jar’ plus la from 
the root l@ ‘to take’ (kufam ghatam dhanyaptirnati lanti grhnanti iti 
Kutalah), so that the word is understood to mean ‘one who has a large 
store of grains (kuwmbhidhdnya).’ This etymology is hardly satisfactory, 
as the root /d@ is not attested early. One could get the same meaning 
from kufila, with a better etymology, by understanding kufa plus the 
suffix tla (tlac) which has the sense of the possessive. In that case, 
one can suppose that Kutila as a gotra name really meant one haviry a 
kuta, with no connection with kutila which has the sense of ‘ curved, 
crooked.’ It seems that the confusion between Kutila as a gotra 
name and the adjective kufila meaning crooked, which is indicated 
by the pun in the Mudrdrdksasa passage, led to a desire to distinguish 
the gotra name from the adjective kutila, Kutala being thought of 
for the former. This seems to have happened fairly early, before the 
twelfth century A.D., to which the Devanagari fragmentary manuscript 
is assigned. But even when the new. form Kautalya was substituted 


131 Lbid., p. 116. 

152 See J. Brough, The Brahmanical System of Gotra and Pravara (Cambridge, 
1953), pp. 82, 88, 06, 107 and 109 ; in the last place Kautilva is suggested by Brough 
for KauSalya, KaiSilya or Kausilya of the manuscripts. : : 

153 See D. D. Kosambi, Preface to .1 Fragment of the Koutalya’s -trthasdstra 
alias Rajusiddhinta (Bombay, 1959), p. 1, n. 3. 


AUTHOR AND DATE 118 


and adopted by certain authorities, the original form Kautilya has 
continued to be in use all through. 


Canakya, the other name, appears to be a patronymic. Hema- 
candra definitely explains it as meaning ‘ the son of the sage Canaka,’ 
though in the Parisistaparvan he gives the father’s name as Canin. 
The statement in the Jayamangala commentary on the Nitisdra, 1.6, 
that Canakya is derived from the name of his native land (janmabhimi- 
nibandhana) is doubtful. H. Jacobi has questioned the identity of 
Kautilya and Canakya.1§ He argues that Kautilya alone is known to 
the Puranas, while Canakya alone is found in Prakrit works, in the 
Brhatkatha and in the Jain legends, and that this latter name is not 
found even in Kamandaka. He has, therefore, suggested that Canakya 
was probably a Prakrit poet on Niti. Canakya and Kautilya are, 
however, so unequivocally identified in the tradition of the Mudrarak- 
sasa that their identity must have been taken for granted long before 
the play was written. Again, Dandin refers to passages from the present 
text as from the work of Canakya. Besides, the Tanirakhydyika has 
among its opening verses a salutation to the ‘ great Canakya’ along 
with other ‘ makers of the science of kingship ’.155 There is no doubt 
that this refers to the author of the present work, from which the 
Tantrakhyayika frequently quotes. The name Visnugupta appears to 
be the personal name of the author, sdrmskdariki samjna as the Jayaman- 
gala on the Nitisdra says. It has been shown above that Visnugupta 
cannot be regarded as the name of a later redactor, falsely identified | 
with Kautilya. 


Jolly, arguing that this is the work of a Pandit, not of a practical 
statesman, suggested that this Pandit was a Southerner, implying that 
he could not have been connected with Candragupta’s Empire in the 
North. He argued that (1) the geographical horizon of the author, 
on the whole, points to the southern rather than to a northern home ; 
for, in the discussion on trade-routes, the southern route is declared 
to be preferable to the northern in 7.12.23-24, and gems from South 
India and Ceylon occupy a prominent placein Chapter 2.11. (2) Besides, 
the only known manuscripts of the Arthasdstra exist in the South.'* 
To these arguments of Jolly, Meyer added the following: (3) Only 
Baudhayana and Kautilya have a pana of 16 mdsas, while in other 
texts it is equivalent to 20 mdsas ; Baudhayana was a Southerner, so 


154 IHQ, III (1927), pp. 675-676.: - 
185 Waa ATACTA RMA TAA FT AIA | 
MUNA ST Hed TAS TTA ARA RT: Ul 
Tanirakhyayika, Kathdmukha, st. 2. 
156 Introduction, pp. 43-44. 


114 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


probably was Kautilya. What is more, Baudhayana and Kautilya 
agree in many places, often word for word. (4) The pana in the 
Arthasastra is a silver coin, not copper; according to the Narada 
Parigista this is the case in the South. (5) Dandin; also a Southerner, 
knows the’ Arthasdstra more intimately than any other Sanskrit 
author.15? . 


None of these arguments is at all satisfactory. Th¢ present work 
appears to be mainly based on earlier sources, and hence any indications 
in it concerning the home of the author must be used with great caution. 
Moreover, the arguments themselves cannqt bear close examination. 
(1) The preference for the southern trade-route is no doubt expressed 
in Kautilya’s own words. But that probably only indicates that the 
southern trade had in his days assumed greater importance than the 
northern one. Besides, we have to bear in mind the fact that the 
text in that place mentions routes to the south, to the north, to the 
west and to the east. Such a reference is only possible from the point 
of view of some one who belongs to the central part of India and not 
to the south or the north. Gems from the south are no doubt promi- 
nently mentioned in Chapter 2.11, but that is evidently because they 
Mainly came from the south. Equal prominence is given in that Chap- 
ter to furs, woollens, silks, cotton textiles etc., which came mainly from 
the north or north-west. These lists hardly have any bearing on the 
home of the author. (2) The argument from the places of discovery of 
the manuscripts is now shown to be without significance by the discov- 
ery of the Devanagari fragment from the Patan Bhandar in Gujarat. 
(3) It is not true that all authorities except Baudhayana and Kautilya 
know a-pana of 20 mdsas. Manu, whom no one regards as a Southerner, 
states in 8.134-1386 that a kdrsdpana (which may be presumed to be 
equal in weight to the pana) is one suvarna in weight, i.e., 16 mdsas, 
not 20. The close similarity between Baudhayana and Kautilya found 
in a few places seems to be due to a common source used by both ; 
it has little to do with the home of either author. (4) The Ndrada 
Parisista, it is admitted, is of very doubtful authenticity. There is 
no doubt that it is a very late production. Its statements, even if 
true for its day, can hardly be accepted as valid for conditions prevailing 
many centuries earlier. (5) Dandin’s close acquaintance with the 
Arthasasira can prove nothing about the home of the latter’s author. 
One need not belong to the same region in order to be familiar with the 
work of another author. Visakhadatta, who shows an almost equal 
acquaintance with Kautilya’s work, does not appear to have been a 
Southerner at all. 


137 Introduction to his German translation of the text, p. LIV. 


AUTHOR AND DATE 115 


It is, therefore, far from certain that the author.of this work was a 
Southerner. In fact, if this line of reasoning were to be pursued in 
other matters, it would be very easy to show that he-was a Northerner. 
For instance, according to 2.20.87-88 in this text, the longest day of 
the year has a duration of 18 muhirtas. This length of the day, at 
the summer solstice, which comes to 14 hours 24 minutes, is possible 
only in the North of India. But the same length is found in the 
Vedanga Jyotisa and in the Jain work Suryaprajfapti.s® Any con- 
clusion concerning the home of the author from this indication would 
be suspect, since the author most probably has taken over this informa- 
tion from earlier sources. Similarly, in 2.20.41, we are told that the 
sun casts no shadow at midday in the month of Asadha. This means 
that the sun is vertically overhead at noon at the time of the summer 
solstice. This is possible only at a place with a latitude of about 234 
degrees North, that is, a place to the north of the Vindhyas. However, 
this indication, too, may be of little value if the information is derived 
by the author from earlier sources. And Jacobi has shown that the 
Suryaprajnaptt and other works contain the same information about 
the disappearance of the shadow at midday in Asadha.15® Again, 
the text in 2.24.5 mentions certain regions in connection with the 
amount of rainfall. These are ASmaka, Avanti, Aparanta and the 
Haimanya, most of them belonging to the north or west. Here, too, 
the author may simply be reproducing traditional knowledge on the 
subject, so that no conclusion can be drawn about his home from such 
an indication. Similarly, in connection with defamation, he refers to 
Prajjina and Gandhara (3.18.8), regions that are definitely not in the 
south. In 11.1.4-5, a number of sathghas are enumerated by the 
author, Kamboja, Surastra, Licchivi, Vrji and so on; all of them are 
situated in the north, north-west or west and none in the south. In 
this case, it is possible to argue that the author must be supposed to 
refer to samghas that existed in his day ; else it would have detracted 
from the value of the work even in the eyes of his disciples. The 
overall impression created by the study of the text is that it has princi- 
pally conditions in Northern India in view, whatever may have been 
the place of birth of the author. According to Buddhist sources, e.g., 
the tikd on the Mahdvamsa, Canakya, that is Kautilya, was an inha- 
bitant of Taksasila.1®°. That appears to be not unlikely. 


158 Cf. H. Jacobi, ZDMG, 74 (1920), p. 252. 
159 Loc. cit., pp. 251-252. 
160 Turnour, Mahdvamsa, Introduction, p. xoxcxix. 


CHAPTER FIVE 
THE STATE IN KAUTILYA 


Tue Arthasdstra is not a theoretical treatise on political science. It 
does not directly concern itself with the question of the origin of the 

. state, its nature or its functions. It does not inquire how some men 
come to rule over others and how or why the majority of men are con- 
tent to be governed by a few. Nor does it refer to the various forms 
that the state organisation is found to take and discuss their relative 
advantages and disadvantages. What it says on such questions is 
only incidental. Its primary concern is with matters of practical ad- 

‘ministration. One cannot, therefore, deny the justice of Keith’s re- 
marks: ‘‘ India offers nothing that can be regarded as a serious theory 
of politics in the wider sense of that term. But there was intensive 
study of the practical aspect of government and of relations between 
states.’”} . 


-However, it is possible to trace some sort of a theoretical basis for 
the teaching of the Sastra. Monarchy is indeed assumed to be the 
normal form of government. The entire teaching of the Sastra is ad- 
dressed to the king, the single ruler of a state. Concerning the origin 
of monarchy, the text incidentally refers to circumstances in which it 
may be supposed to have originated. In 1.13.5-7 we read: “‘When 
people were oppressed by the law of the fishes (mdtsyanydya, according 
to which the bigger fish swallow the smaller ones), they made Manu, 
the son of Vivasvat, the king. They fixed one-sixth part of the grains 
and one-tenth of their goods and money as his share. Kings who re- 
ceive this share are able. to ensure the well-being of their subjects.” 
Here we have something like an original contract for the establishment 
of monarchy. The original state of nature is imagined to be one of 
total anarchy, where might alone was right. People agreed to pay 
taxes and to be ruled by one person in order that they may be able 
to enjoy security and well-being (yoga-ksema). This is no theory of a 
social contract such as is worked out in the works of Hobbes or Rousseau. 
It is also to be noted that the words referred to are put in the mouth 
of a secret agent, who moves about in places where people gather 
together in order to find out if they are loyal to the ruling monarch or 

‘not. The purpose underlying those words is to dissuade people from 
entertaining feelings of disaffection towards the ruler. They are not 


1 Foreword to N. N. Law’s Aspects of Ancient Indian Polity (Oxford, 1921), 
p. V 


THE STATE IN KAUTILYA 17 


the words of the author himself in which he may be understood to be 
propounding any theory of his own concerning the origin of kingship. 


The first king ever, according to this passage, was Manu, the son of 
Vivasvat. This is evidently a reference to the supposed founder of the 
solar dynasty of kings, for Vivasvat is the Sun. The first ruler is thus 
thought of as descended from a god. A little further on in the same 
passage, the secret agent is made to add: “* Kings occupy the position 
of Indra and Yama on earth ; their favours and displeasures are manifest 
to all. Divine punishment also falls on those who treat kings with 
disrespect (1.18.10-11).”” We have here a suggestion that the king’s 
role on earth is similar to that of the gods. He is able to grant favours 
like Indra and to inflict punishment like Yama. And disrespect to 
the king is said to bring on divine punishment. Yet this is no fully 
developed theory of the divine origin of kings. That idea is more fully 
developed in the Manusmrti where in 7.3-8 it is asserted that the king 
was created out of the essences (mdtrabhyah) of eight divinities, Indra, 
Anila, Yama, Arka and others. As such he is said to be endowed with 
the various powers of these divinities and is in fact declared to be “ a 
great divinity in human form (mahati devata hyesd nararipena tisthatt).” 
We have no such categorical declaration in the present text, though 
the idea is probably as old as the Brahmana period.? It should also 
be remembered that the words are again those of a secret agent used 
by him to impress on the people the necessity of being loyal to the 
ruling monarch. They do not necessarily reflect the author’s own 
opinions on the question. In any case, as Ghoshal says, “ None of 
the Hindu theories approaches the character of a system. ... While 
embodying rational speculation they are placed in a mythological 
setting.’’$ 


However, though one cannot find in the text any true theory of 
the source of the authority wielded by the ruler over the ruled, there 
are in it frequent references to his obligations towards them, obliga- 
tions which flow from that authority. His first and foremost duty is 
said to be the protection of the subjects. When he carries out this 
duty of protecting the subjects, he, it is said, goes to heaven (3.1.41). 
This protection, raksana or pdlana, means primarily the protection of | 
the person and property of the subjects. The whole of Book Four, 
called kantakasodhana, is concerned with such protection of the people 
from anti-social elements like deceitful artisans and traders, thieves, 
dacoits and murderers, as well as their protection from natural cala- 
mities, such as fire, floods etc. 


2 See U. N. Ghoshal, 4 History of Hindu Political Theories, pp. 32-33. 
8 Ibid., p. 274. 


118 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


The duty of the ruler to protect his subjects is, however, often ex- 
pressed not in terms of raksana or palana, but in terms of ensuring their 
yogaksema (1.18.7 and elsewhere). This implies something more than 
mere protection of person and property. As is well-known, yoga 
refers to the successful accomplishment of an object, while ksema 
refers to the peaceful, undisturbed enjoyment of that object. Security, 
that is, protection by the state is essential for both. But ensuring the 
two means something more than merely providing security. In fact, 
yogoksema implies the idea of welfare, well-being, including the idea of 
prosperity, happiness and so on. That is why the text asserts, “ In 
the happiness of the subjects lies the happiness of the king, and in what 
is beneficial to the-Subjects his own benefit etc.” (1.19.34). It is 
not possible to agree with W. Ruben who thinks that these words are 
not to be taken seriously, that the pious sentiments expressed by the 
author are only make-believe and that of inner piety there is very 
little. That by ensuring the subjects’ happiness and welfare the ruler 
ensures his own happiness and welfare is not a mere pious sentiment. 
It is a natural corollary that follows from the thesis that if the subjects 
are not happy and contented they might become disaffected towards 
the ruler, and that might be the end of his rule. We shall presently 
see that in the last analysis the ruler in this Sastra is dependent on the 
suffrage of the ruled. 

In order to do what is beneficial to the subjects, the state is expected 
to engage in various kinds of activity. The ruler is to undertake such 
karmans or activities as sunyanivesana, settlement on virgin land, ~ 
setubandha, building of dams, tanks and other irrigational works, 
vraja, providing pastures for cattle, vanikpatha, opening trade-routes 
and ensuring safety on them, khani, working of mines and so on. In 
Chapter 2.1, these activities are specially prescribed (2.1.1, 19-20). 
Besides, in all discussions on matters of foreign relations, these state 
activities are intended to be always kept in view by the ruler as objec- 
tives to be achieved. In fact, the vijigisu is advised even to enter into 
a treaty with his natural enemy, in order that he may be able to outwit 
him in the matter of these undertakings, such a treaty being called 
karmasamdhi (Chapters 7.11 and 12). These undertakings, it cannot 
be denied, are meant to further the well-being of the subjects. 


That the ruler is to allow the interests of the subjects to prevail 
over those of the state is stated in another context. Itis laid down that 
the sale of commodities, whether indigenous or imported, should be 
-arranged in sucha way that the subjects are benefited thereby (pra- 
janam anugrahena) and that any profit that may be harmful to the 


4 ‘Materialismus in Leben des alten Indien’, Acta Orientalia, XIII (1935), p. 178. 


THE STATE IN KAUTILYA 119 


subjects should be avoided (2.16.4-6). The rule is repeated in 4.2.27,385. 
Further it is said that when the subjects are struck down by natural 
calamities, the ruler should take care of them like a father (4.3.48). 
This idea that the king should be as a father to his subjects is referred 
to elsewhere also (2.1.18). The ideal set before the ruler is that of 
paternalisti¢ rule. Perhaps this ideal preserves the memory of the 
very ancient times when the head of the tribe or clan was in actual 
fact the paterfamilias of the entire group. The ideal persisted, thbugh 
the structure of social and state organisation had materially changed. 
In fact, the paternalistic ideal continued to be regarded as the ideal 
even in the princely states that had survived till the other day. 


The fact that the state is to concern itself with the welfare of the 
- subjects might lead one to suppose that we have here something like 
the idea of a ‘ welfare state’. This may seem to be supported by the 
reference to ‘those who have necessarily to be maintained’ by the 
state (1.12.1) and to the duty of the state to maintain minors, aged 
persons and those in distress when these have no one to look after 
them (2.1.26). It can also be justly maintained that the Arthasastra 
state is no police state nor a merely tax-gathering state. Never- 
theless, the idea of a welfare state of to-day is evidently bound up 
with industrialism and its attendant evils. Of this there was precious 
little in ancient India. 


There is another aspect of the protection which is laid down as the 
ruler’s duty. Protection also implies the protection of the social 
order founded on the system of varnas and dgramas. The ruler is 
asked to see that every one carries out the duties of the varna or asrama 
to which he belongs as laid down in the Trayidharma or the Vedic way 
of life (1.8.4,16-17). After conquering the earth the viigisu is advised 
to enjoy it by maintaining the social order in conformity with the 
varndsrama system (18.4.62). This kind of social order is regarded as 
sacrosanct, as having behind it the sanction of the Vedas. Any dis- 
turbance of this order is not to be tolerated, as that would lead to 
samkara or a confusion of the varnas and their duties, which might result 
in the destruction of society, and, by implication, of the state itself 
(1.8.14-15). The preservation of the Vedic social order is thus a duty 
laid on the ruler. Consequently, it can be said that the Vedic religion 
is to-be the state religion. That, however, does not mean that a 
theological state is thought of in this astra. No organised theological 
body was there to intervene in affairs of the state to safeguard religious 
interests or to enforce religious sanctions. 


How is, the ruler to ensure the protection of the subjects? That 


is to be done with the help of danda, which is the symbol of the ruler’s 
authority (1.4.16). With the help of danda the ruler is to prevent 


120 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


might from proving right and to enable the weak to hold their own 
against the strong. In the absence of danda the strong would swallow 
up the weak and there would be anarchy everywhere (1.4.18-15). It 
is, of course, obvious that danda represents the coercive power of the 
state. 


The use of danda requires great care. Only a just use of danda 
secures the protection of the people, while at the same time it ensures 
happiness for the ruler in the next world (8.1.42). An unjust or 
improper use of this power by the ruler might lead to serious con- 
sequences, the most serious being a revolt (kopa) of the subjects against 
the ruler (1.4.12). The text very frequently refers to the possibility 
of the subjects being discontented (atusta) or even disaffected (apa- 
carita). It enumerates a very large number. of acts on the part of the 
ruler which are likely to make the subjects disaffected with his ruie 
(7.5.19-26). It is added that if the subjects become disaffected they 

‘may join hands with the ruler’s enemies or may rise in revolt and 
themselves slay him (7.5.27). The threat of prakrtikopa or a revolt 
of the people is expected to serve as a check on the wanton use of his 
coercive power by the ruler. This shows at the same time how the 
ruler’s authority is, in the last analysis, dependent on the content- 
ment of the subjects. These latter may have no voice in the choice 
of the ruler; but it is they who have, in the ultimate analysis, the 
power to allow him to continue or to remove him depending on how 
he behaves. The Sastra has nothing against regicide if the ruler is 
unjustly behaved or fails to protect the subjects. 


A question that has assumed some importance. because of its 
supposed bearing on the problem of the date of this text is that about 
the size of the state which it has in view.® There seems to be little 
reason to doubt that the state for the regulation of which the Sastra 
came into being is one of a moderate size. Its entire teaching on the 
foreign relations of a state is based on the theory of the mandala, which 
presupposes the simultaneous existence of at least a dozen states. 
These may be presumed to have been situated in the cakravartikseira, 
that is, within the borders of India. At most, therefore, the state 
visualised in the Sastra can be supposed to be as large as a modern 
State in present-day India. This is not a small size by any reckoning. 
However, the state conceived in the early theory appears to be smaller 
than this. Of the seven prakrtis, that concerned with the state’s 
territory is called ganapada. Unlike later works like the Manusmrit, 
this text does not use the word rdstra for the purpose, as a reference to 
6.1.1,8, 8.1.5ff. will clearly show. Now a janapada, in its origin, 


5 See pp. 68ff. above. 


THE STATE IN KAUTILYA 121 


appears to have been the territory on which a particular people or 
tribe was settled, the Pdficdla Janapada, the Kosala Janapada and 
soon. There is the well-known reference to the sixteen mahajanapadas 
in Buddhist literature presumably in existence at the \time of the rise 
of Buddhism. When it is remembered that all these sixteen janapadas 
were situated in the north and north-east of India, it becomes obvious 
- that the average size of a janapada has to be assumed to be much 
smaller than that suggested by the theory of the mandala. 


Moreover, there are many indications in the text that it has in 
view a comparatively small-sized state. In Chapter 1.19 the king is 
asked to look personally into the affairs of his subjects (1.19.26ff.). 
There is no hint there that judges are to be entrusted with this work, 
though elsewhere (in Book Three) the appointment of judges is referred 
to. It appears that the earlier Chapter represents a state of things 
when the king did personally look into the affairs of all his subjects. 
That was possible when the territory over which the ruler had sway 
was comparatively small. Similarly, Chapter 2.1, which refers to 
settlement on virgin land, creates the impression that an entirely new 
janapada could be brought into being by such new settlements 
(abhiitapirvam vad janapadam..... nivesayet, 2.1.1). The Chapter seems 
to indicate that the janapada is to contain 800 gramas, with a sthaniya 
at its centre (2.1.4). This sthdniya in the centre of the janapada is in 
fact the fortified capital of the janapada to which all revenue is brought 
(2.8.8). It is stated elsewhere that the samdharir should divide the 
janapada into four divisions for revenue and administrative purposes 
(2.35.1). This janapada, under the administrative control of the 
samahartr, could not have been very large. It is hardly possible to 
suppose that janapada represents not the entire territory of the state 
but only a unit of administration, as is understood by Kosambi.® 
If that suggestion were accepted we would have to assume that there 
are to be as many samdharirs as there are such administrative units. 
The text, however, throughout presupposes only one samdahartr. 
Besides, in the theory of the seven prakrtis, janapada could never 
have meant a unit of administration. 


Nevertheless, a much larger state is indicated by the scale of 
salaries laid down for the various state servants in Chapter 5.3. We 
find there salaries as high as 48,000 panas per annum for a large cate- 
gory of dignitaries. When we remember that the pana in this text 
is a silver coin, the total salaries recommended for the various grades 
of servants would appear to be possible only in a state with large 
resources at its command and hence one that is fairly large in size.” 


6 ‘Ancient Kosala and Magadha’, JBBRAS, 27 (1951), p. 205. 
7 See B. K. Sarkar, THQ, I (1925), p. 751. 


122 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


It seems that when the Sastra was first formulated it was primarily 
concerned with a state of a comparatively small size; but in view of 
its recommendation to expand the territory by conquest, it came, in 
course of time, to provide for a much larger-sized state. The text 
has taken note of such developments. But on the whole it has pre- 
served the basic form of the teaching of the Sastra, which was originally 
concerned with a small-sized state. 


As regards the forms of government, monarchy, that is, the rule 
of a single individual is tacitly assumed to be the normal form. The 
position of the monarch seems to have changed from what it was in 
the Vedic age. There is no reference to the election of the king, to the 
rainins or the king-makers, to the sabhd and the samiti, of which we 
read in the Vedic literature. The ArthaSaéstra theory may be assumed 
to have originated in an age when monarchs had assumed more or less 
absolute control over the state machinery. That was the age just 
before or about the time of the rise of Buddhism, the literature of 
which reveals the existence at that time of monarchies more or less of 
the same type which the Sastra has in view. One need not suppose . 
that it was the Sastra that brought such absolute monarchies into 
being. More likely, it merely took note of facts as it found them and 
framed its rules accordingly. 


Deviations from the normal form of monarchy are considered in 
Chapter 8.2, a deviation being regarded as a vyasana or calamity that 
has affected rulership. The first vyasana to be considered is dvairdjya, 
therule of two. This does not involve partition of the kingdom between 
two rulers, as is the case with the dvairdjya ordered to be established 
in Vidarbha by Agnimitra according to the Mdlavikagnimitra of 
Kalidasa in Act VY. That would be only a duplication of the normal 
monarchy; it would not involve deviation from the normal. As under- 
‘ stood in this text, dvairdjya is joint rule over the whole kingdom by 
two rulers such as a father and son or two brothers (pitdputrayor 
bhratror vd, 8.2.7). The good and bad points of this sort of rule are 
discussed in a comparison of this form with another fori, vatrdjya. 
The discussion shows that the earlier teachers saw a greater danger in 
dvairdjya, as it was likely to create two parties in the kingdom leading 
to mutual rivalry and ultimate ruin of the kingdom. Kautilya himself 
prefers dvairajya to vairdjya. He argues that it is possible for the 
two rulers to hold the likely two parties in check and to avoid all rivalry. 


The vatradjya, with which doairdjya is compared, is really not a 

. different form of government. It means only rule by a foreign ruler, 
who has seized the kingdom by force and ousted the legitimate ruler. 
The earlier teachers had preferred vairdjya on the ground that the 
foreign ruler is likely not to disturb the state of things which he finds 


THE STATE IN KAUTILYA 1238 


in the kingdom and might allow things to go on as before since that 
would help him to win over the subjects to his rule. Kautilya himself 
disapproves of vairdjya. He argues that the foreign ruler, having no 
interest in the welfare of the conquered state, is likely to deplete it of 
its men and resources, or to sell it for money to a third party, or if 
altogether disgusted with the people there, just leave them to their 
fate and go away. 


K. P. Jayaswal has attempted to show:that vairdjya is a kind of 
‘kingless constitution’, by which he apparently means something 
corresponding to anarchy.* His view, however, does not appear to 
be correct as it is based on an inaccurate rendering of the passage in 
question.® His translation of it reads, “‘ Nobody feels in a vairajya 
government the feeling of ‘mine’ (with regard to the state), the aim 
of political organism is rejected, any one can sell away (the country), 
no one feels responsible, or one, becoming indifferent, leaves the state.” 
In the sentence in question, the subject for kargayati, apavahayati and 
panyam karoti, cannot be ‘any one’, i.e., any citizen. Only a ruler 
can engage in the activities of reducing (kargana), carrying away 
(apavahana) or selling (panyam kr) a country or its populace. As 
9.4.8 and other passages in the text show, these are the things which a 
king generally intends to do to his enemy’s country or people. It is 
also not possible to agree that vairdjya means ‘aristocracy’ ruling 
under authority from the janapada or the entire body of people, as H. 
K. Deb thinks.!° The text contains nothing that can justify this view. 


The foreign ruler implied in vairdjya is, however, not necessarily 
any one from beyond the frontiers of India. The ruler thought of is 
one from a neighbouring state in India itself. It is, therefore, not 
quite right to find in the passage a reference to Alexander’s invasion 
and the occupation of the Punjab by the Greeks as is sometimes done. 
Kautilya’s predecessors, who presumably lived before Alexander’s 
invasion, already knew vairdjya. Moreover, the description in the 
passage is hardly applicable to Greek or other foreign occupation of 
parts of India. 


It must be remembered that dvairdjya is preferred by Kautilya 
only in comparison with vairdjya. Considered by itself or in compari- 
son with the rule of a single monarch, it is certainly characterised 
by drawbacks, to which the earlier teachers had drawn attention. 


8 HP, I, pp. 92-94. 
9 asd (or dud) I Sad: Meher aacaait ARTA: wea 
qateate wa at Hula facet at Iiecasaretesdiia | KA, 8.2.8. 
10 H. K. Deb, IHQ, XIV (1988), pp. 871-3872. 


11 For example, by I. Topa, The Minister as a King-maker (Allahabad, 1941), 
pp. 62-638. 3 


124 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


Kautilya would probably have agreed with them in the matter of these 
drawbacks, if only vairdjya had not been brought in for comparison. 


Similar to dvairdjya appears to be the rule by the kula or kula- 
samgha, which is recommended in order to ensure continuity when 
succession to the throne is in doubt because of the incompetence of the 
ruling monarch’s son. It is stated that a kulasamgha is difficult to 
conquer and can continue to rule forever (1.17.53). This appears to be 
a, sort of condominium, with all adult members of the royal family 
constituting a ruling council. Such a council can perpetuate itself 
for ever, depletion caused by death etc. being made good by new 
members coming in on the attainment of majority. Though the text 
refers to rule by the kulasamgha in appreciative terms, it is recommended 
only as an emergency measure. It is obvious that such a rule is likely 
to lead to difficulties in actual practice. The rivalries of dvairdjya 
may be multiplied. In fact, concerning ‘royal families having the 
characteristics of a samgha (samghadharminam rajakuldnam, 8.3.64)’ it 
is stated elsewhere that they are particularly susceptible to disruption 
and ruin through dissensions caused by gambling. A sarmghadharmin 
rajakula is obviously the same as kulasamgha. 


The samgha type of rule is mentioned in Book Eleven, which is 
called samghavrtta. The purpose of the Book is to show how the 
vijigisu should try to secure the submission of the samghas to his 
suzerainty. We do not find there many details about the constitution 
of a samgha. ‘Two types are, however, distinguished. One is vdrtia- 
sastropajivin, that is, engaged in agriculture, cattle-rearing or trade 
in peace-time, but easily taking to arms in case of need. Such samghas 
may be supposed to be composed essentially of martial clans. The 
other type is called rdjasabdopajivin ‘living by the designation or title 
of king.’ The significance of this expression is not made clear, but it 
seems to mean that all those who formed the council of rulers in the 
samgha bore the title of rajan or king.!* A samgha of either type had 
apparently more than one chief (mukhya) at the head. For, creating 
dissensions among the different mukhyas of a samgha is the principal 
means recommended in the Chapter for securing its submission. 
However, in the concluding Sloka in that Chapter, where advice is 
given on how the samgha should resist the attempts to secure its sub- 
mission, a single samghamukhya is referred to. Such may have been 
the case in some samghas. It is not possible to say from what we have 
in the text how the mukhyas came to occupy the position at the head of 


12 A. L. Basham remarks that the Arthasdsira probably refers ironically to 
the martial arrogance and practical ineptitude of the republics when it states that 
the members of the seven namcd tribes ‘ make a living by their title of raja.’ (The 
Wonder that was India, p. 97). 


THE STATE IN KAUTILYA 125 


the saigha. It may be that the chiefs were drawn from certain fixed 
families. In any case, it is evident that they formed the ruling council. 
The samgha would thus appear to be a sort of oligarchy. In its origin 
it seems to have been a confederation of clans, each clan retaining its 
chief and all the chiefs together forming the ruling council of the 
samgha. 


It is stated that it is more advantageous to the vijigisw to get a 
samgha on his side than to obtain troops or to secure an ally. The 
reason is that the samgha is more closely knit and hence difficult to 
overpower (11.1.1-2). It is thus thought to be a better fighting unit 
than ordinary troops and more steadfast in alliance than an ordinary 
ally. It may be assumed that the constitution of the samgha was 
able to instil a feeling of solidarity among the confederating units. 
The presence of a number of chiefs on the ruling council also prevented 
any sudden shift of policy, such as is likely to be the case with a’single 
ruler, whose actions may be swayed by his personal whims. Never- 
theless, the fact that there were many chiefs in the samgha was also 
likely to be the principal cause of its undoing. The Chapter itsclf 
shows at length how easy it must have been to create dissensions among 
them. That there were ‘high’ and ‘low’ persons in.a samgha, between 
whom marriage relations and taking meals together were considered 
improper is shown by 11.1.10-11. 


The Arthasdstra mentions some samghas of the two types by name. 
The first type is illustrated in the expression kambojasurdstraksatriya- 
srenyddayah (11.1.4). This is often understood to mean ‘Kamboja, 
Surastra and other Ksatriya clans.’ This, as K. P. Jayaswal has 
pointed out, does violence to the position of addi in the compound. 
He regards Ksatriya and Sreni as names of two other sas‘.ghas of the 
first type. The former hé identifies with the Xathroi mentioned by 
the Greek historians. As to the Srenis, he identifies them with Sinae 
found in the latter part of Agesinae (standing for Agra-Sreni) mention- 
ed by those historians.1% The former of these identifications seems 
plausible; the latter, however, is very doubtful. Perhaps, despite the 
grammatical difficulty we have to fall back on the other explanation. 
In any case, it is clear that this type of samgha prevailed in regions in 
the north-west and west of India. 


As samghas of the second type are mentioned Licchivika, Vrjika, 
Mallaka, Madraka, Kukura, Kuru, Paiicdéla and others (11.1.5). Of 
these Madra and Vrji are known to Paiini as names of samghas. 
Buddhist sources refer to Vrjis, Mallas and Licchivis. The last-named 
preserved their identity up to the Gupta period. The Kukuras were, 


18 HP, I, pp. 61-62. 


126 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


according to Jayaswal, a member of the Andhaka-Vrsni league. 
The present text refers to the Vrsni-samgha in another connection 
(1.6.10). As to the Kurus and Paiicalas, the Mahabharata shows them 
to have been monarchies. Most of the sammghas of the second type 
were established in U. P. and North Bihar; only the Madrakas are 
known to have been settled in the Punjab. 

The sathgha form of rule is quite ancient. L. dela Vallée Poussin 
has argued that many of the samghas known to Panini represent 
Bactrian clans that had penetrated into India before the invasion of 
Alexander.!S Following a suggestion of Przyluski, Tarn has stated 
that the Madras were probably a Saka clan (as indicated by the name, 
Sagala, of their capital) who had come to India shortly before the 
Persian conquest of North-west Jndia.1® Some of the other samghas, 
too, such as the Kambojas and the Licchivis, were probably non-Aryan 
in origin. Most of the samghas mentioned in the text appear to have 
disappeared early. There is no proof of the survival of most of them 
beyond the Maurya age, which would appear to be an indication of 
its early date.’ 

It should be pointed out that though the vijigisw is advised to 
tackle the sashghas with a view to securing their allegiance, the author 
is not against samgha rule as such. In fact, in his characteristic 
manner he gives advice to the samghas on how to withstand and frus- 
trate the tactics which the pijigisu is likely to use in order to overcome 
their resistance. The text recommends that the chiefs should be just 
and benign in their dealings with members of their samghas, so that 
there is no scope for the creation of dissensions among them (11.1.55- 
56). It is, therefore, hardly right to suggest that the Chapter shows 
Kautilya’s anxiety to do away with the samghas for the sake of building 
up an empire or that he set himself to the task of undermining their 
power.'® In the opening sitras of the Chapter it is said that it is better 
to have a samgha on your side than to acquire an army or to secure an 
ally. Unlike these the samgha is invincible. So long as a samgha is 
friendly to the vijigisu, he is advised to make use of it with the ex- 
pedients of saman and dana. It is only if a samgha proves: hostile to 
the vijigisu that he is advised to use bheda or danda to overcome its 


14 Ibid., p. 59. 
15 L’Inde aux Temps des Mauryas etc., (Paris 1930), p. 14. 

16 The Greeks in Bactria and India (Cambridge, 1938), p. 171. 

17 See p. 99 above. 

18 Cf. R. C. Majumdar, Corporate Life in Ancient India (Calcutta, 1922), p 
253ff.; also The Age of Imperial Unity (Bombay, 1951), p. 334. A similar ae 
is expressed by K. A. Nilakunta Sastri in Age of the Nena and the Mauryas 
areas, 1952), p. 173. 


THE STATE IN KAUTILYA 127 


hostility.1° This is understandable in view of the ideal of establishing 
his suzerainty over all states that is set before the vijigisu. It shows 
no special desire to uproot the sarnghas. And if the author had enter- 
tained such a desire, he would not have tendered the advice to the 
samghas to guard themselves against the machinations of the viigisu.*° 


Whatever the form of government, the presence of certain elements 
is essential to make a state. This is embodied in the well-known doc- 
trine of prakrtis. Of these seven are enumerated : sudmin, the ruler, 
amdtya, the minister, janapada, the territory with people settled 
on it, durga, the fortified capital, Koga, the treasury, danda, the army 
and mitra, the ally (6.1.1). The last in this list, viz., the ally is 
the ruler of a different similarly organised state and forms no part 
of the other state’s internal organisation. His mention is primarily 
in connection with that state’s foreign relations. There are thus six 
essential elements in a state. This analysis of the elements that make 
up a state’s organisation is obviously made from the practical stand- 
point of administration. There is first the ruler, then the ministers 
who assist him in his rule, the populated territory over which he rules, 
the fortified capital from which he rules and the treasury and army that 
ensure the stability and security of his rule. It is to be noted that in 
this analysis the citizens of the state are not directly referred to. Their 
existence is to be understood by implication in the reference to the 
janapada. For, it is stated elsewhere.in Kautilya’s own words that 
there can be no janapada without people living in it (13.4.5). This 
doctrine of the prakrtis, therefore, throws no light on the nature of 
the relation that may be assumed to exist between the state and its 
citizens. 

The prakriis are enumerated in accordance with their relative 
importance. This is made clear in the course of a long discussion on 
the relative seriousness of the vyasanas befalling them (Chapter 8.1). 
It is no doubt added at the end that if a vyasana of any prakrii brings 
about the ruin of all the other prakrtis, that vyasana must be regarded 
as most serious whatever the place of that prakrii in the order of 
enumeration (8.1.68). That does not, however, affect the general 
proposition that each earlier prakrti in the list is more important than 
each later one. And, of course, there can be no doubt that the ruler 
is the most important of all the prakrtis. It is significant that the 
word used for the ruler in this context is sv@min, which primarily means 
the owner or the master. It is also stated that the ruler, referred to 


19 Hae VSS: | AAT fe Petcare qea: TIT | ATA 
TY YSitt AHA, Fay AaeVSTATY | KA, 1.1.1.8. 


20 THRATAAAACM Tac eAaaaAAT AT TAT: | KA, 1.1.55. 


128 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


as the king, and his rulership, referred to as rdjya, sum up all the 
prakrtts (8.2.1). Though the expression raj@ rdjyam in this sutra’ 
does not convey the same idea as the French L’etat, c’est moi, it does 
bring out the importance of the king in the state set-up. 


The special position of the king in a state set-up might lead one to 
think that the state as such has hardly any existence independent 
of the king. U.N. Ghoshal, for example, has argued that the state 
was largely identified with the king. Though this is true in a sense, 
one of the reasons given for holding this view, namely, the relatively 
large number of items (in vyayasarira) comprising what may be called 
the personal expenditure of the king,** will not bear close scrutiny. 
Of the fifteen items of expenditure listed in the vyayasarira in 2.6.11, 
only the first four can be said to refer to the king’s personal expenditure. 
All the other items refer to expenditure on matters connected with 
state activity, such as the appointment of ambassadors, the mainte- 
nance of state stores, the running of state factories, providing for the 
equipment and maintenance of the armed forces and so on. This can 
hardly be regarded as the king’s personal expenditure. It may be 
pointed out in this connection that every item of precious article or 
land, that is delivered to the king or the queen or any of the princes, 
is required to be recorded in the account books (2.7.2). That would 
hardly have been recommended if the treasury were something like 
the king’s personal property. 

However, there is a sense in which the king may be said to be 
identified with the state in the teaching of the Sadstra. State activity 
is mostly represented as something emanating from the king. This is 
true as much of activity like mining, state manufacture, irrigation, 
opening of trade-routes and so on as of maintaining relations with foreign 
states. Often what is received by the state is represented as going to 
the king. Thus we find raja haret (8.9.17, 8.11.40, 3.16.22) or rdja- 
gami nidhih (4.1.52) or dravyam rajadharmyam sydt (8.16.19) when what 
is meant is that the goods or objects become the property of the state 
or escheat toit. It is not meant that they become the king’s personal 
property. The Sastre is addressed to the king, and an abstract con- 
ception like the state is not always distinguished from the personal 
ruler. But though the Sastra is concerned with guarding and furthering 
the rule of the personal ruler, one cannot understand it to mean that it 
recommends a policy of personal aggrandizement at the cost of the 
subjects’ welfare or the general good of the state. 


The Sastra refers to three saktis or powers that poersten in a state. 
ney, are uisdhasakti, the personal energy and drive of the ruler himself, 


21 Contributions to the History of the Hindu Revenue System (Calcutta, 1929), 
Pp: 154. 


THE STATE IN KAUTILYA 129 


prabhdvasakti, the power of the army and treasury, and mantrasaktt, 
the power of counsel and diplomacy. These powers are thought of in 
connection with a state’s relations with other states and have no bearing 
on the internal structure of a state’s organisation. That is why Kau- 
tilya in his own words maintains, as against the opinion of the earlier 
teachers, that prabhdvasakti is more important than utsdhasakti and 
that mantragsakti is more important than both. With wise counsel 
and clever diplomacy a king can easily overcome energetic or mighty 
rivals (9.1.2-16). So far as the internal organisation of the state is 
concerned there can be no doubt about the king being the supreme head 
(8.1.28). 


From the discussion in Chapter 8.2 it would appear that according 
to Kautilya himself the ruler to be preferred is one who is a native of 
the territory, who follows the teaching of the Sastra, who is free from 
disease and is strong and of noble birth.** More specifically, a large 
number of qualities expected in an ideal ruler are enumerated in 6.1.2-6. 
These include abhigamikah gundah, qualities that inspire confidence in 
others and make the ruler easily approachable, such as nobility of 
birth, piety, truthfulness and so on, prajiiagunah, qualities of the intel- 
lect, such as ability to understand, to think and so on, and wtsdha- 
gundah, qualities like bravery, quickness of decision, strength of mind 
andsoon. All these together constitute sudmisampad, that is, qualities 
that make an excellent ruler. Besides, personal qualities like eloquence, 
bo'dness, memory etc. are called dimasampad, which apparently are 
not essential for rulership as such. The list of qualities is quite exhaus- 
tive and, as Hillebrandt says, ‘ not free from romantic idealism.’* 


A ruler born with all these qualities must indeed be rare. Training 
(vinaya) of the ruler is, therefore, regarded as quite essential. The most 
important aspect of the training is the study of various branches of 
learning. The study of Anviksiki or the philosophical disciplines, 
Trayi or the Vedic lore, Vartta or the economic sciences and Dandaniti 
or the political science, is insisted on by Kautilya himself against the 
Opinion of the earlier schools who would drop one or more of these 
disciplines from the curriculum of the prince (Chapters 1.2-4). The 
study of Trayi is necessary for understanding the genesis of the varna 
and dgrama system and the need to safeguard it. The study of Vartta 


22 From the fact that in 8.2.22-25 Kautilya prefers a nobly born scion of the 
ruling family to an upstart who has seized the throne, Meyer concludes that these 
are the words of Canakya who has fallen from the rains of favour to the gutter and 
who is now bitter against the low upstart whom he had helped to power. From 
the same statements Jolly draws the conclusion that the author could not have 
been the minister who had helped an upstart to power. This shows how untrust- 
worthy such conclusions about the author can be. Probably the statements have 
nothing to do with any personal experience. 

23 Altindische Politik (Jena, 1923), p. 68. 


130 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


would enable the ruler to understand and regulate the economic life 
of thestate. The study of Dandaniti is necessary for maintaining peace 
and order in the realm so that wealth and prosperity may increase. 
Finally, the study of Anviksiki is necessary as it sharpens the intellect, 
enabling the ruler to distinguish right from wrong and to gain equanimity 
and an equable temper. Kautilya seems to attach the highest impor- 
tance to the study of Anviksiki, represented by the three philosophical 
systems of Simkhya, Yoga and Lokayata. Philosophy, he says, throws 
light on all other branches of learning, giving them their significance, 
and it provides a rational basis for all actions and duties (1.2.12). 
That Anviksiki is not Tarkavidya or the science of reasoning has al- 
ready been indicated.*4 

The menticn of the system of the Lokiéyatas along with and on the 
same footing as the systems of Samkhya and Yoga indicates that this 
purely materialistic and hedonistic system of thought was not treated, 
in the author’s day, with the ridicule and contempt with which it was 
treated in later times. According to the commentators, the system 
was founded by Brhaspati. It is not certain if this Brhaspati is to be 
identified with the supposed founder of the Barhaspatya school of 
Arthasastra. In any case, since Lokayata is placed on par with 
Samkhya and Yoga, it can hardly be understood as used “‘ only in the 
sense of logic, based on premises derived from ordinary experience 
(loka),”” as Kane says.*5 


The requirement that the ruler should be trained in philosophy is, 
of course, not the same thing as Plato’s plea that philosophers should 
be kings. But the recommendation that philosophy should be a part 
of the ruler’s training was no mere pious hope of the Sastra. History 
shows many examples of kings who were deeply learned. Referring 
to some Upanisadic kings, Hillebrandt says, ‘‘ The emphasis on thie 
necessity of philosophical study is no theoretical requirement of the 
text-books. We must free ourselves from the idea that the destiny of 
India lay only in the hands of voluptuous and indolent tyrants and sub- 
stitute for it a picture derived from historical examples that the rulers 
of India stood on a higher rung of contemporary culture.”6 


Acquisition of learning is, however, not enough for the ruler. 
He must be able to exercise control over his senses (indriyajaya), and 
keep such passions as lust, anger, avarice, pride and so on in check 
(1.6). It is also considered essential that he should avoid addiction 
to vices. Seven vydsanas or vices, three arising from a wrathful 
temper and four originating in lust are mentioned and their relative 


24, See pp. 99-100 above. 
25 HD, Ill, p. 47. 
26 Altindische Politik, pp. 62-63. 


THE STATE IN KAUTILYA 131 


seriousness discussed at length (8.3). It is declared that a vyasana 


prevents him from realising his own highest good (vyasyati enari 
greyasah, 8.1.4). 


This does not mean, however, that the ruler is expected to lead 
the life of an ascetic or a saint. There is an interesting discussion on 
how the ruler should adjust his conduct in respect of the three goals 
of dharma, artha and kama (1.7.3-7). One view is that he should 
enjoy kama or a life of sensual pleasures in such a way that thereby his 
dharma and artha are not affected adversely. According to another 
view, all three should be cared for in an equal measure. Finally, 
Kautilya’s own opinion is stated that the ruler should regard artha 
alone as supreme, since the other two are dependent on it. It is clear 
that while the first two views are applicable to any individual, not the 
ruler alone, the final view takes into account the special position of the 
ruler and his responsibility to ensure material prosperity not only for 
himself, but also for the subjects. 


Many scholars seem to have got the impression that there is a 
difference in outlook between the Rajadharma sections of the Smrtis 
and the Arthasdstra in the matter of the duties laid down for the king. 
It has been asserted, e.g., “Since Rajadharma (in Smrti) is equi- 
valent to the whole duty of the king, its rules are determined by the 
ideal of the highest good of this individual. The dArthasdstra, on the 
other hand, has avowedly for its end the security and prosperity of 
the state. Accordingly, its rules of kingly conduct are determined 
primarily with reference to the interests of the state alone.’’*” There 
seems little justification for such a distinction. The ideal of the highest 
good of the king as an individual is not something unknown to this 
text. It says, for example, “‘ The king, ensuring the observance of his 
own duty by everyone, obtains happiness in this world and in the next.” 
(1.8.16) or ‘‘ The observance of his own duty by the king leads to heaven” 
(3.1.41). On the other hand, the duties of the king as laid down in 
the Smrtis do not in any way differ from what we find in this text. 
The Manusmrit, for example, the foremost among Smrtis that deal with 
Rajadharmas at length, does so in 226 Slokas in Chapter 7. Except 
for 9 out of the 226 Slokas, the Chapter deals only with the king’s duty 
‘ vis-a-vis the state and not in his personal capacity. Thus we have 
mention of the king’s duty to protect (Sloka 2), his divine origin (3-13), 
the creation of danda for his use (14-82), his duty to maintain the 
varnas and dsramas (85), the training of the king (87-43), the need to 
control the senses and avoid vices (44-53), the appointment of ministers 
‘and others (54-68), choice of territory, fort, palace, queen, purohita 


27 U.N. Ghoshal, A History of Hindu Political Theories, p. 81; also the revised 
version A History of Indian Political Ideas ( Bombay, 1959), p. 82. - 


182 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


etc. (69-78), warfare (87-98), obtaining new gains etc. (99-101), the use 
of updyas (102-109), treatment of the subjects (110-112), administra- 
tive matters (118-126), taxes (127-139), secret counsel (146ff.), foreign 
affairs (155-180), expeditions of conquest (181-200), winning over of 
a conquered territory (201-205), foreign affairs again (206-215), and 
the daily routine of the king (216-226). And all this is treated in the 
same manner and with the same outlook as the Arthasdstra. The 
only places where Manu may be said to have the highest good of the 
_ king as an individual in view are Slokas 32-34 : ‘“The fame of the king 
behaving justly spreads, that of one behaving unjustly contracts’ 
etc.; 79: “He should perform sacrifices and give gifts to Brahmins” 
and 82-86 (where gifts to Brahmins are extolled). But even these 
ideas, except perhaps the homily on gifts to Brahmins, are not unknown 
to the Arthdsdstra. It, too, refers to the king finding happiness in this 
world and the next, it also insists on a life of virtue and piety by the 
king (1.3.16, 1.19.17,23 etc.). Itis, therefore, hardly possible to main- 
tain that the Smrtis have a different outlook on this question. 


In the course of the discussion on the relative importance of the 
king and the minister, Kautilya refers to duties which devolve.on the 
king himself. He is the one who appoints or removes ministers, who 
assigns tasks to them, who sees to it that none of the prakrtis suffers 
from a drawback or defect and who honours or punishes according to 
deserts. It is the king who sets the tone to the whole administration. 
As he is, so do the other prakrtis become. For he is the head of the state 
(8.1.18-18). The supremacy of the ruler is brought out in the clearest 
possible terms. 


But no ruler, however competent or powerful, can run the state 
single-handed. Says the text, ‘‘ One wheel (alone) does not turn (and 
keep the cart in motion)”’ (1.7.9). He is to have help-mates in his task. 
The most important of these are, of course, the ministers, constituting 
the second prakrti called amdtya. There is, however, one dignitary, 
the purohita, who apparently is not a part of the actual administrative 
machinery, but who occupies a very important position in the counsels 
of the king. It is said, indeed, that the king should be guided by the 
purohita as a pupil is by his teacher or a son by his father or a servant 
by his master (1.9.10). Itis added that ksatra, i.e. royal power, prospers 
only if supported by the power of the Brahmin (1.9.11). This idea is 
very old. But though the purohita in practice must have wielded 
great influence over the king and, through him, over the administration, 
he does not seem to occupy any position in the administrative set-up. 
It is no doubt required that he should be well-versed in Dandaniti. 
But it is not even certain that he is included in the council of ministers 
with whom the king is to hold secret consultations. So far as can be 


THE STATE IN KAUTILYA 133 


inade out, his official functions seem restricted to the sphere of religious 
and allied ritual.?8 Only when the king looks into the affairs of learned 
men and ascetics is the presence of the purohita by his side considered 
essential (1.19.31). In any case, the purohita was no representative of 
any organised church, claiming an authority superior to that of the secu- 
lar power. There was in India little scope for a clash between the 
church and the state such as is found in the history of the West. The 
purohita was appointed by the king, and his dismissal (1.10.2) as well 


as punishment by the king (9.3.14) are regarded as quite conceivable 
in the text. 


Constitutionally, the state functionary next in importance to the 
king is the amdtya or the mantrin. There is some confusion in the 
use of these two terms.*® The name of the second prakrii is amatya ; 
this term appears to stand for all high officers, whether councillors or 
executive heads of departments. For, the functions of the amdtya 
are stated to be: manira, consultations, karmdnusthdna, execution cf 
undertakings, dandapranayana, infliction of punishment sunyanivesopa- 
cayau, settlement and development of new territories, dandakaranu- 
graha, recovery of fines and taxes and so on (8.1.8,23). Ina few places 
in the text, however, amdtya seems restricted to the chief minister, who 
is in charge of the entire administration and is in fact in a position to 
be a king-maker, as in Chapter 5.6. Such an amdatya is evidently the 
same as the manirin, who is the most prominent dignitary in the state, 
as in 9,3.12-13 and other places. But in other places, amditya appears 
in a lower category than mantrin. Persons with only partial qualifi- 
cations should, it is said, be appointed as amdtyas, but not as mantrins 
(1.8.29). Similarly, only those who come out successfully of all the 
four secret tests are to be appointed as mantrins, while those who pass 
only a smaller number of tests are to be appointed to offices apparently 
held only by amdtyas, such as dharmastha, pradestr and so on (1.10.18-14). 
In such cases, mantrin stands for councillors with whom the king is to 
hold secret consultations, while amdiya refers to executive officers in 
general. It is possible that the amdtya (from amd, together, by the side 
of) was originally the ruler’s personal companion and was not formally 
connected with state administration, though in importance next only 
to the king. The mantrin seems to have been primarily a counsellor 
(from mantra, counsel), who, because of his training and knowledge, 
could give expert advice on state affairs. In this capacity he seems to 
have early taken over the work of actual administration. When that 


28 Cf. “The political power of the purohita was purely individual and had 
its source wholly and solely in the personal influence which he obtained over the 
king through his function as sacrificer and magician.” (R. Fick, Die Sociale Gliederung 
etc., English translation by S. K. Maitra, Calcutta, 1920, p. 175). 

29 © «6Cf, F.Wilhelm, Politische Polemiken etc., pp. 6-7. 


134 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


happened, the term asdtya seems to have lost its primacy and conic 
to designate officers other than the manirin. The confusion in the use 
of the two terms may be due to the circumstance that the text has pre- 
served the terminology of its sources, probably representing different 
stages in this process of development. 


The most important function of the mantrin is to give advice to the 
ruler, At the end of a fairly long discussion Kautilya asserts that the 
king should appoint three or four counsellors, neither more nor less. 
It is argued that a single mantrin would be difficult to control, two might 
quarrel and ruin the state or conspire against the king. At the same 
time, a larger number would affect the secrecy of counsel, on which 
naturally great stress is laid (1.15.84-40). ‘The three or four mantrins 
form a consultative body and the secret consultation is to be about 
undertakings that may have to be carried out. <A manira is said to 
be paricd?ga, i.e., it discusses an undertaking in its five-fold aspect : 
(1) ways and means of starting an undertaking, (2) resources in men and 
materials necessary for it, (3) place and time of its execution, (4) fore- 
stalling obstacles and (5) its successful accomplishment (1.15.42). 
The temptation to find in the three or four mantrins a cabinet as it 
functions in a limited monarchy in the modern days must be resisted. 
The king is supreme in the matter of arriving at decisions, For, it is 
stated that according to circumstances the king may hold consultations 
with one manirin or with two or even with none at all, taking a de- 
cision all by himself (1.15.41). Moreover, the king is advised to seek 
their opinions singly as well as jointly, trying to fathom the motives 
that may have impelled them to express divergent opinions (1.15.43-44). 
There can thus be no question of a cabinet armed with powers to en- 
force its decision on the king. 


Apart from the three or four mantrins, there is to be a mantriparisad, 
which, according to the earlier schools, is to have twelve, sixteen or 
twenty members, but which, in the opinion of Kautilya, should have 
no fixed number. That, he says, should depend on the size and power 
of the state (1.15.47-50). The functions of the parisad are declared 
to be: (1) starting work on a new undertaking, (2) continuing an 
undertaking already begun, (3) improving a work, and (4) implementa- 
tion of orders issued (1.15.52). This implies that the mantriparisad 
is a council of heads of departments concerned with the execution 
of decisions made by the king. The maniriparisad, it seems, is also 
expected to keep a watch on those who may not be loyal to the king 
(1.15.51). It is added that in urgent matters both the mantrins as 
well as the mantriparisad should be summoned for consultation. In 
connection with this meeting, it is stated that the king should follow 
the course of conduct that is recommended by the majority or that is 


THE STATE IN KAUTILYA 135 
capable of leading to the achievement of the object (1.15.58-59),30 
From this K. P. Jayaswal has inferred that the king is not given even 
the power of vetoing.*! There is little justification for such a con- 
clusion. It is quite clear from the siitra that if the king thinks that the 
majority view is not likely to help him achieve his object, he is free 
to reject it and follow a course that would help him to achieve it. And 
the mantriparisad is neither a cabinet in a constitutional monarchy 
nor a sovereign parliament. The mantriparisad is also not similar to 
the Privy Council of Great Britain as R. C. Majumdar thinks.®2 Its 
functions, as mentioned in 1.15.52, are entirely different. 


K. P. Jayaswal has tried to show that the Arthasdstra proves the 
existence of what he calls the Paura and the Janapada, i.e., Assemblies 
of the Capital and of the Realm respectively. These, according to 
him, effectively limited the power of the king, and in fact corresponded 
to the parliament of modern times. He thinks that the Arthasastra, 
too, visualises a monarchy of the type that obtains in present day 
Britain.** It must be submitted that the evidence from this text does 
not support such a thesis at all. We no doubt find the words paura 
and jdnapada used in a number of places in the text. But where they 
are joined in a compound, the expression is invariably used in the plural, 
conveying only the idea of ‘ citizens and country people’. If anything 
like the Paura Assembly and the Janapada Assembly had been thought 
of anywhere, the expression would have been used in the dual or at 


most in the collective singular. That is nowhere the case in the entire 
text. 


Far more important, however, is the interpretation put by Jayaswal 
on the passages where the expression occurs. The passages cannot 
yield the meaning that he finds in them. For example, sauvarnikah 
paurajdnapaddnam ripyasuvarnam avesanibhih karayet (2.14.1) means, 
according to him, that the Paura and Janapada Assemblies should get 
their own gold coins minted at the royal mint.s4 The passage, however, 
really means, ‘‘ The royal goldsmith (sauvarnikah) should get silyer and 
gold articles of the citizens and the country people manufactured by 
workmen.” The entire Chapter 2.14 is concerned with the manufacture 
of silver and gold articles in the state workshop. The sauvarnika is in 
charge of this workshop. He is not connected with the minting of 
coins. That is the concern of the laksanddhyaksa. The minting of coins 
by the latter is described in 2.12.24. Agam, ripya is ‘silver’ and does 


80 aA Aelaser aa: Hafatanc Al Aehald | KA, 1.15.59. 
81 HP, II, p. 118; cf. alsoR.C. Majumdar, Corporate Life in Ancient India, 
p. 180. 
$2 Corporate Life etc., pp. 126-127. 
38 HP, HI, pp: 60ff. 
84 Itid., p. 76. 


136 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


not mean ‘a coin’, for which the word is ruipa. The text does not 
mention a gold coin anywhere ; it knows only silver and copper coins. 
Besides, though suvarna means ‘gold’, ripyasuvarna cannot mean 
*a gold coin’ in view of the position of suvarna in the compound; the 
singular of ruipyasuvarnam would also appear strange, if coins were 
really meant. Moreover, what is one to understand by the supposed 
Assemblies getting coins minted for themselves? These, according to 
Jayaswal himself, are legislating or deliberating bodies. Even if they 
had the power of the purse, as he would have us believe, it is difficult 
to see why they should have coins of their own, apart from the state 
coins manufactured by the laksanddhyaksa. 


Jayaswal has similarly misunderstood paurajdnapadan bhikseta 
in 5.2.88, which, according to him, means that the king should submit 
proposals (for increase in revenue) to the Paura and Janapada Assein- 
blies.8° The entire passage from siitras 31 to 34 shows that it is con- 
cerned with demands for contributions by citizens and country people, 
when the treasury needs replenishment. The samdhartr is to open a 
subscription list for some specific work (samaharta kdryam apadiésya 
paurajanapadan bhikseta). Secret agents are to put a high figure of 
contribution against their own names (yogapurusds ca pirvam atima- 
tram dadyuh). Referring to these high figures, the king is to ask for 
corresponding contributions from the citizens and the country people, 
that is, from the rich and prosperous among them (etena pradesena 
raja paurajanapadan bhikseta). If anyone were to contribute less 
than what was expected of him, he is to be run down by secret agents 
(kapatikas cainan alpam prayacchatah kutsayeyuh). There is no question 
here of approaching any assembly for sanction of increase in taxation 
or anything like that. 


An extremely strange interpretation is put by Jayaswal on the 
words bahulibhite tiksnadh paurdn nisdsvdhadrayeyuh mukhyamg cabhi- 
hanyuh in 12.2.26. He translates : ““ When the Pauras held a general 
meeting to give their votes on the subject, the leaders were to be done 
away with at night secretly.”** Now, the passage in question occurs 
in the following context. The weak king, who is facing an attack by 
a stronger king, is advised to create trouble in the latter’s kingdom so 
that he might return home for overcoming that trouble and the im- 
pending attack by him might be averted. One way of creating trouble 
is this: secret agents, who have already won the confidence of the 
sunyapala or regent in the stronger king’s territory, are to spread 
reports among the people ‘ out of freindship for them’ that the regent 
was heard to have told soldiers and officers ‘‘ The king (who is away for 


85 Ibid., p. 88. 
36 Ibid., pp. 88-89 and n. 


THE STATE IN KAUTILYA 137 


attacking the weak king) is in great danger and may not return alive ; 
seize whatever you can and get rid of your foes.” After this, the text 
continues, ‘‘ When these reports have spread widely (bahulibhite), 
bravoes (in the weak king’s employ) should have the citizens robbed at 
night (tiksndh paurdn nisdsu aGhadrayeyuh) and assassinate the principal 
citizens (mukhydamés cabhihanyuh), saying at the time of the assassina- 
tion, ‘thus are those dealt with who do not obey the regent (evam 
kriyante ye stinyapdlasya na susrisante iti).’”” This last declaration 
is intended to implicate the regent in the murders. There is here 
no meeting of any assembly, no subject for discussion, no voting, 
nothing, in fact, of what Jayaswal reads in the passage. 


Similarly, it is impossible to accept Jayaswal’s interpretation of 
paurajdnapadanadm kadrydni in 1.19.10 as ‘ matters referred to the king 
by Paura and Janapada Assemblies.’*? The expression simply means 
‘the affairs of the citizens and the country people.’ Throughout this 
Chapter, 1.19, the word kdrya refers to matters brought before the 
king by the subjects for redress, as is quite clear from strindm ca karyant 
(sitra 29), kdryam vaidyatapasvinam (31), tapasvinadm tu kdrydni (32), 
kdryarthinam (26) and so on. 

In the expression tirthasabhdasdlapigajanasamavayesu (1.13.2) 
Jayaswal finds (1) the sectional sub-assembly of the Paura in charge of 
the sacred places and public buildings (tirthasabhasalasamavaya), 
(2) the sub-assembly in charge of trades and fnanufactures (pugasama- 
vaya), and (3) the popular assembly (jancsamavaya).** Such an inter- 
pretation is quite unlikely. The passage in question refers to secret 
agents going to gatherings of people (janasamavdya) at a tirtha or sacred 
place, in a sabhd (or a sald) or a piiga, and there carrying on a dispu- 
tation among themselves, one of them running down the king for his 
oppressive taxes and fines and the other defending the king. The 
purpose of the disputation is to find out who among the people are con- 
tented with the ruler and who are not. It is difficult to see what the 
sub-assemblies thought of by Jayaswal have to do with all this. The 
sattrins or secret agents would hardly have occasion for such a dis- 
putation in any sub-assembly of this sort. 


Similarly, the attempt to show that desasamgha, supposed to be 
referred to in desajatikulasamghanam samayasya anapdkarma (3.10.45) 
and in degagrdmajdtisamghamukhyesu (18.5.9) corresponds to the 
so-called Janapada Assembly*® must also be regarded as unsuccessful. 
In both places, samgha is a separate category and not to be construed 
with the preceding words in the compound, as is clearly shown by 


37 Ibid., p. 95. 
38 Ibid., p. 84. 
39 Ibid., pp. 65-67. 


138 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


desasya, jatyah, samghasya and grdmasya used separately in 3.7.40. It 
is also hardly accurate to render samaya in 3.10.45 by ‘a law or a 
resolution agreed upon in an assebmly.’4° In that section, samaya is 
an agreement voluntarily entered into by one person with another, the 
refusal to carry it out constituting the offence cailed samayasya anapa- 
karma. The word also refers to agreements in the sense of customs 
which become binding on a person by the fact of his being a member of 
a 7ati, kula, grdma, dega or samgha. It is these agreements to which 
@ person is not voluntarily a party but which are nonetheless binding 
on him that are referred to in 3.10.45. There is no question of an 
assembly passing any law or resolution. * 


And if the Arthasdstra had really contemplated the creation of any 
such assemblies, it would have referred to them more directly and would 
have also given some indication about their constitution, the method 
of their functioning and so on. A number of questions arise if their 
existence is assumed. How were the two Assemblies formed? Were 
representatives elected to them or did the whole body of citizens in the 
one case and all the people in the country in the other form the two 
Assemblies ? What could have been the basis of representation and 
the mode of election in the former case? In the latter case, where 
and how could the entire body of citizens or all the people in the country- 
side have met? What could the relation between the two Assemblies 
have been like? What happened if the two Assemblies held different 
views or, as Jayaswal would say, passed conflicting resolutions? And 
what could have been the relation between these Assemblies on the one 
liand and the mantrins and the mantriparisad on the other? ‘To such 
questions, which inevitably arise, there is no answer. ‘The idea of a 
sovereign parliament must therefore be regarded as something unknown 
to the Arthasdstra. We have the manirins and the mantriparisad and 
nothing more. : 


D. D. Kosambi has expressed the opinion that Paura and Janapada 
represent the upper class, Paura being ‘ vropertied citizens who had a 
strong following (presumably from tribal splinters).’ These, according 
to him, “enjoyed a special position with respect to the state.’42 The 
Janapada magnate, he thinks, was ‘the head of a patriar¢hal family 
group into which the tribe had split up to form the rdastra territory.’ 
Itis, of course, undeniable that there were propertied citizens and mag- 


40* Idid., p. 106. 

41 For a consideration of Jayaswal’s arguments based on the use of these 
words in other texts, cf. A. S. Altekar, The State and Government in Ancient India 
(Banaras, 1955), pp. 136-146; also N. N. Law, THQ, II (1926), pp. 385-407 
and 688-650. 

42. .4n Introduction to the Study of Inidian History (Bombay, 1956), p. 212. 

43 Ibid., p. 214. 


THE STATE IN KAUTILYA 139 


nates at the head of patriarchal families. But it is extremely doubtful 

if the words paura and jdnapada as they are used in this text refer to 

such upper classes only. In the nearly a dozen and a half places in 

the text where these words occur they convey only the usual sense of 

‘a city-dweller® and ‘a resident of the countryside’ respectively, 

without any suggestion of their social or financial status. We may refer 

to paurajdnapaddnam kdrydni (1.19.10), paurajdnapadanam daréa- 

yet (4.5.13), Sodhayeyuh paurajdnapadan damaith (4.9.28) and so on by 

way of illustration. In 1.13.1 we have paurajanapadan apasarpayet 
which refers to the employment of spies in order to find out the feelings 

of the citizens and the country people towards the ruler. The Chapter 

first mentions the ksudrakas among them (siitras 1-14) and then turns 

to the pradhdnas. The former are the common people or the masses 

and the latter refer to the principal citizens and country people, including 

in particular the high officers of the state, as is shown by sitra 1.13.15. 

The pradhanas or the mukhyas, as they are also called, are no doubt 

distinguished from the common people; but it is not they alone who 

are meant by paura and janapada. If in connection with the making 
of gold and silver articles (2.14.1) or contributions demanded in times of 
emergency (5.2.31ff.) we have to think primarily of rich persons, that 
is only natural in the circumstances. But no upper class as distin- 
guished from the common people is meant even here. Again, in 
$.1.24-82, where pauras are compared with jdnapadas, it is not the 
upper classes alone who are thought of, but all the residents in the 
capital and the countryside respectively. 


It is still more difficult to see what ‘special position with respect to 
the state’ was enjoyed by the supposed upper class of Paura. What 
privileges might have been enjoyed by individuals may be said to be 
due to their wealth or their position. It cannot be said, on the evi- 
dence of this text, that they enjoyed the privileges because they formed 
a special class, called Paura or Janapada. ‘The ksudrakas were as much 
paura or janapada. as the pradhadnas. And as regards the pradhanas 
or the mukhyas, who may be supposed to belong to the upper privileged 
class, it is not quite certain that they formed a hereditary class. In 
fact there is no evidence in the text of a hereditary nobility, resident 
either in the capital or in the countryside. 


There is thus no reason to doubt that there is no constitutional 
check thought of in this text on the absolute power of the monarch. 
What checks are thought of are indirect. In the first place, his entire 
training, particularly in Dandaniti, is expected to impress on him 
the fact that it is in his own interest to make use of his power with 
judiciousness. The fact that he would be brought up to regard the 
Vedic way of life as sacred and the performance of his own duties in 


140 IKAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


accordance with that scheme of life as a means of achieving spiritual 
ends would also serve to make him behave with moderation. The 
purohita would constantly be reminding him of this duty, and that 
would be a sort of a check, though the purohita has no power to en- 
force his will on the ruler. It is stated in the text that the ruler should 
set up preceptors or ministers as the bounds of proper conduct for him- 
self and that they should restrain him when he is engaged in some- 
thing harmful and should remind him of his duties when he is going 
astray (1.7.8). But even this would be no constitutional check. It 
would be a sort of moral pressure, useful so long as the ruler has feelings 
of regard for these persons. Perhaps the most effective check on the 
ruler’s behaviour is likely to be the fear of losing his throne. Oppressive 
rule is bound to lead to discontent among the subjects who might, if 
unable to bear oppression any more, rise in revolt against him and 
bring about his downfall. 


Monarchy is hereditary and Kautilya specifically expresses himself 
in favour of rulership continuing in the same family. He rejects as 
unrighteous and fraught with danger the course recommended by 
Bharadvaja that the minister should not hesitate to grab the kingdom 
if an opportunity were to present itself (5.6.24-82). His own view is 
that in an emergency caused by the ruling monarch’s sudden illness 
or death the minister must do everything in his power to ensure the 
_continuity of ‘rule in the same dynasty. If there is a prince of the 
’ family properly trained, he should of course be invested with ruling 
powers. In case there is no such prince, the minister is advised to 
invest with authority a princess or a widow of the late ruler if she is 
enceinte at the time. In the case of the princess, however, it is laid 
down that a son should be begotten on her and he should be crowned 
in due course. The princess is evidently not to succeed in her own 
right, just as the widow is to wield authority only till a son is born 
to her and is duly crowned. What is more, after a son is begotten 
on her, the princess is not to be allowed to have another child, and 
in order that she may not entertain unwelcome thoughts a person 
from the family is to be her constant companion. Apparently, the 
princess, if she wants her son to succeed to the throne, has to give up 
thoughts of marriage. The reason probably is the fear that her husband 
may seize the throne and rulership may pass into another family 
(5.6.84-42). 

In normal circumstances, the eldest son, it is said, should succeed 
to the throne (1.17.52). If, however, the monarch has an only son 
and that son is disaffected or dangerous, it is recommended that he 
may be placed in confinement or sent into exile. If found totally 
unfit, he may be passed over and succession fixed on that son’s son 


THE STATE IN KAUTILYA 141 


or even on an appointed daughter’s son. In the last resort, a son 
may be begotten on the queen by niyoga (1.17.40-42,48-50). Great 
stress is laid on the worthiness of the prince. Only a prince endowed 
with the requisite qualities is to be crowned as the yuvardja and an 
untrained prince is not to be placed on the throne (1.17.43,51). 


ue question of the treatment to be meted out to the prince who 
may prove a source of danger to the monarch himself is discussed at 
some length. Many of the earlier teachers had suggested some queer 
remedies, including murder at birth, for keeping the prince in check. 
Kautilya himself recommends that attention should rather be paid to 
the proper upbringing of the prince right from the time of his birth. 
If he were to show a tendency to be addicted to any vice, efforts should 
be made through trusted servants to cure him of it (1.17.22-39). 


At the same time the text takes into consideration the possibility 
that a prince may be in disfavour with the monarch for no fault of his 
own. The monarch may be partial to another son or may wish to 
supersede his legitimate claim to the throne. In such a case, the 
prince in disfavour (aparuddha) is advised to humour the monarch and 
to try to win his favour as far as it may be possible. If he finds that 
impossible, he may seek shelter with a neighbouring prince and collect 
forces to seize the father’s kingdom. Among ways recommended 
for seizing the throne is one in which the prince is to obtain entry in 
the king’s bed-chamber in some disguise and to assassinate him. 
Parricide in certain circumstances is thus not ruled out in the theory 
of the Arthasdstra, just as on the other hand the monarch also is allowed 
to get rid of a totally unworthy prince in the same manner (1.18). 


Apart from a refractory prince, the monarch may have to face 
dangers from other soyrces. A disgruntled or ambitious minister 
or other officer may conspire to oust the ruler and establish himself | 
on the throne. The problem of conspiracies against the ruler by high 
dignitaries of the state is discussed at great length and measures are 
recommended for putting them down (Chapters 9.8 and 9.5). The 
conspiracy against the ruler may be hatched by the crown-prince or 
the commander-in-chief or the minister or the purohita. And these 
May seek aid from and join forces with other disgruntled officers or 
even enemies. It is characteristic of this text that it tenders advice 
in these Chapters to the likely conspirators as well. It analyses at 
length the motives that are likely to make officers think of joining 
a conspiracy against the ruler, and it explains how one may join a con 
spiracy or refuse to do so after carefully probing the veiled motives 
that may have inspired the other conspirators. This does not mean 
that the text recommends conspiracies against the ruler. It only 


142 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


points out how, when a conspiracy is hatched, those concerned should 
be careful to safeguard their own interests. 


All attempts to oust the ruler, whether by conspiring officers or by 
the subjects rising in rebellion against oppression, imply only the 
substitution of one ruler by another, and at most a change of dynasty. 
The form of government would remain the same even after the attempt 
has succeeded. Sovereignty is not intended to be transferred to a 
council of noblemen in a sort of aristocracy or to representatives of 
the people in a sort of democracy. 


CHAPTER SIX 
SOCIETY AND SOCIAL LIFE 


THE Arthasgdstra is a text on political science and is not primarily 
concerned with society and its organisation. Nevertheless, it cannot 
avoid a reference to the social order and life prevailing in society ; for, 
political life has no existence outside of scciety. The Sastra, no doubt, 
does not lay down rules in social matters as it does in political matters ; 
yet it was bound to take notice of the facts of social life as it found 
them. And though much theory is mixed up in the references to 
social organisation, one may still regard the social life reflected in the 
work as throwing light on the conditions that actually prevailed when 
it was composed. 


As we have seen, the ruler, that is the state, is required to safeguard 
the social order based on the varna and dsrama system.' This order 
is believed to be prescribed in the Vedas and as such thought of as 
divinely ordained and immutable. The state had no hand in its crea- 
tion, nor has it the right to try to modify it. The duty of the state is 
only to preserve this order and not allow it to be disturbed in any way. 
In this respect the standpoint of the Arthasdsira in no way oe 
from that of Dharmasastra. 


The text describes the specific duties of each of the four varnas 
practically in the same words as the Smrtis (1.3.5-8). However, it 
does not prescribe for the Sidra only the duty of the service of the twice- 
born, particularly Brahmins, as Manu, for example, does in 9.334-335. 
His svadharma also includes Vartté and kdrukusilavakarma (1.3.8). 
In Vartta, which is prescribed for the Vaigya also, the Sidra may be 
supposed to be subordinate to him as an agricultural labourer, a herds- 
man or a trader’s servant. The arts and crafts, however, appear to 
be exclusively practised by the Sidra alone. This appears to be more 
in consonance with the actual state of things than the views of a 
Smrti writer like Manu. 


It is also remarkable that the text refers to troops <eoruited from 
all the four varnas. The earlier teachers had expressed themselves 
in favour of a Brahmin army as being the best because of the high — 
spirit possessed by them. Kautilya, rejecting this view, shows his 
preference for a well-trained Ksatriya army or a strong Vaisya and 
Sidra army (9.2.21-24). There seems little doubt that not all fighters 


1 See p. 119 above. 


144 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


belonged to the Ksatriya varna, and that when large forces were required 
recruitment from the Sidra masses was quite common. The Smrtis, 
again, do not visualise any such possibility. 


Still more significant is the fact that the Arthasdstra would look 
upon the Sidra as an Arya community, which is distinguished from 
Mleccha or non-Aryan communities. The text forbids the sale or 
pledging of a minor belonging to any of the four varnas, adding that the 
Mlecchas may sell or pledge their children, but that no Arya shall be 
made a ddsa.* The inclusion of the Sidra araong Aryas is not in con- 
formity with the general standpointofthe Vedic texts. It may be that 
this is an attempt, in the Arthasdstra, to assimilate the masses of settled 
communities in the Aryan fold. This attempt seems ignored by 
the DharmaSastra texts, which, as a rule, are intolerant of everything 
that does not strictly conform to Aryan beliefs and practices. 


The pre-eminent position of the Brahmin in the varna system is, 
of course, self-evident. But the text does not harp on it in season 
and out as do Smrtis like that of Manu, nor does it explicitly declare 
the Brahmin to be above the law or independent of the state and its 
authority. Nevertheless, special privileges are intended for him, 
particularly for a Srotriya, that is, a Brahmin learned in the Vedas. It 
is recommended, for example, that land free from taxes and fines should 
be granted to a Srotriya, just as such lands are to be granted to the 
priests and preceptors of the ruler (2.1.7). It is also laid down that the 
property of a Srotriya, even when he dies without an heir, cannot 
escheat to the state like the property of other citizens (3.5.28). Brahmins 
in general are, it seems, to be exempted from payment at ferries and 
pickets. (8.20.14). In many cases, punishment for offences is made 
dependent on the varna of the offender. In cases of abuse, defamation, 
assault etc., an ascending scale of fines is prescribed in accordance with 
the offender’s varna (Chapters 3.18 and 8.19). However, for the offence 
of selling or pledging a minor, the scale is reversed, the highest fine being 
that for a Brahmin offender (8.18.1). Discrimination on the basis of 
varna is referred to in connection with the oath to be administered to 
witnesses (8.11.384-87), in the matter of inheritance by sons born of 
wives belonging to different varnas (3.6.17-20) and so on. Again, 
the varnas are to occupy different residential areas in the city, the 
Brahmins in the north, the Ksatriyas in the east and so on (2.4.9-15). 
It is also laid down that in social matters seniority shall be fixed 
from the Brahmin downwards. And the Brahmin is declared to be 
free to refuse contributions to common festivals and yet entitled 


2 HAIN Aeatet Ae RTA AA: CAAT STATI GUS: ... 
qT aad STATA: | KA, 3.13.1-4.. 


SOCIETY AND SOCIAL LIFE 145 


to take full part in them (8.10.48-44). There can be no doubt about 
the high status enjoyed by the Brahmin as such, or about the privileges 
and concessions reserved for him. 


As a result of the special position occupied by the Brahmin in 
society, his influence on state activity must have been very great. 
It may be assumed that the advisers of the ruler must have largely 
come from this class. Apart from the purohita, who normally may be 
supposed to exercise a powerful influence on the ruler, most of the 
mantrins if not all were also probably drawn from this class. That 
ambassadors (diitas) were as a rule Brahmins may be inferred from the 
remark which an ambassador threatened with seizure by the enemy is 
expected to make: ‘“* Even the lowest-born among ambassadors must “ 
not be killed, what to speak then of Brahmins?’ Though, in theory, 
the ruler was not bound to follow the advice of the purohita or the 
mantrins, their influence on the administration of the state and on 
state activity must have been very great. 


The influence of the Brahmin class on the general social life was 
of a peculiar sort. He had a monopoly of imparting education, which 
in theory as well as in practice was not available to the great mass of 
Sidras. All learning and knowledge was thus concentrated in his 
hands. He had also a monopoly of priestcraft. The religious life 
of the community was under his control. With the intellectual leader- 
ship of the community and the control of its religious life in its hands, 
the priestly class exercised a powerful influence on social life. It was 
not necessary for it to organise itself into a church as elsewhere, for 
membership of the class was by birth. This position of pre-eminence 
and influence seems to have been assured for this varna from the earliest 
times. It was not challenged seriously at any time because the other 
varnas too had come to regard the varna system as not only natural 
but as divinely ordained. Such a reconciliation to one’s lot, however 
humble it may be, was easy because of unquestioned belief in the theory 
of karma and re-birth.4 As the Arthasdstra says: ““ The observance 
of one’s own dharma leads to heaven and to immortality.”> Such 
a hold on the spirit and the mind of vast communities by a small 
hereditary class is probably unique. 


It cannot be denied that a rational justification of hereditary class 
privileges is not possible and that “ every effort in this direction must 


8... mala FAA Sat: | ANTARaaTfasaemT:, Fey grater: | 
KA, 1.16.14-15. 

4 Cf. ‘‘The doctrine of karma and re-birth and the supposition of an unalter- 
able social order are closely connected with each other. Both dogmas are deeply 
rooted in the consciousness of the Indian people.” —Fick, Die Sociale Gliederung etc., 
English translation, p. 886. 


5 tah: TaMataeay 7 | KA, 1.3.14. 


146 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


result in the dishonesties which have characterised the self-defence of 
privileged classes.”® All that one can say in extenuation is to add, 
with Niebuhr, ‘‘ All societies of the past perpetrated and perpetuated 
social injustice without meeting significant resistance from those who 
were victimised by the social system.’”” 


The theory of the four varnas, though broadly true of ancient 
Indian society, has had to take into account forms of social organisa- 
tion which had little relation to that system. There were numerous 
communities in society whose place in the scheme of four varnas could 
not be easily determined. An attempt is made in the Arthasastra 
and the Smrtis to bring them into some sort of relation with the varna 
system. ‘This is done by inventing the theory of a mixing of varnas. 
According to the Arthasastra (with which the Manusmrti agrees in this 
respect, but not Yajfiavalkya), the son of a Brahmin from a Ksatriya 
woman and that of a Ksatriya from a Vaisya woman belong to their 
father’s varna. A Vaigya’s son from a Sidra woman is, however, 
a Sidra. All other mixings of varnas bring new communities into 
being. A Brahmin begets an Ambastha on a VaiSya woman, a 
Paragava or a Nisada on a Sudra woman. A Ksatriya begets an Ugra 
on a Sidra woman, a Sita on a Brahmin woman. A VaiSsya begets a 
Magadha on a Ksatriya woman, a Vaidehaka on a Brahmin woman. 
And a Sidra begets an Ayogava on a Vaigya woman, a Ksatta on a 
Ksatriya woman and a Candala on a Brahmin woman. A further 
mixing of these communities is said to have brought into being other 
communities, namely, Kukkuta (offspring of an Ugra father and a 
Nisada mother), Pulkasa (Nisada father and Ugra mother), Vaina 
(Ambastha father and Vaidehaka mother), Kusilava (Vaidehaka father 
and Ambastha mother), Svapaka (Ugra father and Ksatta mother) and 
so on (8.7.20-34). 


This theory of the origin of these communities is of extremely 
doubtful validity. There seems little doubt that some of these com- 
munities, for example, the Nisida and the Candala, are aboriginal 
communities. Others, like Ugra.and Ksatta, seem to have been warrior 
clans. Names like Magadha and Vaidehaka contain an obvious 
reference to the region from which the communities came, whereas 
names like Vaina, KuSilava, perhaps also Sita, appear to be derived 
from the profession followed by thecommunity. It is, therefore, hardly 
possible to believe that any of these communities really came into 
being as a result of mixed marriages among the four varnas. To believe 
that, we would have to assume that inter-marriages among the four 
varnas, not only in the anuloma, but also in the pratiloma way, were 


6 R. Niebuhr, Moral Man and Immoral Society (New York, 1941), pp. 128-129. 
7 Ibid., p. 142. 


SOCIETY AND SOCIAL LIFE 147 


quitecommon. Otherwise, it would be very difficult to explain the large 
number of Candala, Vaidehaka, Sita or other communities that are said 
to be the result of pratiloma unions. But if such inter-marriages are 
assumed to have been very common, that would mean that rules about 
marrying a girl of the same varna, which we find not only in the Smrtis 
but also in the Arthasdstra (1.8.9), were consistently ignored. In other 
words, we would have to believe that varnasamkara or mixing of the 
varnas, of which the theory shows such a pious horror, was in reality 
a fact of social life. Such a conclusion, however, is hardly acceptable. 
Evidence from all sources, Brahmanical, Buddhist and Jain, showing 
that marriages in the same varna were the rule and outside it only rare 
exceptions, is so overwhelming that marriages, say, between Brahmin 
girls and Sidra boys on such a large scale as to bring into being the 
very numerous and widespread community of Candalas, are quite 
inconceivable. Illicit unions instead of marriages on this scale are, 
of course, still more inconceivable. It, therefore, appears clear that 
this theory of the origin of these communities is merely a fiction, ap- 
parently a legal fiction, invented to bring them into relation with the 
varna system, which alone was regarded as valid in law. 


In connection with these so-called mixed communities we find the 
statement that all of them, with the exception of the Candalas, should 
observe the same dharmas as the Sidra (8.7.37). This in effect gives 
them the status of the Sidra. The exception made in the case of the 
Candala definitely implies the lowest social status for him. But the 
specific dharmas of the Candala are nowhere mentioned. It would seem, 
however, that they are regarded as being outside the pale of society. 
That they are unclean is implied in a passage of doubtful authenticity 
(8.19.10). However, it is stated in one place, by way of an illustration, 
that a well of the Candalas can be used only by the Candalas and by 
no one else (1.14.10). This clearly implies that they are outcasts, 
possibly also untouchables. Elsewhere a heavy fine is prescribed 
for a Candala touching an Arya woman (8.20.16). The offence meant 
seems, however, concerned with sex rather than with untouchability. 
In connection with adultery and other sex offences, the Svapaka is 
referred to as the community outside the pale of Aryan society (4.18.34- 
85). These and probably other outcast communities seem referred 
to by the general name of antdvasdyin ‘ living at the end’, beyond the 
pale of Aryan society. The antdvasdyins are mentioned beside the 
four varnas in connection with the offence of defamation (8.18.7). If 
Brahmins are at one end of the social scale, the antavasdyins are at the- 
other end, and that term would clearly include Candala, Svapaka and 
other outcast communities. In the description of the layout of the city, 
the Candalas are allotted accommodation ‘ at the end of or near the 


148 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


cremation-ground ” along with the pdsandas or heretical monks. The 
sutra, however, does not appear to be authentic, for though such 
residential accommodation is quite conceivable so far as Candalas are 
concerned, it could not have been meant for the pdsanda monks. [For, 
the text elsewhere refers to pdsandas staying in the city (3.16.32-33), in 
fact, to pdsanddvdsa ‘residences of heretical monks’ inside the city 
(abhyantare, 2.36.14). 

Concerning the mixed communities it is laid down that each such 
community should be endogamous and should follow its own traditional 
profession and immemorial customs (3.7.36). It is further prescribed 
that the dharma, that is, the law of inheritance, which may be peculiar 
to any region or community or samgha or village, should be recognised 
and upheld (3.7.40). The word used here for community is jati, which 
obviously implies membership by birth (from the root jan), and which 
clearly corresponds to what is known as caste. And endogamy and 
other features referred to in sutra 3.7.36 are characteristic of caste. 
Elsewhere the text refers to samaya, i.c., customs peculiar to a ati 
(3.10.45). There can be no doubt that caste as such is known to the 
Arthasadsira. In a number of places it refers to experts whose services 
are required in the various technical departments of the state. The 
expression usually used in such a case is tajjdta ‘ one born to that (kind 
of work)’, as in 2.11.1, 2.12.1 and other places. ‘This expression clearly 
implies the existence of different castes, each following a separate, 
fixed profession. We may, therefore, feel justified in looking upon 
Tantuvaya ‘weaver’, Rajaka ‘washerman’, Tunnavaya ‘tailor’, 
Suvarnakara ‘goldsmith’, Carmakara ‘leather-worker’, Karmara 
“smith ’, Kuttaka ‘carpenter’ and others mentioned in the text as 
names of castes which had their origin in the differentiation of 
professions. 


D. A. Suleikin has expressed the view that castes became firmly 
formalized in India only in the period from the fourth to the ninth 
century A.D. Prior to this period, he says, one can only speak of social 
Sstrata.® It is not possible to agree that the essential features of caste 
assumed a final form only so late as this. Apart from the list of 
numerous communities mentioned in the Yajurveda Samhitas in the 
section on Purusamedha, many of which have the appearance of castes, 
there is the passage from the Majjhima Nikaya, sutta 93, to which 
D. D. Kosambi has drawn attention. According to him, in that 
passage, which looks at Greek society through Indian -eyes, the word 
vanna, that is, varna has to be understood in the same sense as caste, 


8 WMVSa IST TAMA ATA: | KA, 2.4.23. 
9 ‘*Osnovnie voprosi periodizatsii istorii dreynei Indii’ in Indtiskit Svornik 
(Moscow-Leningrad, 1949), pp. 177-192. 


SOCIETY AND SOCIAL LIFE 149 


not in the sense of class.1° Moreover, for the end of the fourth 
century B.C. the evidence of Megasthenes, which in this case cannot 
be lightly brushed aside, shows the existence of castes at that time. 
Breloer has drawn attention to the statements of Megasthenes that in 
India a man must not marry from another gens and that he is not 
allowed to change his profession or calling. These, as Breloer has 
tightly pointed out, are features that are characteristic of caste.*4 
And in this case one cannot think of a possible transfer of ideas from 
some other country like Egypt or Persia to India; for these features 
did not quite manifest themselves in this form elsewhere. 


Apart from these settled communities in towns and villages, the 
text refers to forest tribes, called Atavi or Atavika. It is stated that 
they are entrenched in jungle fastnesses and can be a source of great 
danger to the state. They are said to be well-organised and brave, 
practically autonomous and without any scruples in the matter of 
looting and killing (8.4.43). In fact, the danger to the state from 
forest tribes is declared to be only less serious than that from an enemy. 
A forest chieftain is often mentioned as one of those who are capable 
of seizing the throne from the ruler (1.10.3, 12.3.17 etc.). Nevertheless, 
troops recruited from forest tribes, that is, afavibala, form one of the 
six kinds of troops that may be at the disposal of the ruler. Such troops 
are apparently under the command of their own chieftains, and it is 
recognised that they are likely to be more interested in plunder than in 
fighting. One has to beware of danger from them as from a snake in 
the house (9.2.18-20). It is clear that the separateness of forest tribes 
from civilized society is regarded as something irrevocable. It would 
appear that the term Mleccha covers partly these forest tribes. 
Mlecchas, who are stated to be communities of various kinds (1.12.21), 
are distinguished from the Arya communities. There can be ddsabhava 
or slavery amongst them, but not amongst Aryas (8.13.3-4). The 
Sabaras and the Pulindas mentioned in 2.1.6 have obviously to be 
regarded as names of some of the forest tribes. It is well-known that 
forest tribes, some of them wild, have continued their separate exis- 
tence in India throughout the centuries right down to modern times. 
No attempt seems to have been ever made to absorb them in the rest 
of society.1* 


Other kinds of tribes are referred to by the term bahirika. This 


appears to be a general name for roving tribes, something like gypsies. 
It is said that they are harmful to the country and it is recommended 


10 ‘On a Marxist Approach to Indian Chronology’ in ABORI, 31 (1950), 
p- 265. 


11 ZDMG, 88 (N.F. 13), 1984, pp. 162-163. 
12 Cf. Beni Prasad, The State in Ancient India (Allahabad, 1928), p. 113. 


150 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


that they should not be allowed in the city (2.4.32). The text refers 
to a tax called dudrabahirikddeya ‘to be received from the bdahirikas 
at the gate.’ This tax is included in the category ‘ durga’, i.e., taxes 
having their source in the city (2.6.2). This seems toimply that when 
such tribes enter the city, they are to be made to pay a sort of poll-tax 
for good behaviour during their sojourn in the city. This seems also 
implied in the siitra 2.4.32. Some of these roving tribes would seem 
to correspond to what have been called criminal tribes in modern times. 
To this category of a criminal tribe probably belong the mdnavas. 
This appears to be a general name for dacoits; but it is not clear whether 
they were organised in tribes or were merely dacoit gangs formed 
haphazardly. The mdnavas, according to the text, made use of magic 
for achieving their object (4.5.1-7). Meyer contends that mdnava 
originally meant a Brahmin boy, a young Brahmin fellow, and that 
therefore the mdnava is the Brahmin in his original condition when he 
took to thieving, housebreaking and adultery with the help of magic ; 
according to him, vrdtyas and mdnavas are cousins of the great Brahmin 
family who had not raised themselves to a higher position, but had 
remained true to their natural condition.4* There does not appear 
to be much ground for such wild speculation. 


This picture of society as revealed in this text does not materially 
differ from the state of things that persisted down to fairly modern 
times. There are the same four varnas in theory, with a large number 
of castes of diverse origin in actual practice, there are the outcasts, 
probably also untouchiulles, there are the forest and hill tribes, there 
are the roving tribes, some with criminal propensities, and so on. 
The pattern of social groupings that has endured through the centuries 
was, it seems, more or less fixed in the days when this text was written. 
What happened thereafter was probably only a proliferation of castes 
and sub-castes, the disappearance or transformation. of some of the old 
communities and the appearance of altogether new groups as a result 
of internal stresses and foreign incursions. 

Such a society is characterised by the extreme rigidity of the 
lines that divide the different grours constituting it. In this respect 
the Arthasastra does not differ from what the Dharmagastra works 
teach. As Hillebrandt says, ‘“‘ The fact that a reasonable writer like . 
Kautilya finds himself in agreement with the law-books and the epics 
and in the whole section (on the duties of varnas etc.) shows no contrary 
views proves the firmness of the lines that cut through Indian soceity.”’1* 
This extreme rigidity of the social structure was obviously detrimental 
to the growth of a sense of unity among all the people. In fact, the 


18 J.J. Meyer, Uber das Wesen etc., pp. 889-3840. 
14 Alltindische Politik, p. 122. 


SOCIETY AND SOCIAL LIFE 151 


consciousness of a feeling of separateness in the various social groups 
must have prevented any fusion, however gradual, between the different 
groups which could have created’a sense of political unity. Moreover, 
the universal subservience to theological ideas which satisfactorily 
explained and even justified the social order of unequal status for 
different groups, made it possible for loyalty to be confined primarily 
to one’s own community. What loyalty there was felt in the political 
sense tended to be felt towards the ruler or his dynasty, and not to any 
such entity as a state. 


It must, however, be pointed out that the text contains evidence 
of loyalties felt on a regional basis. Different regions had evidently 
different customs, different ways of behaviour, different languages. 
It is laid down that the vijigisu, after he has conquered a new territory, 
should act in conformity with the behaviour, dress, language etc. of 
his new subjects, so that he may make himself acceptable to them 
(18.5.7). Again, one of the qualities essential in an amatya is that he 
should be a native of the land (jdanapada, 1.9.1), implying an expectation 
that he would naturally care for the interests of the country. Similarly, 
it is laid down that only such persons should be allowed to be in at- 
tendance on the king as are not natives of other lands (na anyatodesiyam, 
1.21.2). But all this should not be understood to mean that the idea 
of a nation in the modern sense of that term is to be found in this text. 
Any conception like the nation-state is unknown to the Sastra. At the 
same time, it should not be forgotten that though the idea of a patrie 
or fatherland is fairly ancient in the west, the idea of a nation-state 
is a comparatively recent growth even there. 


Closely associated with the theory of the varnas is that of the 
four dgramas. The text states the duties of these mostly as in the 
Smrtis (1.3.9-12). From the fact, however, that dcarye pranantikt 
vritih, that is, staying with the teacher to serve him till the end of one’s 
life, is mentioned as the duty of the brahmacdarin, it is obvious that the 
naisthika brahmacdrin is meant. It would, in fact, appear that the 
four a@sramas are represented as four different ways of life to be adopted 
according to one’s aptitude and bent of mind, rather than as successive 
stages in the life of the same individual. 


The grhastha or the householder is the first to be mentioned in 
connection with the déramas, no doubt because of the supreme impor- 
tance of this way of life for sustaining social life. One of his foresmost 
duties is marriage. The law concerning marriage and the relations 
between husband and wife is fully stated in three Chapters, 3.2-4. That 
is the first head of law to be treated in this text because as it says, 
‘‘ All transactions begin with marriage’ (8.2.1). The eight forms of 
marriage are stated and defined as in the Smrtis. Though Sulka 


152 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


‘dowry.’ in the form of bride-price figures in the definition of the 
_Gsura form only, it appears quite clear that it is to be thought of in 
the case of other forms as well. Even in the case of dharmavivaha, i.e., 
a sacramental marriage (one of the first four types, brahma, prajdpatya, 
arsa and daiva) the payment of sulka is referred to. What is more 
significant is the fact that there is a reference to marriage in the section 
on the revocation of sale or purchase, and it is stated there that an 
agreement for marriage may be revoked before the ceremony of pant- 
grahana ‘ clasping the hand ’ in the case of the first three varnas and 
before consummation in the case of Siidras.4® In the context of the 
section this can only imply a reference to the purchase of the bride 
by payment of gulka. And since all the four varnas are mentioned 
in this connection, it would not be unfair to conclude that the payment 
of some sort of sulka was not uncommon among all communities. 


The text dwells at length on the duties of the husband and wife 
towards each other, and lays down punishment for failure to carry them 
out. It deals with the question of the harassment of the wife by the 
husband and the possibility of her deserting the home. It allows 
for separation between the husband and wife under certain circum- 
stances and lays down rules concerning the maintenance of the wife. 
It deals with the question of the husband’s absence from home for 
a long period and his failure to return home, allowing various periods 
of waiting for the wife, after which she may consider herself released 
from the marriage tie. It considers the question of the dissolution of 
marriage, allowing it in the case of the lower forms of marriage, if both 
the husband and wife loathe each other (parasparam dvesin moksah, 
3.8.16). In the case of the first four forms of marriage, it does not 
allow dissolution (amokso dharmavivadhdnam, 8.8.19); in their case, 
niyoga is thought of. (3,4.37-41). But there is no doubt that in the 
other cases a remarriage of the woman is considered quite legitimate 
(3.2.20-28, 3.4.27). Siitra 3.2.48 enumerates the circumstances when 
a wife is entitled to leave her husband. It is, of course, laid down that 
a man may take another wife even during the life-time of the first, by 
paying her adequate compensation for supersession. 

A close study of the law on marriage and marital relations in this 
text shows that it is more detailed, more comprehensive and more 
systematically presented than that found in the Smrtis. Many of the 
sub-sections, which are fully treated here, are not even thought of in 


15 qaifaarergaret  UReeacryee Ter ateriter. . .mHTSaAT | AA RH 


qoq...!| KA, 3.4.81-34. 


16 BSCR Se SN Tire FTAA TT Tarn F 


WHAT: | KA, 3.15.11. 


SOCIETY AND SOCIAL LIFE 153 


the Smrtis. ‘The provisions concerning the dissolution of marriage 
and the remarriage of women are on the whole foreign to the spirit of 
those texts. Moreover, the rules found in these sections show a breadth 
of outlook which is generally wanting in the Smrtis. In particular, 
the position of women as revealed in this text is much different from 
that assigned to them in the Smrtis. A much greater freedom for 
them is implicit in the rules governing the relations between the husband 
and the wife. At the same time, it should be mentioned that the text 
refers to some women as aniskdsini, that is,\ not going out of their 
homes (2.23.11, 3.1.7). It is possible that the women meant are 
thosé of a higher social status, though inability to move out because 
of physical incapacity is not altogether inconceivable. 


Similarly, widows in this text appear to enjoy a much freer life. 
There is a reference to chandavdsini vidhavd ‘a widow living- according 
to her will (that is, independently) ’ (8.20.16). Again, rich widows, 
adhya vidhavas, are frequently mentioned, though that is mostly done in 
connection with the possibility of robbing them of their riches (1.18.9, 
11.1.42, 18.2.42). There is no doubt that the text knows widows 
living independently and owning plenty of wealth. The text, of 
course, also refers to Brahmin widows becoming parivrajikds or 
wandering nuns. These occupied an honoured place in society ; as 
such, their use in secret service is recommended (1.12.4). 


The reason for the difference between this text and the Smrtis 
in the matter of marital relations and the position of women seems 
to be the circumstance that the latter are mainly concerned with the 
life of the upper varnas, particularly of Brahmins, whereas the present 
text appears to take into account and provide for all classes of society 
including the lower varnas. At the same time, its more broad outlook 
may be regarded as due to the author’s own propensity to reject extreme 
views or narrow outlooks which is noticeable in this work. 


In connection with the law of inheritance, which is also spread 
over three Chapters, 3.5-7, the text refers to the special shares of the 
eldest and other sons at the time of partition. There is no hint that 
these special shares were regarded as obsolete in its days as was the 
case in the days of the later Smrtis. It gives a fairly short list of heirs 
(8.5.10-12), in which the wife does not find a place as she does from - 
Yajfiavalkya onwards. The text refers to the twelve kinds of sons, 
aurasa, ksetraja, paunarbhava, datta and others and discusses their 
status and rights. It does not appear to regard niyoga as a relic of 
the past nor to condemn it as does Manu. On the whole, there is no 
essential difference between this text and the earlier Dharmasitra texts. 
And like some of them it lays down that in the matter of inheritance 


154 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


whatever regional, communal or other customs may be in force should 
not be ignored by the state (8.7.40). 


The parivrajaka or the wandering monk is an institution peculiar 
to India which has persisted till to-day. It seems that householders 
often took to this life straightway. Some of them evidently later 
repented of their hasty decision and wished to return to the house- 
holder’s life. From such apostates, it is stated, should be recruited 
a useful category of secret agents, called uddsthita (1.11.4-8). It is, 
however, laid down in the text that before deciding to renounce 
worldly life and taking to samnydsa a man must make adequate 
provision for the maintenance of his family. Only when the sexual 
urge has gone, it is stated, should a man think of becoming a samnydsin 
and even then he should take the permission of the judges before 
actually leaving the houscholder’s life (2.1.29-30). It is possible to 
see here a desire to check a once fashionable tendency to quit the 
householder’s life on the slightest pretext and become a samnydsin 
without making any previsi: for dependents. 


The text prescribes a fine for the offence of helping or inducing 
» woman to take to the life of renunciation and wandering (2.1.29). 
But it does pre-suppose the existence of parivrajikds or wandering 
nuns, They form a useful class of secret agents. The parivrdjikd 
agent is described as a Brahmin widow, who has become a samnydsini 
and who is honoured in the royal palace and has free access everywhere 
(1.12.4). Brahmin parivrajtkds are contrasted with munddah vrsalyah 
* heretical nuns with shaven heads,’ which implies that the former did 
not get their hair shaved. It would seem from the evidence of this 
text that Brahmin widows took to this life when they found it difficult 
to maintain themselves. The Smrtis generally do not countenance 
the life of nunhood for women, though there is evidence in Sanskrit 
literature to show that parivrdjikds were not uncommon (cf. Kalidasa’s 
Malavikdgnimitra). 

It is stated in the text that a pravrajitabhava, that is monkhood, 
other than the vdnaprastha should not be allowed in the country- 
side (2.1.82). This does not seem to apply to the parivrdjakas of the 
Brahmanical order, for these as a rule do not settle down anywhere for 
long. Apparently the prohibition applies to monks of other orders, 
and it may be that the purpose of the prohibition is to prevent the 
spread of heretical sects. Another possible purpose may be to prevent 
enemy agents disguised as heretical monks from operating in the 
country. 


The followers of -heretical or nor-Vedic sects are referred to as 
urgala or pasanda. Particular sects are, however, mentioned by name 
only in one place, where a heavy fine is prescribed for inviting monks 


SOCIETY AND SOCIAL LIFE 155 


of heretical sects (vrsalapravrajitan) like the Sakyas, the Ajivakas 
and others to dinners in honour of the deities and the piirs (8.20.16). 
The Sakyas are, of course, the followers of the Buddha. The Ajivakas 
were a sect founded by Gosala Makkhaliputta, a contemporary of Maha- 
vira, and, according to Jain accounts, for some time his follower. The 
existence of this sect till the days of ASoka Maurya and his grandson, 
DaSaratha, is attested by inscriptions. It is interesting to note that the 
Jainas are not mentioned here. It would not be unreasonable to 
suppose that the Jainas had not yet attained a very prominent position. 
The Ajivakas, however, failed to survive as an independent sect.1? 


It is easy to understand the prohibition against inviting monks of 
the heretical orders to dinners when Vedic rites are performed. But 
in one place in the text the pdsandas are assigned a place of residence 
‘at the end of or near the cremation ground’ along with the Candalas 
(2.4.23). However, as remarked earlier, the siitra does not appear to 
be authentic.1® For, we find it laid down elsewhere that when there 
is ample room available, monks of the Vedic order (déraminah) and 
those of the heretical orders (pdsandah) should stay in the same place 

without giving trouble to each other and should even put up with some 
inconvenience that may be caused thereby (8.16.88-84). Again, it is 
laid down that pdasandipathikas may be given accommodation jn the 
charitable rest-houses in the city, and a pdsanddvdsa is actually in- 
cluded among places located inside the city (2.86.5,14). Besides, 
in the list of cases, which the king is asked to take up for consideration 
in a specific order, the cases of the pdsandas appear immediately after 
those connected with the devatds and the déramas, even before those of 
the Srotriyas (1.19.29). This clearly shows that there is no ground for 
supposing that the pdsandas are intended to be treated as outcasts. 
On the contrary, great courtesy is expected to be shown to them. 


Concerning the heretical monks it is stated that they do not possess 
either money or gold, and that, therefore, when anyone of them commits 
an offence for which a fine is prescribed, he is to be made to undergo 
- fasts and other vratas according to his own religion for the welfare 
of the king. In certain cases, however, fines are to be recovered from 
them (3.16.89-41). Apparently such fines are to come from the property 
of the pasandasamgha to which the offending member belongs. For, 
there is a reference to such property belonging to heretical orders. 
A prince in disfavour with the ruling monarch is advised to appropriate 
the property of a pdasandasamgha, and even the property of temple- 
deities, in order to get together resources for ousting his unjust father 


17 See pp. 98-99 above. 
18 See pp. 147-148 above. 


156 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


(1.18.9). Similarly, it is stated that such property may be appropriated 
fraudulently in times of financial stringency (5.2.37). 


But though the existence of heretical sects is thus not only tolerated 
but even shown due consideration, it is the Vedic way of life, based 
on the Trayidharma, that alone is declared beneficial to the people 
and the state (1.3.4). People, guided and guarded by the Trayi, are 
said to flourish and not to perish (1.3.17). In consonance with this, 
the Vedic samskaras of caulakarma, upanayana, goddna and so on are 
prescribed for the prince (1.5.7-10). The king is tohave an agnyagdra 
(1.19.81) and have rtvzjs in his service (1.19.23, 5.3.8), which implies 
. that he is expected to perform the Vedic sacrifices. Rajastiiya and 
other kratus are referred to in connection with the special payment 
to be mace to the adhvaryw priest in those sacrifices. 


However, a religious life much different from that recommended 
in the Vedas is revealed in the numerous references to temples, images 
of deities and their worship which we find in this text. Thus there is 
mention of cattyadevata ‘ deity in a sanctuary or a temple’ (1.20.2), 
caityadaivata (11.1.25, 18.2.25), daivatacaitya ‘sanctuary of a deity’ 
(5.2.39), devatagrha ‘a temple’ (12.5.3), devagrha (2.86.28), datvata- 
pratima ‘the image of a deity’ (4.18.41, 18.2.25,27 and elsewhere), 
devatadeha ‘ an idol’ (12.5.5), devatddhvaja ‘ the flag of a deity’ (12.5.5, 
13.38.45), devatadpraharana ‘a weapon in an idol’s hand’ (12.5.5), devata- 
pidhanam bhiimigrham ‘ an underground room with an opening covered 
by the image of a deity ’ (2.5.2), and soon. The worship of the deities 
is referred to as consisting of pranipata ‘ prostration ’ before the image 
(9.7.83), and upahara * gifts’ to deities (7.17.44), specifically puspa- 
curnopahara ‘gifts of flowers and incense’ (12.5.6). Devotees of 
different deities are also indicated (12.5.1). 


Particular deities are mentioned by name in this connection. 
While describing the layout of the city, the text refers to the building 
of shrines for the deities, Aparajita, Apratihata, Jayanta and Vaijay- 
anta as well as temples of the gods, Siva, Vaigravana, Agvins, Sri and 
Madira, in the centre of the city (2.4.17).1® The first four deities are 
apparently different forms of the God of Victory. Sri is obviously the 
same as Goddess Laxsmi, while Madira ‘ the Intoxicating One’ appears 
to be a form of Durga or Kali. Temples of these and of Siva are com- 
mon, but temples of Vaisravana, that is, Kubera, and of the ASvins are 
not otherwise known. Again, it is said that Brahman, Indra, Yama 
and Senapati (that is, Skanda) are the presiding deities of the four main 
gates of the city in the north, the east,the south and the west respectively, 
and there can be little doubt that temples of these deities are meant to 


19 Sivavaisravanau occurs in Patafijali as a Devatadvandva compound ; see 
O. Stein, AOr, VIII, p. 837, n. 6; see also p. 85 above. 


SOCIETY AND SOCIAL LIFE 157 


be built near those gates (2.4.19). A reference to Varuna and Nagaraja 
is made in such a way that we have to understand images of these 
divinities as meant (18.2.16). The reference to a devotee of god Sam- 
karsana (13.38.54) also appears to imply worship of the image of this 
deity. 

There is also mention of degadevatd (13.2.15) or desadaivata 
(13.5.8), which evidently refers to the tutelary deity of the region or the 
kingdom. Similarly, there is a reference to nagaradevata, the tutelary 
deity of the city and to rdjadevatd, the family deity of the king (2.4.15). 
These, that is, their temples, are to be located in the northern part of 
the city. There can be no doubt about the existence of temples in 
large numbers dedicated to various gods. 


It is evident that the temples owned large properties. Such 
property included cattle, images, servants (or slaves), lands, buildings, 
cash, gold, jewels and grains. The highest fine or even capital punish- 
ment is prescribed for their theft (4.10.16). Temple bulls, devavrsah, 
and temple cattle, devapasu, are referred to in other places too (3.10.24, 
4.13.20). Itis interesting to note that there is a reference to devadasis, 
whose service at the temple is at an end and who thereafter may be 
engaged in spinning (2.28.2). It is laid down that the village elders 
(grdmavrddhah) are to look after temple property and see that it goes 
on augmenting (2.1.27). That there should be disputes in which 
temple property is involved is natural. Such disputes areto be taken up 
by the king before all other cases that are brought to him for decision 
(1.19.29). It is also laid down that judges should institute suo moto 
cases in connection’ with temple matters, and that they should not 
dismiss temple cases on grounds of want of jurisdiction or adverse 
possession or the suit being time-barred (3.20.22). 


The text refers to an officer called devatadhyaksa, whose duties 
are not, however, precisely described anywhere. Apparently he looked 
after temples and their property and saw to it that they were properly 
managed by the temple trustees. He also seems to have the power of 
taking possession of temple property on behalf of the state. Oneofthe 
shady ways recommended for replenishing the treasury in times of 
stringency is this: the devatddhyaksa is to collect all temple treasures 
and property in one place and secretly appropriate them for the state, 
declaring at the same time that they were either looted or burnt down 
(5.2.37-38). No scruples about the sanctity of temple property are 
allowed to come in the way of state interests. Even the prince in 
disfavour is allowed to appropriate temple property for augmenting 
his resources in order to overthrow the unjust monarch (1.18.9). 


At the temples are held fairs and festivals. The text refers to a fair 
in honour of the worship of a deity (dawwatejyayam yatrayam, 12.5.1), 


158 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


also to festivals (uésava) and gatherings of people (samdja) on such 
occasions. In fact, the king is advised to exploit the faith of the people 
in deities to replenish his empty treasury, by setting up a ‘ miracu- 
lous ’ manifestation of some deity at night and arranging fairs at the 
place (5.2.89). The idea is that the state would be receiving the gifts 
made to the deity at such fairs. On the occassion of a ydtrd, permission 
is to be given to people to prepare and drink liquor freely (2.25 36). 


This picture of religious life is, on the whole, foreign to works on 
DharmaSastra. But it cannot, on that account, be regarded as false 
or unlikely in the early period to which this text can be assigned. 
‘Dharmasastra, it must be remembered, had its origin in the Vedic 
schools and was primarily concerned with the mode of life appropriate 
to the Aryans, that is, the mode of life appropriate to the upper varnas 
and in particular to the Brahmins. It is not, therefore, surprising that 
it has ignored such beliefs and practices as did not fit in with the reli- 
gious life it recommended for the upper varnas. That does not mean 
that these beliefs and practices were then non-existent. In every age 
the followers of the Vedic religion of sacrifices must have been restricted 
to the higher varnas, and these must have formed but a small fraction 
of the entire population. The masses of people, mostly non-Aryan in 
origin, were as a rule debarred from Vedic practices. And if, as seems 
quite possible, the worship of images of gods in shrines and temples 
with flowers, incense, gifts etc. is a practice of non-Aryan origin, it 
would be quite reasonable to suppose that the masses stuck to the 
beliefs and practices to which they were accustomed.2° At any rate, 
there is no reason for supposing that such beliefs and practices arose 
only very late in India. It is easy to understand why a work like the 
Arthasdstra takes full notice of the varied religious life of all classes of 
people, while the Dharmasastra works restrict themselves mainly to 
a description of the Vedic way of life. 


Side by side with belief in deities and their worship in temples is 
belief in malevolent spirits, the raksasas, and their propitiation. In 
fact, one of the eight calamities of ‘ divine’ origin is trouble caused by 
these evil spirits. The text recommends that the services of magicians 
and those expert in the lore of the Atharvaveda should be utilised for 
exorcising them and that various offerings should be made including 
that of a goat at Caitya shrines (4.8.40-41). The Arthasdstra not only 
recognises the existence of these beliefs, but it also suggests that they 
may be exploited in the interests of the state (5.2.41). Creating the 
illusion of a danger from raksasas is particularly recommended for the 


20 P. Thieme regards. such worship as prevalent also among Aryas; one has 
not to think immediately of Dravidian influence, he says in JOR, XXVII (1957-58), 
P- 10. ° : i 


SOCIETY AND SOCIAL LIFE 159 


purpose of inducing the enemy king entrenched in a fort to come out for 
their propitiation and of murdering him when he has come out for the 
purpose (13.2.21-35). 


Closely related to this is belief in magical practices and superstitions 
of all kinds. And the text contains ample evidence of the prevalence 
of such beliefs. It frequently refers to samvadana or samvanana, i.c., 
winning the love of a man or a woman with the help of magical practices 
and potions (4.4.14, 4.5.1 etc.). It mentions magical rites for obtain- 
ing inexhaustible wealth, aksayahiranyam karma, for finding favour 
with the king, rdjadvdrikam, for afflicting enemies with diseases, arivyd- 
dhikaram, for securing a long life, dyusyam, or for getting a son, putriyam 
(5.2.59). There is also a reference to rites for warding off a danger 
from the country, desapiddpaham karma, and for driving away or 
destroying enemies, amiirdpaham karma (5.6.2). The lore associated 
with such practices is called jambhakavidyd, and the rites evidently 
involved the use of mantras and roots of herbs (4.4.14). Another 
such lore is mdnavavidyd, of use primarily to dacoits and adulterers, 
who are called mdnavas. This vidyd is supposed to involve the use of 
mantras to get doors of houses or city-gates automatically opened 
(dvdrdpohamantra), to put other persons to sleep (prasvdpanamanira), to 
make oneself invisible (antardhdnamanira), also samvadanaman:ra for 
winning a woman’s love (4.5.1-6). The text shows how mdnava gangs 
may be apprehended through secret agents posing as experts in these 
magical practices. However, krtyd or abhicara, that is, black magic, is 
condemned in the text. It is treated as a criminal offence and is includ- 
ed among the gidhdjivas, secret ways of earning a livelihood (4.4.16). So 
is samvadanavidyad condemned, though its use by the wife to win her 
husband’s love or by the husband to secure his wife’s love is permitted, 
perhaps also its use by a man to secure a girl’s love with the intention 
of marrying her (4.13.28). 


Most of Book Fourteen of the Arthasdstra, called aupanisadika, 
describes a number of rites and practices which are supposed to produce 
occult manifestations or miraculous effects. There are recipes for 
bringing on blindness or killing people on a mass scale, for mysteriously 
causing various kinds of diseases, for changing one’s appearance, for 
making objects glow at night, for remaining without food for days 
together, for walking long distances without getting tired; there are 
also rites for making others sleep, for opening doors, for making blind 
and so on. It is difficult to say how far the author himself believed 
in the efficacy of these recipes. He may well have only reproduced 
ancient lore on these subjects from earlier sources. But he is keenly 
aware of the extreme gullibility of people and recommends that the. 


160 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


state should not hesitate to take advantage of such gullibility to further 
its own ends. 


The text no doubt condemns the practice of consulting the stars 
before starting on an expedition or undertaking a work (9.4.26). Never- 
theless, it refers to astrologers, soothsayers and others, mauhdirtika, 
naimitiika and kdrtantika, some of whom must be definitely supposed 
to be in state service (5.8.13). Those who know such occult lores as 
nimitta, omens, vdyasa, interpretation of signs of birds, svapna, inter- 
pretation of dreams, laksana or angavidyd, interpretation of the marks 
or movements of the body and so on (18.1.9, 1.12.1 etc.) are also to be 
used in state service. 


There can be little doubt that this picture of belief in stars, in 
omens, in miraculous and occult manifestations, in magic with its 
power for good or evil, in the possession of occult powers, is true to life. 
Superstitiousness and credulity of a high degree have characterised 
the life of the vast majority of people in all ages. Such beliefs and 
practices go back to the days of the Atharvaveda and earlier. The 
connection of these practices with the Atharvaveda is recognised in 
the text when it recommends that the purohita should be an expert 
in warding off divine and other calamities by means described in the 
Atharvaveda (1.9.9). The DharmaSastra works practically ignore this 
aspect of the people’s life also, showing how they are of little value if 
we are to get a comprehensive idea of the life of the people in general. 
There is nothing that is so invaluable in that respect as the Arthasasira. 


Life in the city is intended to be well-regulated. Residential 
accommodation is reserved for different communities and trades in the 
different quarters of the city (2.4.8-15). It is required that full details 
about each household in the city should be recorded by the officers of 
the city-administration. All arrivals and departures are to be reported 
to them by the citizens. Movements at night are to be allowed only 
in emergencies or under authorization (2.86.1-4,11,84-38). All these 
precautions are necessary because the city is the fortified capital of 
the kingdom, and its security has to be the first consideration in its 
administration. A constant watch has to be kept for enemy spies and 
secret agents who may have got into the city in various disguises 
(2.86.18-14). 


Details in the legal section on vdstuka ‘buildings and other pro- 
perty’ throw some light on houses in the city. The rules given there 
are mainly concerned with encroachments on the neighbour’s property, ° 
causing nuisance to him, damaging his property and so on. In that 
connection a reference is made to the erection of a fence round the 
house, to arrangements for the disposal of rubbish, waste water etc., 
to arrangements for grinding and pounding, to cattle- and carriage- 


SOCIETY AND SOCIAL LIFE 161 


sheds, to channels for letting out rain water, to lanes between neighbour-’ 
ing houses and windows in side-walls and so on (3.8.3-23). That 
Chapter also mentions landlords and tenants. It appears that tenancy 
contracts were made on a yearly basis (3.8.24-25). Thereis also a refer- 
ence to big buildings with a number of tenants in each. In such places, 
some things, such as the court-yard, pounding-sheds, latrines etc. are 
declared to be intended for the common use of all tenants (3.8.26-28). 
In reading this Chapter one is constantly reminded of conditions found 
in modern cities, the similarities in many respects are, so striking. 


Public eating houses of different kinds are mentioned. There is 
the dpuptka, the purveyor of bread, the audanika, who sells cooked rice, 
and the pakvamamsika running a non-vegetarian eating house. Rice- 
eaters and bread-eaters were apparently catered for in separate eating 
places. Rice appears in the text as the main staple food. When the 
average rations for an individual are mentioned, only rice is referred 
to ; wheat or barley is not mentioned even as an alternative (2.15.43-49). 
The other principal ingredients of a meal are siipa, a kind of broth and 
an additional dish of vegetables or meat. Recipes for vinegars and sour 
juices are given in the text (2.15.17-18). It is interesting to note that 
dried fish and dried meat are included in the sakavarga (2.15.21), implying 
that saka does not refer to vegetables alone. 


The sale of meat is regulated by the state. The officer in charge 
is siinddhyaksa; however, there is no: reference to slaughter-houses 
or their licensing as part of his duty. He is primarily concerned with 
the prevention of unauthorized killing of certain animals, especially 
those from animal-sanctuaries (2.26.1-8). The killing of certain birds, 
like the hamsa, the kraufica, the cakora and so on and of some animals 
is prohibited (2.26.5-6). The stinddhyaksa is also to inspect the quality 
of meat sold to customers and to punish offenders with fines (2.26.7-13). 

Varying fines are laid down for making a Brahmin, a Ksatriya, 
a Vaigya or a Sidra eat what is uneatable (abhaksya) or drink what is 
undrinkable (apeya) (4.18.1). This does not seem to refer to the 
abhaksyabhaksana of the Smrtis, the basis of which is the prohibition 
to eat certain things, applicable especially to Brahmins. 


There is no doubt that dinner parties formed an essential part of 
celebrations on auspicious occasions. There is a reference to channels 
for the flow of water used for rinsing the mouth (dcdmodaka) on auspi- 
‘cious occasions (kalydnakrtya) such as a birth in the family, marriage 
and so on (8.8.8). A sort of a picnic party, arranged away from home 
is called prahavana (or pravahana), to which the text frquently refers. 


The drinking of wine is to be regulated by the state. There is no 
general prohibition against drinking wine. As a rule wine is to be 


162 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


drunk on the premises in state ale-houses, which also seem to be intended 
to provide lodging for strangers (2.25.5,15). On occasions of festivals 
permission is to be given for the manufacture and consumption of liquor 
without control (2.25.86). Recipes for various kinds of wine are given, 
the medaka prepared from rice, prasannda from flour (of barley), dsava 
from sugar-cane juice and kapittha fruit, maireya from jaggery etc., 
madhu from grape-juice (said to come from Kapisa and Harahtira) and 
aristas or medicinal liquors of various kinds (2.25.17-25). Liquor, 
it seems, was offered to guests invited on the occasion of a funeral rite 
(11.1.24, 12.4.4). It may be that this custom was prevalent among 
the common people, not among the higher varnas. It has persisted 
among many lower communities until recent times. 


There are few indications in the text about the dress of the people. 
Cloth of various kinds, cotton, linen, silk and woollen, woven in different 
types of coarse or fine weaves, and dyed in various colours, is mentioned 
in connection with the state stores (2.11.97-115). Tailors are mentioned 
(4.1.25), but there is no indication of the kinds of clothes they stitched 
for their customers. Greater details are found about the work of the 
washerman and dyer (rajaka). Even his habit of himself wearing the 
customers’ clothes and his unpunctuality in bringing back the clothes 
given for washing or dyeing are referred to in the text (4.1.14-24). 

The use of jewellery and gold and silver ornaments of various 
kinds is implicit in the description of pearls, diamonds, rubies and other 
precious stones (2.11). Besides, we find a description of the manu- 
facture of various kinds of gold and silver ornaments (2.13 and 2.1-4). 
The use of perfumes and garlands of flowers is referred to, so also that 
of fragrant powders and unguents during and after bath (1.21.13-14). 
Sandalwood and aloe wood, of which a large variety is mentioned” 
(2.11.43-72), were apparently used in some of these preparations. 


A common form of entertainment mentioned in the text is preksa 
a ‘show’. Onemay assume that shows were put up onthe stage. For, 
there is a reference to artists male and female ‘ who make their living 
by playing on the stage ’ (rangopajivin, 2.27.29 ; rangopajivini, 2.27.28). 
The text distinguishes between stripreksa and purusapreksd, that is, 
shows put up by women only and by men only respectively (3.8.21). 
Artists such as nata ‘actor’, nartaka ‘dancer’ or ‘mime’, gdyana 
singer’, vddaka ‘player on musical instruments’, tdl@vacara also 
probably a dancer, and others, who arc frequently mentioned in the 
text, may be supposed to take part in these stage shows. The word 
kustlava scems to be a general term for actors, mimes and similar artists. 
It is stated that when a show is put up at any place, every household is 
to make a contribution so that all its members may be entitled to wit- 


SOCIETY AND SOCIAL LIFE 163 


ness it. Refusal to make the contribution and attempts to witness it 
without payment are punishable offences (3.10.37-38). 


It is laid down that at the time of settlements on new lands, halls 
for entertainment should not be provided in the villages. That is 
meant to prevent actors, dancers and others from proving a hindrance 
to work in the fields (2.1.33-34). With the same purpose in view, it 
seems, it is recommended that during the monsoon these artists should 
be made to stay in one place (4.1.58). Special halls in the villages 
would in any case be hardly necessary. An improvised stage can 
always be erected anywhere, and most of the shows in the countryside 
may be supposed to have been put up in temporary structures erected 
for the purpose. The monsoon, too, would appear to be an unsuitable 
season for putting up such open-air shows. 


Other itinerant entertainers referred to are plavaka, an acrobat, 
kuhaka, understood either as a juggler, a puppet-player or a clown, 
and saubhika, who, according to the commentators, is a kind of conjuror, 
but who may be the same as the saubhikaof Patafijali, who puts up some 
kind of a dramatic show. Then there is mention of aditikausika in 
1.17.19, which the commentators understand as two, ‘ mendicants 
earning a livelihood by showing images of gods (adit?) and snake- 
charmers (kausika)*, but which seems to refer to only one class, namely, 
the mendicants carrying images of gods. The same expression is read 
also at 11.1.42, in accordance with the commentators. V. Raghavan has 
argued that in this latter place we have to read only kausika, whose 
womenfolk are mentioned there. Kausika or Kaisika is, according 
to him, the name of a class or community devoted to the arts of music, 
dance etc., employed at courts and frequently used for aiding love- 
affairs—a community referred to in Tamil literature.*! But the 
Kausikas would appear to be a Brahmin community. On the other 
hand, the women meant in the passage have to be understood as those 
of easy virtue to be used by the state for enticing samgha chiefs. It is 
not certain that the women of any Brahmin community were thought of 
in these terms. At any rate, Kausiki of the Mdlavikagnimitra of 
Kalidasa, to whom Raghavan refers in this connection, appears to be 
a Brahmin parivrajikd and she cannot be thought of as being employed 
for the sort of work intended in this sittra. It is possible, however, that 
kaisikastriyah (to be distinguished from Kausika-) was the original 
reading. 


Apart from nrtta ‘dancing’, ndfya ‘acting’, gtta © singing’ and 
vadya ‘playing on musical instruments’, some other arts are also 
referred to, among them pdathya ‘recitation’, probably done by the 


21 JOR, XV (1945), pp. 110-116. 


i eee 


164 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


vagjivana, aksara ‘writing, calligraphy’, citra ‘ painting’, gandha- 
malyasamythana ‘ preparation of perfumes and garlands’, samvdhana 
‘shampooing’ and vaistkakald ‘the courtesan’s arts’ (2.27.28). 
Concerning this last, we find that the profession of the courtesan is 
intended to be regulated by the state. <A special officer, the gantkd- 
dhyaksa, is to be appointed for the purpose. The ganikds, it seems, are 
appointed primarily for attendance on the king, for holding the um- 
brella over his head or carrying the water-jug for him or fanning him or 
accompanying him on processions and so on (2.27.1-4). At the same 
time, the ganitkd, who is allowed a suitable establishment by the state, 
is expected to entertain visitors according as the king may direct her. 
A refusal to obey the king in this respect means heavy punishment. 
However, her relations with visitors are to be governed by a strict code 
of conduct (2.27.13-23). A gantkd may free herself from this life if she 
can find a ransom amount of 24,000 panas. Her son can be free by 
paying half this amount. Else he becomes a state servant as a kusilava 
in charge of all artists, supervising their work (2.27.6-7,29). 


The usual name in the text for women belonging to this profession, 
who are not ganikds maintained by the state, is riipajivd ‘ one who earns 
her living by means of her beauty.’ However, riipdjivds also appear 
among attendants in the palace (1.20.20). Residential accommoda- 
tion for riipajivds is reserved in the southern part of the city (2.4.11). 
It is also to be noted that in military camps or cantonment areas, 
rupdjivds are to be given accommodation along the main highways 
(10.1.10). In one place there is a refernce to a riipajiva who is ‘ reserved 
for another (anyoparuddhda),’ which seems to imply a woman in the 
exclusive keeping of a person (3.20.15). 


In two places in the text bandhakiposakas are mentioned and the 
expression can only refer to brothel-keepers. Beautiful young maidens 
are inmates of their establishments. It is recommended that income 
earned through them may be used to replenish the treasury (5.2.28). 
The inmates may also be used to serve political ends by creating quarrels 
over themselves among the chiefs of the samghas, thus bringing about 
the latter’s ruin (11.1.34-89). 

Like drinking, gambling also is to be under strict state control. 
The state is to provide not only gambling halls, but also the necessary 
materials like dice, cowrie-shells etc. Gamblers are said to be given 
to cheating or fraud. And suits arising out of gambling are also thought 
of (8.20.1-12). 


That bhiksuka, a beggar, and pracchandaka, which probably means 
* a tramp ’ are known to the text is not surprising. 


SOCIETY AND SOCIAL LIFE 165 


It is true that some of the statements bearing on the question of 
social conditions are of a recommendatory character, laying down 
regulations to be put into practice by the state. It may therefore be 
contended that they do not necessarily reflect the actual conditions that 
obtained when this text was composed. However, the regulations are 
not framed without an» reference to actual conditions. We would 
not be far wrong in maintaining that the social and religious life directly 
or indirectly revealed in this text reflects more or less faithfully the 
actual conditions of the day. 


CHAPTER SEVEN 
STATE ECONOMY 


THE state is sustained by the revenue it collects from its subjects. 
These follow different vocations from which they make a living and 
pay taxes to the state. Three principal vocations are recognised as 
providing men with the means of livelihood, namely, krsi, agriculture, 
pasupdlya, cattle-tending and vanijyd, trade. The three together 
constitute vdrttd, a word obviously derived from uvrtti, livelihood. It 
is said that because of vdrtid the state receives grains, cattle, money and 
various Kinds of products. It also supplies visti, that is, labourers to 
the state (1.4.1). From this it may be surmised that labourers engaged 
in the various economic fields could be recruited for similar state 
enterprises. It is further added that because vdrttd sustains the 
treasury and the army, it becomes possible for the state to hold its 
own people and the enemies in check (1.4.2). It may be inferred from 
this that the army could also be recruited from persons ordinarily en- 
gaged in one or the other of these occupations. One kind of samgha, 
as we have seen, is described as vdrtidsastropajivin (11.1.4). Even in 
lands not under that type of samgha rule, the bulk of soldiers may be 
supposed to have come from classes normally following these occupa- 
tions. 


It may be noted that arts and crafts, which must have been a source 
of livelihood to many, are not included in vartid. In fact, among the 
duties of the Sudra, kdrukusilavakarma is distinguished from vdrtta 
(1.3.8). It may be that the conception of vdartta was formed at a time 
when arts and crafts did not play a significant role in the economic life 
of society. In any case, though kdrusilpiganah appears as one of the 
items of state income (2.6.2), the impact of artisans and craftsmen on 
state economy may be supposed to have been comparatively negligible. 


Like all activity in the state, vdrttd too is rooted in the country 
(janapadamild, 8.1.29). In fact, as Kautilya asserts in his own words, 
“There can be no kingdom without a country or territory.”1 The 
ideal country (janapada) is described at length in 6.1.8. Among other 
things, it is stated, it should be easy to defend, should provide easy means 
of livelihood, such as agricultural land, mines, forests, pastures, trade- 
routes and so on, and should be inhabited by hard-working agriculturists 
and men mostly of the lower varnas. Apart from considerations of 


1 FT Waal HaTal Wsaasas aT Wadia Hifeca: | KA, 18.4.5. 


STATI: ECONOMY 167 


defence, the emphasis is on facilities for the pursuit of vartid. But, 
of course, a ruler has to be satisfied with such territory as may have 
fallen to his lot. A choice is, however, possible when new settlements 
are planned or new conquests attempted. In such a case, he is advised 
to choose land which abounds in water, yields crops without much rain, 
is suitable for grain-crops and so on, that is, predominantly good 
agricultural land (7.11.3-5). 


A distinction is made in the text between an dyudhiyapraya jana- 
pada and a karsakaprdya janapada. In the course of the discussion 
on the relative seriousness of the calamities of the janapada and the 
durga, Kautilya expresses the view that generally speaking, the calamity 
of the janapada should be regarded as morc serious than that of the durga. 
He adds, however, that when the country is inhabited mostly by agri- 
culturists, the calamity befalling the fortified capital should be regarded 
as more serious, while if the country is inhabited mostly by fighters, 
the calamity of the country would be more serious. It seems that 
the difference lies in the presence or absence of martial qualities in the 
inhabitants. It cannot be supposed that a country of soldiers would 
be able to dispense with agriculture altogether. [ven warlike samghas 
like Kamboja and Surastra engage in vdrttd in peace-time (11.1.4), 
and vdrtid includes agriculture. What Kautilya means is that when 
there are no martial people on land, the fort assumes a greater im- 
portance, while with martial people on land the importance of the fort 
is reduced. It is possible that regions supplying soldiers would enjoy 
certain exemptions; but that would hardly mean supplying troops 
‘in lieu of taxes,’ as Basham suggests. 


The most important of the three vocations is, of course, agriculture. 
The earlier teachers are stated to have held the view that pasture- 
land should generally make way for agriculture (8.4.37-88). One may 
see in this a reflection of the stage when pastoral society was being 
transformed into agricultural settlements. Kautilya himself does not 
appear to agree entirely with the teachers, though he admits that en- 
croachments by pastures on agricultural Jand should not be tolerated 
(8.4.89-40). 

An important state activity, frequently referred to in the text, is 
Sunyanivesa or settlement on unoccupied land. This is not transforma- 
tion of pasture-land into agricultural fields, but the occupation and 
settlement for the first time of new virgin territory. Such settlement is 
described at length in Chapter 2.1. Another Chapter, 7.11, discusses 
the relative merits of different types of land that may be selected for 


HIAMA JF FAIA, MANAG F ATS AATSAAA Ala | KA, 8.1.32. 


) 
3 A. L. Basham, Zhe Wonder that was India (London, 1954), p. 129. 


168 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


reclamation and settlement. One may suppose that there was plenty 
of unoccupied land waiting to be thus reclaimed when the theory of the 
Sastra was formulated and even when the present text was written. 


Settlement on unoccupied land is to be in the form of villages 
(gradma) each containing from one hundred to five hundred families 
mostly belonging fo the Sidra agricultural class (2.1.2). The 
boundaries between villages are to be well marked out, for these are 
a frequent source of disputes between villages (2.1.3; cf. 3.9,10-14). 
People who are to be thus settled in new villages may be induced 
to go there from one’s own territory or from that of a neighbouring 
state. In the former case, it means a shifting of population from one 
region of the state to another (svadesdbhisyandavamana) ; in the latter 
case, it might involve the forcible removal of people from some foreign 
territory (paradesdpavdhana, 2.1.1). It may incidentally be pointed 
out that the opinion of Pran Nath that grdma is to be understood not 
in the sense of a village but in that of an estate or a big farm* cannot 
be accepted in view of the description of a grdma here as containing 
one hundred to five hundred families. 


It is quite clear that all unoccupied land is supposed to 
belong to the king, that is, to the state. It is stated that land which 
is ready for agriculture should be given to those who are willing to pay 
the taxes ; but the grants are to be made for life only (atkapurusikant), 
implying that the farmers in this case are not full owners (2.1.8). It 
is also added that if the grantees fail to till the fields, these may be 
taken away from them and given to others, or the state may get them 
tilled by state servants and traders (2.1.10-11). Land which is not 
already arable is to be allowed to be brought under cultivation by 
whosoever chooses to do so; in this case, the land is not to be taken 
away from him (2.1.9). This farmer, too, must be supposed to be 
a tenant on state land. The state is to help settlers with seeds, cattle 
and even cash, so that the land may be reclaimed. These, however, 
are loans, to be recovered at the tenants’ convenience (2.1.13-14). Other 
concessions and remissions in taxes are also recommended at the time 
of the first settlement (2.1.15-18). 


This Chapter on new settlements suggests that an entirely new 
country or kingdom (abhitapirva janapada, 2.1.1) can be created in this 
manner. It refers to the founding of villages and towns, with the 
sthaniya as the principal town in the midst of eight hundred villages 
(2.1.4). Now, the sthdniya appears elsewhere as the central place 
where all state revenue is collected ; this sthdniya is to be fortified 


4 Pran Nath, 4 Study in the Economic Conditions of Ancient India (London, 
1929), pp. 26-32. For a criticism, see K. A. Nilakanta Sastri, JOR, IV (1930), 
pp. 222-224. 


STATE ECONOMY 169 


and is, in fact, the same as the durga or the fortified capital of the 
state (2.3.3). Again, there is a reference to the frontier forts, as gates 
allowing entry into the janapada (2.1.5), implying that the new janapada 
constitutes an independent political entity.5 However, it may be 
doubted if in the days of the author there was really much scope for the 
creation of new kingdoms out of territory that was entirely unoccupied 
before. Such land there may have been in plenty; but it may be 
supposed to have been included in the already existing states. All other 
references to Sunyanivesa in this text imply that such activity is 
undertaken by a state that is already in existence. 


It may be assumed that though villages in new settlements are to 
*njoy certain privileges and concessions in the initial stages, they would 
be expected to be treated, in course of time, in the same way as the other 
older villages in the same state. Many of the rules in the latter part 
of this Chapter (siitra 25 onwards) appear to be intended for all villages 
in the state, not for those in new settlements only. For example, 
rules about the guarding of the propertyof minors and temples, the 
maintenance of orphans etc., punishment for taking to sammnydsa with- 
out providing for the family and so on, can hardly be understood as 
meant for new settlements only. Moreover, the concluding stanzas 
of the Chapter (2.1.86-89) have undoubtedly the whole country in view 
and. not only the new villages. 


A question that has exercised the minds of scholars for long is whether 
all land belongs to the state or whether there is also private ownership 
inland. It seems that opinions were divided on this question in ancient 
times.© So far as the present text is concerned, there can be little 
doubt that it recognises private ownership in land, though it pre- 
supposes at the same time the existence of state-owned or crown lands. 
As we have seen, all unoccupied land is assumed to belong to the state. 
The existence of state farms is shown by the description of the duties 
of the sitddhyaksa in Chapter 2.24. Lands which are not under his, 
supervision are clearly to be supposed to belong to private owners. 


Breloer, however, has argued that the activity of the sttadhyaks@ 
extends over the entire agricultural economy in the state.” “ Scholars,” 
he says, “‘ have thought of king’s dominions (as, for example, in the 
sitadhyaksa). But such king’s dominions are an illusion. There is 
no Indian word for such an idea.’’® It is not possible to agree with him. 


5 HASTAMS STMT ATTA. . .TATIAT | KA, 2.1.5. 

G See U. N. Ghoshal, The Agrarian System in India (Calcutta, 1930), pp- 
81-103; also IHQ, II (1926), pp. 198-203 ; JRAS, 1931, pp. 693-696; K. P. Jayaswal, 
HP, II, pp. 174-183; also Manu and Yajiiavalkya, P- 105; F. W. Thomas in Cambridge 
History of India, I, p. 475; P. VY. Kane, HD, III, pp. 495-496; and others. 

7% KSt, III, pp. 490-491. 

& Ibid., p. 98. 


170 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


~ 


It may be that even this text has no word for king’s dominions or 
crown lands, though it is possible to understand svabhiimi (2.24.2) as 
*(king’s) own land.’® But it clearly visualises two different relations 
in which land cah stand to the state. There are first the agricultural 
operations carried out under the sitddhyaksa’s supervision. He keeps 
the seeds ready and gets the land ploughed and sown by ddsas, karma- 
karas and dandapratikartrs and provides them with the services of 
smiths etc. (2.24.1-3). ‘These are slaves and labourers in state service 
and such offenders as have to render service to the state because they 
are unable to pay the fines imposed on them. None of these can be 
looked upon as even a tenant farmer. On the other hand, there are 
other lands, on which the karsaka or farmer worked. The work of the 
karsakas can, on occasion, be controlled by the state ; but the control- 
ling authority is not the sitddhyaksa, but the samdhartr and his assist- 
ants, as is shown by 5.2.8-18. Again, the produce brought to the 
stores through the activity of the. sttddhyaksa is called sitd (2.15.2). 
But in addition to sitd and distinguished from it is bhdga (2.6.3) or 
sadbhdga (2.15.3), which, therefore, cannot be understood as the result 
of the sitddhyaksa’s activity. It is evidently the same as the dhanya- 
sadbhaga, which people in the beginning are supposed to have promised 
to give to the ruler in return for his protection (1.13.6). Moreover, 
statistics and records about all agricultural and other properties in the 
villages are to be maintained by the gopas and the sthanikas, who work 
under the samdhartr and are in no way connected with the stta@dhyaksa 
(2.35.1-5). Itis therefore not true that the sitddhyaksa is to be thought 
of as the officer who controls all agricultural operations in the state. 


Besides, there are clear indications in the text about private owner- 
ship of land. ‘The ksetrika, the owner of the field, is distinguished 
from the wpavdsa, the tenant (3.10.8). Again, in connection with 
disputes regarding boundaries between two fields, it is stated that if 
neither party can prove its claim, the disputed portion is to go to the 
king ; similarly, land, the owner of which cannot be traced (pranasta- 
svamikam), is also to go to the state (8.9.15-17). The word svdmin 
used here can hardly be understood to mean only ‘ one who is in posses- 
sion.’ Again, ksetra, that is, a field or land figures among property, 
the sale of which is governed by certain regulations (3.9.3). The sale 
(vikraya) of land is also referred to for purposes of restricting the transac- 
tion to persons of the same category, by tax-payers to tax-payers and 
by grant-holders to grant-holders (3.10.9). Now, the right of alienation 
by sale is a well-known characteristic of ownership. From the sale 
the state gets only the sales-tax (3.9.5-6). From 2.1.10 it might be 
deduced that if the cultivator fails to till the land given to him, it 


9 See E. H. Johnston, JRAS, 1929, pp. 90-91. 


STATE ECONOMY 171 


may be taken away from him and given to another person by the state. 
But that refers to state lands that are distributed at the time of new 
settlements. There is no indication in the text regarding the steps to © 
be taken when land revenue is not paid. Apparently, the pradestrs 
are to manage enforcement of payment (2.35.7). But there is no 
suggestion that land is to be taken away from a defaulter and given to 
another, as we would naturally expect in a situation where all land 
belongs to the state. 


In support of the view that all land belongs to the state, Breloer 
refers to the rule that everything found in the earth, ores, mincrals, 
treasures etc., belongs to the state.!° It is true that mines are clearly 
owned by the state. But it is doubtful if that proves anything about 
ownership of agricultural land. As to treasures, it is only such treasures 
as are unclaimed by anyone in a legitimate manner that become state 
property. For it is expressly stated that a citizen of the country should 
receive the entire treasure belonging to his forefathers after producing 
adequate proof of his right to it (4.1.54). One may grant that the 
king’s dominion or sovereignty extends over the entire territory of 
the kingdom. But without detriment to that sovereignty, the subjects, 
it seems, can own various kinds of property, including even land. 
It is possible that the rule that all land belongs to the king reflects 
an earlier stage in the development of society when all land was the 
property of the entire tribe and the king as the chief representing the 
tribe was regarded as the owner of the land. But when over the genera- 
tions individual families continued to hold and till the same separate 
pieces of land, a vested interest was created, which practically 
amounted to ownership of the separate pieces of land. Then the rights 
of alienation came to be recognised. The present text reflects this 
state of affairs. At any rate, it cannot be maintained that even 
according to it all Jand belongs to the king. 


The text recommends gifts of land to priests, preceptors and others 
as ‘ grants to Brahmins ’ (brahmadeyant), which are to pass in inheritance 
to persons belonging to the same category (2.1.7). Such lands are dis- 
tinguished from tax-paying lands (8.10.9). What the gifts amount to, 
therefore, is exemption from state dues and unrestricted and continuous 
use of the produce of the lands. In the samesitra grants of lands are 
recommended to adhyaksas, accountants and other lower officers, 
without the right of sale or mortgage. This means that they haye 
only the usufruct of the land, neither full ownership nor exemption 
from taxes. Neither of the two types of grants corresponds to the 


10 KSt, III, p. 86. 


172 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


jagirs of later days, much less can they be said to establish feudal 
relationships. 


The best land ‘is adevamairka ‘ not dependent on the god (of rain) ’ 
(6.1.8), implying plenty of natural resources of water, like rivers, lakes 
etc. When these are insufficient or lacking, irrigation becomes neces- 
sary. Hence, setubandha or irrigation works form an important activity 
of the state. The word setw refers primarily to the embankment or 
dam which is built for holding water. Two types of setu are distinguished, 
the sahodaka setu and the ahdryadaka setu (2.1.20). The former appears 
to refer to tanks, wells etc., which are fed by natural springs of water, 
while the latter seems to imply the storing of water in reservoirs by means 
of embankments. ‘ Of the two, the former is declared to be preferable 
to the latter (7.12.4-5). 


Though irrigation is looked upon as a state activity, privately 
owned irrigation tanks are also thought of. There is, for example, 
the rule that the ownership of a tank is lost if it is not used for five 
years, except in times of distress, another that a person is free to sell or 
mortgage his tank (3.9.82,34). At the time of new settlements, it is 
‘.recommended, co-operative effort should be encouraged to get new 
water-works built, forcing members, if necessary, to contribute their 
share of labour and expenses (2.1.22-28). 


Information about agricultural operations is found in the Chanter 
in which the duties of the sit@dhyaksa are laid down. Operstions on 
private lands may be supposed to be carried out on mor: or Jess similar 
lines, except that private farmers would not: have the services of danda- 
pratikartrs available to them. It is stated in the Chapter that what 
cannot be directly cultivated by the state should be leased out to crop- 
sharers. These may be either ardhasitikas who retain half the produce 
for themselves, or svaviryopajivins who can keep only one-fourth or 
one-fifth of what they produce (2.24.16). There is little doubt that 
in the former case, the cultivators are to bring their own implements, 
bullocks, seeds, labourers and so on. while in the latter case, the tenants 
depend on the state for implements, seeds etc. Though these rules 
about lease are stated in connection with the working of crown lands, 
“it may be presumed that similar arrangements could be made by 
private owners concerning their own lands. 


For labourers on land, the wage fixed is one pana and a quarter 
per month over and above the food they get for themselves and their 
families. The same rate applies to workers in vegetable gardens, fruit 
orchards, flower-gardens, and to herdsmen (2.24.28). In another place 
it is stated that when no prior agreement as to wages is made, the tiller 
is to get one-tenth of the crops and the herdsman one-tenth of the 


STATE ECONOMY 173 


butter produced from the herd in his charge (3.13.28). In this case, no 
food rations are allowed. 


It is not easy to see how much direct control the state is expected 
to exercise in normal times over agricultural operations on private 
lands. The state is no doubt required to maintain, through the sama- 
hartr and his assistants, a full record of all agricultural holdings, with 
details about the different types of fields and the crops raised in them 
(2.85.3). The state is also expected to keep a strict watch over the 
sowings and the harvesting of crops, in order that it may not be cheated 
of its legitimate dues (2.22.11-14). The statistics collected by state 
officers are necessary for purposes of assessment of land’ revenue. 
‘Brelocer has pointed out that the collection of statistics by a host of 
officers from the village level upwards has been a constant feature of 
India’s land economy.!! This has been necessary because of the depend- 
ence of agriculture on rain “and the uncertainty about the produce. 


Normally, it seems, the farmer decided for himself what kind of 
crop to raise and on how much land. But in times of emergency the 
state may direct sowings according to its own needs, supplying, if 
necessary, the required seeds. A strict watch over the crops as they 
ripen and are harvested is in this case still more necessary (5.2.8-13). 


Agriculture yields what is probably the most important part of 
state revenue. It comes in the form of either sitd, i.e., the produce of 
crown lands and bhdga, i.e., one-sixth share of the produce of other 
lands. Though that is not directly stated, it may be supposed that the 
state’s share was divided on the threshing floor.’? It is also possible to 
suppose that the farmers themselves brought this share to the state 
granaries.15 It may be pointed out that the gopa and the sthantka, 
the assistants of the samdhartr, do not appear to be concerned with the 
actual collection of land revenue. That appears to be the responsibility 
of the pradestrs, one of whose functions is balipragraha, which can only 
refer to the receiving of state dues (2.35.7). Among taxes included 
under the head rdstra or the countryside, kara and bali appear beside 
bhdga (2.6.8, 2.15.3). These, too, may be supposed to fall mostly 
on the farmers. There is some confusion in the use of these words. 
Usually kara indicates any tax, danda and kara being represented as 
the two main sources of state income (1.13.3 etc.). Ordinarily, there- 
fore, bhaga would be supposed to be included in kara. When kara 
is mentioned beside bhdga, it may be understood in the restricted sense 
of a tax on income payable in cash. Similarly, balt in balipragraha 


11 KSt, III, pp. 15-19. 
12 Cf. E. H. Johnston, JRAS, 1929, pp. 96-97. 


13 This appears from the evidence of the Jatakas. Cf. R. Fick, Die Sociale 
Gliedecrung etc. (English translation), pp. 116-117. 


174 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


appears to stand for all state dues. But it is also mentioned along with 
bhaga and kara. It may then be understood to mean some sort of an 
occasional levy. 

Besides the land-tax, there is the udakabhdga ‘a rate for water.’ 
This is charged when water from irrigation works is used and ranges 
from one-fifth to one-third according as water is lifted by hand or with 
the aid of bullocks or by some mechanical contrivance (2.24.18). The 
water-rate is to be charged even when the water-works belong to the 
owner of the field (suaseiubhyah). The water-rate is obviously over and 
above the bhdga or share of one-sixth. And the one-fifth to one-third 
means that so much part of the produce is to be paid as water-rate 
in addition to the one-sixth paid as land-revenue. Itis true that when 
one-third is understood as the water-rate, the total, with the addition 
of one-sixth, comes to one-half of the produce, which might appear 
exorbitant. But there seems little doubt that this is the idea meant 
in the text.’ Exemption from taxes, that is, evidently from the 
payment of the udakabhdga or water-rate. is to be allowed for five 
years in the case of a newly-built tank, for four years in the case of 
a ruined tank that is renovated, for three years in the case of a tank 
overgrown with vegetation that is cleared and so on (3.9.83). 


In connection with the sefus built in new settlements it is laid 
down that their by-products such as:fish, vegetables and so on belong 
to the state (2.1.24). This is evidently because land there belongs to 
the state. It may be presumed that in the case of private setus, such 
by-products would belong to their owners. 

Land which cannot be used for agriculture because it is unsuited 
for it is called bhtimicchidra ‘ a weakness in the land, i.e., inferior type 
of land.’ It is to be used either for pastures or forests (2.2.1ff.). Two 
kinds of forests are distinguished, the dravyavana for various kinds of 
forest produce and the hastivana as a sanctuary for elephants. The 
latter has little economic value, the elephants being mainly intended 
for purposes of war (2.2.18-14). The principal produce of the dravya- 
vana would appear to be timber and wood of all kinds as well as base 
metals like iron, copper, lead etc. (2.17.4ff.). There can be no doubt 
that both kinds of forests belong to the state. It is laid down that 
a separate forest should be planted for each different type of produce 
(4.2.5). In fact, the Chapter (2.2) creates the impression that entirely 
new forests are to be planted when a new state is carved out of un- 
occupied territory. 

Quite a substantial income may be supposed to come to the state 
from its forest wealth. There is a special store-house in the capital 


14 Cf. U. N. Ghoshal, Contributions to the History of the Hindu Revenue Sys- 
fem, p. 33; M. H. Gopal, Mauryan Public Finance (London, 1935), pp. 71-73. 


STATE ECONOMY 175 


for forest produce (2.5.1,5). It seems that some of the raw material 
produced in the forest is to be turned into finished articles in factories 
established for the purpose. Such articles would include wood-ware, 
metal-ware, earthenware, ropes, cane-ware and so on. Some of the 
articles made of metals are intended for the defence of the city, and 
may therefore be supposed to consist of swords, spears and other 
weapons (2.17.17). In fact, quite a large amount of defence material 
may be supposed to be manufactured from the various kinds of forest 
produce. For, the officer in charge of the armoury is expected to be 
thoroughly conversant with the raw materials from the forests and 
their qualities (2.18.20). The manufacture of these finished products 
and in particular of defence material must be supposed to be a state 
monopoly. 


As to pastures, it seems that all grass-lands bclong to the state. 
The vivitadhyaksa ‘the superintendent of pastures’ is responsible for 
laying out .grass-lands, providing wells, tanks etc. for the purpose, 
also for planting fruit-orchards and flower-gardens in the area. The 
safety of cattle grazing in the pastures and the protection of caravans 
passing through the areas under his control are also to be ensured by 
this officer (2.34.6-8). It seems that pasture-lands are intended to be 
leased out to herdsmen, who may also make a living by cutting and 
selling the grass (3.10.21). It is these persons who are allowed to 
charge for. damage caused by unauthorized cattle straying on their 
pasture-lands (3.10.22-24). 


The state is the owner of large herds of cattle and other animals, 
with the go’dhyaksa ‘ the superintendent of cattle’ in charge. It need 
hardly be added that cattle are owned privately as well. This is clear 
from the reference to cattle entering royal herds in times of danger, 
when a fee of one-tenth of their produce is charged for the protection 
given (2.29.7). That is also shown by the punishment prescribed 
for owners of cattle as distinguished from herdsmen, when damage 
is caused to crops etc. by cattle (3.10.26-27). 


The go’dhyaksa is to maintain a complete record of cach. animal 
in every herd belonging to the state (2.29.8-11). Similarly, a record 
of all animals owned by private individuals is to be maintained by 
village and district officials under the samahartr (2.35.4). Thus a com- 
plete record of the entire cattle wealth in the state is ensured. Cattle 
are of importance for two reasons. The males are necessary for draught 
purposes in agriculture and transport and the females supply milk, 
which with its products is a valuable source of food. The hides, too, 
are useful for the manufacture of leather goods. The text refers to 
meat, fresh and dried, as an item of food. But it nowhere creates the 
impression that animal herds are to be reared for their-meat. 


176 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


Two ways in which herds may be got tended.are mentioned. 
According to what is called the vetanopagrahika system, a herd of one 
hundred milch-cows is given for tending to a group of cowherds and their 
assistants, each of whom is paid a wage in cash; the entire produce 
of the herd is to be handed over to the state (2.29.2-3). According to 
the other karapratikara system, a herd of one hundred cows of all 
ages but containing only twenty milch-cows is given to one cowherd 
who pays to the state a fixed amount of ghee per year (2.29.4-5). The 
cowherds are held entirely responsible for the care and protection of 
the cattle in their charge. Very detailed rules are laid down about this 
(2.29.12ff.) as also about the proper time for milking cows and buffaloes, 
the quantum of fodder for them and so on (2.29.31ff.). 


Except for state-owned herds, cattle as such may be supposed to 
provide little direct income to the state. The latter does not appear 
to claim the labour of privately owned bullocks or the produce of 
privately owned cows. In times of emergency, what the state demands 
isa part of the animals themselves, one-tenth of the animals owned 
being so claimed in the case of cattle, one-sixth in the case of goats 
and other small animals, and as much as one-half in the case of fowls 
and pigs (5.2.27). In any case, cattle-tending seems to contribute 
much less to the economy of the state than agriculture and trade. 


Provision of routes for trade purposes is another important state 
activity. All trade is to be under state control, with the panyddhyaksa 
‘the superintendent of trade’ in charge. He is to fix the prices of 
the various commodities after taking into consideration such factors 
as investment of capital, interest charges, duties paid, rent and so on 
(4.2.36). <A profit of five per cent on indigenous goods and ten per 
cent on foreign goods is to be allowed, heavy fines being prescribed 
for exceeding these limits (4.2.28-80). Cornering of a particular 
commodity and forcing its price above that fixed by the state involves 
the very heavy fine of one thousand panas (4.2.19). When there is a 
glut of any commodity, the panyddhyaksa is to intervene and centralize 
the sale of that commodity so that the price does not slump (4.2.83-35). 
Apparently, this means that the entire supply is purchased and its 
sale carried out through the agency of the state at the fixed price. 
All in all, the text reveals a definite attempt to strike a reasonable 
balance between the interests of the state, the traders and the customers. 
Often, however, the interests of the customers are regarded as supreme 
(4.2.27,35). Another officer, the samsthddhyaksa ‘the superintendent 
of markets ’ is there to look after the customers’ interests and see that 
the traders or artisans do not cheat them by fraud in weighing and 
measuring or by supplying inferior quality or different make of goods 


STATE ECONOMY 177 


(4.2.3ff). It is also his duty to see that secondhand goods, purdna- 
bhanda, sold in the market, are not stolen property (4.2.1). 


Apart from the trade in private hands, the state itself is to engage 
in trade on a fairly extensive scale. This is natural in view of the 
fact that the state receives a large part of its income in kind and that it 
itself manufactures a large variety of commodities. State trade is in 
the hands of the panyddhyaksa. He has, therefore, to be an expert in 
determining the value of the various commodities and must be always 
thoroughly posted with the position of supply and demand with respect 
to each one of them. He is to fix the prices, raising or lowering them 
according to the availability of the goods, always keeping in mind the 
customers’ interests (2.16.1-3). 


State goods, called rajapanya, may be svabhuimya, indigenously 
produced, or parabhimija, produced in foreign lands. The latter implies 
that the state is to engage in import trade as well. Indigenous goods 
belonging to the state are to be sold in one place, by which is obviously 
to be understood the capital where all state stores are located. Foreign 
goods are to be sold in different centres. In both cases, the interests 
of the customers are to influence the fixing of the selling. price. A 
large profit, it is stated, must be avoided if it is harmful to the subjects 
(2.16.4-6). The purpose in concentrating the sale of indigenous state 
goods in one place is to avoid competition with private traders dealing 
in those gaods. The sale of imported goods in different centres, on the 
other hand, is determined by the consideration that such goods may not 
otherwise be available in out-lying regions of the state. 


State goods are normally to be sold by state servants (2.16.14-16). 
But the aid of private traders may also be sought for the purpose. In 
that case, the traders are required to pay vaidharana, a sort of compen- 
sation fee, to make up for the loss of profit which the state would have 
earned by sale through its servants (2.16.8-9). It is stated elsewhere 
that traders selling goods on commission are to receive the price of 
one-tenth of the goods sold by them if their remuneration is not fixed 
beforehand (3.18.28). This seems to apply, not to traders selling 
state goods, but to agents of private traders. 


The panyddhyaksa is also to arrange for the export of state goods 
to foreign lands. When undertaking such a venture, he is to take 
into consideration all factors such as expenses of the journey, duties 
that may have to be paid, prevailing prices in the different places and 
so on and to determine beforehand if profit can be made for the state. 
He may also investigate the possibility of bartering state goods for 
those from foreign lands, panyapratipanya (2.16.18-24). 


178 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


The import of goods from foreign lands is to be encouraged in 
every way. Exemptions from duties may be allowed to shippers and 
caravans bringing in foreign goods, so that they may be enabled to 
to make a profit. Similarly, immunity from suits connected with 
money matters may be granted to foreign traders except from such 
suits as are filed by their partners or assistants (2.16.11-18). 


Normally, all imported goods are liable to duty or sulka, which is 
to be collected at the city-gates, each of which is to have a custom- 
house with four or five officers in charge, all of them under the sulka- 
dhyaksa ‘the superintendent of custom’ (2.21.1-2). However, sulka 
refers not only to custom duties on imports and exports, but also to 
excise duties on indigenous products. The former seems to be called 
pravesya and niskramya sulka, the latter bahya and dbhyantara sulka 
(2.22.1-2). Excise duties are apparently to be collected at the gates 
when goods are taken out from the city to the country or brought from 
the country to the city for sale. There is a definite rule that goods 
are not to be sold at the place of their production, and fines are prescribed 
for purchasing metals etc. directly from mines, or flowers, fruits etc. 
directly from the gardens, or grains directly from the fields (2.22.9-18). 
Obviously the object is to control the turnover of all goods, so that 
duty is not evaded. The lists of dutiable articles include practically 
everything, from flowers, vegetables, fruits etc. on the one hand to 
diamonds, pearls and other precious stones on the other (2.22.4-7). 
Many items may be supposed to be indigenous products, while some 
may be regarded as foreign imports. Apparently, the rates of excise 
and custom duties do not differ; for, a single set of tariffs varying from 
one-sixth to one-twenty-fifth is mentioned, except that foreign imports 
are to be charged one-fifth of their value as duty (2.22.8-8). It is not 
clear if state goods are also to be charged excise and custom duties ; 
they may be supposed to be exempt. 


Details are given about the collection of custom duty on foreign 
goods. Merchants, who would be mostly coming in caravans, are 
first required to obtain an entry permit at a frontier post, where their 
goods are to be stamped and sealed, and where they pay a road cess 
(vartani) for safe passage (2.21.24-26). Tampering with seals, making 
false declarations about the goods, trying to bypass the custom-house 
and so on are punishable offences (2.21.8-6). Imported goods are 
required to be sold to native traders at\the gate itself at a price to be 
declared beforehand. If there is a competition among native traders 
for the goods and the price offered goes up, the state is to receive the 
excess over the declared price along with the duty (2.21.7-9). Thus a 
fair deal is ensured to the foreign merchant, who in any case would 
have to sell his goods to some native trader; at. the same time he is 


STATE ECONOMY . 179 


not allowed to make a profit over and above what he himself had origin- 
ally expected out of the deal. The selling price would, of course, 


be fixed after taking into consideration the higher price paid by the 
native trader. 7 


Certain commodities are to be allowed duty-free. Goods required 
for a marriage or a sacrificial or other sacred rite and goods intended 
as gifts are not to be charged any duty (2.21.18). It seems that the 
import of arms of all kinds as well as of jewels, grains and cattle is to be 
duty-free ; on the other hand, the export of these goods may be pro- 
hibited if circumstances necessitate it (2.21.22-28). As a general rule 
it is added that goods which are of great benefit to the state and seeds 
of rare kind should be allowed to come in duty-free (2.21.81). 


In the matter of the various trade-routes, Kautilya, differing from 
the earlier teachers, has expressed the view that a land-route is to be 
preferred to a water-route. He argues that the former is open in all 
seasons and is fraught with comparatively fewer dangers, which, more- 
over, can be easily overcome (7.12.18-20). Again, he expresses him- 
self in favour of the route to the south as against the Himalayan route 
preferred by the earlier teachers. He regards the southern route as more 
profitable since it brings in many valuable commodities like pearls, 
diamonds, conch-shells and plenty of gold (7.12.22-24). It would not — 
be unreasonable to conclude from this that trade with the south was 
negligible in the days of the earlier teachers, but had become more 
common and more profitable in Kautilya’s days. 


When goods are brought along water-ways, they are to pay the 
duty and other charges at the ports. The state is to maintain a fleet 
of boats which may be let out on hire to traders and fishermen. But, 
of course, these are free to have their own boats (2.28.8-5). All state 
boats are in charge of the ndvadhyaksa ‘ the superintendent of ships.’ 
One of his principal duties is to provide ferries for the crossing of rivers, 
particularly in the monsoon. For ferrying across a river the text lays 
down a regular tariff (2.28.21-28). When ferries operate on rivers 
that form the boundaries between two states, the recovery of custom 
duties, road cess and convoy charges from foreign merchants is to be 
made at the ferry wharf (2.28.25). . 


A feature of the inter-country trade was the journey by traders 
in caravans (sdrtha). Traders in those days could move from one region 
to another only in groups because of the danger of being looted on the 
way by forest tribes and dacoits. Inside a state’s boundaries, it is 
regarded as the state’s duty to protect the caravans. The state is 
allowed to charge a kind of road cess called vartan?, which is collected 
by the officer at the frontier post. In return, this officer is made 
responsible for any loss suffered by the caravan on its way to the capital 


180 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


(2.21.24-25). However, the responsibility for the loss suffered by a 
caravan appears distributed over a number of officers. If a caravan 
loses anything overnight in a village, the headman is required to make 
good the loss. If the loss occurs in regions between villages, the 
vivitadhyaksa is held responsible; if it occurs outside the latter's 
jurisdiction, an officer called corarajjuka is required to make good the 
loss (4.18.7-10). Apparently, it was the special duty of this officer to 
track down robberies in jungle fastnesses. In addition to vartani, there 
is a reference to dtivahika, that is, escort charges (2.16.18, 2.28.25). 
In this case, we may suppose that the state supplied an armed: escort 
to accompany the caravan from the frontier post to the capital. All 
these regulations are obviously thought necessary in order to encourage 
trade between different countries. With the same object in view 
concessions as well as exemptions from civil suits are recommended in 
the case of foreign merchants (2.16.11-13). The text also provides for 
the punishment of the leader and other members of the caravan if they 
leave any of their members stranded on the way, whether in a village or 
in a forest (8.20.18). Corresponding to the caravans on land are what 
may be called convoys of ships on water-ways, particularly on sea. 
This is samydna ‘ going together’ an expression which usually refers 
to voyage by sea. 


Weights and measures used in trade are to be manufactured by 
the pautavddhyaksa, responsible for their standardization (2.19.1). 
Apparently, the private manufacture of these is not to be allowed. 
Details about the different weights and measures and weighing machines 
are given. A large number of balances called twld are described. From 
the description it appears that these are not the usual pairs of scales, 
but are rather balances of the steelyard type, with two unequal arms, 
one marked with figures from zero to one hundred to indicate the weight 
in palas of the article suspended from the other end (2.19.12-16). The 
text mentions also the prices at which the weights and measures are to 
be sold to traders (2.19.86-39). 


A curious feature of the weights and measures is that different 
standards appéar intended for different purposes, one for measuring 
goods received in the treasury (Gyamdna), another, a lower one, for use 
in trade (vyavaharika), a third, lower still, for payments to be measured 
out from the treasury (bhdjana) and a fourth, lowest of all, for deliveries 
to be made to the palace (antahpurabhdjana) (2.19.21-23,29). The 
intention apparently is to secure a double advantage to the state, 
which receives payments by a larger measure but pays out with a 
smaller one. The still smaller measure for deliveries to the palace 
might enable the king to plead that if the state paid out by a measure 
smaller than the revenue measure, he himself received by a still smaller 


STATE ECONOMY 181 


measure. It is, however, also possible that antahpurabhajana refers to 
payments by the palace, and not to it. In that case, the palace would 
be the highest beneficiary under this complicated scheme. It may be 
noted that in ancient Egypt during the third to fifth dynasties in the 
Old Kingdom, there was, besides the normal ell of 450 mm., a ‘ royal 
ell’ which was one-sixth more or 525 mm.; and things for the king 
were measured by the longer ell.1® 


Weights and measures are to be inspected every four months. 
An inspection fee is prescribed at the rate of one kdkani or one-sixty- 
fourth part of a pana per day, which comes to ahout two panas for the 
four-month period (2.19.40-42). 


Coins are to be manufactured by the laksanddhyaksa, whose name 
contains a reference to the laksana or mark such as is found on punch- 
marked coins. Four silver coins of the denominations of 1 pana, 1/2 
pana, 1/4 pana, and 1 8 pana, each containing eleven parts of silver, 
four parts of copper and one part of some hardening alloy, and four 
copper coins of the denominations of 1 mdsaka (equal in value to 1/16 
pana), 1/2 masaka, 1 kdkani (equal in value to 1/4 ind@saka) and 1/2 
kdkani, each containing-three parts copper and one part hardening 


alloy, are mentioned (2.12.24). There is no mention of any gold coin 
in the text. 


Two kinds of currency (panaydtrd) are thought of, one for use in 
trade (vydvahariki) and the other for receipt in the treasury (koéga- 
pravesyda) (2.12.25). It may be assumed that the latter has a slightly 
higher content of the principal metal. It is the ripadaréaka ‘the 
inspector of coins” who is to look after the circulation of currency. 
He is made liable to punishment if he were to upset an established 
currency (sthitd panaydtra) or to allow an irregular currency to circulate 
(4.1.44-46). This implies that currencies other than the official one are 
also to be allowed. It seems that big merchants or merchant guilds 
could get their coins with their own marks stamped elsewhere than at 
the royal mint. The text, no doubt, mentions a fine of twenty-five 
panas for the minting of coins in another place (2.12.26). But that 
seems to work out merely as a sort of license fee for minting coins 
elsewhere. 


Various charges are mentioned in connection with currency, 
namely, rupika at 8 per cent, vydaji at 5 per cent and pariksika at 1/8 
percent. The 7ripika seems to be a charge for minting coins for private 
agencies. As to vydj7 it is usually a surcharge on the price of an article 
and appears to be a sort of sales-tax. In the present case, 5 per cent 


15 See Eduard Meyer, Geschichte des Altertums, 5th edition, Vol. I, Part 2 
(Berlin, 1926), p. 195. 


182 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


of the.coins issued by the state would be charged to those receiving 
the coins. It is stated, indeed, that a currency is valid only when the 
vyaji has been paid (4.1.45). The pariksika is, of course, the inspection 
fee. The riipadargaka makes himself liable to a fine for allowing a 
diminution in the metal content of a currency (4.1.46). 


It is,clear that trade, both private and that carried on by the state 
itself, would be yielding a substantial income to the state. 


Apart from these sources of income rooted in vdarttd, more income 
is expected from other state activities which are mentioned. The chief 
among these are mining and the manufacturing industries. The impor- 
tance of mines is stressed in the statement that the treasury depends on 
mines, that the army is sustained by the treasury and that the earth 
is conquered by means of the treasury and the army (2.12.87). The 
starting of new mines and the renewal of old discarded ones is thus an 
important state activity, in charge of the dkarddhyaksa ‘the director 
of mining’. He has to be an expert in sulbasdstra, geology, and 
dhatusdsira, metallurgy (2.12.1). He is to make a survey of all regions 
where mineral deposits are likely to be found and start new mines and 
renovate old ones. 


The most important metals to be looked for in this way are gold 
and silver. The characteristics of gold and silver ores of different. 
types are described at length (2.12.2-6). The text also describes the 
process of refining gold and silver (2.12.8-11). Other metals to be 
mined are copper, lead, tin, iron and vaikrntaka; the characteristics 
of their ores are also described (2.12.12-16). Mines for precious stones 
like diamonds, rubies etc. are, of course, to be understood (2.12.17). 
Finally, there are the salt-mines, supervised by the lavanddhyaksa 
(2.12.28). 


It is stated that those mines are best which yield rich ores, are 
easily accessible and capable of being operated at a small cost (7.12.18). 
But while the ancient teachers were of the view that a small mine 
yielding products of high value such as diamonds etc. is to be preferred, 
Kautilya expresses himself in favour of a large mine even if it yields 
products of comparatively small value. He rightly argues that the 
latter command a continuous sale, while articles of high value find 
few purchasers (7.12.14-16). 

All mines are clearly state property, but not all of them are to be 
worked directly by the state. In fact, it is stated that a mine costly 
in its working should be leased out for a fixed share of the output, 
bhaga, or for a fixed rent, prakraya, and that only a light mine should 
be worked by the state directly (2.12.22). So far as salt-mines: are 
concerned, these seem to be all intended to be leased out for a share 


STATE ECONOMY 183 


or on hire (2.12.28). Workers in the state-run mines may be supposed 
to belong to the same categories as the workers on crown lands, namely, 
dasa, karmakara and dandapratikarir (2.24.2). In addition, those 
disgruntled with the regime are to be posted in the mines (1.18.21). 
Men of the officers’ grade seem to be meant here, since it is stated that 
their wives and children should be held as hostages, the precaution 
being intended to prevent the men from going over to the enemy. 


It is laid down that the produce of the various mines should be 
turned into articles of use in the respective workshops or factories, 
karmantas. The manufacture of articles from metals other than gold 
and silver is the concern of the loha@dhyaksa, who is also in charge 
of their sale (2.12.28). Another officer, the khanyadhyaksa, is in charge 


of the manufacture of articles from precious stones and their sale 
(2.12.27). 


Far greater importance, however, is attached to the manufacture 
of articles from gold and silver, which is under the supervision of the 
suvarnddhyaksa. One Chapter (2.13) describes at length the process 
of refining the metals, of testing their quality and of the manufacture. 
of various kinds of ornaments from them. Another Chapter (2.14) 
similarly describes the duties of the sauvarnika, the royal goldsmith, 
who manufactures gold and silver articles for the people in a special 
workshop in the market-place. Employees in these workshops are 
naturally to be subjected to a strict supervision. Precautions against 
fraud of various kinds practised by artisans are indicated in the text. 


In 2.12.35-36, there is a list of twelve kinds of income which, it is 
said, is derived from the mines. These are: (1) milya, price, (2) bhaga, 
share, (8) vydji, a sort of sales-tax, (4) parigha, the exact nature of which 
is not clear, but which appears to be a kind of protective duty, (5) 
atyaya, penalty for violation of state monopoly, (6) sulka, custom duty 
(in the case, for example, of imported salt) or excise duty, (7) vaidharana, 
compensation for transfer of state rights of sale to private individuals, 
(8) danda, fine, (9) ripa, which seems to refer to the inspection fee of 
1/8 per cent, (10) rupika, which appears to be a charge for manufacture 
at 8 per cent of the price, (11) dhdtu ‘metals’ and (12) panya * commodi- 
ties’ manufactured from them. It is quite obvious that mining and 
the industries based on it are expected to be a valuable source of 
state income. 


In an appraisal of the present work D. D. Kosambi has remarked, 
‘“The writer knew the value of heavy industry as few in India had 
grasped it before the present century.’2® It is very doubtful if such 


16 An Introduction to the Study of Indian History (Bombay, 1956), p. 208, also 
JBBRAS, XXVII (1951), p. 206. 


184 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


a claim can justifiably be made for an author of so early anage. Heavy 
industry as understood in the present century would appear to be 
inconceivable before the advent of the machine age and the industrial 
revolution. Iron, steel and coal are generally regarded as the basic 
heavy industries. But though the text refers to mining as an important 
state activity, it nowhere stresses the importance of iron and steel. 
The Chapter on mining, 2.12, is largely devoted to gold and silver ores 
and disposes of iron ore in a single siitra (2.12.15). And while the text 
devotes two Chapters to the manufacture of gold and silver articles 
(2.18 and 2.14) it contains not a single siitra concerning the process 
of manufacturing steel or the articles to be made out of it. It merely 
refers to factories to be started for the manufacture of articles of copper, 
lead, tin, brass, bronze etc., along with steel and iron (2.12.28). There 
is no emphasis on articles of steel and iron. Mining is, no doubt, 
declared to be the source of the implements of war (7.14.25). But that 
can hardly be understood to mean that it is given a place of eminence 
in state economy. And when the treasury is said to come from mines 
(2.12.87), it should be remembered that the best treasury conceived 
in the text is one that mostly contains gold and silver and various 
kinds of big jewels and cash (6.1.10). Of other heavy industries of 
modern times like electrical and so on, one naturally cannot expect to 
tind any mention in the text. 


An industrial activity, of which many details are found, is the 
manufacture of textiles. Though there is no indication that this is 
intended to be a state monopoly, there is little doubt that the state 
is expected to engage in this industry on a large scale. The officer’ 
in charge, the sutrddhyaksa, is to get yarn spun from wool, bark-fibre, 
cotton, hemp and flax by women, especially those without support. 
Their wages are to be fixed according to the quality of the yarn (2.23.2-3). 
Women from respectable families, who are not used to going out for 
work, may be allowed to spin in their homes (2.28.11). There are to 
be separate factories for weaving different types of cloth, cotton, linen, 
silk etc, (2.28.8-9). There is a reference to the manufacture of kavkata 
Or armours in separate factories (2.23.10). And the sutrddhyaksa 
is asked to look after the manufacture of ropes, thongs and straps, 
useful for carts, chariots etc. used in the fighting services (2.28.18-19). 
It seems quite likely that this officer was originally concerned mainly 
with the manufacture of clothing and equipment for the army, as 
Breloer has suggested.'? 


An industry definitely concerned with the equipment of the army 
is the manufacture of chariots. The rathddhyaksa is to get various 


17 KSt, III, pp. 471-473. 


STATE ECONOMY 185 


kinds of chariots and carriages built, most of them useful for fighting, 
but some of them intended for use on ceremonial occasions (2.88.8-5). 


All in all there does not seem to be much scope left for private 
enterprise in industry. What may be regarded as belonging to this 
sphere is the activity of some of the artisans and craftsmen. There 
are, in the first place, those who are called kdrusdsitrs, who appear 
to be master artisans, employing a number of artisans to do the actual 
work for the customers. The workmen may be supposed to get only 
a wage, the master artisan keeping the profit made out of the work. 
There are, on the other hand, svavittakdrus, who appear to be artisans 
working independently with their own capital and in their own work- 
shops. In the latter case, the guild (Srenz), to which the artisan must 
be supposed to belong, is to stand guarantee to the customer for loss, 
damage etc. caused by the artisan (4.1.2+3). That every craft has its 
own guild may be assumed, though the constitution and functions 
of the guild are not precisely stated anywhere.?® 


The state is expected to exercise strict control over the artisans’ 
work. The text makes such lapses by the artisan as delay in the delivery 
of the article, failure to carry out the customer’s instructions, offences 
punishable by the state (4.1.5-7). It lays down the percentage of 
increase or decrease in the raw material during the process of manu- 
facture, to which the artisans must conform (4.1.8-9,18,86ff.). It also 
lays down a scale of wages for the different categories of artisans 
(4.1.10,22,32,40,42). The most serious offence of the artisan is, of course, 
appropriation of the material given by the customer for manufacture and 
denial that it was ever received by him. That offence is, dealt with 
in the legal section on deposits. A number of tricks are described 
there for finding out if the artisan had really received the material. 
If that is proved he is to be punished as a thief (3.12.35-51). 


A number of legal sections in Book Three .are concerned with 
matters largely connected with trade and industry. There is the 
section on debts (8.11) in which are laid down rules governing the rates 
of interest, loans with or without mortgage, the recovery of loans, 
the liability for the loans contracted by others and so on. Another 
section (3.12) deals with the use and misuse of a pledge, the liability 
toreturnitandsoon. The liabilities of the sales-agent, vaiydvriyakara, 
are also laid down in the same section (8.12.25-30). Rules governing 
the revocation of a sale or a purchase are stated in another section 
(8.15). The law of partnerships, which is dealt with in another section 
(8.14.18ff.), lays down rules about the liability of the partners in 


18 Cf. R. C. Majumdar, Corporate Life in Ancient India (Calcutta, 1922), 
pp. 25-82. 


186 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


different circumstances, the quantum of their share, cheating by 
partners and so on. 


There is finally the section on dasa and karmakara (3.13 and 8.14). 
The former refers to many types of ‘ unfree’ men, who, as Breloer 
has pointed out at: length,!® are not the saine as the slaves in ancient 
Greece. There is the right to be free on payment of a ransom amount 
which is earned by the work done for the master. Similar, but far more 
temporary, is the position of the dhitaka, a person pledged with the 
creditor when contracting a debt. The ddsa, it is obvious, can be 
owned by private individuals as well as the state. He is entitled to 
the same wage as the free worker, namely, one pana and a quarter 
per month over and. above his board (2.24.28). That the number of 
ddasas must have been\.comparatively small is shown by the fact that 
even in state enterprises free labourers are required in addition. 


As regards the free workmen (karmakara) the law lays down the 
duties of the employers as well as the employees, making a violation 
of the rules a punishable offence. The text also refers to a samgha 
or a union of workmen, which deals with the employer and supplies 
workmen to him from amongst its members (8.14.12-17). It is quite 
clear that labourers are not without protection from the state for 
safeguarding their wages and other rights. 


Referring to TD. A. Suleikin’s periodization of Indian history, 
V. I. Kalyanov had expressed the opinion that the present text reflects 
relations of production, economic institutions etc., characteristic of 
the period known as ‘the downfall of the slavery saciety ’ which ‘ prob- 
ably took place during the 1st to the 8rd centuries A.D.’, which period 
saw the birth of feudalism in India.2° In the article appended to the 
Russian translation of the text, he refers to the opinions of W. Ruben 
and Suleikin, who seem to find a ‘ slave-owning society ’ in this text, 
as well as to the opinion of S. Th. Oldenburg who finds in it a ‘ feudal 
society.’*! Kalyanov himself sees in it signs of ‘ early feudal society.’?? 


By ‘slavery society ’ or ‘ slave-owning society ’ seems to be under- 
stood a society like that. in ancient Greece where a small number of 
citizens lived on the labour of large hordes of slaves. It is extremely 
doubtful if similar conditions ever obtained in India. W. Ruben has 
compared the state stores mentioned in this text with the stores and 
the adjoining workmen’s quarters found at Harappa and has drawn 


19 KSt, II, pp.30-69. 

20 ‘Dating the Arthagastra’ in Papers presented by the Soviet Delegation 
at the XXIII International Congress of Orientalists, Indian Studies (Moscow, 
1954), p. 52 and p. 45. 

21 “Arthashastra—Vuzhneishii pamyatnik indiiskoi kulturi” appended to 
the Russian translation of the text, pp. 526 and 525. 

22 Loe. cit., p. 529. 


STATE ECONOMY 187 
the conclusion that the store-economy of the state has remained the 
same from the third millenium B.C. to the first millenium B.C., the 
only difference being that rice did not play the part in Indus culture 
which it plays in Kautilya. He has argued that at Harappa slaves 
must have been used for grinding, so also prisoners (dandadasa) as in 
Palestine and Egypt, and he thinks that the same was the case in the 
third century B.C. in Kautilya’s day.** But whatever may have been 
the position in the Indus culture, it cannot be maintained that this text 
contemplates an economy based mainly on slavery. The Siidras, 
who are the principal agricultural community as shown by 2.1.2, are no 
slaves. In fact, it is stated that no Arya, a term which includes the 
Siidras, can be a dasa (8.18.1-4). The Sidra must also have been the 
principal labouring class in trade and industry. There is no indication 
in the text that even in mines only slaves are to be used as was the 
case in ancient Greece. It is true that ddsas appear by the side of free 
labourers on state farms (2.24.2). It is probably this circumstance 
of the mention of free labourers beside da@sas that makes Suleikin speak 
in terms of the downfall or decay of the slavery society. But there is no 
reason to suppose that in any well-attested period things were materially 
different in India from those reflected in this work. D.D.Kosambi has 
argued that slavery of the Greek type did not develop in India because 
at the time of the invasion, the conquering Aryas had tribal property, 
not private property.*4 Whatever the reason there is no doubt that 
India did not know slavery of the Greek type in any historical period. 
Megasthenes, the Greek, was impressed by the contrast. He says (in 
Arrian), ‘‘ All the Indians are free and not one of them is aslave. The 
Lakedaemonians and Indians are so far in agreement. The Lakedae- 
monians, however, hold the Helots as slaves, and these Helots do servile 
labour ; but the Indians do not even use aliens as slaves, much less 
a countryman of their own.’’*? There is no valid reason to doubt this 
testimony, which so precisely brings out the contrast between conditions 
in Sparta and India in his day. The dasa in India is not the same as 
the Greek doulos and was certainly no Helot.2® The humane regula- 
tions about the treatment of the dasa in this text which are ‘ probably 
unique in the records of any ancient civilization’ seem to have been 
in vogue in most periods of Indian history and need not be regarded 
as originating only in the Mauryan period, as Basham thinks.*7 


23 ‘Uber den altindischen Staat ’ in AOr, XIX (1951), pp. 473-475. 
as ‘On a Marxist Approach to Indian Chronology’ in ABORT, 31 (1950), 
p-. 262. 

25 J. W. McCrindle, Ancient India as Described by Megasthenes and <{rrian, 
p- 68 and pp. 211-213. 

26 Cf. B. Breloer, KSt, II, pp. 11-14, 68-69. 

27. The Wonder that was India, p. 1538. 


ee 


i a eh ee eee ees 


188 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


The exact nature of the ‘ feudal society ’ into which slavery society 
is supposed to have been transformed in the early centuries of the 
Christian era and which is sometimes believed to be reflected in this 
text is not quite clear. It seems to be understood to refer to the strati- 
fication of society in the four varnas.** A feudal social order, according 
to Baikov, consists of the exploitation of the two lower varnas, who are 
the producers of wealth, by the higher varnas, with whom the state is 
in alliance and who enjoy the fruits of the labour of others. He admits 
that this feudalism was not of the same type as the feudalism of medieval 
Europe. Nevertheless, he insists that the economic relation between 
the lower class producers and the upper class enjoyers had a feudal 
character.2® That there was exploitation of the labour of the lower 
classes, particularly of the labour of the large mass of Sidras is not to 
be denied. But the term feudal seems to have been understood by 
Baikov and others in a sense different from what it usually conveys in 
English. Moreover, there is no reason to suppose that such exploita- 
tion of the lower classes was a feature of the period commencing with 
the beginning of the Christian era. Already in the Brahmana works 
we have a reference not only to Siidras but also to Vaigyas as food 
(ddya) for the higher varnas.*° 


Economic activity is expected to be under strict control mainly 
in order that state income may be safeguarded. State income is classi- 
fied in the budget and accounts under seven heads: city, country, 
mines, irrigation works, forests, cattle-herds and trade-routes (2.6.1-8). 
The revenue from these comes either in the form of a tax or impost or 
profit made by state enterprises. All the different sources of income 
are together called the dyaégarira ‘ the body of income’ (2.6.9). These 
are then re-classified under seven other heads called dyamukha ‘ the 
source of income.’ These are (1) mulya, price realized by the sale of 
state goods, (2) bhaga, share of goods produced by the subjects, (3) vyajz, 
a tax imposed on all sales, (4) parigha, a kind of protective duty for 
safeguarding state goods, (5) kipta, a fixed levy, apparently the one 
charged at ports on river-banks (2.28.2), (6) rupika, a surcharge on 
manufactures, and (7) atyaya, penalties (2.6.10). It.cannot be denied 
that this isnot the classification of a scientific theorist, as U. N. Ghoshal 
has pointed: out.*! In fact, these things do not appear to have been 
thought out in the abstract by the author; he seems to have co-ordinated 
the views of earlier writers on the subject and actual practice as he was 


} 28 I. P. Baikoy, ‘ Arthashastra—pamyatnik bolshoi istoricheskoi tsennosti ’, 
an article also appended to the Russian translation of the text, pp. 540-544. 
29 Loc. cit., p. 545. 
80 Cf. Kosambi, ABORI, 31 (1950), p. 263. 
eet Contributions to the History of the Hindu Revenue System (Calcutta, 1929), 
__P: 


> 


STATE ECONOMY 189 


able to ascertain from personal inquiry. Nevertheless, the attempt 
at classification is not without significance.** 


Expenditure is shown in the budget and accounts under fifteen 
heads, including the palace, the armoury, the, armed forces and so on. 
This is called vyayagarira ‘the body of expenditure’ (2.6.11). The 
majority of items involve expenditure on state account; only a few 
may be regarded as constituting the privy: purse of the king. There 
is no reference in the list to expenditure incurred on state enterprises 
like mining etc., probably because the revenue from these sources is 
net income calculated after deducting all expenses. 


A large part of state revenue is received in kind. State stores for 
goods of all kinds are therefore a necessity. The construction of the 
stores is described at length (2.5.1-6). There are stores of all kinds, 
of grains, fats, sugar, salt, wines, spices, vegetables and fruits and so 
on, also forest produce and manufactured articles, including weapons. 
Part of the stores is made up of goods produced by state enterprise, 
the rest being state dues received in kind. The stores would be used 
for making part payment to state servants and others. What cannot 
be thus disposed of would be put up for sale. The stores also provide 
a convenient means of creating buffer stocks and preventing a wide 
fluctuation in prices. The panyddhyaksa is expected to buy when there 
is a glut and sell when there is scarcity. The stores may thus be 
expected to exercise a great influence on state economy. Breloer, in 
fact, regards the panyddhyaksa and the kosthagarddhyaksa as the two 
pillars of the economic life revealed in this work.*$ 

The importance of the treasury (Koga), which is one of the seven 
prakrtis of the state, is quite obvious. In the dicussion on the relative 
importance of the prakrtis, Kautilya, differing from one of the earlier 
teachers, has expressed his own opinion that the treasury is more 
important than the army (danda). The latter can be raised and main- 
tained only with the help of a well-filled treasury. Besides, it helps 
in the pursuit of dharma and kdma (8.1.46-49). When for some reason, 
such as a costly military adventure, the treasury gets depleted, efforts 
become necessary for its replenishment. How this should be done is 
shown in Chapter 5.2. Among the measures recommended are: 
(1) A levy on agriculturists ranging from one-fourth to one-third of 
the stocks with them, according to the productivity of the soil (5.2.2). 
(2) If this is found insufficient, farmers are to be induced to grow crops 
as directed by the state and give part of the produce to the state 
(5.2.8-15). Meyer rightly compares this with efforts made by modern 


32 Cf. Breloer, KSt, III, pp. 187-188. 
33 KSt, III, p. 348. 





190 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


states to increase production in times of war.*4 (3) A levy on traders 
ranging from 50 panas on dealers in gold, silver etc. to 5 panas on dealers 
in vegetables, cooked food etc. Even actors, singers and prostitutes 
are to pay half their income (5.2.17-25). (4) A levy on animal-breeders, 
ranging from half the stock of poultry and pigs to one-tenth of cattle, 
horses etc. Keepers of brothels are to augment the treasury through 
the earnings of beautiful and young maids supplied by the palace 
(5.2.27-29). (5) If these measures, too, do not suffice, contributions 
should be requested for specific undertakings and people should be 
pressed to contribute to their utmost capacity; or, (6) rich men 
should be asked to pay acccording to their means, conferring on them 
titles, decorations and other honours in return (5.2.31-36). 

These are more or less open demands made on the subjects. The 
Chapter goes on to describe a number of not so open and mostly quite 
dubious ways of replenishing the treasury. Thus, (1) the property 
of heretical sarnghas or of temples may be appropriated through the 
trustees, who are to give out that it is burnt down or lost (5.2.37-38). 
(2) The miraculous manifestation of a deity should be arranged and 
fairs and festivals started in its honour to provide a source of income 
to the state ; a number of ways in which the credulity of the people 
is to be exploited in this manner are described (5.2.39-45). (8) Secret 
agents posing as traders should receive deposits or loans on a large 
scale and get the whole ‘stolen at night’ (5.2.46-51). (4) The other 
measures recommended are to be used only against disyas, those 
who are suspected of treason, and not ordinary citizens. These include 
confiscation of their property by getting them involved in some serious 
crime through state agents (5.2.52-69). 

There can be little doubt that the measures described in this 
Chapter are intended to be used only in an emergency. B. Breloer, 
however, has argued that these are not special levies, but the usual taxes 
normally received by the state.*> It is not possible to agree with this 
argument. ‘The word used in this Chapter for the levies is pranaya 
(sitras 16, 26,29). In the case of grains, the reference is to anvsa, 
not bhaga, and the verb used is ydceta (siittras 2,3). These are not words 
used in.connection with ordinary revenue. There is no doubt a refer- 
ence to purcliase of grains for money (siitra 5) and the grant of grains, 
cattle and money to new settlers (siitra 4). This quite legitimately 
raises the question,.how can the king, who is in financial difficulties, 
purchase grains for cash? The answer is that koga here does not stand 
for cash only, but includes the state stores as well. It is stated else- 


34 ZII, VII (1929), p., 203. 
35 KSt, I, pp. 78-81. 


STATE ECONOMY 191 


where that kogavrddhi includes abundance of grains (sasyasamnpad) 
and abundance of commodities (panyabahulyam) as well (2.8.3). There 
is also a reference in the same place to kosadravyas being given on loan 
or traded in (2.8.7-8). So itis possible to conceive a king being without 
a koéa, if he is lacking in any one or more of cash, grains and commodi- 
ties, not necessarily lacking in cash only. Moreover, this Chapter 
describes how cash also may be collected by means of extraordinary 
measures (siitras 31-36). It is not possible to look upon these measures 
as normal sources of revenue. ‘The verb used in this connection is 
bhikseta or ydceta, which is inconsistent with the recovery of normal 
dues incash. So, too, the demands made on traders, artisans and artists 
cannot be looked upon as normal income derived from them. And it 
is certainly impossible to believe that the devious ways of replenishing 
the treasury described in the latter half of the Chapter (sitras 37-69) 
are recommended as normal sources of state income. 


From this picture of a rigid control of the entire economic life 
in the state Breloer has drawn the conclusion that it presupposes 
economic planning by the state and that therefore we have in the text 
a description of what may be called a planned economy. He thinks 
that such planning is necessitated by the very circumstances that prevail 
in India, particularly the factors of climate and nature. And he points 
out that there is no trace of such a planned economy in European 
theories until recent times.2® In a review of Breloer’s work in the 
Indian Historical Quarterly, B. K. Sarkar has contended that economic 
planning is modern, post-war (post-1918), and was not and could nothave 
been thought of by Kautilya. And he has charged Breloer with using 
a common-place category ‘ economic planning ’ without distinguishing 
its old and new contents.3?_ It must be conceded that modern economic 
planning has to be distinguished from the kind of planning visualised 
in this text. In the former, the state fixes a plan for economic develop- 
ment spread over a certain number of years, lays down priorities in 
the matter of development, allocates resources in men and capital 
in accordance with these priorities and watches over the progress of 
the plan in the various fields from year to year. In the Arthasastra, 
we do not find these things. What plan there is appears only in connec- 
tion with the preparation of the budget and the fixing of the quantum 
of revenue expected from each type of economic activity, with control 
exercised mainly to ensure the recovery of this revenue. The emphasis 


in modern planning is on development, that in the Arthasdsira is on 
control. 


36 KSt, III, pp. 360-362. 
87 IHQ, XI (19385), p. 347. 


192 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


A more or less rigid control of the economy by the state has made 
its appearance in many lands at various times. Egypt is the classic 
land in antiquity of such rigid control. M. Rostovtzeff has described 
in great detail how economic life was controlled in Egypt under the 
Ptolemys.** There appear similarities with many things that we find 
in this text. For example, there was a very thorough system of 
registration of land, cattle, houses, produce and so on, there were state 
monopolies in oil, beer, salt, mining and so on, traders were concession- 
aires of government, wages and prices being fixed by the state, there 
was a thorough supervision over, and a full inspection of, every econo- 
mic activity. But there was one great difference. All land in Egypt 
belonged to the king as the representative of the deity, and the whole 
economy was based on compulsory labour. Rostovtzeff says, “‘ Owner- 
ship of the land by the king and compulsory labour for his benefit as 
the representative of the deity and the realm were the twin pillars 
supporting the fabric of the Egyptian state and of Oriental states in 
general.”5® It must be pointed out that the state as conceived in the 
Arthasdstra cannot be included in this category. Believing, however, 
that the Arthasdstra presents the same system of ‘fiscalism as a con- 
sequence of absolute rule’ and that Sandrakottos or Candragupta 
had introduced this system in his empire, Breloer seeks a common 
origin for its widespread prevalence from India to Egypt. He finds 
behind these things ‘the towering figure of Alexander’, though he 
admits that besides the idea of Hellenistic influence on India, the idea 
of Indian influence on Alexander also can be thought of, an influence 
through the Persian sources being a third possibility that is suggested.‘ 
It may. be pointed out, however, that the ‘ fiscalism’ of the Ptolemys 
was inherited by them from the Pharaohs and was not a creation of the 
Hellenistic period. And it is little likely that Alexander had anything 
to do either with introducing it in India, if it was really introduced here, 
or its introduction from India into the land of the Nile. In fact, a strict 
regulation of the economy is found to have been the rule “ under the 
Byzantine Emperors, under Louis XIV, under the Hapsburgs and the 
Romanoffs.”4! And in these cases, the regulation was the result neither 
of any theory nor of the influence of another similarly regulated state.*? 


Tow far does the picture of economic life disclosed in the Artha- 
Sdstra conform to actual conditions? There can be little doubt that 


38 The Social and Economic History of the Iellenistic World (Oxford, 1941), 
Vol. I, pp. 259-407. 

39 Ibid., p. 271. 

40 KSt, I, p. 110. 

41 W. Lippmann, 7'he Good Society (London, 1937), p. 11. 

42 For a detailed consideration of this question, see F. Wilhelm, ‘ Dus Wirt- 
schaftssystem des Kautaliya Arthasastra ’ in Journal of Economic and Social Histor y 
of the Orient, Vol. IT (Leiden, 1959), pp. 294-312. 


STATE ECONOMY 193 


so far as the general pattern of that life is concerned, with its base in 
agriculture, cattle-farming and trade, supplemented by a few small 
industries, it has been true of India without any serious modifications 
till comparatively recent times. It seems also indisputable that some 
sort of control over agriculture and trade was always necessary in the 
interests of state revenue. Perhaps in industry too, particularly that 
connected with mining and salt, the state in India has enjoyed a mono- 
poly as recommended in this text. But as regards the many taxes and 
levies, of which the text speaks and some of which are obviously unjust 
and liable to be oppressive, it cannot be definitely asserted that they 
were consistently imposed at all times everywhere in India. A great 
deal often depended on the particular ruler and on the conditions then 
prevailing in the particular state. It should be remembered that 
what the text states in the matter of taxation is primarily a theory, 
which, however, is quite capable of being put into practice by a strong 
ruler supported by an efficient administration. If the notice in Justin 
is to be believed, Candragupta, soon after his coming to the throne, 
became unpopular because of his oppressive taxation. Probably, 
high and comprehensive taxation was necessary for him for the expan- 
sion of his dominions. But there is nothing to show that Kautilya 
was directly associated with his taxation policy. As a matter of fact, 
the system of taxation recommended in this text cannot be said to be 
an innovation of Kautilya. It seems to have been derived from earlier 
sources. And Candragupta may well have relied on the traditional 
theory of the sastra which was more ancient than Kautilya; he need not 
have depended on any individual teacher for the formulation of his 
taxation policy. Thereis one place in the text which shows that prob- 
ably Kautilya himself did not approve of some of the imposts men- 
tioned by him on the authority of the earlier teachers. In 3.17.15-16, 
he states that when a fine is imposed it is usual to add a surcharge in 
the form of ripa at eight per cent and vydji at five per cent. This, he 
says, is unjust ; what is just is only the fine as prescribed and nothing 
more. As we have seen, ria (which here stands for réipika) and 
vy@ji are among the imposts mentioned elsewhere, which are likely to 
be found oppressive and unjust. It is obvious that what he has 
stated elsewhere is old material, and that he does not entirely approve 
of it on the ground that it is unjust. 


CHAPTER EIGHT 
STATE ADMINISTRATION 


Tue kind of state control over the economy which this text pre- 
scribes is not possible without an efficient administration. We, therefore, 
find in it a description of an elaborate administrative machinery. 


Since ancient times persons occupying the highest positions in 
the administration of a state appear to have been known as Zérthas. 
There is an incidental reference to eighteen tivthas in 1.12.20, while 
a list of these eighteen appears to be given in 1.12.6. These high 
dignitaries are referred to in the next Chapter as mahdmatras (1.18.1). 
The former appellation is ignored in the rest of the text, but the latter 
is frequently used. 


Foremost among the dignitaries are the manirin, the purohita, the 
senapatt and the yuvardja. These four are always mentioned in this 
order (1.12.6, 5.3.8, 9.8.12). Though the same salary is laid down 
for all four, the order of enumeration may be regarded as indicative 
of their rank. About the mantrin or mantrins and the purohita, some 
remarks have already been made.1 The sendpati in such a context is 
to be understood as the commander-in-chief of all armed forces. The 
yuvardja or the crown prince would normally be the eldest son of the 
ruler. His coronation is only incidentally referred to (2.36.47, 5.1.16 
etc.). There is no mention of the assignment of any specific duties 
to him, but it is indicated that he may be sent instead of the sendpati 
on an expedition of conquest (9.3.7) or to put down a rebellious officer 
(5.1.58ff.). 


Two of the highest officers are the dauvdrika and the antarvamsika. 
In the tirtha list they are mentioned immediately after the ywuardja. As 
the names indicate, they are the chief of palace attendants and the chief 
of the king’s guard respectively. Their specific duties are not stated 
anywhere, probably because they are palace officials, not directly 
connected with state administration. Only in one place is it stated 
that these two may carry out the king’s daily routine when the king 
happens to be seriously ill (5.6.5). It is these two palace officials who 
are to be understood as antaramatyas ‘inner ministers’. It is stated 
that when any of the antaramdtyas turns treacherous, danger from 
him to the ruler is greater than danger from a treacherous mantrin, 
purohita etc. mentioned above (9.3.20, 8.2.8). That is because these 


1 See pp. 182-185 above. 


STATE ADMINISTRATION 195 


two have daily occasion to be near the king’s person. It is obvious 
that each of the six officers mentioned so far enjoys a position in which 
he may feel the temptation to conspire against the ruler in order to 
seize the throne for himself or to support some rival to the throne. To 
obviate the possibility of such dangers, the king is advised to keep the 
power of the treasury and the army in his own hands (8.2.4). 


Among the most important administrative officers are the samdharir 
and the sammnidhair. The former is usually mentioned before the latter 
(1.12.6, 5.8.5). That is probably indicative of the greater importance 
of the samdahartr’s office than that of the samnidhatr’s. The former’s 
chief function is the preparation of the yearly budget and the keeping 
of accounts. He is to fix the amount of revenue to be collected under 
each of the seven heads, durga, rdstra and others, which make up the 
‘body of income’ (2.6.1-9). In the accounts, he is to arrange the 
income under seven heads, milya, bhaga and so on, and the expenditure 
under fifteen heads, antahpura and: others (2.6.10-11). Many of the 
details about budgeting and account-keeping are far from clear; but 
there is no doubt about the importance attached to these.? It is added 
that the samdharir should show an increase in revenue and a reduction 
in expenditure and endeavour to redress any excess of expenditure 
over revenue (2.6.28). The samdharir thus appears to be something 
like a finance minister so far as this part of his duty is concerned. 


But the samdharir has other duties too. He is in administrative 
charge of the entire countryside (janapada). Only the durga or the forti- 
fied capital is excluded from his jurisdiction. He represents the king 
in the countryside during the latter’s absence from the kingdom on 
some expedition, just as the sunyapala or regent represents him in the 
capital (12.2.25-31). The samahartr may be supposed to have his 
headquarters in the capital, for the sthdniya, which is the same as the 
durga, is called the samudayasthdna (2.8.8); however it seems more 
likely that he is to spend most of his time away from the capital. 


For administrative purposes, the samdhartr is to divide the country 
into four divisions, each in charge of an officer called sthanika. Under 
the sthdnika there are to be junior officers called gopas, each in charge 
of five or ten villages. With the help of these, the samahartr is to have 
a record of all towns and villages, classified as big, middling and small, 
containing information about their wealth in grains, cattle, money 
and so on. The gopa is to maintain a record of all agricultural and 
other holdings in the villages in his charge and take a census of every 


2 B. Breloer, KSt, III, 166ff., finds a great similarity between the details 
found in this text and the system followed under the Peshwas, and he argues that 


the system is quite natural in view of the dependence of state revenue on land 
economy. 


196 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


household, noting down the number of inhabitants with full details 
about the profession, the property possessed, the income, the expendi- 
ture and the revenue received from each household (2.35.1-7). Most 
of this information is obviously necessary for the samahartr for prepar- 
ing his budget. It may be assumed that the gopas would be forward- 
ing their records to the samahartr through their respective sthdnikas. 


But the samaharir is to have under him another set of servants 
who are to work in secret and provide him with information on the 
same matters of which the gopas send him the records. This, no doubt, 
is intended as a check on the gopas, to prevent any false information 
being forwarded to him. But the men in-secret service are expected 
to do something more than that. They are to report to the samdhartr 
on new arrivals in towns and villages and departures from them, on 
the activity of unsocial elements, on the movements of traders and the 
goods carried by them, on the loyalty or otherwise of the subjects, 
on the integrity or its absence among officers and on the activity of 
robbers and enemy agents (2.35.8-15, 4.4.3-4). This is to help the 
samahartr in maintaining law and order in the countryside, which is 
also one of his responsibilities. 


For maintaining order, the samdharir has the help of the pradestrs, 
who are stationed at the headquarters of the gopas and the sthanikas 
(2.85.7). Their main function is the suppression of crime, kantaka- 
$odhana, described at length in Book 4. There are to be three of them 
at each headquarters and they are to investigate thefts and robberies 
with the help of the gopas and the sthdnikas (4.1.1, 4.6.20). These 
latter, therefore, are not merely revenue officers, but police officers as 
well. The samdharir, under whom all these officers work, is, therefore, 
also something like a home minister in a modern state. It is he who 
impresses on the people the efficiency of the ruler’s administration 
(4.5.18-18). He may be regarded as a sort of governor or administrator- 
general in the countryside. 


An officer called rdstrapdla is mentioned in 5.3.7; his appoint- 
ment is referred to in 5.1.89. But his functions are nowhere described. 
His duties could be partly those of the samdhartr. It is possible that he 
is one of his subordinates, perhaps the same as sthdnika, whose name 
does not appear in the Chapter on salaries and wages. 


Little that is definite can be said about village officers below the 
rank of the gopa. There is a reference to grdmabhrtakas ; but it is 
not clear if gopas are also to be understood by that term. The salary 
of 500 panas a year recommended for the grdmabhrtaka (5.8.28) might 
appear to be reasonable for the gopa, but rather high for a village ser- 
vant. Besides, like the sthdnika, the gopa also does not figure in the 
salary lists. However, in another place, the gramabhriaka is coupled 


STATE ADMINISTRATION 197 


with bhiksuka, for whom grains are to be left behind from heaps of grains 
to be gleaned by them (5.2.11). This surely cannot be understood of 
the gopa; only the lowest kind of village servant can be thought of. 
It is possible to suppose that in the other places where the word gradma- — 
bhrtaka occurs it stands for the grdmika referred to elsewhere in the text. 
This grdmika appears to be a kind of village headman. It is stated that 
a gramika who banishes from the village a person who is not a thief 
or an adulterer should be fined twenty-four panas (8.10.18). This 
shows that he has the power of banishing people. The grdmtka can also 
require a tenant to accompany him when he goes on some village work 
(3.10.16). That also shows some executive power. Again, a wife ill- 
treated by her husband is allowed to seek shelter in the house of a 
gramika, among others (8.4.9). This shows that he occupies a position 
of some status in the village. 


Then there is the grdmakita ‘ head of the village ’ mentioned once. 
It is stated that if a gramaliita or an adhyaksa yields to the temptation 
of extorting money from the people, he is to be sent into exile (4.4.9-10). 
He is, therefore, obviously a state servant and may be looked upon as 
identical with the gra@mika. Finally, there is the reference to the 
gramasvamin ‘ owner of the village’. He is required to compensate 
for any loss of property suffered at night by a caravan during its stay 
in his village (4.18.8). Since the next siitra refers to a similar liability 
of the vivitddhyaksa, who is a state officer, it might appear that the 
gramasvamin, too, is a state officer. It is, of course, possible to suppose 
that he is not a state servant but the owner of the village in the 
sense of a private individual to whom the village is gifted for outstand- 
ing service or some other reason. But that appears less likely in view 
of the prohibition to grant a village (5.3.32).. 


For the offence of wrongful banishment of a person innocent of 
theft or adultery, besides the grdmika the village is also to be fined the 
highest sdhasa-danda (3.10.18). In such a case, the grdmika may be 
supposed to have acted at the instance of the village. The will of the 
village would be expressed through its prominent inhabitants. These 
may be identified with the grdmavrddhas ‘village elders’, who appear 
in the text as guardians and trustees of the properties of minors and 
temples (2.1.27; also 3.5.20). They can also hold in trust a debt paid 
back by the debtor when the creditor is not there to receive it (3.12.12). 
The village elders are also to help in settling boundary disputes between 
two neighbouring farmers (8.9.15) and are to be present when any sale 
of a field or a tank and so on takes place (8.9.3). The idea in the latter 
case is to keep the purchase in the village. It may be assumed that the 
gramika would be consulting the village elders on matters affecting the 
village. The elders may be supposed to meet together in connection 


198 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


with their duties or at the instance of the grdmika. But whether they 
form a village panchayat or a village assembly is more than what one 
_ can say on the evidence of this text. With the centralized administra- 
tion visualised in it, the village assembly or panchayat, even if it be 
assumed to exist, can hardly be expected to play any significant role. 
Power in the rural area is centred in the hands of the samdahartr with an 
army of subordinates under him spread over the entire countryside. 
That leaves little scope for initiative by people on the village level. 


Since the samdhartr is in overall control of the administration in the 
countryside, it may be assumed that officers, whose sphere of activity 
lies in the area within his jurisdiction, would be under his general 
supervision. Such in particular would be the vivitddhyaksa, the 
antapalas, those working in mines, forests or sanctuaries, probably 
also the sitddhyaksa. And as a matter of fact, we find it stated that 
the samdhartr should ascertain through secret agents how far the 
adhyaksas are loyal and honest (2.35.13, 4.4.4). 


What the samdaharir is in the country, the ndgarika is in the city or 
the fortified capital. He, too, has under him four sthdnikas in the four 
city wards and a number of gopas, each in charge of twenty or forty 
households. These gopas, too, are to maintain a census of these families 
with respect to the number of members in it, their profession, income, 
expenditure and so on (2.86.1-4). The ndgarika also has men in secret 
service to help him get information about suspicious characters and 
enemy agents. But the ndgarika is put on the same footing as the 
pradesir in the matter of detection of crimes, his sphere of work being, 
of course, restricted to the city (4.6.20). For this purpose he has a 
number of raksins under him who also help him in ensuring the 
security of the fort. 

It appears that the na@gartka is not at all concerned with budgeting 
and accounts even of the city. The samdharir is in charge of that; 
for, the durga is included in his budget (2.6.1-2). It may be supposed 
that the statistics collected by the city gopas and sthdnikas would be 
passed on to him for that purpose. On the other hand, the ndgarika 
has certain special duties that are appropriate to a city-administration, 
such as the maintenance of the cleanliness of the city, the taking of 
precautions against outbreaks of fire and so on. 


It is possible that in the theory of administration, the idea of the 
nagarika is a later development. In the list of the ¢irthas there is no 
mention of the ndgarika; on the other hand, there is mention of an 
officer called durgapdla in that list. It may be supposed that in the 
earlier theory the samdhartr was given charge of the administration 
of the entire country including the city, and the durgapdla was there 
only for ensuring the security of the fort. The samdhartr’s subordinates 


STATE ADMINISTRATION 199 


in the city, too, were known as gopas and sthanikas like their counter- 
parts in the country. A new officer, the ndgarika, was thought of 
later, to replace the durgapdla and take charge of the city administra- 
tion. The city gopas and sthdnikas were naturally made subordinate 
to him, though they kept their old designations, which appear in their 
origin to be associated with the countryside. Such a development 
in theory, if it may be assumed to have taken place, most probably 
preceded the composition of this text. For, it can hardly be maintained 
that the ndgarika is an innovation of our author. Had Kautilya himself 
really been the first to think of the nd@garika, that fact would have been 
proclaimed by him, as he has not missed any opportunity to take credit 
for any new point of view or new doctrine put forth by him. 


It is to be noted that the ndgarika does not figure in the Chapter 
on salaries either. Both there and in the list of tirthas an officer called 
pauravyavahdrika is mentioned, who is not referred to anywhere else 
in the text. The ndgarika cannot be identified with him, for as the 
name of that officer shows he is a judicial officer stationed in the city. 
The ndgarika is not concerned with the administration of law even 
in the city. For that purpose there are the dharmasthas, of whom there 
are to be three in the city and three in each of the smaller towns (3.1.1). 
And the dharmastha, too, does not appear either in the tirtha list or in the 
Chapter on salaries. It appears clear that the dhanmastha also is a later 
conception, developed from the earlier conception of the pauravyd- 
vaharika. It may be reasonably concluded from these instances that 
the text has preserved in part an earlier stage in the development of 
ideas on administration, while it mostly describes elsewhere a system 
more advanced in certain respects. 


A different possibility is suggested by another instance. An 
officer called prasdstr is ranked even above the samaharitr and the 
samnidhatr and allowed the same salary as these two (1.12.6, 5.3.5). 
The only other place in the text where a prasdsir is mentioned is 10.1.17. 
But the duties attributed to him in that siitra, namely, marching ahead 
of the army to prepare the ground for its encampment and making 
provision for its water supply, cannot be thought of as appropriate to 
an officer of such a high status as to be ranked above the samahartr 
and the samnidhatr. Obviously, the prasdasir of the tirtha list is to be 
distinguished from the prasdstr of Book Ten. The former, it may be 
suggested, was probably a sort of administrator, in charge of the 
management of the king’s household. He is mentioned immediately 
after the dauvdrika and the antarvamsika, who are palace officials and 
before the samahartr with whom the list of administrative officers of the 
state may be supposed to begin. It is hardly possible to suppose that 
‘the prodastr of an earlier theory lost his status and was given only 


200 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


minor duties in a later theory, and that both these stages in the develop- 
ment of the same officer are preserved in the present text. It is more 
likely that the: two prasdstrs are unrelated to each other, being derived 
by the author from two different sources. 


The samnidhatr, who enjoys the same status as the samdharir, 
is in charge of the stores, that is, of the actual revenue and other income 
received by the state. He is to get the following store-houses built, 
suited for the different commodities ‘to be stored in them: (1) kosagrha, 
the treasury proper, in charge of the kosddhyaksa, where gems of various 
kinds and articles of high value are to be kept ; (2) panyagrha, in charge 
of the panyddhyaksa, where commodities other than grains and other 
edible goods are to be stored; (8) kosthdgara, in charge of the kostha- 
garddhyaksa, where grains, sugar, salt, oils and other edibles are to be 
stored; (4) kupyagrha, in charge of the kupyddhyaksa, where timber 
and other forest produce are to be stored ; (5) dyudhdgdra, the armoury, 
in charge of the dyudhagarddhyaksa ; and (6) bandhandgara, the prison- 
house, in charge of the bandhandgarddhyaksa (2.5.1-6). The inclusion 
of the prison-house among the store-houses is surprising. Apparently 
everything that needs to be properly guarded, whether material objects 
or persons, is regarded as the concern of the samnidhdatr. There can 
be little doubt that the adhyaksas mentioned are to work under the 
supervision of the samnidhatr and are to be looked upon as his sub- 
ordinates. These in turn are to have a number of experts to help 
them in judging the quality of the goods to be received in the stores, 
whether it be gems, cash, grains or other articles. 


The samnidhdir is expected to be thoroughly conversant with 
everything connected with the stores. He must be able to say how 
much is received in the various stores from different sources, how much 
has gone out and what balance there isin them. He must be in a posi- 
tion to state without hesitation what each of the stores contains at 
any given moment (2.5.22). 


The text states that for use in times of emergency a secret treasure- 
house should be built on the borders of the country, men condemned 
to death being made to build it (2.5.4). The idea is that after the 
building is finished, the convicts would be executed, so that no one 
alive would know anything about the existence of such a treasure- 
house. Since it is the samnidhair who is to get this secret treasury 
built, he must be regarded as one of he most trusted officers of 
the king. 

There is a discussion in the text about the relative seriousness 
of the harm that is likely to be caused to the state by the samahartr 
and the samnidhair. In the opinion of the earlier teachers, the samni- 
dhitr is likely to do greater harm, as he may find fault with or ruin goods 


STATE ADMINISTRATION ~ 201 


to be received by him and cause loss to the state or impose penalties 
on the subjects thereby causing disaffection. The samahartr, on the 
other hand, has to be satisfied with his legitimate dues only. Kautilya 
himself, however, considers that the samdhartr is likely to do more harm 
than the samnidhdtr. He argues that the latter accepts only what 
is guaranteed by others as to its quality and has, therefore, no scope 
for helping himself at the cost of the state. The samahartr, on the 
other hand, has plenty of such scope; for example, when fixing the 
quantum of revenue to be received from anyone he may clandestinely 
receive something for himself first and then fix the dues at a lower 
rate (8.4.31-33). There is no doubt that in Kautilya’s opinion the 


samaharir has greater power to harm the interests of the state than 
the samnidhatr. 


An office of very great importance, situated in the capital, is the 
aksapatala. It is a sort of records-cum-audit office. There is an 
adhyaksa in charge, with a special building of his own with many halls 
and record rooms (2.7.1). The records to be maintained there pertain 
to (1) the activity of each state department, (2) the working of state 
factories and conditions governing production in them, (38) prices, 
samples and standards of measuring instruments for various kinds 
of goods, (4) laws, transactions, customs, and regulations in force in 
different regions, villages, castes, families and corporations, (5) salaries 
and other perquisites of state servants, (6) what is made over to the 
king and other members of the royal family, and (7) payments made 
to and amounts received from foreign princes, whether allies or 
foes (2.7.2). A more comprehensive record-house can hardly be 
thought of. 


But the aksapatala is also to control and regulate the working of 
each state department and of each state undertaking. It is from this 
office that officers receive assignments of specific undertakings with 
instructions about carrying them out (2.7.3-5). And when the year 
is ended or the undertaking completed, it is to this office that they 
are to bring the accounts and the balances for a thorough audit. 
Many details are given about auditing; but some of them are not 
quite clear. 


The samahartr does not appear to have anything to do with the 
aksapatala. The records kept in this office are different from the 
records that are of use to the samaharir; and the work of audit referred 
to here is different from account-keeping. But though the adhyaksa 
of this office may be regarded as an independent officer, his status does 
not appear to be very high. He is only an adhyaksa and there is no 
special designation for him. 


202 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


Special officers appointed to guard the frontier are called antapdlas. 
It would appear that some kind of forts are to be erected on the frontiers 
in the four directions and it is at these frontier posts that the antapdlas 
are to be stationed. These posts are to serve as the points of entry 
into the kingdom (2.1.5 and 2.3.1). The antapdlas thus control the 
entry of men and goods in the country. They issue passes to incoming 
traders, stamp their goods and after charging them a cess for the road 
send them on to the capital in the centre of the country (2.21.24-26). 
Whereas the earlier teachers thought that the antapdlas are likely 
to be more harmful to the state than the traders because they might 
tend to encourage robbers and to make excessive demands on traders, 
Kautilya himself regards traders as more harmful since these look only 
for exorbitant profits. ‘The antapdlas, he thinks, ensure the free flow 
of trade (8.4.34-36). The appointment of antapdlas is obviously neces- 
sary for the security of the country also. 


Book Two, called adhyaksapracadra, describes the duties of nearly 
thirty adhyaksas. Three other adhyaksas are mentioned elsewhere. 
The adhyaksas may be classified as follows: (1) the assistants of the 
samnidhatr in charge of state goods ; (2) those in charge of state estab- 
lishments, asvddhyaksa, hastyadhyaksa and the like ; (3) those in charge 
of mining and industry, akarddhyaksa and his assistants, stitrddhyaksa, 
surddhyaksa and so on ; and (4) those who control trade, panyddhyaksa, 
samsthadhyaksa, Sulkddhyaksa and others. Itis to be noted that the 
writer of sdsanas or decrees, a subject with which Kautilya claims to 
have dealt with for the first time, is not named as sasanddhyaksa ; he 
is referred to only as lekhaka (2.10.8). 


An adhyaksa has under him a lekhaka, clerk, a ripadarsaka, 
inspector of coins, a samkhydadyaka, accountant, a nivigrdhaka, keeper 
of the balance, in charge of actual goods, and an witarddhyaksa, who 
appears to be a sort of supervisor expected to keep a watch over the 
activity of the subordinate staff (2.9.28-30). This riépadarsaka, at- 
tached to every office, is perhaps to be distinguished from the rupa- 
dargaka, who sanctions currencies according to 2.12.25. The latter 
appears to be himself of the status of an adhyaksa. 


There is a reference to the appointment of a dita or an envoy, 
when a policy decision has been taken after consultation with ministers 
(1.16.1). The dita is not to be thought of as a permanent ambassador 
stationed, at the court of a foreign prince, but as an envoy sent for 
placing the case of his state before the foreign prince with respect to 
some specific matter. According to the nature of his mission, the 
dita may be nisrstdrtha, envoy plenipotentiary, with full powers to 
negotiate with the foreign ruler, or parimitdrtha, envoy with a limited 
mission, with powcrs to negotiate only up to a certain limit, or sdsana- 


STATE ADMINISTRATION 208 


hara, the mere bearer of a message from his state (1.16.2-4). It may 
be assumed that for the three types of mission, officers of different status 
would be selected. One may expect a nisrs{drtha dita to be either 
a mantrin or the sendpati or the yuvardja, while an officer of a lower 
status may be expected to be appointed as a parimitartha dita; a §asana- 
hara can be an officer of a still lower status. It would thus seem that 
the office of the dita is not an independent office ; it is a special duty 
entrusted to some one who is already occupying séme other office, the 
assignment of this duty being temporary. This seems supported by the 
fact that there is no salary prescribed for the dita; there is only what 
may be called a travelling allowance according to mileage laid down 
for the dita. For, it is said that a madhyama dita, by which we have 
apparently to understand the parimitartha diita, should be paid at the- 
rate of ten panas per yojana up to a distance of ten yojanas and at twenty 
panas per yojana for a distance beyond ten and up to one hundred 
yojanas (5.3.19). It is obvious that an wttama dita, that is, the 
nisrstartha, would be entitled to a higher rate, while the avara, that is, 
the Sdsanahara, would receive the allowance at a lower rate. These, 
therefore, appear as allowances, over and above the regular salaries 
of the officers concerned, which they are entitled to in order to meet 
the expenses of the journey which they are expected to undertake with 
a suitable entourage (1.16.5). 

The higher officers of the state are usually referred as amdatyas. 
In particular, the adhyaksas and some others like the dharmastha and 
the pradestr are regarded as amdatyas (2.9.1, 3.1.1, 4.1.1). Three 
grades of amatyas are, however, recognised—the highest, the middling 
and the lowest—according to the degree of qualifications possessed by 
them. A number of qualities expected in an amatya are mentioned 
and the means of ascertaining how far a person possesses any of those 
qualities are described (1.9.1-3). There is a discussion on the class of 
persons from amongst whom officers are to be selected. Referring to 
the various opinions held by the earlier teachers on this question, 
Kautilya expresses himself in favour of appointing persons of different 
types to posts that may be suited to the qualities they may possess 
(1.8.1-29). It seems that the appointment of the head of a depart- 
mient is to be made by a royal order. Such an officer is described as 
adhikarane sdsanasthah ‘mentioned in 4 decree with reference to an 
office or department ’ (2.9.19). 


Another name for an executive officer is yukta ‘ one who is appointed 
or employed.’ There are yukta, upayukta and tatpurusa in every 
department (2.5.16). Of these, the yukta is obviously the head of the 
department, the upayukia is a subordinate officer, of whom there may 


204 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


be more than one in a department, while the tatpurusas are servants 
of the lowest category. 


Persons possessing the qualities of sativa, spirit, prajid, intelligence 
and vdkyasakti, power of expression, are sometimes referred to as 
suitable for state service (1.11.19). However, itis naturally regarded 
as of the utmost importance that the person should be a man of proved 
integrity and loyal to the ruler. In order to find out if an officer is 
honcst and loyal, the earlier teachers had recommended four secret 
tests, called wpadhds. The first, dharmopadhd, was intended to find 
out if he is susceptible to suggestions to join a conspiracy against the 
king because ostensibly the purohita has been dismissed by the king. 
The arthopadhd sought to find out if he is susceptible to the same sug- 
gestion when a large gain is promised to him. The bhayopadhd was 
meant to find out if he joins a conspiracy when degraded along witir 
other officers. And the kdmopadhd was intended to find out if he is 
prone to entertain the suggestion that the queen is in love with him 
(1.10.2-12). After describing these tests, the text adds Kautilya’s 
own opinion that the king or the queen should not be brought in for the 
purpose of these tests. For, he argues, suggestions about joining 
a conspiracy against the king or about the queen being in love with him 
may take deep root in the officer’s mind and that may prove disastrous. 
This is no doubt true. But Kautilya does not seem to have any objec- 
tion to these tests as such; he only wants the reference to the king 
and the queen to be kept out of them. Butit isdifficult to see how in 
the tests as described such a reference can be avoided. As a matter 
of fact, the tests, as described, appear to be highly impracticable. 
For, they can hardly be used on the extensive scale that would be 
necessary when so many officers have to be appointed. If used ex- 
tensively, they would lose their secrecy. And there would be the 
practical difficulty of seemingly dismissing the purohita or the sendpati 
every time that an officer is to be put to the test of dharma or artha, 
or of putting officers under wholesale arrest whenever an officer is to be 
put to the test of bhaya. The names of the four tests suggest rather 
different kinds of tests. It seems possible that dharmopadha is only 
a test to find out if the officer is pious or not, arthopadhd to find out if 
he is likely to be corrupt or not, bhayopadhd to.find out if he is cowardly 
or brave and kamopadhda to see if he is a voluptuary or not. Simple 
tests to discover these traits, without bringing in the king or the queen, 
are easy to conceive. That the original purpose of these tests was to 
find out the presence or absence of these traits is shown by the recom- 
mendation that those who pass the dharma test should be appointed as 
dharmasthas or judges and pradestrs or magistrates-cum-police-officers, 
those who pass the artha test as samahartr or samnidhatr, those wha 


STATE ADMINISTRATION 205 


pass the bhaya test as officers serving in close proximity to the king, and 
those who pass the kama test as officers keeping the king company in 
his entertainments (1.10.13). 


It is stated that one should avoid making the appointment of three 
types of persons to a high office. These are: (1) the mulahara, one 
who is known to have squandered his patrimony, (2) the tddatvika, 
one who spends everything as soon as he has earned it, and (8) the 
kadarya, the miser who amasses wealth by causing hardship to himself 
and his dependents (2.9.20-23). ‘The last of these may be in the habit 
of sending his accumulated wealth to foreign countries for safe keeping. 
If that is discovered to be a fact through secret agents, it is recommended 
that he may be punished by getting him involved in a charge of being 
in league with the enemy (2.9.26-27). 


In two Chapters, 5.4 and 5.5, the text gives advice to one who 
aspires to join state service, particularly as a minister. Such a candidate 
is above all expected to be thoroughly conversant with the teaching of 
the Sastra. He is advised to approach the king for service through 
someone in the good books of the king. When granted an interview 
by the king, he must be prepared to give a test of his knowledge of the 
Saistra. Before appointment, he may make stipulations that his party 
men would not be unjustly punished or injured, that his secrets would 
not be divulged to others and so on(5.4.1-7). Such stipulations are con- 
ceivable only if a distinguished person is seeking a ministerial appoint- 
ment. As regards the deportment of an officer after his appointment, 
it is added that he should behave in a courteous and dignified manner, 
regard the king’s interest alone as supreme and avoid association with 
harmful or dishonourable persons (5.4.8-10). At the same time he is 
advised to be on the lookout for any signs showing the king’s displeasure 
and to be ready to take any hint and make good his escape before any 
harm can be done tohim. Instances are given of ministers, Katyayana, 
Kaninka Bharadvaja, Pisuna and others who are said to have noticed 
some unusual happening, and taking that as a hint, to have made 
themselves scarce before the king could vent his displeasure on them 
(5.5.10-11). This brings out very clearly the supreme importance of 
the king’s will, often his sweet will, in matters connected with state 
service. 


A remarkable feature of the Sastra is the uninhibited manner in 
which the organisation of a secret service is recommended and the use of 
secret agents for a variety of purposes described. Two types of secret 
service are distinguished. One is samstha ‘the establishment’, the 
members of which are generally stationed in a single headquarters. 
The other is samcdra ‘the rover’, the members of which move from 
place to place according as their services may be required. 


206 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


There are five kinds of samsthds: (1) the kdpatika, described as a 
chaira, a pupil or an apprentice or an assistant, who observes and reports 
to the king or the minister in charge if there be anything harmful or 
evil ; (2) the uddsthita, an apostate monk, who is made the centre of a 
network of intelligence agents disguised as monks; (8) the grhapatika- 
vyaijana, a farmer rehabilitated by the state, who has a network of 
intelligence agents working under his direction; (4) the vatdehaka- 
vyatjana, a merchant similarly rehabilitated, with a number of intelli- 
gence agents under him; and (5) the tdpasavyafijana, a bogus ascetic, 
imposing on the gullible as a great seer and thus becoming the centre 
of intelligence work (1.11.2-20). 


There are four types of sarmcdras: (1) the sattrin, the secret agent 
par excellence, who is apparently an orphan sepecially trained by the 
state for this work ; (2) the ttksna, the desperado or bravo, who is useful 
for secretly liquidating enemies of the state; (3) the rasada, the giver 
of poison; these two administer what is called wpdmésudanda ‘ secret 
punishment ’ or téisnimdanda ‘ silent punishment ’; and (4) the bhiksuki 
or parivrajikd, a Brahmin nun who does the work of spying in the 
houses of high officers where she finds easy access because of the 
honour shown to her in the palace. Heretical nuns can also be similarly 
employed (1.12.1-5). 

The samsthdas clearly work under the samdahartr. For, the latter 
uses the grhapatikavyafijana and others to check the information 
collected by the gopas. He also uses them to find out who among the 
subjects and state servants are loyal (2.35.8-15). Even the roving 
spies would appear to work under the direction of the samdharir. For, 
all information spied out by them is to be first communicated to the 
samsthds, which are, of course, under the samdhartr (1.12.7-12). 


That intelligence agents are to work in foreign countries as well is 
naturally to be expected. The text, however, also mentions a special 
type of agent for this work. He is the ubhayavetana ‘in the pay of 
both.’ He is in the secret service of one state, but manages to secure 
service with the ruler or some high officer in a foreign state. When he 
wins the confidence of the latter, he may be in a position to pass on 
valuable information secretly to his native state or to render useful 
service to it in some other way. However, in order that he may not 
double-cross his native state and work in the interest of the foreign 
state, it is reeommended that his wife and children should be held as 
hostages (1.12.17-19). It may be assumed that every state would be 
the centre of espionage and counter-espionage activity on a very large 
scale, 


Such a highly organised intelligence service may be regarded as 
necessary and no serious fault can be found with the teaching of the 


STATE ADMINISTRATION 207 


S4stra in this respect. There can be no denying, however, that its 
recommendations regarding the use of the tiksna and the rasada for 
what is called silent punishment cannot be justified on ethical grounds. 
All that can be said in defence is that it might possibly save the state 
much trouble and expenditure if harmful elements are eliminated in this 
manner without creating a furore. But the danger of innocent persons 
being sometimes similarly disposed of cannot be overlooked. The 
exhortation that these secret ways are to be used only against the 


treacherous and the unrighteous (5.2.69) may not always be heeded in 
practice. 


Secret agents are useful for detecting corruption among state ser- 
vants. For, itis recognised that despite all care exercised in the appoint- 
ment of officers, cases of embezzlement of state funds may often occur. 
In a few remarkable verses, it is pointed out that it is well nigh impossible 
for an officer who handles state funds or goods to resist the temptation 
to misappropriate them, that it is as difficult to detect an officer while he 
is misappropriating funds as it is to detect a fish while it is drinking 
water, that the ways of officers bent on misappropriation are more diffi- 
cult to predict than the movement of birds in the sky (2.9.82-34). 
The text refers to many ways in which officers may cause loss to the 
treasury. They may prevent revenue from being raised or delivered, 
they may lend state goods at interest, they may put them to personal 
use, they may substitute inferior goods for high quality goods and so 
on. Of apahdra, that is embezzlement proper, no less than forty ways 
are enumerated (2.8.4-21). Some specific crimes by state officers 
are mentioned elsewhere. These include theft of valuables from mines 
and factories, theft from stores or the treasury, corrupt practices by 


the judge or the magistrate, offences by jail warders and the jail super- 
intendent and so on (4.9.2-24). 


The samdharir is responsible for the detection of such offences. One 
way is to invite the subjects who may have suffered as a result of the 
corrupt practices of an officer to come forward and declare how they 
have suffered. Another way is to take the help of informers, who may 
be promised a reward of one-sixth of the amount involved if they succeed 
in exposing a fraud (2.8.24-32). And there are, of course, the secret 
agents who are to be on the lookout for such offences by state servants. 
The uttarddhyaksas stationed in each office seem to have this specific 
duty assigned. to them (2.9.29-30). To prevent offences by officers, 
it is also recommended that each office should have many chiefs and 
that they should be frequently transferred (2.9.31). 


For the offence of misappropriation and for corrupt practices in 
general very severe punishments are laid down. In many cases, 
it is recommended that the, officer concerned may be disgraced by 


208 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


smearing him with cowdung and ashes and proclaiming his offence 
throughout the town or village or by shaving his head and driving him 
out with brickbats. In the case of some offences, the punishment 
prescribed is death, sometimes death with torture (4.9.2-27). The 
deterrent character of many of these punishments can hardly be in 
doubt. 


State servants, particularly high officers, are likely to be disloyal 
and even turn traitors. ‘Those who can be seduced from their loyalty 
by the machinations of some enemy are called kriyas. Officers become 
susceptible to such seduction because they are disgruntled. This may 
be due to one of four feelings: krodha, resentment or anger, because a 
promise of advancement has not been kept or because there has been 
supersession or demotion and soon; bhaya, fear, because he has com- 
mitted some wrong or amassed wealth by wrongful means or has 
incurred the displeasure of the king and so on; lobha, greed, arising out 
of his impoverishment or addiction to vice or miserliness ; and mdna, 
a fecling of high self-esteem, leading to dissatisfaction with his condition, 
or a tendency to rashness (1.14.2-5). It is the secret agents who are to 
find out if any officer nourishes any grievance of this sort (1.13.22-23). 
At the same time, the text recommends that suitable efforts should be 
made to win over such disgruntled officers from the enemy’s state, so 
that the latter may be thereby weakened and its conquest made easier 


(1.14.6-12). 


Chapter 5.3 lays down the salaries and wages to be paid to state 
employees. Normally, one-quarter of the state revenue may be spent 
on these payments. Salaries ranging from as high as 48,000 to as low 
as 60 are recommended for the different categories of state employees. 
The amounts are obviously to be understood as stated in panas, which 
is the only coin mentioned for purposes of calculation in this text. 
This pana is a silver coin, ripyaripa, with asilver content roughly equi- 
valent to three-quarters of a tola (2.12.24). The salaries, therefore, can 
hardly be understood as intended on a monthly basis, and are clearly 
meant as annual salaries. Even so the salaries appear to be on a fairly 
liberal scale. The purpose behind the provision of high salaries to the 
higher category of officers is stated to be the prevention of discontent 
among them against the regime and ensuring efficiency on their part. 
The salaries provided and the very large administrative staff visualised 
in the text undoubtedly create the impression that such high expendi- 
ture on administration can only be borne by a comparatively big and 
flourishing state. 

It is stated that when the treasury is not full, payment to state 
servants may be made partly in cash and partly in kind. Payments of 
the latter type may be in the form of forest produce, fields etc. (5.3.81). 


STATE ADMINISTRATION 209 


By way of a partial explanation of this rule, the text seems to add, 
* For a wage of 60 (panas), one ddhaka of grains should be fixed as 
maintenance in conformity with the cash (wage) ”(5.3.84). This seems 
to mean that when the full wage is not to be paid in cash, part of it 
may be paid in the form of grains. But whereas the 60-pana wage 
is a wage per annum, the payment of one ddhaka of grains is to be 
understood as being made every day. It must be assumed that the 
cash wage would be reduced to a corresponding extent. For, the 
60-pana wage is recommended for the lowest category of servants 
(5.3.17). In the case of some of them we read elsewhere that they 
are to be given food for themselves and their dependents plus a monthly 
wage of one pana and a quarter (2.24.28). That comes to 15 panas per 
annum over and above the daily food for the whole family. It is there- 
fore reasonable to suppose that when one dadhaka of grains is given as 
part payment, the 60-pana wage would be correspondingly reduced. It 
should be pointed out that one ddhaka is equal to four prasthas, and it is 
said that one prasiha of grains constitutes the daily ration of an Arya 
individual (2.15.43). It would not be unreasonable to conclude that 
an average family is assumed to consist of four male adults for the 
purpose of providing food-rations as part-wage, also that 45 panas 
would be deducted from the annual wage of 60 panas when these daily 
rations are paid. It is not possible to agree with P. V. Kane that 
60 panas (understood as copper coins) is a monthly wage, that one. 
adhaka of grains is a substitute for the 60-pana monthly wage and that 
consequently 60 copper panas may be assumed to be the price of one 
adhaka of grains.* If at all some price relation is to be found, it may 
be in the form of 45 silver panas as the price of 360 ddhakas of grains. 


The rule about the food rations as part payment to state servants 
must also be understood as restricted only to those with a wage of 60 
panas per annum, and not to all state employees. For, it is quite 
inconceivable that those entitled to 48,000 panas, for example, would 
also receive in addition (or as part payment) a corresponding amount 
of grains, namely, 800 ddhakas per day.4 An ddhaka is roughly 
between three and four pounds in weight, so that 800 ddhakas would 
amount to nearly one ton of grains. If we take all officers and servants 
into account, the daily rations would consume several hundreds of tons 
of grains every day. No granary can stand such a strain on its resources. 


Besides grants of tax-free lands to priests, preceptors, the purohita 
and other learned Brahmins, the text recommends grants to adhyaksas 
and state servants of lower categories on the occasion of new settle- 


3 HD, III, pp. 124ff. 


4 As is understood, for example, by G. Harihara Sastri, JOR, XXVIII 
(1958-1959), pp. 15-16. 


210 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


ments. Such lands are, however, inalienable (2.1.7). Land in lieu of 
salary may be given, but the grant of a whole village to an officer is to 
be avoided (5.3.32). 

Should a servant die while in state service, his wife and children 
become entitled to his wages and food-rations. And the state is required 
to look after minors, aged persons or sick persons in the families of the 
deceased servants. And when there is death, illness or birth in the 
family of a deceased servant, the state is asked to render help with 
money and honour (5.3.28-30). 


In this description of the administrative set-up in a state, we miss 
any interest on the part of the state in the education of the people. 
That is clearly because teaching was a monopoly of the Brahmins and 
the state could not interfere in their work. Moreover, learning in the 
sastras, though theoretically open to the three higher varnas, was mostly 
restricted to Brahmins, and the great mass of Siidras were not eligible 
for it even in theory. As for knowledge of the various trades and crafts, 
that was handed down from father to son or from the practitioner to the 
apprentice usually belonging to the same class. It was, therefore, not 
necessary for the state to concern itself with the imparting of educa- 
tion, either academic or professional. 


It may similarly be said that a department of health in the modern 
sense finds no place in this administrative machinery. There are, of 
course, the army doctors,.who are to keep themselves in readiness 
with medicines, instruments and bandages When a fight is about to 
begin (10.38.47). The, state is also expected to take suitable steps 
when there is an epidemic (4.8.18-16). Beyond that, the interest of 
the state appears to be restricted to seeing that no physician lends his 
indirect support to criminal activities by agreeing to treat wounds 
secretly (2.36.10). 


How far is the administrative system described in this work true 
to reality? In other words, to what extent does it correspond to the 
actual administration prevailing in any state at any time in the past? 
On the face of it, there appears to be little correspondence between 
the administrative set-up as disclosed in this text and what little in- 
formation we are able to gather from other sources, especially the 
inscriptions. There are differences in the designations and functions 
of most of the officers mentioned.: 


It is quite natural to try to find agreements between what this 
text has to say on arrangements about administration and the actual 
practice as revealed by inscriptional evidence in what may be regarded 
as more or less contemporary Mauryan times. R. K. Mookerji has 
made an impressive list of parallelisms between this text and the 


STATE ADMINISTRATION 211 


inscriptions of Agoka.5 Many of the parallel or identical expressions 
have, however, little bearing on matters of administration. For example, 
ustdna (ulthdna), devikumdla, mrgayd, samaja, vihdra-yatra, nadgavana, 
tadatuvdye dyatike ca, and so on have little to do with state administra- 
tion and may, therefore, be left out of account. Theexpressions that 
call for attention in the present context are mahdmata (including dhamma- 
mahimdta and antamahdamata), nagalaviyohdlaka, yuta, rajuka and 
pradesika, perhaps also parisd. These suggest identity with adminis- 
trative personnel mentioned in the Arthasdstra. 


It may be pointed out at the outset that the Mauryan Empire 
appears to have been administered by dividing it into provinces, which 
were placed in charge of viceroys, who were often princes of royal 
blood. Rudradaman in his inscription refers to the Vaisya Pusyagupta, 
who was a rds{riya in Surastra in the reign of Candragupta Maurya. 
It is also well-known that Asoka was sent as a viceroy in Kashmir 
during liis father’s reign. And under Asoka himself, there were terri- 
torial divisions called dhdra or visaya, and four princely viceroys are 
said to have administered such territories from Taksasila, Ujjayini, 
Tosali and Suvarnagiri.6 It would appear that such an arrangement 
was natural, for a wholly centralized administration in the far-flung 
Empire would have been almost impossible because of the difficulties 
of communications in those days. Of such territorial divisions of the 
country, each to be administered by a governor or viceroy in charge, 
there is no trace in the Arthasdstra. The rdsfriya of Rudradiman’s 
inscription might seem to correspond to the rdsfrapdla mentioned 
in this text. But it is extremely doubtful if, like the ras{riya, the 
rdstrapdla can be regarded as a governor or viceroy in charge of 
@ province. 


There is, of course, no doubt that the maha@mata of Asoka is the 
same as mahdmdatra referred to in this text. Itis, however, a general 
term used to describe any high officer of the state, and signifies little 
in the present context. Butthe dhammamahdamdta of ASoka cannot be 
identified with any Arthasdsira officer, certainly not with the dharnmastha. 
The former was concerned with looking after the people’s religious life 
and spreading Asoka’s dhamma among the people, whereas the dharma- 
stha in this text is a judge concerned with the administration of law. 
Similarly, the antamahdmdta of Asoka was also concerned with the 
propagation of dhamma beyond the borders of the Empire and is there- 
fore not the same as the antapdla of this text, who is concerned with 


5 R. K. Mookerji, Candragupta Maurya and His Times (Madras, 1943), 
pp. 377-393 ; cf. also F. W. Thomas, *‘ The Edicts of Asoka ’, JRAS, 1914, 383ff. 


6 Cf. R. C. Majumdar and others, dn Advanced MHislory. of India (London, 
1046), pp. 120ff. 


2:2 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


guarding the frontier and controlling the import trade. The nagalavi- 
yohalaka of ASoka, of course, reminds one of the pauravydvahdrika 
mentioned in this text. But it should be remembered that the functions 
of this officer are nowhere described. On the other hand, we find the 
duties of the ndgarika set forth in great detail. It is possible, but far 
from certain, that the nagalaviyohdlaka is the same as the ndgarika. 
As to yuta, it is true that the word is verbally the same as yukta. But 
whereas yukta in this text is a general name for state officers, yuta in 
ASoka appears to be the designation of a particular officer with specific 
functions. Scholars are not agreed as to the status of the yuta, whether 
he is only a subordinate officer or an officer of the highest grade. In 
any case, it is not a general term describing all officers like yukta. As 
regards r@juka, he worked in a judicial capacity besides being a revenue 
administrator and is said to have been occupied with hundreds of 
thousands of people. He is often regarded as an officer in charge of 
a province or at least a district.’ It is not possible to find in the Artha- 
gdstra any officer corresponding to this rdjuka. It mentions rajju 
as a head of income under rdstra (2.6.3) which probably refers to income 
from survey operations. Even if the officer in charge of these opera- 
tions be understood to be known as rajjuka, he cannot be supposed 
to have any judicial functions nor regarded as concerned with hundreds 
of thousands of people like the r@juka. Itis also impossible to identify 
the latter with the corarajjuka of this text, who is required to make 
good thefts from a caravan outside the jurisdiction of village officers 
and the pasture-superintendent, that is, in waste lands and jungles 
(4.18.8-10). As to prdadesika, the temptation to regard him as identical 
' with the pradestr of this text has been very great in view of the root 
common to both words. But whether we regard the prddesika as 
higher in status than the rajuka or as subordinate to him, he would 
appear to be an administrative officer in charge of a region or a district 
(pradesa). The pradestr, on the other hand, is primarily concerned 
with the investigation and suppression of crime. ‘There are three of 
them at each headquarters, the smallest of which is the headquarters 
of the gopa with jurisdiction over a group of five or ten villages only. 
The pradestrs all work under the samdhartr. It is, therefore, difficult to 
see any real identity between the functions of the prddesika and those 
of the pradestrs. Finally, the parisd or parisad of ASoka can hardlv be 
identified with the mantriparisad as is sometimes done. 


It may perhaps be argued that there was little scope for a reference 
to the various administrative officers and their functions in the inscrip- 
tions of Asoka in view of the nature of their contents. However, since 


7 Cf. Romila Thapar, .4soka and the Decline of the Mauryas (Oxford, 1961), 
pp. 106-107. 


STATE ADMINISTRATION 213 


officers like rdjuka and prddesika are mentioned, it would be reasonable 
to suppose that at least the samdhartr, probably the most important of 
the officers in this text, as well as the dharmastha would have been 
referred to if officers with these designations had really functioned in 
his Empire. We have, therefore, to admit the fact that the administra- 
tive set-up described in the Arthasdstra is not reflected in any significant 
manner in the inscriptions of Asgoka.* As for the later inscriptions 
there are even fewer correspondences. 


This, however, does not mean that the scheme ‘of administration 
recommended in this text is divorced from reality. The work does not 
profess to describe the actual administration that may have prevailed 
in a particular state or at a particular time. Being theoretical in 
character, it sets forth what, according to it, should be the ideal scheme 
of administration in any state. It takes into consideration all aspects 
of a state’s possible activity and describes in fairly minute detail the 
way in which a state should be run. And well-managed states can 
hardly avoid setting up in actual practice a system of administration 
more or less similar to the one recommended in the text. Given the 
conditions that have prevailed in most parts of India in ancient days, 
a well-run state may be expected to have officers with functions similar 
to those of the samahartr, the samnidhatr, the dharmastha, the pradestr, 
as well as a host of adhyaksas, though these very designations may nct 
have been used in actual practice. Designations have tended to differ 
from region to region as well as from age to age. 


K. A. Nilakanta Sastri has found “fairly close resemblances 
between the fiscal and bureaucratic arrangements in contemporary 
Egypt and Syria on the one side and the system of the Arthasdstra 
on the other.”® And following the lead of Rostovtzeff, he has suggested 
@ common origin for the Mauryan state supposed to underlie the teach- 
ing of the Arthasdstra and the Hellenistic states of Egypt and Syria. 
This common origin is believed by him to be the administrative system 
prevailing in the Achaemenian Empire to which the Hellenistic states 
were successors.1° And as a part of North-West India was for some 
time before Alexander included in the Achaemenian Empire the sugges- 
tion that India, too, copied the model gains plausibility. It was, of 
course, quite natural for the Seleuoids, who inherited the region from 
Persia to Syria, to allow the system which already prevailed there 
under the Achaemenians to continue as before, as it was found to be 
extremely advantageous. The Ptolemies in Egypt, however, appear 
to have followed the system which prevailed there from the days of the 


8 Cf. O. Stein, AOr, V (1933), pp. 262-269 and VI (1984), pp. 15-49, 
9 Age of the Nandas and the Mauryas (Banaras, 1952), p. 174, 
10 IJbid., p. 178. 


214 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


Pharaohs and which, it seems, even the Achaemenians did not disturb 
there. As for India, it may be admitted as quite possible that the 
Achaemenian practice was known here even before Alexander’s day. 
_ It is also: possible that the Mauryan state in actual practice showed 
Hellenistic and ultimately Achaemenian influences, though the inscrip- 
tions of Asoka do not show evidence of any census of towns and villages, 
their inhabitants and resources, the maintenance of which was a charac- 
teristic feature of the Achaemenian system. . This text, however, does 
not claim to describe the Mauryan administrative system. It describes 
a system which any state that wants to prosper is expected to follow. 
And this system does not appear to have been thought out by Kautilya 
for the first time. It may be supposed that such a system was con- 
ceived as necessary in the teaching of the Sastra from the early days. 
Breloer has emphasised the peculiar Indian conditions which make 
a statistic of all economic factors’a necessity in all ages. The census, 
the records, the army of land-officers have been, according to him, 
quite essential for safeguarding state revenue.!! One need not, therefore, 
necessarily think of a foreign influence in these matters. As for the 
many adhyaksas and other officers, only an indigenous origin seems 
conceivable for them. 


11 KSt, III, 166ff. 


CHAPTER NINE 


LAW AND ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE 


THE administration of justice is treated in a special adhikarana, Book 
Three, which also sets forth in detail the law to be administered in 
the courts. The judges are called dharmasthas, a name which appa- 
rently refers to the dharma or law, by which they are to be guided in 
their work. It may be noted that the Smrtis generally do not show 
acquaintance with this designation. It is found only casually men- 
tioned by Manu in a passage (8.57) which is very likely derived from 
the present Arthasdstra text (3.1.19) or one very much similar to it. 
The usual word for a judge in later times is prdadvivaka. 


In the first adhikarana of the text, we have a description of the 
routine to be followed by the king every day. We there get the im- 
"pression that it is the king who is to administer justice in person. At 
a fixed hour in the morning every day the king is to enter the assembly 
hall and look into the affairs of his subjects (1.19.10). This perhaps 
represents an earlier stage in the development of the administration 
of justice, when the king was himself the judge and probably the only 
judge, since the domain over which he held sway was not very extensive. 
It is at the same time possible that even after special judges came to be 
appointed, the king continued to be the final arbiter of justice, most 
probably in an appellate or revisionary capacity. 


It is stated that three judges, of the status of an amdtya, should 
be appointed at each of the following places: ganapudasamdhi, a frontier 
post, samgrahana, the headquarters of ten villages, dronamukha, the 
headquarters of 400 villages, and sthaniya, the chief city among 800 vil- 
lages, which in effect is the capital of the state (3.1.1.) The reference to 
samgrahana as a seat for a judicial court implies that justice is intended 
to be made available to the subjects very much nearer their places 
of residence than seems possible even to-day. It is not clear if a grada- 
tion among the courts at the different places mentioned is contemplated 
and if appeals from a court at a smaller place are intended to be enter- 
tained in a court at a bigger place. Since there is no reference to any 
gradation among the dharmasthas and since all dharmasthas wherever 
they work are to be understood as apparently enjoying the same status, 
it would appear that all courts at the various places mentioned are 
on the same footing. Perhaps the only. appeal from the judgment of 
any court would be directly made to the king, whose final authority 


216 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


in pronouncing a judgment in any legal matter must be supposed to 
be unquestioned. 

It is also not clear if the three judges who work at the same place 
are to sit as a bench in every case or if each judge is to try independently 
the cases that are brought before him. The latter might appear to 
be intended. For, in connection with punishment for judges the word 
dharmastha is used in the singular (4.9.13ff.). However, when a man 
is required to seek the permission of the judges if he wants to renounce 
worldly life and become a monk, the permission of all three judges 
would seem to be intended (2.1.30). Similarly, when it is stated that 
a wife, whose husband is away from home over a long period of time, 
may be allowed by the judges to remarry, all three judges would seem 
to be meant (3.4.35). In both these places, the word dharmastha is 
used in the plural. 

The text does not refer to the presence of sabhyas or sabhdsads 
in the courts, to which the Smrtis generally refer. Evidently, the 
dharmastha in the text is expected to be an expert in law and hence not 
dependent on the opinion of any sabhyas. Only in cases involving the 
revocation of sale or purchase or gifts it may be necessary to seek the 
help of sabhasads for determining the amount of compensation (3.15.19, 
8.16.5). These are experts (kuSalah) capable of determining the value 
of the article involved, and as such they are required to see that neither 
party suffers because of the revocation. These sabhdsads or kuéalas 
are, therefore, not experts in law, to be consulted by the judges on 
a point of law. 

In the Chapter which refers to the king himself as the judge, a list 
of priorities is laid down for taking up cases for consideration. The 
affairs of temples, hermitages, heretics, Brahmins learned in the Vedas 
and so on are to be taken up first in this order, then those of minors, 
old persons, sick persons and so on. It is, however, added that in 
urgent matters and in matters of preat importance the rule about 
priorities may be set aside (1.19.29-30). It may be supposed that the 
same considerations are meant to apply to cases cominy before the 
dharmasthas. 

The dharmasthas are required to look into what are called vydvahdarika 
arthas, that is, cases arising out of mutual transactions (vyavahara) 
among the subjects (3.1.1). A vyavahara is a transaction or an affair 
between two parties. It covers not only such transactions between 
two parties as marriage, incurring of debts, sale etc., but also such 
affairs as sahasa or forcible seizure, anupraveéa or trespass with criminal 
intent, kalaha or scuffle and so on, in which two parties are involved. In 
_ all these cases of vyavahdara, if one of the two parties feels aggrieved, he 
has to take the matter to a dharmastha court before the state can do 


LAW AND ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE 217 


anything about it. The nature of the wrong suffered may be a mone- 
' tary or other loss or a physical or other injury. As Breloer says, we 
have in all cases a private suit for redress of wrong or injury.! 


However, a vyavahara is primarily a transaction entered into by two 
parties ; hence the term would not normally apply to cases of sdhasa, 
kalaha, or parusya, which are only affairs in which two parties are in- 
volved. Itis in connection with vyavaharas in the sense of transactions 
entered into by two parties that the question of their validity or in- 
validity arises. The first topic that is discussed in the Book concerning 
judges is, therefore, the validity and invalidity of transactions. Some 
transactions become invalid, that is, illegal, by reason of the circum- 
stances attending their conclusion. A transaction to be valid must 
have been entered into by persons who are competent to do so and are 
themselves present in person at the time; they should generally have 
been entered into in the open and by day-time and should be free from 
secrecy or fraud. A suit filed on the basis of an invalid transaction 
means not only the loss of the suit and the usual fine prescribed for loss 
of suit, but also a heavy fine in addition for relying on an inadmissible 
transaction. Even witnesses present at the time of such a transaction 
are to be fined (3.1.2-15). We have here what may be called the 
law of contracts. 


Ordinarily, unless a complaint is lodged by the aggrieved party, 
the judge cannot proceed in the matter. However, in the case of 
affairs concerning temples, Brahmins, ascetics, women, minors, aged 
persons, sick persons and orphans, the dharmastha is allowed to institute 
proceedings swo moto, if these do not approach the court. It is laid 
down, in that connection, that the affairs of these parties must not 
be dismissed on the plea of absence of jurisdiction (degacchala) or by 
postponing them (kdlacchala) or on grounds of adverse possession (bho- 
gacchala) (8.20.22). 


When a complaint is brought before him, the judge is to get the 
following details written down by the clerk of the court: the time 
and place of the transaction, the amount of debt, and the name, caste, 
place of residence etc. of the complainant as well as of the defendant. 
He is then to record the questions put to both of them along with their 
replies (8.1.17). Before, however, the case is proceeded with, the 
judge is to ask both parties to furnish competent sureties (avastha). 
This is intended to ensure that the fine will be received by the state 
whichever party loses the suit. 


{t seems that the law of procedure and the law of evidence were 
first framed in connection with suits concerning the non-payment of 


1 KSt, II, pp. 140-141. 


218 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


debts (rndadana). For, inthe details about the filing of suits the matter 
under dispute is referred to as rna. Similarly, it is in the section on 
rnadana that we have a discussion on witnesses, their number, thcir 
admissibility, trustworthiness and so on (3.11.26ff.). It is obvious that 
debt was the most ancient and the most common form of vyavahara, 
about which disputes were taken to the court. 


Except in cases of kalaha or scuffle, sdhasa or forcible seizure and 
sarthasamavdya or agreement among members of a caravan of traders, 
the defendant is not to be allowed to file a counter-complaint. And so 
long as one complaint against a defendant is not disposed of, another 
complaint is not to be allowed to be filed against him (3.1.25-26). 


The defendant is to be allowed a period of three to seven days in 
which to file his reply to the plaint. After that period, failure to file 
the reply means a fine depending on the number of days he takes to 
file the same. Failure to file the reply within three fortnights means 
the loss of the suit by the defendant. The decretal amount may, if 
necessary, be recovered from his possessions. It is, however, added 
that the implements of his trade or profession are not to be subject to 
distraint (3.1.31). The complainant, of course, is required to submit 
his counter-reply on the same day on which the defendant’s reply is 
filed ; else he is to lose the suit and to be fined accordingly (3.1.27-28). 


Evidence to be submitted in a court of law appears to be called 
dega (8.1.19 etc.). It evidently refers to all kinds of evidence, docu- 
ments, witnesses and so on. The word deéa is also used in the text in 
the sense of ‘title’, that which establishes ownership over a thing 
(8.16.29, 4.6.9). That may well have been its original meaning. 
Another word for evidence is karana. More often than deéa, it refers 
to a person’s title or proof of ownership, as in svakarana. In one or two 
places karana appears to refer to documentary evidence as when it is 
said that in all transactions, except in the case of pledge (d@dhz) and 
commission (ddega), a later karana cancels the earlier ones (3.1.16) or 
that artisans are generally dishonest, since there is no karana made 
before they accept an article for manufacture (3.12.86-37). 


The dharmastha is to put questions to the two parties as well as to 
witnesses when these have to be called in because the defendant is 
_contesting the claim. Such persons are to be cited as witnesses as were 
present at the time of the transaction in question. Those who were 
present at the time are called érotrs ‘hearers’ (8.1.4,14 etc.). This 
word shows that in the beginning all transactions were carried out with- 
out a written document, witnesses to them being ‘listeners’ to what 
was taking place. When they come to the court for giving evidence, 
they are called saksins, eye-witnesses, the emphasis being on what they 
saw. We often find reliance placed on the testimony of upadrasirs 


- 


LAW AND ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE 219 


and upasrotrs (8.11.81, 4.6.12). Witnesses are not thought of as 
witnesses to documents, who put their signatures to them. 


It is stated that when witnesses have to be called in thére should 
be at least three of them, or two if both parties agree, but never one 
in a dispute concerning a debt.. That they should be trustworthy 
and honest or acceptable to both the parties is naturally emphasised 
(3.11.26-27). Some persons, however, are inadmissible as witnesses, 
either because they have an interest in one of the parties to the suit, 
such as his kinsmen or dependents, or because they suffer from some 
physical or social disability, such as blind or deaf persons or outcasts, 
or because they hold certain positions, such as that of a state servant ; 
the king himself is not to be a witness. Women as such appear to be 
inadmissible as witnesses. Exceptions are, however, allowed in cases 
of abuse, assault, theft or adultery, when the only inadmissible witnesses 
are declared to be an enemy of the accused, a wife’s brother or an 
accomplice of the complainant (3.11.28-30). 


Before witnesses are called upon to tender evidence, they are to be 
adjured by the judge in the presence of Brahmins, a water-pitcher and 
fire, to bear. witness truthfully. The form of adjuration is to vary 
with the varna of the witnesses. ‘To a Brahmin the judge is to say 
simply, “ Speak the truth.” He is to address a Ksatriya or a Vaisya 
with the words, “May you forfeit the reward of your meritorious 
deeds and may you go begging to your enemy’s house, if you give false 
evidence.” And the Sudra is to be admonished thus, “In case you 
give false evidence, your merit will go to the king, and his sins 
will pass on to you. Besides, you will be punished for perjury.” 
(3.11.84-37). 

A witness, when cited, is bound to give evidence. LElse, he lays 
himself open to a fine of 12 panas after seven days; if after three fort- 
nights he still persists in refusing to give evidence he makes himself 
liable to pay the decretal amount (3.11.38). At the same time it is 
laid down that normally only such witnesses should be allowed to be 


cited as are not residing at a distant place and as are immediately 
available (3.11.50). 


When different witnesses give mutually contradictory evidence, 
the judge is to accept the testimony of the majority or that of those 
among them who are known to be upright or who are accepted by 
both sides. If witnesses testify to an amount less than the one claimed 
by the plaintiff, a part of the excess claimed is to be imposed as a fine 
on him. If, however, they testify to an amount larger than the one 
claimed, the excess is to be taken by the state. If, because of the 
plaintiff’s carelessness, the amount was heard wrongly by witnesses 


220 _KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


or was wrongly entered by him in the plaint, the testimony of witnesses 
is to prevail (3.11.41-43). 


For perjury, the different schools of Arthasastra had recommended 
various kinds of punishment, more or less severe. Disagreeing with 
them, Kautilya himself seems to recommend only a fine of 24 panas 
for giving false evidence and 12 panas for refusing to give evidence 
(3.11.48-49). Perhaps he thought that too severe a penalty might lead 
to difficulties in getting witnesses. It is possible that he also does not 
quite approve of the rule in 3.11.88 which makes a witness liable to 
pay the decretal amount for refusing to give evidence, though this 
cannot be proved. 


The text knows documentary evidence, but it does not discuss the 
question of their admissibility or validity. This shows that it attaches 
more importance to the testimony of witnesses than to documentary 
evidence. Obviously we have here an earlier stage in the growth of 
the law of evidence. 


The judge is to pronounce judgment after listening to both parties 
and weighing all the evidence produced. A number of circumstances 
are mentioned as leading to a loss of the suit, especially by the com- 
plainant. For example, if the charge is shifted by the complainant, or 
if there 1s a contradiction between an earlier and a later part of the 
statement, or if the opposite party’s statement is not proved to be 
false after being challenged, or if the evidence cited is not forthcoming, 
or if insufficient or irrelevant evidence is produced, or if evidence other 
than the one cited is produced, or if evidence produced by oneself is 
repudiated, and so on, the party concerned is to be declared to have 
lost the suit (3.1.19). A mnemonic verse states three main causes 
leading to the loss of suit: contradictions in the statement made, 
defects in the witnesses cited, and the non-appearance of the party in 
the court because of his escape from custody (8.1.47). 


Another mnemonic verse enumerates five circumstances which would be helpful to the judge in arriving at a decision: a party being manifestly in the wrong, a free admission of the charge, straightforwardness in the questions and answers between the two parties, reasoning, and oath (3.1.46). Of these, the third circumstance seems to refer to the examination and cross-examination of the two parties and their witnesses. 

There is no reference in the text to professional lawyers. Most probably such a class did not exist. Reasoning or hetw clearly refers to the weighing. of the evidence by the judge. Oath or sapatha does not appear to contain a reference to ordeals as well. These are nowhere referred to in the text. On the other hand, a solemn affirmation on oath is regarded by Kautilya himself, in another context, 


LAW AND ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE 221 


as being quite acceptable as evidence of good faith in view of the generally dreaded consequences of a false or violated oath (7.17.5). 


The party that loses the suit is required to pay to the state one fifth of the decretal amount as fine, which is reduced to one-tenth of the amount if the claim is admitted by the defendant and the need to proceed with the case is obviated (3.1.20-21). In suits between seniors and juniors, such as between a master and his servant or between a teacher and his pupil or between a parent and his child, the senior losing the suit is to pay the smaller fine of one-tenth while the junior 
losing the suit is to pay the higher fine of one-fifth (3.11.32-33). 


The necessity for the judges to decide the cases impartially is vividly brought out in the punishments laid down for dereliction of duty by them. A judge may err in various ways: he may not put questions to those to whom they ought to be put or put them to wrong persons, or after putting questions to someone he may ignore the reply given, or he may give instructions to, remind or prompt the person being questioned by him. If he does so, he is to be fined the middle sahasa-danda. Or, the judge may threaten a person coming to his court in connection with a pending law-suit. or upbraid him or browbeat him or drive him out. The fine*“is the lowest sahasa-danda in these cases, but is to be doubled if the judge indulges in abuse or defamation of the party. Or, he may proceed with the case without calling for evidence or dismiss it under some pretext or tire out the litigant with 
adjournments so that he may give up the case, or misconstrue the evidence, or help witnesses to make their depositions, or open again a case already disposed of. In these cases, the highest sa@hasa-danda is prescribed. If the same offence is repeated by the judge, he is liable to be dismissed from service (4.9.13-16). Punishments are also laid down for the clerk of the court making errors in writing that lead to a miscarriage of justice (4.9.17). It is the samahartr who is made ultimately responsible for detecting and punishing offences committed by officers including judges (4.9.1). 


The dharmasthas as well as the pradestrs also make themselves 
liable to punishment for errors in pronouncing judgments and convict- 
ing persens. For fining an innocent person they are themselves to be 
fined double the fine imposed. For making-an innocent person suffer 
corporal punishment, they themselves are to undergo the same punish- 
ment. ‘They are also to make good any loss suffered by a party through 
their wrong judgment eight times over (4.9.18-20). 


. 


Such treatment expected to be meted out to members of the judi- 
ciary strikes us to-day as being very strange. If judges are themselves 
to be fined, the dignity that is expected to be attached to their office 
is bound to disappear. The judges, in the scheme of this text, occupy 


222 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


a position subordinate to the executive and are far from being independent of it. 

A few stanzas at the end of Chapter 3.1 refer to the relative importance to be attached to the various authorities on the basis of which suits are to be decided. It is stated that a matter in dispute between two parties has four feet: dharma, vyavahara, caritra and rajashasana. 
Of these, dharma is said to be based on truth, vyavahara on witnesses, caritra ou common acceptance by men, while shasana is described as the king’s order (3.1.39-40). These four are the different sources of authority on the basis of which a decision is to be given in a case ; they are not the same as: the four feet of vyavahara mentioned in the later Smrtis, which refer to four stages in the trial and disposal of a case. 

The first of these, dharma, appears to refer to the law as administered by the dharmasthas, which is expounded in the remaining nineteen chapters of Book 3. It is supposed to be based on satya, apparently in the sense of eternal truth, because it has been handed down from times immemorial. As to vyavahara, it obviously refers to transactions or contracts between two parties in so far as they are valid. And caritra refers to local or communal customs, which are valid for the particular 
locality or community. 

It is stated in the passage that the last of the four (pascimah) 
sets aside the earlier ones (purvabddhakah). This is understood by the 
commentators to mean that rdjasdsana supersedes all three. It is, 
however, also possible to understand a progressive supersession in con- 
formity with the version in Narada (uttarah pirvabdadhakah, 1.10). In 
that case, we may understand the idea as follows: Ordinarily, law as 
_ expounded in the text is to be followed by the judges ; but if an agree- 
ment between parties is not in keeping with it, it may be considered as 
authoritative for the purposes of the case, provided it satisfies the 
conditions of validity ; similarly, a local custom is to prevail over 
statutory law as well as over individual agreements. And, of course, 
a royal order is to prevail over all these. That customs prevalent in 
a region, a community and so on are to be allowed to be scrupulously 
observed is emphasised elsewhere also (8.7.40, 3.10.45). 


In another set of stanzas alittle further on, samsthd and nydya 
appear in place of caritra and rdjasdsana used earlier. It seems that 
samsthd ‘the established order’ corresponds to caritra, and nydya ‘justice’ 
corresponds to rajasdsuna, as suggested by Meyer. It is added here 
that in a case of conflict between dharma on the one hand and saistha 
_ or vyavahdrika sastra on the other, the decision is to be given on the 

basis of dharma, but if the astra (i.e. dharma) were to be in conflict with 
. nyaya the latter is to be regarded as authoritative, since there the 
written word (pdtha) goes under (8.1.43-45). There is little doubt that 


LAW AND ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE 223 


these stanzas contain ideas a little different from those in the earlier 
stanzas. Though they, too, regard nydya (apparently the same as 
rdjasdsana) as superior to dharma, they seem to place dharma above 
caritra (if this is the same as samsthd) and vyavahara (obviously the 
same as vydvahdrika sdstra). This is in conflict with the earlier stanza, 
3.1.39, as understood in conformity with Narada’s version. It is 
possible to get over the discrepancy by following the interpretation 
of the commentators, according to which there is no reference in it to 
the relative authoritativeness of dharma, vyavahara and caritra, only 
an emphasis on the supreme authority of rdjasdsana in relation to all 
three. In any case, it is obvious that the two sets of stanzas are derived 
from two different sources. That is also shown by the difference in 
terminology, as well as by the circumstance that the two sets are 
separated by two other intervening stanzas which deal with a different 
question altogether, namely the king’s duty to protect the subjects 
by the just use of danda. The two sets of stanzas, however, refer to 
the same subject, that of the relative importance of the four sources 
of authority. It is, therefore, not easy to agree with U. N. Ghoshal 
that the first set refers to procedural law, while the second refers to 
positive law.* Even if it be granted that nydya is not the same as 
rdjasdsana, * justice’ or ‘ reasoning’ can only refer to some principle 
on the basis of which a decision is to be given in a case; this in effect 
amounts to a question of procedure. When it is stated that nydya is 
to prevail over the written law, the former cannot be understood to 
refer to any body of positive or substantive law, different from the sastra 
(that is, dharmasdstra) law. 


That rajashsana is the highest authority on the basis of which a 
case is to be decided does not amount to saying that the king is regarded 
in this text as the law-maker. It is, no doubt, stated that when all 
dharmas are perishing it is the king who sets the dharmas going (raja 
dharmapravartakah) inasmuch as he. protects the duties of the varnas 
and dsramas (8.1.88). This, however, hardly means that the king can 
make fresh laws in supersession of those already prevalent in society. 
What seems meant is that the king must uphold the varna and dérama 
order when it is threatened or disturbed by some social upheaval. In 
any casc, it is hardly possible to agree with K. A. Nilakanta Sastri that 
the supremacy of the royal decree (rdjasdsana), maintained in this 
text, is exceptional among Indian writers, and ‘“‘ marks an attempt to 
evolve a new norm in civil law, in the establishment of which the royal 
authority would be actively exerted.”* The word rdjasdsana, which 
is used in the context of a vivdddrtha, that is ‘a matter in dispute’, 


2 IHQ, 28 (1952), pp. 307-311. 
% {ge of the Nandas and the Mauryas, p. 175. 


224 ' KAUTILTYA ARTHASASTRA 


can only refer to a judgment pronounced bv the king in that case, and not to a new law promulgated by the king. There is in fact no evidence that the king has the power of legislation according to this text. One need not, therefore, think of the contemporary Hellenistic monarchies, in which the king had such power, as a possible influence on the teaching of the Arthasdstra, as Nilakanta Sastri is inclined to believe. Besides, it seems quite likely that the stanzas are not Kautilya’s own, but are 
derived by him from some earlier source, which could hardly have come under any such foreign influence. 


K. P. Jayaswal has similarly made a distinction between what he calls the artha laws, that is, the king’s laws or rajasdsana and the dharma laws as found in the Dharmasitras. And he has argued that 
the authority of the king’s laws or ariha laws was always regarded as supreme, a fact supposed to be shown by a remark in the Mahabhadsya, * natvesvara ajnadpayatt napi dharmasitrakdrah pathanti’, where according to Sanskrit syntax the order of the king is given preference over the 
teaching of the Dharmasitras.1 Another distinction referred to by him is one between dharma, that is, sacerdotal law, and vyavahara, that is, secular law. And he thinks that the three sets of laws, dharma, artha and vyavahara, were combined for the first time by Sumati, the 
supposed author of the Manusmrti, in the Sunga times.

5 There is no justification for making these distinctions. There is no evidence to show 
that there was at any time in existence a body of laws, known as artha - laws or king’s laws, distinct from dharmalaws. Book Three of the Arthasastra cannot be supposed to contain this artha law. For, the law it sets forth is in all respects the same as that in the Dharmasistra works. 
The differences between it and the latter are no greater than those found between the different Dharmasastra works among themselves. Nor is there any evidence for the existence of any code of vyavahara law as distinct from dharma law. When the Arthashastra says that vrddhi or 
interest at one and a quarter per cent is dharmyd and at five per cent is vyadvahariki (8.11.1), it does not mean that the former is according to dharma law and the latter according to vyavahara law, as Jayaswal thinks. It simply means that the former is the legitimate rate for 
loans other than those for trade purposes, while the latter rate is allowed for business loans. That is shown by the rates of 10 per cent and 20 per cent allowed in the same sutra for loans to traders going through forests and by sea respectively. Jayaswal mentions the prescription of ordeals in dharma law and their absence in vyavahara law as another point of distinction between the two.? However, neither Apastamba 


4 Manu and Ydjnavalkya (Calcutta, 1980), p. 17. 
& Ibid., pp. Off. and p. 93. 

6 Ibid., p. 15. 
7 Ibid., p. 134. 


LAW AND ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE 225 


nor Baudhayana nor Vasistha nor Gautama, who are supposed to have given the dharma law, contains a single reference to ordeals as a means of proof. Manu barely mentions them in 8.114-116. It is only from Yajnyavalkya onwards that ordeals are found treated in DharmaSastra works. 


As a matter of fact it is difficult to imagine a state of things where two or three different codes of law were current at one and the same time, with different degrees of authoritativeness attaching to them. Codes of law were not formulated in ancient India by law-givers specially appointed for the purpose like Lycurgus or Draco in Greece ; nor was law the result of any legislative activity by something like an assembly of elders or by the king. Law, as administered in courts, was regarded 
as immemorial, that is, true for all time. That was because in its origin it was that body of customs and practices, common to the Aryan communities, which had been faithfully observed from generation to 
generation. Much of this customary law, H. S. Maine has pointed out, probably goes back to the Indo-European age, though different peoples sometimes developed the same ideas in different ways. P. Vinogradoff remarks in this connection, “‘ The significant fact is that in spite of profound differences in results, we do observe especially in family law and in that of succession and Real Property—principles and rules that are varieties of the same leading ideas”’ among Indians, Teutons, 
Celts and other Indo-Germanic peoples.® This body of customary law was analysed and arranged under suitable heads in the early schools of Dandaniti. If there are differences among the various schools, 
a fact which the Arthasdstra attests, these appear to be due to the predilections of individual teachers of the schools. To some extent they may also be due to regional variations or to changes necessitated by changed circumstances. But the body of laws remained one and the fundamental unity of dharma was not questioned, even when adherence to different desadharmas, jatidharmas, kuladharmas etc. was considered quite legitimate. And this law or dharma was given to the state, which was not concerned with its formulation. 


This law is set forth in the Arthasहstra under the following seventeen heads: (1) vivाhasamyuktam, marriage and allied topics; (2); dayavibhdgah, partition of inhcritance ; (8) vdstukam, property and disputes concerning it; (4) samayasya anapdkarma, failure to participate in community affairs ; (5) rndddna, non-payment of debts; (6) aupantahikam, concerning deposits ; (7) ddsakarmakarakalpah, law concerning slaves and labourers; (8) sarnbhiiyasamutthanam, undertakings in 


8 Early History of Institutions (London, 1875). Lectures VII and IX-XI. 


9 Outlines of Historical Jurisprudence, Vol. I (Oxford Univ. Press, 1920), 
p. 229. , 


226 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


partnership ; (9) vikritakritanusayah, revocation of a sale or a purchase ; 
(10) ‘dattasya anapdadkarma, non-conveyance of gifts made; (11) asvdmi- 
vikrayah, sale without ownership; (12) svasvamisambandhah, law 
concerning ownership; (13) sdhasam, forcible seizure of an object ; 
(14) vakpdrusyam, verbal injury; (15) dandapadrusyam, physical injury ; 
(16) dyitasamahvayam, gambling and challenging; and (17) prakirna- 
kam, miscellaneous. 

A comparison with the titles of law in Manu and other Smrtis 
shows some differences in number, in the nomenclature of titles and 
in the scope of the topics under some heads. More especially, the order 
in which the topics are arranged is different in the Arthasdstra from that 
in the Smrtis. It will be seen that the arrangement in this text is more 
rational, starting as it does with law concerning domestic affairs and 
then proceeding to that concerning affairs in which strangers are involv- 
ed. And every topic is treated in as detailed a manner as possible, at 
the same time ignoring all extraneous considerations in which an 
author like Manu is often prone to indulge. 


The first head is marriage, which, says the text, precedes all 
vyavaharas (8.2.1), inasmuch as it is the starting point of domestic or 
family life and, through it, of all social life. The topic is divided into 
thirteen sub-sections, many of them, such as dvesa, dislike, bharma, 
maintenance, nispatana, the wife’s going away from home, pathyanu- 
saranda, her going with a man, and so on, are hardly thought of in the 
Smirtis. It is obvious that the rules contemplated here have a wider 
application than those in the Smrtis, which for the most part are con- 
cerncd with matters affecting the upper varnas only. At the same 
time, the rules reveal a breadth of outlook on the part of the author, 
which is generally missing in the Smrtis. (Chapters 3.2-4). 


From marriage the text proceeds to the topic of sons and the 
partition of the estate. The various kinds of sons are described mostly 
as in the Smrtis. The law of inheritance, however, which is found 
here, appears to be more simple and in some respects more primitive 
than that in the Smrtis. The mixed castes to which it refers asa 
result of varnasumkara are fewer in number than those mentioned in 
Manu, and of course, than those in Yajfiavalkya. The practice of 
niyoga and the special shares of the eldest and other sons are mentioned 
without any suggestion that they had become obsolete in the days of 
the author. (Chapters 3.5-7). 


Arising naturally out of the topic of partition of property is the 
next head dealing with immovable property. Immovable property is 
defined to include a house, a field, a garden, a water-work, a tank and 
a reservoir of water (3.8.2). Disputes concerning these are generally 
to be settled on the testimony of neighbours. This head covers such 


LAW AND ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE 227 


topics as construction of houses and their adjuncts, tenancy, sale of 
property, disputes about boundaries, encroachment on others’ property 
and causing damage to it, the use of irrigation tanks and so on. Many 
of these topics are not found in this form in the Smrtis, which mostly 
content themselves with the treatment of boundary disputes and damage 
caused to fields by cattle. That we have in this text an exhaustive 
treatment of topics concerned with matters likely to lead to disputes 
in a court of law is quite obvious. (Chapters 3.8-10). 


The next head deals primarily with the non-fulfilment of obligations 
which devolve on a person by the fact of his being a member of a 
community, such as a village, a region, a caste, a family or a samgha. 
For example, a person is bound to contribute to a show put up in a 
village or to undertakings that are intended for the benefit of the entire 
community. It is obviously the purpose of the rules under this head to 
ensure harmony in village life or in a caste or in a family and to see 
that this harmony is not upset by individuals acting on their own. 
(Chapter 3.10). 


The fifth head is concerned with debts and deals with such questions 
as rates of interest, which are to depend on circumstances, liability 
for the payment of debts incurred by others, the mode of recovery of 
debts, the time limit after which a debt becomes time-barred and so on. 
These topics are treated in the Smrtis in practically the same manner. 
It is under this head that the question of witnesses is discussed, which 
is also the case in the Manusmrti. (Chapter 3.11). 


Connected with the topic of debts is that of ddhi or pledge given to 
the creditor. That, along with other topics, is discussed in the next 
section called aupanidhikam. It deals not only with deposits (upanzdhi), 
but also with pledges, borrowings, goods given to agents for sale, mate- 
rial given to artisans for manufacture of articles and so on. Common 
to all these transactions is the circumstance that the property of one 
person passes into the temporary possession of another person. The 
main question in all these cases is the liability of this latter individual 
for the safety or return of the object handed over to him. The topics 
treated in the Arthasdstra under this head are more numerous than 
those in the Smrtis, which, in the main, deal only with what are called 
sealed and open deposits. In particular, niksepa has in this text a 
sense ‘ the handing over of gold etc. to an artisan for the manufacture 
of some article ’, which is not found in the Smrtis. And the yarious 
ruses described in the text.for the recovery of material misappropriated 
by artisans (3.12.3S8if.) have little corresponding to them in those 
works. (Chapter 3.12). 


The next head deals with ddsas and karmakaras. The former term 
includes not only the dasa proper but also the @hitaka, the person pledged 


228 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


_ with the creditor when contracting a debt. The karmakara differs from 
these two in that he is not in the power of another person. He only 
contracts to do a specific work for a specified wage. The text mentions 
various types of slaves and emphasises their right to freedom on the 
payment of a ransom-amount. And it lays down elaborate rules 
concerning the proper treatment to be given to ddsas and dhitakas, 
both male and female, and provides appropriate penalties for their 
violation. The rules insist on a humane treatment of the ddsas and 
show that this type of slavery had little in common with that found in 
other ancient civilizations. As regards the karmakaras, the question 
principally discussed is about wages and their payment. The duties 
of both the employer and the employee are laid down in that connection. 
It is interesting to note that the rules visualise a sarnmgha or union of 
_ workers, which enters into a contract with an employer and distributes 
the remuneration received among individual labourers. The Smrtis 
have only scrappy rules on these topics. Only Narada refers at some 
length to ddsas. The rest content themselves with the question of the 
non-payment of wages only. (Chapters 3.18-14). 


The law of partnership refers principally to agriculturists and 
traders. The former appears to be a sort of partnership among 
labourers working for the same landlord. The rules deal mainly with 
the question of the illness of a partner and his consequent withdrawal 
from the joint undertaking, which means the question of the quantum 
of his share which is to be in conformity with the time of his withdrawal. 
The rules are made applicable to priests engaged in a sacrifice, various 
stages reached in its performance entitling a priest retiring at the time 
to varying shares of the feesduetohim. The Manusmrti mentions only 
this form of partnership and no other. (Chapter 3.14), 


The next head about the revocation of a sale or a purchase prescribes 
the period within which a sale may be revoked or a purchase refused. 
It is to be noted that it is this section on sale and purchase that refers 
to the question of the annulment of a marriage-agreement even among 
higher varnas; that implies a sale of girls by receiving a dowry. 
(Chapter 8.15) 


Closely allied to the preceding is the section on non-conveyancce of 
gifts. It refers to the kind of promises of gifts that can be revoked, as 
well as to the kind of gifts that can be claimed in the same manner as 
a debt. (Chapter 3.16). 


The next head about lost or stolen property describes the procedure 
to be followed when a person claims that something in another person’s 
possession is his property. This section declares it as the duty of the 
state to recover lost or stolen property and, if unable to recover it, to 
compensate the owner for its loss. (Chapter 3.16). 


LAW AND ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE 229 


Connected with the preceding is the next section dealing with the 
question of adverse possession. Different periods of adverse possession 
confer ownership in the case of different types of property. But certain 
things cannot belong to another by the fact of adverse possession; 
such are a deposit, a pledge, a buried treasure, a woman, a boundary, 


king’s property and the property of a Brahmin learned in the Vedas. 
(Chapter 3.16). 


The next head is sdhasa, which is the forcible seizure of an object, 
when there is anvaya, which terms seems to refer to ‘the presence’ of the 
owner at the time the object is seized. As the owner is likely to resist, 
there is. the possibility of violence in the case of sahasa.!° It is also 
possible that anvaya refers to ‘ connection ’, that is, some sort of claim 
that the person seizing the object may have over it. It is in this section 
that the amounts of the three sdhasa-dandas are mentioned. The 
prathama or lowest is a fine of 48 to 96 panas, the middle is a fine of 
200 to 500 panas, while the highest is 500 to 1,000 panas. These 
amounts differ from those given in the Manusmrti and the Yajiavalkya- 
smrtt. For abetment and instigation of sdhasa, the school of Brhaspati 
had recommended very severe punishment. Kautilya suggests mitiga- 
tion if there has been any provocation. (Chapter 3.17) 


The next two heads deal with pdrusya, injury, which may be either 
vorbal or physical. The former includes slander or defamation, 
contumely and threat, the latter defiling of the body, menacing and 
hitting. The punishments in these two sections are generally regulated 
on the basis of varnas, a person of a higher varna getting a lighter punish- 
ment than a man of a lower varna for the same offence. In fact, sliding 
scales have been laid down in these matters. The former section also 
lays down punishments for slander of one’s own country or village, of 
one’s caste or sangha and of a god or a sanctuary. The latter section 
similarly includes punishments for causing damage to trees in city- 
parks and trees providing shade or bearing flowers and fruits or to 
useful bushes and creepers or to trees in holy places, penance-groves 
and cremation-grounds or to trees serving as boundary marks. It is 
in the latter section that Kautilya, disagreeing with the earlier teachers, 
asserts that an evil-doer must not be let off, however old his offence 
may be. (Chapters 3.18 and 19). 


The next head of law is concerned with gambling. This text does 
not condemn gambling outright nor does it prescribe the punishment of 
death or banishment for gamblers, as the Manusmrti (9.221-228) does 
in its puritanical zeal. It lays down rules for the state control of 
gambling. It is required to be centralized in places provided by the 


10 Cf. L. Rocher, JOR, XXIV (1954-55), pp. 24-25, 


ee 


230 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


= 


state with officers in charge, who collect five per cent of the winnings on 
behalf of the state. The ancient teachers had prescribed a heavier 
fine for the loser at gambling if he lost the suit as well than for the 
winner at gambling, on the ground that the former is apparently. trying 
to recover his losses through the court. Kautilya disagrees and argues 
that all gamblers, whether they win or lose, tend to cheat, and that 
discrimination in the matter of punishment would lead to loss of con- 
- fidence in the courts of justice. (Chapter 3.20). 


The last head, prakirnakam, is a really miscellaneous collection of 
offences, arranged in groups in accordance with the amount of fine 
they carry. Most of the offences listed here are new, but a few could 
well have been included in one or the other of the earlier heads of law. 
Some of the important offences mentioned here are: inviting a person 
for meals to the exclusion of immediate neighbours, approaching a 
woman in the exclusive keeping of another, breaking open a sealed 
house, concealing a family treasure that is in one’s charge, a Candala 
touching an Arya woman, not running to the rescue of another person in 
distress, feeding monks of the Sakya, Ajivaka and other heretical 
sects at rites in honour of the gods and the pitrs, interrogating a suspect 
without authority, doing an officer’s work without being an officer, 
causing the abortion of a female slave, putting under bondage a minor 
or an innocent person, releasing from bondage a lawfully bound person, 
and so on. (Chapter 3.20). 


This very bricf review of the law found in Kautilya will, it is hoped, 
show how it has been treated by him in the most systematic manner. 
The treatment is also as full as possible. This is an aspect of Kautilya’s 
teaching which is generally ignored in most studies of this work. Com- 
pared with this text, the earliest works on DharmaSastra, namely, the 
Dharmasitras of Apastamba and others, contain only scrappy rules on 
only some of the topics treated here. They mostly concern themselves 
with marriage and inheritance, and to some extent with debts and depos- 
its. But they contain practically nothing corresponding to a large 
number of topics treated so fully in this text, which can legitimately 
form the subject-matter of a dispute among subjects to be adjudicated 
in a court of law. The Dharmasitra works, therefore, can hardly 
be regarded as giving us a genuine code of law. Such a code we 
find only in the Arthasastra. 


Manu, the first among the DharmaSastra writers to treat law in any 
systematic manner, shows many deviations from the law as found in 
the Arthasdsitra. He ignores many rules on various topics found in 
this text, for example on ddasas and karmakaras, on vastuka, on danda- 
parusya and soon. That is evidently because these matters were not 
regarded as important by him. It is impossible to maintain that his 


LAW AND ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE 231 


silence is an indication of his early date. Problems connected with 
these topics could not have been non-existent even in the very early 
days. Some of the differences in the rules of Manu are due to the 
author’s strong bias in favour of Brahmins and his gencral indifference 
to and even something like an animus against the Sidras. It was 
argued earlier that the Manusmrii cannot be regarded as a possible 
source of the Arthashastra, and that, on the contrary, it is extremely 
likely that the Arthasdstra or something very much similar to it was the 
source of Manu and the other Smrti writers.!1_ What they did to it 
from their restricted and intolerantly Brahmanical point of view was 
to circumscribe it and reduce its scope, giving to it at the same time a 
more puritanical touch. As H.S. Maine has remarked, “* The influence 
of the Brahmanical treatises on mixed law and religion in sapping the 
old customary law of the country has always been very great, and in 
some particulars it has become greater under Iinglish rule.’?* It is 
perhaps a pity that the full code of law which we find in Kautilya and 
which could well have been the basis even of modern legislation on a 
number of topics came to be ignored and that its breadth of outlook 
despite its adherence to the varna system, its warm humanitarianism 
and its understanding of the realities of actual life, were set aside in 
favour of the rather one-sided and narrow-minded teaching of Apa- 
stamba, Manu and others. The works of these can hardly be called 
codes of law, whereas the dharmasthiya section of the Arthasdstra 
contains a code of law in the real sense of the term. What is important 
is that this code is as much, if not more, rooted in tradition as the 
Dharmasastra works. 


11 Sce pp. 80-83 above. Sce also pp. 12-16 above. 
12 Early History of Institutions (London, 1875), pp. 382-388. 


CHAPTER TEN 
INTERNAL SECURITY 


To ENSURE the yogaksema of the subjects is, as we have seen, one of 
the foremost duties of the state. For their yogaksema the subjects must 
have security of person and property. Such security is disturbed by 
criminals like thieves, robbers etc. Besides, yogaksema is made difficult 
by other anti-social elements like corrupt officials, deceitful merchants 
and others. These are all called kantakas or thorns in the body politic. 
The weeding out of these thorns, antakagodhana, that is the suppression 
of criminals and other anti-social elements, is thus an important function 
of the state. The Arthasdstra devotes the entire Fourth Book to this 
topic. 

As remarked earlier, the suppression of crime and the maintenance 
of law and order, especially in the countryside, is ultimately the respon- 
sibility of the samdahartr.2 Through his secret agents he has to be 
on the lookout for criminals and anti-social elements including corrupt 
Officials (4.4.1-5). He is also required to take steps to round up gangs 
of dacoits and thereby assert the power of the king (4.5.18). And all 
the officers who are directly concerned with the investigation of crime 
and the punishment of criminals are subordinate to the samdhartr. 


The principal officers who are to help the samdharir in the task 
of kanftakasodhana are the pradestrs. Three pradestrs, it is stated, 
should he stationed at the headquarters of the gopas and the sthanikas 
(4.1.1 and 2.85.7). This means that three pradestrs are to serve in an 
area covered by a group of five or ten villages and that there are to be 
three pradestrs at cach of the sthdnika-headquarters. The capital 
city is specifically excluded from the jurisdiction of the pradestrs. 
The detection of crime and the punishment of criminals in the city is 
the responsibility of the ndgarika (4.6.20). In the task of detecting 
thieves and other criminals, the pradesirs are to be assisted by the 
gopas and the sthanikas (4.6.20). These two have, therefore, police 
duties in addition to revenue and survey duties. 


The pradestrs are thus primarily police officers, whose duty it is 
to investigate crimes committed in the region within their jurisdiction. 
They have, however, also the power of inflicting punishment. For, 
like the dharmasthas, they are also liable to be punished themselves if 


1 See pp. 118-119 above. 
2 See p. 196 above. 


INTERNAL SECURITY 2383 


they inflict monetary or corporal punishment wrongfully (4.9.18-20). 
They have thus magisterial powers also. It seems, however, that we 
cannot quite speak of magistrates’ courts in the sense that regular trials 
of criminals are to be conducted in them. If, after investigation, the 
guilt of a person is established to the satisfaction of the pradestrs, 
they appear to be authorized to impose the penalty straightway without 
a trial in a court. That may be the reason why very great emphasis 
is placed on the thoroughness of the investigation in the case of major 
crimes like theft or murder and why the pradestrs themselves are made 
liable to punishment for wrong or perverse decisions. 


The difference between the jurisdictions of the dharmasthas and the 
pradesirs does not quite correspond to the distinction between civil 
and criminal matters. A few of the offences that fall within the former’s 
jurisdiction, for example some cases of sdéhasa and danda-pdrusya, 
would appear to be of the nature of criminal offences. In connection 
with some offences of physical injury, it is stated that if death results 
from the injury inflicted, the matter is to be referred to the pradesfrs 
for kantakagodhana (3.19.15). That may partly be because in the 
event of death the aggrieved party is not there to file a suit in the court 
of a dharmastha, also because it now becomes a matter of culpable homi- 
cide or murder, which requires a thorough investigation. It is obvious 
that the dharmasthas are concerned only with matters arising out of 
dealings between two parties (vydvaharika artha), and it is necessary 
before they can do anything about the matter that the aggrieved party 
should file a suit in their court. In matters with which the pradestrs 
are concerned, namely crimes such as theft, robbery, murder etc., 
the perpetrator of the offence is generally not known, and hence no 
suit can be filed in a court against any person for redress of wrong. 
Only complaints can be lodged with state officers, the pradestrs, who 
are to investigate the matter thoroughly and, if able to find the culprit, 
punish him. No trial of the criminal appears to be contemplated, 
because though the Book describes at length the procedure of the in- 
vestigation of various crimes, it says not a word about proceedings 
in a court. All questionings of persons, whether suspects or witnesses, 
are part of investigation, not of trial in a court. 


The first four Chapters of this Book do not deal with crimes properly 
so called. The first Chapter deals with artisans and craftsmen like 
weavers, washermen, smiths etc., who are prone to cheat the public 
with respect to the quality and quantity of the goods produced by them, 
also to charge exorbitantly for their services. The Chapter lays 
down regulations for controlling their activity. Though the pradesirs 
would appear to be the officers concerned with the enforcement of these 
regulations, it is not clear how they can effectively do so. For, most of 


234 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


these artisans are likely to be working in the city, which appears to be 
outside the jurisdiction of the pradestrs. 


The second Chapter deals with traders who may cheat customers 
by giving them short weight and measure or by adulterating goods or 
by manipulating prices and so on. ‘Two officers are mentioned in this 
Chapter, the samsthadhyaksa, who controls activity in the markets, 
and the panyddhyaksa, who controls the traders. It is clear that the 
pradestrs do not come into the picture in this case; the two officers 
cannot be thought of as subordinate to the pradestrs. 


The fourth Chapter describes what are called gidhdjivins ‘ those 
who earn a secret living’, whose activity must be put down by the 
state. Thirteen of these are mentioned, among them the dharmastha, 
the pradestr himself, the grdmakita and the adhyaksas. These are 
likely to be corrupt, to accept bribes or to extort money. Traps are to be 
laid for catching them doing so. As the pradestr himself is mentioned 
as a likely gudhajivin, it is clear that the samdhartr has to be thought 
of as the officer concerned with finding out about these offences. The 
other gidhajivins include witnesses prepared to give false evidence 
for money, practitioners of black magic, makers of counterfeit coins, 
dealers in poisons and stupefying drinks, andso on. The punishment 
recommended for all gidhdjivins is banishment, which, however, can 
be avoided by payment of a redemption amount, to be determined in 
accordance with the offence. 


The third Chapter details measures to be taken for the relief of the 
subjects when they are overtaken by a natural calamity like floods, 
fire, epidemics, famine etc. Though the pradestr is not mentioned in 
connection with these measures, and though in one or two places the 
king himself is thought of as the person initiating measures of relief, 
we might suppose that the subordinates of the sumdharir, namely, 
the pradestrs, gopas, and sthanikas, would be playing an important 
role in taking the actual measures. ‘The word kantaka can be applied 
to these natural calamities only in a figurative sense. 


The rest of the Book deals with crimes proper. The principal 
crimes which are to be investigated by the pradestrs are dacoities, 
thefts and murders. Dacoits are called mdnavas in this text: and an 
elaborate procedure is described for apprehending their gangs. Secret. 
agents posing as holy men play a large part in these operations. They 
. work on these dacoits’ belief in magical powers and lay a suitable trap 
for apprehending them. After they are apprehended, a close investi- 
gation of their past activities and their associates is to be carried out. 
(Chapter 4.5). 


INTERNAL SECURITY 235 


Robbers, highwaymen and habitual thieves are also to be trapped 
through secret agents who have managed to win their confidence. When 
they have been caught, the samdhartr is to point out to the people how 
the king is omniscient and how with his magic powers he can 
apprehend evil-doers. This is intended to keep people on the straight 
path by imposing on their credulity (4.5.13-14,18). 


The arrest of a person may be effected on three grounds: Sanka- 
bhigraha, arrest on suspicion, rupdabhigraha, arrest when in possession 
of stolen goods, and karmabhigraha, arrest on consideration of the cir- 
cumstances attending the crime. A very exhaustive list is given of - 
circumstances that would justify arrest-on suspicion. For example, 
a person spending money lavishly, or one addicted to wine, women or 
gambling, or one trying to get his wounds.treated secretly, or one found 
moving about stealthily at night, or one moving about in some disguise, 
or one avoiding the sight of officers, or one making frequent inquiries 
about the wives or property or houses of other persons, and so on, may 
be arrested on the suspicion that he has either committed or is about 
to commit the offence of theft or murder or adultery (4.6.2). 


When stolen goods are found in the possession of a person a thorough 
investigation about the manner of his acquisition of them is to be made. 
If he can prove that he got them in some legitimate way like purchase 
or gift, he is to be let off and the person from whom he had got them 
is to be asked about the way he had got them. That individual reached 
in this way, who cannot prove his innocence and must be supposed 
to have come by the goods in an illegitimate manner, is to be treated as 
a thief and punished (4.6.3-15). 


In a case of house-breaking, the investigating officer is to try to 
ascertain first whether it was likely to have been committed by an 
outsider or by someone inside the house itself or by both in collusion. 
A long list of indications is given which would show whether the offence 
was committed by someone inside the house or by some outsider. It 
shows a thorough knowledge of the ways of thieves and other criminals 
and their behaviour before committing the act and after committing 
it (4.6.16-19). 

A person arrested for theft is to be questioned at length in the 
presence of the owner of the goods and witnesses. [If his plea of inno- 
cence is corroborated by independent evidence, he is naturally to be 
let off. If, however, circumstantial evidence points to the guilt of a 
person, but he still denies the charge, torture or karma is recommended 
for securing a confession. Ordinary torture is said to be of four kinds, 
beating with a stick up to six strokes, whipping up to seven lashes, sus- 
pension from a height twice, and giving the water-tube (?udaka-ndlika). 
In the case of more heinous offences, fourteen other ways are mentioned. 


236 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


The exact nature. of some of them is far from clear. There appears to 
be a reference to “nine canes’, ‘ twelve whippings’, ‘ thirty-two slaps’, 
“two scorpion bindings’, ‘ burning a finger-joint’, ‘ heating in the sun’, 
‘a bed of balbaja-grass on a winter night’ and so on. It is laid down 
that only one torture is to be applied on any one day, and that there is 
to be no torture on two successive days. Torture is prohibited in 
certain cases, for example in the case of a pregnant woman or a 
woman in the first month after delivery. Similarly, Brahmins and 
ascetics are not to be tortured ; instead secret agents should be used 
to trap them into confessing their guilt. Some persons have necessarily 
to be put to torture, for example a suspect whose previous conduct 
shows him to be a habitual criminal, a person who retracts after making 
a confession, a person with whom part of the stolen goods are found, 
a person concealing state money, and a person who has to be tortured 
to death at the king’s order. The last case is unconnected with the 
the investigation of crime and appears to be inspired by political 
motives. (Chapter 4.8). 


This open recommendation of third degree methods for securing a 
a confession need not be surprising in a work which is so thoroughly 
realistic in all matters connected with the running of a’state. These 
methods have been practised in all countries and in all ages. The only 
thing is that the fact is not openly admitted, as is done in this astra. 
It must also be pointed out that the Sastra has tried to regulate the 
use of these methods. Its recommendations on these matters are 
characterised by humane considerations which are remarkable. The 
forms of torture referred to by it appear to be less torturous than 
many a method actually in vogue in other climes and in other ages. 


It has been argued that karma in this section does not mean 
torture for eliciting a confession from a suspect, but corporal punishment 
that is to be meted out after the guilt has been proved.* This might 
seem supported by the remark dptadosam karma karayet (4.8.17). How- 
ever, the section in which karma is recommended is called vakyakarma- 
nuyogah. Dikshitar understands this to mean * examination on evidence 
and action to be taken thereon’.* Earlier he had understood it to 
mean ‘the jury pronouncing on guilt or innocence (vdkydnuyoga) and 
the judgment of the chief justice (karmdnuyoga)’.® Neither rendering 
can be accepted. The meaning of anuyoga is ‘ questioning’ and two 
kinds of questioning, that is investigation, are thought of in the section : 
one oral (va@kydnuyoga) and the other by means of karma. Thus karma 


8 V.R. Ramachandra Dikshitar, Mauryan Polity (Madras, 1953), pp. 165-167, 
and Hindu Administrative Institutions (Madras, 1929), pp. 237-252; also K. P. 
Jayaswal, Manu and Y djravalkya, pp. 86-87. 

4 Mauryan Polity, p. 165. 

5 Hindu Administrative Institutions, pp. 246-247. 


INTERNAL SECURITY 287 


is a means of investigation like vakya, not a mode of inflicting punish- 
ment. It is to be resorted to when the oral investigation does not 
establish the innocence of the suspect. The instance of Mandavya who 
is said to have declared himself to be a thief for fear of having to suffer 
the pain of karma (4.8.12) shows that karma is something that precedes 
the establishment of guilt, not punishment for guilt already established. 
Moreover, if karma were only punishment of one already convicted, there 
would be little sense in recommending satiriparigraha in place of karma 
in the case of Brahmins and ascetics (4.8.19). The use of secret agents 
(sattriparigraha) is for the sake of finding out if they are really guilty, 
and can certainly not be looked upon as a form of punishment for a 
convict. Besides, actual corporal punishments for the various crimes 
are described in Chapters Ten, Eleven and Twelve of this Book. It 
seems that we have to understand dptadosa in the sense of ‘one to whom 
suspicion concerning the offence is strongly attached.’ 


Punishments for theft are laid down in a Chapter, the purpose of 
which is to prescribe a money fine corresponding to the corporal pun- 
ishment recommended first. The Chapter refers to various other 
crimes beside theft for which corporal punishment is prescribed in the 
first instance. These include entering the fort without permission, 
cheating at gambling, riding a royal vehicle, selling human flesh and 
so on. The corporal punishments range from the cutting off of two 
fingers of one hand to execution. All forms of corporal punishment, 
excepting the punishment of death, can, however, be avoided by paying 
a redemption amount as prescribed in each case. (Chapter 4.10). It 
is possible that the corporal punishments mentioned here represent 
the most primitive stage in penal law, and that they came to be 
gradually replaced by corresponding monetary fines. 


In the case of a sudden death, aSumrtaka, when murder or suicide 
may be suspected, a post-mortem examination is to beheld. The body 
is to be prepared by smearing it with oil, obviously with the object of 
bringing to light any marks of violence or wounds. We haveadescrip- 
tion of the condition and appearance of the body in the case of death 
resulting from various different causes. Thus, if death is caused by 
strangulation, there is a swelling of the hands and feet, voiding of urine 
and stools, bulging of eyes, and marks on the throat. If in addition 
there is a contraction of the arms and thighs, death by hanging is 
indicated. Closed eyes, a bitten tongue and a swollen belly indicate 
death by drowning. Other cases are similarly described. It is added 
that the officer must be very careful in his investigation, since a case of 
murder is often made to appear as a case of suicide. If poisoning is 
suspected, the remains of the last meal eaten by the deceased should 
be tested ; or a part of his héart may be thrown in fire, its crackling 





238 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


sound or rainbow colours indicating the presence of poison. It is 
stated that a likely culprit in a case of poisoning would be a servant 
severely reprimanded or thrashed by the deceased, or a wife in love with 
another, or a person hoping to inherit his property. The usual motives 
of murder are, it is declared, a woman, property, professional rivalry 
and a pending law-suit. If murder is definitely indicated, investiga- 
tion must be made to trace the murderer by questioning all those with 
whom the deceased was last seen and those who had dealings with him 
just before his death. If, on the other hand, it is proved to be a case 
of suicide, investigation must be made to find out what led the person 
to commit it. At the same time, it is clear that suicide is regarded as 
a sin. In two stanzas, whose genuineness, however, is not altogether 
above suspicion, it is declared that a Candala should drag a suicide’s 
body along the highways and no obsequies are to be allowed to be 
performed in his case. A kinsman attempting to perform the obsequies 
is to be treated as an outcast. (Chapter 4.7). 


For murder, the death penalty is naturally prescribed. If after 
a scuffle, death follows after some interval of time, the punishment is 
reduced. The death penalty is to take different forms according to the 
nature of the offence. Skinning the head and then setting it on fire is 
the form of death for murdering one’s mother, father and others. Tear- 
ing asunder by bullocks is prescribed for the woman killing her husband 
or some elder. Death by drowning is recommended for one who kills 
by peison. (Chapter 4.11). 

Offences connected with sex are treated in a section called kanyd- 
prakarma ‘violation of maidens’. A very large number of offences are 
referred to in this section. For many of these offences, too, corporal 
punishment is prescribed, though in most cases that can be avoided by 
paying a redemption amount instead. Those who help others to commit 
sex offences are also liable to the same punishment. (Chapter 4.12). 


The last Chapter of this Book deals with what are called aticdras 
‘acts of misconduct’. These include such offences as approaching an 
elder’s wife with carnal intentions, and having sex relations with a 
woman of another varna—offences to which the Smrtis refer. Other 
articaras are of a miscellaneous character, such as making a person eat 
what is unfit for consumption or drink what is undrinkable, entering 
another man’s house with or without a weapon, failing to warn persons 
to get out of the way when felling a tree or leading an untamed animal 
or throwing a stone, stick etc., failure of the cart-driver to take precau- 
tions against injury to passers-by, causing injury to others by means of 
magic, and so on. (Chapter 4.13). 

_ A special Chapter refers to the offences by state officers themselves. 
Scales of fines are laid down for theft of royal goods from stores and 


INTERNAL SECURITY 239 


other places. The punishment of death is prescribed for stealing an 
article worth ten paras. JDereliction of duty by the dharmastha and 
the pradestr are made punishable in this section. So are offences by 
the prison superintendent and his assistants. (Chapter 4.9). 


A striking feature of these penal laws is the absence of any mention 
of imprisonment as punishment for any of the crimes. Punishment, as 
a rule, takes the form of a fine, which is allowed to be substituted even 
when originally corporal punishment is prescribed. ‘The preference for 
fines may perhaps be due to the circumstance that fines are an important 
source of state revenue. ‘Traditionally, danda and kara appear as the 
two sources of remuneration which the king is entitled to receive in 
return for the protection he grants to the people (1.13.8). Fines in 


the text range from a few panas to 1,000 panas, a frequent basis being 
the three sdhasa-dandas. 


The text states that usually ripa, that is a surcharge of eight per 
cent, is levied on every fine up to 100 panas, and an additional surcharge 
of five per cent is levied on fines above 100 panas. It adds that these 
imposts are really unlawful and are due to the greed of kings and the 
criminal tendencies among subjects, and that, therefore, only the fines 
as prescribed should be considered lawful (3.17.15-16). It is possible 


that this criticism of the imposts current in his days stems from 
Kautilya himself. 


In connection with the punishments prescribed for the various 
crimes, the pradesir is required to use his discretion in imposing them by 
taking into consideration the character of the offender, the nature of 
the offence, extenuating or aggravating circumstances, if any, the time 
and place of the offence, and the immediate and future consequences of 
the crime and the punishment. He is asked to impose the penalty in 
such a way that he shows partiality neither to the king nor to the sub- 
jects (4.10.17-18). He is not to swell state coffers by imposing exorbi- 
tant fines nor deprive the state of its dues by imposing light fines. 


It is stated that if an innocent person is punished, the king must 
impose on himself a fine thirty times that amount and offer it to Varuna 
and thereafter distribute it among Brahmins, so that the sin of wrongful 
punishment may thereby be wiped out (4.13.42-43). The authenticity 
of the two stanzas which state this is open to doubt ; the text does not, 
as a rule, show such partiality to Branmins as such. Besides, the state- 
ment implies that the king himself is the dispenser of justice. When 
special officers are appointed and are themselves made punishable for 
wrong judgments the rule would seein to have little application, though 
it is possible to suppose that even then the state would be expected 


to pay out to Brahmins thirty times the fine imposed on an innocent 
person. 


240 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


It is clear from this survey that we have in this Book as full a 
penal code as one might expect under the circumstances together with 
what may be called a police manual. This code did not have the sanctity 
of tradition behind it as was the case with the law administered in the 
courts of the dharmasthas. But even this code must be supposed to be 
the result of a long process of evolution in the field of suppression of 
crime, which is one of the most important functions of the state. We 
find here relics of old forms of punishment, with efforts at mitigating 
their rigour in many cases. In fact, in connection with the various 
forms .of the death penalty, it is stated that these punishments of 
death accompanied by torture are as laid down in the works of great 
men, but that it would be preferable to resort to simple execution 
(4.11.26). It is quite possible that Kautilya himself is here express- 
ing a view different from that of the earlier teachers. 


K. A. Nilakanta Sastri has rightly contested the view that aac 
sthiya and kantakagodhana laws correspond to the modern civil and 
criminal laws respectively. But he goes on to express the view that 
kantakasodhana courts were introduced to mect the growing needs of 
an increasingly complex social economy and to implement the decisions 
of a highly organised bureaucracy on matters unknown to the old 
legal system. He thinks that they are an innovation of Kautilya 
based on foreign models and were calculated to strengthen the power 
of the monarch and the position of the new bureaucracy.® In another 
place he has expressed the opinion that the changing social conditions 
were the result of the impact of Alexander’s invasion.’ 


It is not possible to agree with this view about the origin of these 
laws. A glance at the contents of this Book on kantakagodhana will 
show that the major portion is concerned with the investigation and 
and punishment of crimes. The crimes to be investigated are dacoities 
(4.5), house-breaking and robbery (4.6), murder and suicide (4.7), 
theft (4.10), culpable homicide (4.11), sexual crimes (4.12) and other 
criminal misconduct (4.13). Chapter 4.8 is concerned purely with 
investigation. It cannot be maintained that these crimes had attained 
a particular significance in Kautilya’s day and that this was the result 
of a foreign invasion. Dacoits, highwaymen, robbers, thieves, sexual 
miscreants have been with us since very great antiquity. There 
may be a spurt in these crimes when conditions are disturbed; but 
criminals and anti-social elements thrive also when the administration 
is inefficient or weak or corrupt. A foreign invasion is not necessary 
to explain that. These matters are no doubt unknown to the old legal 
system. But the reason is that the old law was concerned with affairs 


6 Age of the Nandas and the Mauryas, pp. 185-187. 
7 ABORI, XXVIII (1947), pp. 84-97. 


INTERNAL SECURITY 241 


between two parties, one of which had to take the matter to the court 
before the state could give redress. In the case of these crimes, on the 
other hand, the state was required to take action the moment there 
was a complaint made, without the need for filing a suit against 
anybody. 

One cannot also suppose that regulations about the suppression of 
the above mentioned crimes became necessary to meet the needs of an 
increasingly complex social economy. The crimes seem to have always 
existed, whatever the form of social economy. And the need for their 
suppression must have arisen long before the days of Kautilya. Be- 
sides, a foreign modcl was hardly necessary for the purpose. And 
where in antiquity can one find models for the detailed regulations 
concerning the investigation of cases of house-breaking and murder, 
or rules about the rounding up of dacoit gangs, or about post-mortem 
examinations ? 


Of the remaining chapters, the third deals with natural calamities 
and has little to do with any social conditions or a foreign invasion. 
Chapters 4.4 and 4.9 deal with fraud and corruption by various types 
of persons including state officers and lay down severe punishments for 
them. Far from strengthening the position of the bureaucracy, the 
rules are likely to makc all officers, which include the judges and the 
police officers-cum-magistrates themselves, feel insecure about their 
position, as they would be aware that their acts are watched by secret 
accents and that agents provocateurs might be used to trap them. The 
king’s position is no doubt intended to be strengthened but that is no 
new aim thought of in this section only, nor can it be said to be thought 
of by Kautilya for the first time. The entire text has this aim before 
it and that seems to be derived from the earlier teaching of the Sastra. 


As for the remaining Chapters, 4.1 and 4.2, they are concerned with 
fraud by artisans and traders. It is perhaps possible to see here a 
growing complexity of the social economy. But the offences referred 
to here do not appear to be intended to be tried in any courts. Summary 
punishments seem to be thought of. In the case of the traders’ offences, 
in fact, it is far from certain that the pradestrs, the officers in charge of 
kantakasodhana, have to deal with them, since the samsthddhyaksa 
and the panyddhyaksa are mentioned in that connection. So one 
cannot speak of kantakagodhana courts being established for trying 
these offences. 


Though imprisonment is not mentioned when punishments are 
prescribed, the text refers to prison-houses. A dharmasthtya bandha- 
qigdra appears to be distinguished from a mahdmatriya bandhandgara, 
both in charge of the samnidhdir (2.5.5). The former appears to be 
known also as a c@raka, something like a lock-up where the defendant 


242 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


may be kept till the case is decided. It may also have been intended 
as a place of confinement for those unable to pay the fine imposed on 
them by the dharmasthas. For, fines can be paid off by doing work 
for the state. Such persons are called dandapratikarlr, dandopakarin 
etc. (2.24.2, 2.28.2). 

The mahamatriya bandhandgara appears to be intended for criminals, 
who are unable to pay the fines imposed on them. The distinction 
between the two kinds of prisons appears to be slight. In the one, 
those convicted by the dharmasthas appear to be kept; in the other, 
those convicted by other officers, particularly the pradesirs. All impri- 
sonment would appear to be meant for those unable to pay the fines. 
The period of imprisonment would be determined by the amount of fine 
to be paid off out of the wages earned for the work done for the state. 


Rules about the construction of the prison-house show separate 
wards for males and females, with halls, sanitary arrangements, provi- 
sion for protection against fire and even provision for worship (2.5.5-6). 
Punishments are laid down for prison officers exceeding their authority 
by harassing prisoners, preventing them from taking their meals or 
answering calls of nature and so on. More severe punishments are 
laid down for assaulting or maiming prisoners or criminally approaching 
a female prisoner (4.9.21-27). We find in these rules a consideration for 
prisoners that is quite remarkable. On certain occasions, such as the 
acquisition of new territory by the king, or the coronation of the crown 
prince, or the birth of a son to the king, there is to be a general jail 
delivery (2.36.47). 

The internal security of a state and its stability may be disturbed by 
seditious elements. Sedition, though a serious crime, falls outside the 
jurisdiction of the pradestr. The king himself is to deal with cases of 
sedition, possibly with the help of the samahartr. Seditious thoughts 
among the common people, if there are any, are to be found out by secret 
agents. If anyone from amongst the common people is found to enter- 
tain seditious thoughts, the secret agents themselves are to induce him 
to give them up (1.13.2-13). 

If seditious thoughts are entertained by pradhdnas among the 
subjects, particularly by high state dignitaries, who normally help in 
running and defending the state, the use of the four wpdyas, sdman, 
dana, bheda and danda, is recommended with the object of cither 
winning them over or getting rid of them (1.13.15-21). Such of the 
chiefs, mukhyas, who are capable of endangering the king’s rulership and 
may prove traitorous, are called disyas. It is often not possible to 
punish them openly, because they have been the king’s favourites or 
because they have joined together in a conspiracy. In their case, it 
is recommended that the king, though ordinarily given to piety 


INTERNAL SECURITY 243 


(dharmarucih), may make use of what is called silent or secret punish- 
ment (5.1.4). 


A number of ways of secretly getting rid of a disya chief or officer 
are described in the text. Secret agents are naturally to play an impor- 
tant role in these. For example, they are to create a strife between 
the disya and some kinsman of his over had treatment received at the 
hands of the disya or over inheritance or over some woman. When 
the strife has created sufficient tension, the agents are to get one party 
killed by the other, the latter being then openly executed for the murder. 
Another way is to make a son of the disya officer believe that he is 
really the king’s son, who had been handed over to the disya because 
the king was afraid of the latter. When the son comes to believe all 
this, he is to be induced to slay the dusya, after which the son is to be 
duly executed as a parricide. Even the wife of the disya may be used 
for the purpose of getting rid of him. She may be made to give him 
poison in the belief that it is a love-winning potion. (5.1.5-19). 


Other ways of getting rid of the disya include sending him on a 
military expedition with weak troops, containing agents of the type of 
tiksnas or bravoes, who are to seize the chance of slaying him in the 
course of the fight, or getting him implicated in an attempt to approach 
the king with men carrying concealed weapons, or fabricating proof for 
charging him with an attempt to seduce the queen herself or to poison 
the king himself. Advantage may be taken of his interest in magical 
rites to get rid of him while practising them. Or, if he happens to be 
ill, the physician’s services may be used for the purpose, the illness 
being declared incurable by him. (5.1.21-36). 


When there are more diisyas than one, things are to be so managed 
that they destroy one another. Advantage may be taken of a dispute 
that may already be there between them or a dispute may be engineer- 
ed between them, and ijn the ensuing scuffle, the t#ksnas are to do 
their job. (5.1.38-55). 

All these ways of getting rid of traitors are no doubt distasteful. 
It should not be forgotten, however, that such secret punishment is 
recommended only in the case of those who are suspected of high 
treason, secrecy in getting rid of them being necessary because of the 
high position they occupy and the great power they wield. In their 
case, an open accusation and trial might become a risky business. Such 
liquidation of highly placed persons when they are likely to turn against 
the ruler himself has not been quite so rare in history. Its condemna- 
tion on moral grounds has little relevance when it is a question of the 
ruler’s survival. That the Arthasdstra openly acknowledges the neces- 
sity of such liquidation shows more its thorough-going realism than 
downright unscrupulousness. 


CHAPTER ELEVEN 
DEFENCE AND EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 


TuHE defence of the state is based on the fort (durga) and the army 
(danda). These two are among the seven prakrtis or constituents of 
the state. Of these two, durga is more important and is placed 
earlier than danda in the list of prakrtis (6.1.1) It represents the 
fortified capital of the state, where the king, if hard pressed by a strong 
enemy, can entrench himself and withstand a siege over a long period, 
during which diplomatic moves can be made to ease the enemy’s pres- 
sure and avert acalamity. The army, it is true, can be used for offence 
as well as for defence ; but if it is defeated, the king becomes altogether 
helpless and is at the mercy of the enemy. 


The text recommends a series of posts along the frontier, each in 
charge of an antapdla. In particular, there are to be four posts in the 
four principal directions which are to serve as gates of entry into the 
state (2.1.5). The frontier posts, it seems, are to be some kind of natural 
fastnesses, not regular forts built by man. Four types of fastnesses 
are mentioned, with protection secured by water, mountain, desert or 
forest (2.3.1-2). The border between two posts is to be guarded by 
Sabaras, Pulindas and others (2.1.6). The principal fort in the state is 
at the capital city and is a man-made structure (2.3.3). 


Full details are given about the construction of this fort, not all 
of themclear. But there can be no doubt about there being three moats 
outside, and a rampart of earth with a parapet on top built either of 
bricks or stones. Wooden walls are particularly forbidden as being 
susceptible to catching fire (2.8.4-9). On the parapet are to be turrets 
at intervals and arrangements enabling archers to shoot without expos- 
ing themselves (2.8.10-12). The approaches to the fort are to be 
strewn with various kinds of traps intended for hindering the progress 
of enemy troops (2.3.15). 


The fortified capital is to be garrisoned by the usual four types of 
troops—elephants, chariots, cavalry and infantry. It is said that 
they should be under more than one chief (anekamukhya). The reason 
given is that a garrison under more than one commandant is not likely 
to succumb to the instigations of an enemy to turn traitor, as the com- 
mandants would be afraid of one another (2.4.29-30). A unified 
command for the entire garrison might also appear to be unnecessary, 
since the king himself would be there to be in ultimate charge. He would 


DEFENCE AND EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 245 


at the same time be able to hold in check any rivalries among the 
various commandants and ensure the loyalty of the entire garrison. 


Since the fort is a place of shelter in which one may have to remain 
entrenched over a long period, it is stated as Kautilya’s own opinion 
that the fort should have plenty of supplies stored in it and that there 
should also be secret means of escaping from it in case of need 
(7.15.11). 


The army, it seems, could be recruited from all four varnas. The 
earlier teachers, in fact, had held the view that an army recruited from 
men of a higher varna is better for purposes of fighting than one from 
those of a lower varna. Disagreeing with this view, Kautilya states that 
Brahmin troops might at the last moment be won over by the enemy 
prostrating himself before them, and that, therefore, well-trained Ksatriya 
troops are best, or in the alternative, a strong army of Vaisyas and 
Siidras (9.2.21-24), It may be assumed that the core of the fighting forces 
would be formed by Ksatriyas, and that the standing army would 
consist mainly of well-trained Ksatriya units. At the same time, 
it is possible that the number of Ksatriyas so trained and available in 
times of war may not have been quite adequate, so that in practice 
the lower varnas, and in particular the Sidras, may be supposed to 
have formed a very large part of the fighting forces. 


Since fairly early times the army in India appears to have consisted 
of four types of fighting units—infantry, cavalry, chariot-divisions 
and elephant-divisions. Each of these units has its special functions 
in war (10.4.13-16) and its different modes of fighting (10.5.53-56). 
Each type of unit is the responsibility of a special adhyaksa, who is 
concerned with the equipment and training of his unit, perhaps also 
for recruiting men to it. The text describes the duties of the patiya- 
dhyaksa, the rathadhyaksa, the asvddhyaksa and the hastyadhyaksa 
(Chapters 2.30-83). In particular, the sections on the last two adhyaksas 
lay down detailed rules about the care and training of horses and ele- 
phants in their charge. 


. From another point of view the troops are said to be of six kinds : 
maulabala, bhrtabala, Srenibala, mitrabala, amitrabala and afavibala 
(9.2.1). The nature of these is assumed to be well-known, since no 
description is given. Of these, the maulabala appears to refer to the 
standing army of the state, recruited from families of hereditary 
soldiers, loyal to the ruling dynasty. It is referred to as inspired by the 
same feelings and interests as the king himself (tadbhdvabhavin) and 
as one constantly honoured by him (9.2.14). The word maula is derived 
from mila, which often refers to the native land, the base from which 
the vijigisu starts on an expedition of conquest. Primarily then the 
expression means a native force. However, the bhrtabala is also recruit- 


246 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


ed from the natives of the land. The difference appears to consist in 
this that they do not form a standing army, but are recruited for a 
particular occasion. They are said to be quickly raised (kstprotthayin) 
and dependable (9.2.15). The bhritabala is naturally regarded as inferior 
to the maulabala. 


As to Srenibala, it would appear to consist of guilds, normally 
following some peaceful avocation, but taking to arms in times of war, 
like the grents referred to in 11.1.4. The Srenibala is declared to be 
janapada, that is native of the land, and having the same interests as 
the king (9.2.16). This type of bala appears to differ from the bhrtabala 
in that it is organised in bands, each under its own érenimukhya, 
whereas in the latter each soldier is recruited individually. It is possible 
to understand grenibala to be something like bands of professional 
’ soldiers, mercenary bands, who lend their services to whosoever is willing 
to pay them. But such bands would hardly be described as jdnapada. 
It is also not very likely that Srenibala refers to ‘private armies main- 
tained by merchant guilds for the protection of their caravans and 
trading posts, which might be loaned to the king’, as Basham suggests.* 
Caravans appear to be given state protection in this text and charged 
vartani road cess and dtivahika convoy charges for the same; there 
is no reference to their own troops accompanying caravans. 


The troops of an ally which come to join in an expedition or to 
help in defence are the miirabala, while troops belonging to some 
enemy, either conquered, borrowed, hired or purchased from him, 
constitute the amitrabala. The latter must be used with caution and 
under proper supervision. Lastly, the afavibala refers to forest tribes 
such as Sabaras, Pulindas and others. These are under their own 
_ chiefs. It seems that the enemy and forest troops are not to be paid 
regular wages, for it is stated that they should be maintained with 
kupya, minor produce, or that, in the alternative, they should be 
allowed to keep what plunder they may get in the fighting. These 
two kinds of troops, in fact, look forward to plunder, and if there is 
no plunder to be had, it is said, they may prove dangerous (9.2.19-20). 


The text frequently refers to fighters in water (nimnayodhin) 
as distinguished from fighters on dry land (2.88.8, 7.10 84-85, 10.4.2). 
But it does not refer to a fleet of armed vessels, nor does it describe 
the mode of fighting in water or naval warfare. The ndvadhyaksa 
mentioned in the text is no admiral of the fleet with military duties. 
His principal duties are to control ferrying across rivers, regulate 
shipping at ports, collect ferry charges and port dues as well as hire for 
the use of state boats. It is true that he is required to destroy boats 


1 The Wonder that was India, p. 128. 


DEFENCE AND EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 


to 
TT 
~ 


that cause damage or harm (himsrikdh), those coming from &’n enemy’s 
territory and those violating port regulations (2.28.12). But these are 
in the main police duties rather than military duties.2 And the equip- 
ment of the boats in his charge, with their crew of a captain, a pilot, a 
manipulator of the cutter and ropes and a bailer of water (2.28.13) 
hardly suggests naval craft. 


As for ranks in the army, it is stated that an officer in charge of 
ten units is patika, one over ten patikas is sendpati, and one over ten 
sendpatis is nayaka (10.6.45). The position assigned to sendpati here 
is at variance with that referred to elsewhere. Generally, the sendpati 
in the text is one of the highest state dignitaries, equal in status to the 
mantrin, purohita and yuvardja. He is required to be conversant with 
all military matters, training, tactics in fighting and so on (2.33.9-10). 
The ndyaka appears to be responsible for setting up the skandhdvara 
or camp (10.1.1). The nd@yaka is to march at the head of the army and 
the sendpati in the rear (10.2.4). This sendpati again seems to have a 
different status altogether. It may be that a difference in sources is 
responsible for this confusion in the position of the sendpatt. 


The importance of the training of the armed forces is naturally 
' emphasised. There is to be practice of the fighting arts every day 
except holidays and the king is to carry out an inspection of the various 
units and their fighting qualities at frequent intervals (5.3.35-36). 


The loyalty of the troops is of utmost importance and therefore 
it is reeommended that they should be under the constant surveillance 
of spies, prostitutes, artisans, actors and singers in secret service, 
besides being under the watchful eye of senior army officers (5.8.47). 


The armoury is to be in charge of a special adhyaksa, who is obviously 
subordinate to the sammnidhatr. He is responsible for getting weapons 
manufactured and for storing them in such a way that they do not 
deteriorate through heat, moisture or insects. He is to maintain a full 
record of the different types of weapons (2.18.1-4). He is responsible 
for any loss of weapons, being required to make good the loss twice 
over (5.8.89). Each weapon is to bear the king’s emblem (5.3.37). 


Weapons may be useful for fighting on the battlefield (samgramika) 
or for defending a fort (daurgakarmika) or for battering down an enemy’s 
fortifications (parapurdbhighatika). And these implements of war are 
of four kinds—yantra, machines, Gyudha, weapons proper, dvarana, 
shields and upakarana, other accoutrements.of war (2.18.1). A large 
number of machines are described, the principal purpose of which 
appears to be to throw huge stones at enemy troops. The names of 


2 Cf. O. Botto, ‘Il Ndvadhyaksa nel Kautilitydrthasdstra e Vattivita marinara 
nell’India antica’, RSO, XXXVI (1961), .pp. 123-124. - 


248 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


all these machines reveal an indigenous origin, as I. P. Baikov has 
shown.’ Along with weapons and other fighting equipment, the 
section on the armoury also refers to aindrajdlika karma, . magical 
practices and aupanisadika karma, secret practices (2.18.19). These 
practices are described at length in the Fourteenth Book. That these 
practices are intended to be put to use in the course of hostilities 
with enemy states is quite clear. 

The problem of the defence of a state is intimately bound up with 
the question of its foreign relations. It is from hostile states that the 
state needs to be defended. Foreign relations in this text are mainly 
discussed from the standpoint of the viigisu. In other words, it seeks 
to show how a state, desirous of extending its influence and expanding 
its territory, should conduct its relations with foreign states. 

Foreign policy is summed up in the formula of sddgunya or the 
six measures. The formula is associated with, though it does not 
necessarily presuppose, the theory of rdjamandala or circle of kings. 
This mandala is said to consist of twelve kings or states. Two slightly 
varying views about the members of the circle are found in the text. 
According to one view, the twelve kings are: (1) vijigisu, the would-be 
conqueror, (2) a7?, the enemy, whose territory is contiguous to that of the 
vigigisu, (8) mitra, the vijigisu’s ally, with territory immediately beyond 
that of the art, (4) arimitra, the enemy’s ally, with territory beyond 
that of the mitra, (5) mitramitra, the ally of the vijigisu’s ally, with 
territory beyond that of the arimitra, (6) arimitramitra, the ally of the 
enemy’s ally, beyond the mitramitra, (7) parsnigraha, the enemy in the 
rear of the vijigisu, (8) adkranda, the vijigisu’s ally in the rear, with ter- 
ritory behind that of the parsnigraha, (9) parsnigrahdsdra, the ally of 
the parsnigraha, behind the akranda, (10) akranddsdra, the ally of the 
dkranda, behind the pdarsnigrahdsdra, (11) madhyama, the middle king 
with territory adjoining those of the vijigisu and the ari and stronger 
than cither of these, and (12) uddsina, the king ‘ lying oustside ’ or the 
indifferent or neutral king, more powerful than the viigisu, the ari 
and the madhyama. (6.2.18-22). 


According to the other view there are four principal states, those of 
the vizzgisu, the arz, the madhyama and the uddsina. Each of these has 
a mitra, ally and a mitramitra, ally’s ally, thus making a total of twelve 
kings. In this view, each of the four kings with his two allies constitutes 
a subsidiary mandala or circle, of which there are four in all (6.2.24-27). 
W. Ruben thinks that the passage implies the existence of forty-eight 


3 ‘Arthashastra—pamyatnik bolshoi istoricheskoi tsennosti’ appended to 
the Russian translation of the Arthagdstra, pp. 551-552. 


DEFENCE AND EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 249 


states, twelve to each of the four, vijigisu, ari, madhyama and udasina." 
This view is obviously due to a misunderstanding of the text. 


Of the two, the former scheme appears to be generally implied in 
the discussions in this text. The parsnigraha and dkranda, who do not 
figure in the other scheme are frequently referred to. The former scheme 
is based on the assumption, well-supported by experience everywhere, 
that two neighbouring states tend to be hostile to each other and 
that states with a common enemy tend to be allies. The viigisu, 
who is contemplating the expansion of his dominion, is regarded as the 
centre of a number of states which he has to overcome in his quest for 
suzerainty. But though mandala suggests the idea of states concentri- 
cally situated round the vijigisw’s state, the actual idea is that of states 
in a straight line lying one beyond the other. Neither idea in its 


entirety might conform with the actual state of things prevailing at any 
time anywhere. 


The parsnigrdha and the dkranda are only the ari and the #itra 
respectively, so called in a specific situation. When the viigisu is 
planning to march in a particular direction, the enemy in the rear 
becomes pdrsnigraha ‘ heel-catchcr’ and the ally in the rear dkranda 
who ‘ cries out’ when going to help. Similarly, the two dsdras are only 
the arimitra and. the mitramitra in the rear respectively. All these 
are clastic terms. The same king may become a pdrsnigrdha or an 
ari or a mitra or even a vijigisu in changed circumstances. 


It appears to be assumed that all these kings, with the exception 
of the madhyama and the uddsina, are more or less equal in power in 
normal circumstances. The rdjamandala is thus a conglomeration of 
states loosely divided into two more or less hostile camps, with the leader 
of one group trying to establish his hegemony over the entire conglomer- 
ation. The number twelve does not imply that so many states are 
absolutely necessary for a mandala; it refers rather to the number of 
possible relationships that may arise when a state tries to establish its 
supremacy over a number of neighbouring states. In practice, the 
number of states involved may be smaller or larger according to the 
situation prevailing at the time. It is quite possible that the scheme 
in its origin had in view states of a comparatively smallsize. But it can 
well be understood as equally applicable to a group of large-sized states. 
There is nothing in the discussion on the mandala or the saddgunya 
to show that the idea of a large state is inconceivable to the author. 


The very conception of the vijigisu presupposes the ideal of a large 
state. 


4 ‘Inter-state Relations in Ancient India and Kuautalya’s -Irthasastra’* in 
Indian Year-Book of International Affairs, Vol. IV (Madras, 1955), p. 139. 


250 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


Each of the twelve states has, beside the ruler, the other five 
prakrtis, amatya, janapada, durga, koga and danda, which are called 
dravyaprakrtis. The rajamandala thus has twelve kings, rdjaprakrtis, 
and sixty dravyaprakrtis, that is, seventy-two prakrtis in all (6.2.28). 
Such is the theory. 


W. Ruben thinks that the doctrine of the mandala was, in its origin, 
related to the growth of the power of Magadha. He says, “‘ Especially 
during the period of the Nandas, when they defeated one after the other 
kings of the Ganges valley, the policy of the circle must have gained in 
importance.”> He adds that policy and doctrine may have grown 
simultaneously. It is not possible to say if the policy of the Nandas 
was influenced by any theory of mandala they might have known. 
Much léss is it possible to say how far, if at all, the policy of the Nandas 
affected the development of the theory. The theory of the mandala 
appears to be unnecessary to explain the Nanda conquests. On the 
other hand, the theory may well have been in existence at the time with- 
out the Nandas consciously following its precepts in their programme 
of conquest. After all, the theory is, in the last analysis, based on the 
basic realities of inter-state relations. 


The neighbouring princes, sdmantas, may normally be supposed to 
be hostile. But it is possible that some may have a friendly fecling 
towards the vijigisu, while others may even be subservient to him. 
Neighbouring states thus fall in three categories, aribhdvin, mitrabhdvin 
and bhriyabhdvin (7.18.29). The last are, of course, the vassals of the 
CYIGiSU. 

Relations with foreign states are to be established and negotiations 
carried on with them through the dita, ambassador or envoy, of whom 
there are three types, nisrstdrtha, the plenipotentiary, parimitdrtha, 
with limited powers of negotiating and sdsanahara, who is little more 
than a message-bearer. It is, no doubt, stated that diitas should be 
stationed in the entire rdjamandala (7.13.43), implying the posting of 
permanent ambassadors at foreign courts. But it seems that an envoy 
is rather intended to be sent to a foreign court only when an occasion 
arises for doing so. That is the impression created by Chapter 1.16, 
which deals with the appointment of a dita. His stay at the foreign 
court may be prolonged, because the enemy king detains him (1.16.29). 
By common convention, the person of the envoy is regarded as inviola- 
ble (1.16.15). 

The duties of the envoy are said to include the following : sending 
out information to his own king, securing the observance of the terms 
of a treaty, consolidating an alliance, creating dissensions among states 


5 Loc. cit., p. 159. 


DEFENCE AND EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 251 


hostile to his own, smuggling troops secretly into the foreign state, 
kidnapping kinsmen of the foreign prince, getting the treasury of the 
foreign prince robbed, helping a hostage kept by his king with the 
foreign prince to escape, showing valour if need be, trying to seduce 
enemy officers from their loyalty and win them over to his king’s side, 
and so on (1.16.33-84). It is clear that he is frequently expected to 
play the role of a dignified spy and secret agent. 


The instigation of enemy officers to desert their master and come 
over to one’s side (upajdpa) is an important activity in this connection. 
Those who can thus be seduced from their loyalty are called krtyas 
‘who can be worked upon’. Wrath, greed, fear and pride are the 
feelings that make one dissatisfied with one’s lot and want to change it. 
How advantage should be taken of such feelings among officers of the 
enemy to instigate them to leave their master and come over to the 
vijigisu’s side is described at length (1.14.1-10). It is, of course, added 
that after they have been taken in one’s service, a close watch should 


be kept over them lest they change their minds and do harm to the 
new master (1.14.11). 


The formula of sadgunya which sums up foreign policy consists of 
six gunas or policies : samdhi, making a treaty containing conditions or 
terms, that is, the policy of peace; vigraha, the policy of hostility ; 
asana, the policy of remaining quiet (and not planning to march on an 
expedition) ; yang, marching on an expedition ; samésraya, seeking shelter 
with another king or in a fort ; and dvaidhibhdva, the double policy of 
samdht with one king and vigraha with another at the same time 
(7.1.6-12). One of the earlier teachers, Vatavyadhi, had expressed the 
view that there are only two policies, peace and -war, and that the 
other policies are only aspects of these two. Kautilya himself, how- 
ever, favours the six-fold classification, as there are different situations 
which call for the different policies (7.1.3-5). 


The general rule is that when one is weaker than the enemy, 
samdhi is the policy to be followed, if stronger than him, then vigraha. 
If both are equal in power, dsana is the right policy, but if one is very 
strong, ydna should be resorted to. When one is very weak saméraya 
is necessary, while duaidhibhdva is the policy recommended when with 
help from another source one can fight one’s enemy (7.1.18-18). But 
the general rule may be set aside if various considerations make it 
advisable to follow a different course. The purpose of all:policies is 
to grow stronger in the long run than the enemy, though sometimes one 


may have to tolerate temporarily the greater strength of the enemy 
(7.1.20ff.). ; 


Normally the policy of samdhi is forced on one because of one’s 
comparative weakness. When making:a treaty one may be required 


252 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


to surrender troops or treasury or territory. Such treaties are called 
dandopanata-samdhi, kosopanata-samdhi and degopanata-samdhi respec- 
_ tively. If forced to enter into any of these treaties, the king is advised 
to thwart or outwit the strong enemy when fulfilling the terms of the 
treaty, and, after biding his time till he gets strong, to overthrow the 
strong enemy (7.3.22-35). | : 


If when making a treaty the enemy insists on a hostage (samadhi), 
the king is advised to offer the least serviceable person as a hostage. 
The long discussion on the type of son, who should preferably be handed 
over if there is a choice, ends with the assertion that the king should 
rather hand himself over as a hostage than an only son (7.17.15-31). 
And it is also recommended that efforts should be made to get the hostage 
freed by helping him to escape secretly. Many ways of escaping from 
the enemy king’s capital are described (7.17.32-60). 


Every samdhi is thus a temporary measure to be abrogated when 
one has grown in strength. The question is raised, what is then the 
guarantee that the terms of a treaty would be observed? The earlier 
teachers thought that a surety or a hostage is the only guarantee, 
satya ‘ plighted word’ or Sapatha ‘ oath’ being unreliable. Kautilya, 
however, differs from them and asserts that satya and Sapatha ensure 
stability, in this world and in the next, while a surety or hostage gives 
security only in this world, being dependent on the relative strength of 
the two parties (7.17.3-5). What seems to be meant is that a king giving 
a hostage may have no scruples in securing his escape by some ruse 
when he gets stronger and thus violating the terms of the treaty, 
whereas if he had given his plighted word or taken an oath, his 
conscience may prick him if he were to think of breaking them. In 
expressing this opinion Kautilya is only recording a well-observed 
fact that many persons do care for the consequences of breaking their 
word or oath, consequences that would follow not only in this world, 
but also in the next. Fear of these consequences is more likely to make 
them keep their promise. It is not possible to suppose that Kautilya’s 
own sincerity or piety is in question here as W. Ruben does when he 
remarks that these words, satyam Sapatho vd etc. are not to be taken 
seriously since there is very little of inner piety in him.*® 


A peculiar feature of the teaching of the sdstra is the way in which 
hypothetical pacts are contemplated between the vijigtsu and his rival, 
the ari. Some of these, like the treaty with stipulations (paripanita- 
samdht) or one without stipulations (aparipantta-samdht) have for 
their purpose the cheating or outwitting of the rival, so that the vzi- 
gisu May grow more powerful at his cost (7.6.1-18). Other pacts are still 


6 ‘Materialismus im Leben des alten Indien’ in Acta Orientalia, Vol. XIII 
(Leiden 1935), pp. 179-180. ; 


DEFENCE AND EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 253 


more hypothetical. They are apparently made because the two have a 
common objective, but the real aim is to score over the rival. Such 
are pacts like mitra-samdhi, bhiimi-samdhi, karma-samdhi and hiranya- 
samdhi (Chapters 7.9-12). Such pacts are in reality not intended to be 
actually made. The purpose of the discussion is merely to show what 
kind of ally or land or undertaking one should prefer when there is 
a choice available. In the long discussion on these points, Kautilya 
often expresses his disagreement with the earlier teachers, his own 
views being generally more reasonable. 


The policy of vigraha means a state of hostility. It has an offensive 
as well as a defensive purpose. For example, when one feels that any 
attack by the enemy can be successfully repelled, one should resort to 
the policy of vigraha, not to that of samdhi. Similarly, when one feels 
that from a secure position one can ruin the enemy’s undertakings 
or that one can seize the enemy’s territory because he is enagaged in 
a war on another front, vigraha is the policy indicated (7.1.33). If 
both sarndhi and vigraha are expected to lead to the same result, 
namely, one’s own advancement in power, the policy of samdht should 
be preferred, for in vigraha there are losses, expenses and other troubles 
(7.2.1-2). 

As to dsana, it is the policy of waiting in the expectation that the 
enemy would grow weak or find himself in difficulties or get involved 
in some war. It also includes waiting in the hope that in the mean- 
while one would oneself become more powerful than the enemy (7.1.34). 
Naturally, this policy is often a concomitant of the policy of sasmdhi 
(samdhdya dsana, 7.4.13). But it can be combined even with vigraha 
(vigrhya dsana), as, for example, when one feels that one can seduce the 


enemy’s subjects from their loyalty to him or when one expects to ~ 


derive some benefit at the enemy’s cost in the near future or when one 
feels that the enemy may weaken himself in the meanwhile by engag- 
ing in some adventure (7.4.5-12). 


The policy of yadna, marching against the enemy, is to be pursued 
when one is definitely stronger. Normally vigraha and ydna go together 
(vigrhya ydna, 7.4.14-17). However, even samdhdya ydana is recom- 
mended (7.4.18). This, it is obvious, involves a downright breach of 
faith with one with whom one is at peace, having entered into a treaty 
with him. 


Getting other kings to march with oneself is sambhiiya ydana 
‘marching together’. This is a confederacy formed against the 
vyigisu’s enemy. In return for the help received, he may promise a 


share out of the gains of the joint expedition, either as fixed beforehand ~ 


or in conformity with each one’s contribution or effort in the joint 
venture (7.4.19-22). Advice is given on the kind of kings whose help 


254 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


may be sought for the joint expedition, as well as on how one should 
conduct oneself as head of the confederacy (7.5.38-44,49). The possi- 
bility that the vijigisu, after success of the expedition, might cheat the 
confederates of their due share is also visualised and suitable advice 
given on what they should do in such an eventuality (7.5.45-48). 


The policy of samsraya is for the weak king, who is attacked or 
threatened with attack by a powerful enemy. The text considers the 
question of the type of kings with whom shelter should be sought 
7.2.6-25 ; also 7.15.1-8). It appears that samsraya confers the status 
of a protégé. One’s safety is assured thereby. It is, of course, intend- 
ed that the king would be making efforts to recoup his strength and 
regain his independent status. 


Shelter may also be found in one’s own fort where one can remain 
entrenched (7.15.9-12). If neither kind of samsraya can ensure safety, 
the weak king is advised, as a last resort, to surrender himself to the 
powerful enemy. This is vassalage; the king who submits is called 
dandopanata, which means ‘ who has submitted with troops’ as well 
as “subdued by force’ (7.2.9, 7.15.30). In one place the text re- 
commends that the king who has thus submitted to the powerful enemy 
must ever remain watchful for an opportunity to strike back and obtain 
his independence (7.2.10-12). In another place, however, it recommends 
that such a king should strictly observe the rules of behaviour proper 
for a vassal towards his suzerain, and do everything that would be 
to the latter’s interest (7.15.21-30). The difference is perhaps due to 
a difference in sources. It is not clear which policy the author himself 
prefers, though he is definitely in favour of accepting the position of 
a vassal and rejects the view of the earlier teachers that the weak king, 
at the end of his resources, should throw himself in a last desperate 
battle with the powerful enemy like a moth entering fire (7.15.13-20). 


The last policy, dvaidhibhdava, is no new policy. It is samdhi with 
one king and at the same time vigraha with another. The purpose of 
making the samdhi is to get the help of troops or money from him for 
the hostilities with the other king. This policy is to be preferred to that 
of sam$raya, since in the latter one confers benefits on others, while 
in the former one looks to one’s own interests only (7.2.4-5). This 
text does not support the view that dvaidhibhava is duplicity, making 
peace for the time being with a view to prepare for war against the 
same king. 


The purpose of all policy is to secure an increase in one’s power, 
principally at the cost of one’s natural enemy. This increase in power 
is intended as a preliminary to the realisation of the ambition to conquer 
the world. The adoption of one or the other of the six policies is to be 
solely guided by this consideration. The interest of one’s own state is 


DEFENCE AND EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 2595. 


to be the supreme criterion, and expediency is to decide which policy 
would be most advantageous under the circumstances. The appropriate 
use of the six measures, it is stated, enables the vijigisu to play with the 
other kings just as he pleases ; they become, as it were, tied to him by 
the chains of his intellectual powers (7.18.44). 


Alongside the six policies, there is mention of the four updyas — 
siman, ddna, bheda and danda. These four are means of overcoming 
opposition. It is said that the first two should be used to subjugate 
weak kings, the last two for overcoming strong kings (7.16.3). The 
concept of the four updyas appears to be quite ancient. They sum up 
the means that are helpful in securing the submission of others to one’s 
own will. There is some over-lapping in the four updyas and the six 
gunas. There is something in common between sdman and samdhi 
and between danda and vigraha combined with yana. The two concepts 
appear to have arisen independently. While the gunas are concerned 
with foreign policy only, the wpdyas have a wider application, being 
useful in securing the submission of anyone, be he a recalcitrant ‘son, 
brother or other kinsman, or a rebellious subject or chief, or a neigh- 
bouring prince or foreign chieftain (9.7.68). It is possible that the 
introduction of the wpdyas in political theory, particularly in matters 
of foreign policy, is secondary. 


The use of an earlier updya is generally to be preferred to that of a 
later one. However, it is recognised that a particular wpdya alone 
may be most appropriate in a given situation. sdman would be best 
in the case of officers of the enemy whom the latter suspects of treason; 
dana would be most useful in winning over seditious men from the 
enemy ; bheda would break up confederacies most effectively, while 
the use of danda would be most effective in the case of a strong enemy 
(9.7.72). How the policy of bheda can be successfully pursued for over- 
coming the hostility of samghas is shown in Book Eleven at length. 
Similarly, the use of bheda for breaking up, confederacies is illustrated 
in 7.14.1-11. ; 


The goal set before the ruler in foreign policy is that of expansion. 
The ruler should be vijigisu ‘desirous of conquering’ other territories. 
Three types of conquerors are distinguished : dharmavijayin, who 
makes conquests for the sake of glory and who is satisfied with mere 
submission by other kings ; lobhavijayin, who makes conquests out of 
greed and is out to obtain land or money or both; asuravijayin, who 
makes conquests like a demon and seizes land, money, sons and wives 
of the conquered king and takes his life (12.1.10-16). 


When the vijigtsu has secured the submission of a king, he is required 
to treat him with honour, unless he continues to harbour hostile inten- 
tions. If he were to treat the vassal harshly or unjustly, he woultl not 


256 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


only have to face the prospect of retaliation, but also incur the wrath 
of the mandala (7.16.17-88). Regard for the feelings of the other kings 
in the mandala is a practical necessity ; else they might join together 
and frustrate his dream of world-conquest. 


The vijigisu is to plan his conquests in different ways according to 
the circumstances prevailing at the time. (1) When there is the 
regular mandala, he should first conquer the ari; with his strength 
augmented thereby, he should overcome the madhyama ; when he suc- 
ceeds in doing that, he should subdue the uddsina. Thus his suzerainty 
would be established over the whole mandala. (2) When there is neither 
a madhyama nor an uddsina, but only enemies and allies, he should 
first try to subdue the enemies and then secure the allegiance of his 
allies. (8) When there are only two other states, one hostile and the 

_ other friendly to him, he should try to squeeze and crush one of them 
between himself and the other, it being immaterial which state is crushed 
in the process ; when that state is crushed, the other state should be 
tackled. (4) When there are a number of neighbouring kings, all 
presumably hostile, he should tackle them one after the other, growing 
in strength as he proceeds with his conquests (18.4.54-61). It is interest- 
ing to note that it is only in the first scheme that the existence of a 
mandala and that too of the second type is visualised. In the third case, 
the. whole of the field open for conquest is supposed to contain only 
three states. These must be assumed to be very big indeed. For, 
the field of conquest is the whole of India. 


When planning an expedition of conquest a number of precautions 

must be taken. First and foremost it is necessary to see that none of 
the seven prakrtis (which include the ally) suffers from a vyasana or 
.a calamity. The vyasana of a constituent may render not only that 
constituent unserviceable but also hamper the efficiency of the other 
constituents as well. The whole of the Eighth Book is devoted to a 
discussion of the vyasanas, calamities or vices, by which the various 
constituents may be affected. That is done by considering the relative 
seriousness of the calamities of two prakrtis at a time. In many of 
these cases, Kautilya expresses views that differ from all or some of 
the earlier teachers, his own views being generally characterised by 
reasonableness. It is naturally laid down that before starting on 
an expedition, the vijigtsu must take steps to overcome a vyasana that 
may have affected any prakrti and remove any causc that is likely to 
lead to a vyasana in the future (8.5.21). 


Before starting on an expedition, the vijigisu must satisfy himself 
that he is superior in all essential respects to the enemy against 
whom he proposes to march. These include the three saktis, utsaha, 
the energy, bravery and personal drive of the king himself, prabhava, 


DEFENCE AND EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 


t© 
or 
~l 


material resources consisting of the treasury and army, and mantra, 
good counsel and diplomacy. -Disagreeing with the earlier teachers, 
Kautilya regards mantragakti as the most important (9.1.2-16). The 
vijigisu must also take into consideration the dega or the terrain in which 
the fight is likely to take place and kala, the season when fighting 
may be expected. Kautilya’s own opinion is that saktt, dega and kala 
are mutually helpful and are therefore of equal importance (9.1.26-33). 


A very important consideration is the possibility of an insurrection 
in the kingdom while the king is away on the expedition. It may be 
engineered by the mantrin or purohita or, sendpati or yuvardja, when it 
is called abhyantarakopa, or by a palace official, when it is called antarama- 
tyakopa, or by an official in the outlying regions of the state, a rdstramu- 
khya or an antapdala, when it is called bahyakopa. In general, when a 
latent insurrection is suspected, the vijigisu is advised to take the suspec- 
ted party on the expedition with him if he belongs to the interior and 
take the wives and children of the suspected party with him if he belongs 
to the outlying regions (9.3.9-33). The vizigisu is also to be on his guard 
against the possibility of two officers, one from the capital and the 
other from the outlying regions, conspiring to rise in revolt during the 
king’s absence. And as is characteristic of this text, it also gives advice 
to officers who may be thinking of rising in revolt, telling them with 
whom to conspire and when. We have a very detailed analysis of the 
ulterior motives that generally impel officers to seek support from other 
officers for an insurrection against the king (9.3.36-41). 


A factor that must be weighed before starting is the gain expected 
from the expedition and the losses likely to be suffered. Normally the 
former must outweigh many times over the losses in men and animals 
and the expenses in cash and grains (9.4.1-3). Gains, principally those 
of land, are classified in various ways, such as ddeya ‘ easy to seize and 
keep ’, pratyddeya ‘ easy for the enemy to recover’, hrasvakala ‘quickly 
attainable ’, tanuksaya ‘ costing little ’, kalya ‘safe’, dharmya ‘ righteous’ 
and so on (9.4.5-28). 


When after a full consideration of these factors, the vijigisw decides 
to march, he must fix the date of the expedition and mobilise the 
required troops. Normally, three seasons are regarded as suitable for 
campaigning. MargaSirsa is the month for starting on a campaign of 
long duration, Caitra for one of medium duration and Jyestha for a 
short campaign. The idea is to avoid the monsoon months and to get 
a chance of seizing the enemy’s crops likely to be ready but unharvested 
at the time. However, the season selected must agree with the 
terrain where the fighting is expected. Even a campaign in the rainy 
season may be undertaken if the terrain suits the vijigisu, but not the 
enemy (9.1.34-52), _ The type of troops to be mobilised is to depend 


258 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


on the season and the terrain, as well as on the type of troops the enemy 
is likely to employ in the fight. Troops to be mobilised must be such 
as would easily overcome the enemy’s resistance. 


Before leaving, a stinyapdla, that is a regent, should be appointed 
in charge of the kingdom during the king’s absence on the expedition. 
The text does not say who should be so appointed ; some member of 
the royal family or a trusted minister may be thought of as likely. It is 
stated that normally one-third or at least one-fourth of the mobilised 
troops should be kept behind for the protection of the kingdom as well 
as for guarding the rear, the borders and the forest regions (9.1.34). 
The troops are to consist of different units, under different commanders, 
so that no single powerful commander proves intractable to the regent 
(9.8.10). 


The text describes at length the setting up of the camp after the 
troops are mobilised (Chapter 10.1) and the march of the army on the 
expedition (Chapter 10.2). The taking of measures for the safety of 
the troops whether in the camp or on the march is naturally emphasised. 


Fighting, yuddha, is said to be of three kinds—prakdsa-yuddha 
‘open fight’ in the place and at the time indicated, kita-yuddha 
‘ concealed fighting’, involving the use of tactics on the battlefield, and 
tusnim-yuddha ‘ silent fight’, implying the use of secret agents for entic- 
ing enemy officers or killing them (7.6.40-41). It is stated that when the 
vijigisu is superior in strength and the season and terrain are favourable 
to him, he should resort to open warfare (10.3.1). In fact, a fight, 
about the place and time of which notice has been given, is considered 
righteous, dharmistha (10.38.26). 


If the vijigisu is not superior to the enemy and the terrain and 
season are unfavourable to him, he may resort to kija-yuddha. Among 
the various forms of kiita-yuddha described, the following may be noted: 
attacking enemy troops when they are in a vulnerable position or on 
unfavourable terrain ; feigning a retreat and thus drawing the enemy 
troops away to an unfavourable terrain and then turning round and 
attacking them there; using elephants to break the closed ranks of 
the enemy troops; feigning a rout and managing to get the enemy 
ranks divided when they are in pursuit of his own troops and then turn- 
ing round to attack the divided ranks; attacking on one flank first 
and when the enemy troops are pressed back, attacking them on the 
other flank ; using inferior troops first to tire out the enemy troops 
and then attacking with superior troops; enticing enemy warriors 
for a hunt or a cattle-raid and killing them in an ambush; keeping 
enemy troops awake by an attack at night and then attacking them the 
next day when they are sleepy or fatigued ; making a sudden attack. 
at night with elephants while the enemy troops are asleep ; attacking 


DEFENCE AND EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 259 


the enemy troops when the sun and wind are directly in their face, and 
so on (10.3.8-23). It is clear that kifa-yuddha refers to the commonly 
recognised tactics that are used on the battlefield, and contains nothing 
to which objection can be taken from the military point of view. 


Troops are to be arranged for fighting in vyuhas or battle-arrays, 
which have a centre, two flanks and two wings. It seems that each of 
the five sections are to contain an equal number of units, from nine to 
twenty-onc. It appears that a unit for this purpose is based either on 
a chariot or an elephant. To each unit is attached, beside a chariot 
or an elephant, five horsemen and fifteen infantrymen in front and 
fifteen behind. Thus in the nine-unit array, there would be forty-five 
chariots or elephants, two hundred and twenty-five horsemen and six 
hundred and seventy-five infantrymen in front and an equal number 
behind (10.5.9-13). The text describes a large number of battle-arrays, 
of which there are four basic types, danda-vyitha “ staff-array ’, bhoga- 
vytha ‘ serpent-array ’, mandala-vyiha ‘ circular array’ and asamhata- 
vyiha ‘ loose array’. The choice of an array is to depend on the terrain 
as well as the disposition of the enemy troops (10.6.3-43). 


It is insisted that a fight must never be begun unless reserves are 
stationed behind the array at a distance of two hundred dhanuses 
(about five hundred yards ) ; the king himself is apparently to station 
himself there (10.5.58). It is also stated that a site for a battle should 
be so chosen that there is a mountain or a forest fort in the rear asa 
place of retreat and for holding reserves for the fighting forces (10.2.20). 


Finally, it is added that behind the army arranged for a fight, 
physicians and surgeons should be stationed with medicines, instruments 
and bandages for treating wounded soldiers. By their side should be 
women in charge of food and drink for the soldiers. The women are 
also to encourage the soldiers to fight (10.83.47). These are not quite 
nurses in the modern sense of the term. 


When a battle is imminent, the vijigisu is advised to get his troops 
together and exhort them. He should point out how he himself is 
only a servant like them (10.3.27). At the same time, the sendpati 
should announce rewards for outstanding acts of bravery during the 
fight : 100,000 panas for killing the enemy king, 50,000 for killing the 
senapati or a prince and so on down to 20 panas for killing an ordinary 
soldier. He should also declare that everyone would be allowed to keep 
what he is able to seize during the fight and would be given double the 
wages as gratuity at the end. Officers are to make a note of the exploits 
of the soldiers under them (10.3.45-46). 


It is laid down that when attacking the enemy in the open battle- 
field or when storming a fort, care should be taken to see that the follow- 


260 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


ing categories of persons are not attacked by his troops : (1) patita, those 
who have fallen down, (2) pardimukha, those who have turned their 
back on the fight, (3) abhtpanna, those who surrender, (4) muktakesa, 
those whose hair are loose (as a mark of submission), (5) muktasasira, 
those who have abandoned their weapons, (6) bhayaviripa, those whose 
appearance is changed through fear, and (7) ayudhyamdna, those who 
are taking no part in the fight (13.4.52). In view of this, it is not quite 
correct to say that the Arthasdastra knows ‘ nothing about fair play in 
battle’, as Basham says.’ This text too knows a dharmistha yuddha 
(10.3.26), but it recognises that on the battlefield tactics are essential, 
particularly when one is at a disadvantage., That is what its kita- 
yuddha means.® 


When the fight ends in victory, the subsequent conduct of the 
vyjigisu 18 to be determined by the relative strength of the defeated 
enemy. If he has defeated a king more powerful than himself, he may 
offer terms of peace and win him over to his side. If the defeated 
king was his equal, he may accept the terms of peace offered by him, 
as implying a friendly alliance, if not submission. But no peace should 
be made with a weaker king, who is defeated; he may be completely 
destroyed, unless he becomes desperate and fights for his life, when 
peace may be made with him (10.3.54-57). 


If the enemy, instead of giving an open fight, takes refuge in a fort, 
siege should be laid to it by the vzigisu after satisfying himself that his 
own troops ‘are well-equipped and properly supplied and conditions 
are favourable to him. A suitable occasion for a siege would be when 
the enemy is in difficulties on account of the depletion of his stores and 
defences through famine, diseases etc. (13.4.8). On the way to the fort, 
the vujigisu should grant safety to the people. Those who have to be 
removed from the place where fighting may take place should be settled 
elsewhere and helped in every way. Destruction of the people is a 
ruinous policy. For, says Kautilya in his own words, a country without 
people makes no sense, and there can be no kingdom without a country 
(18.4.2-5). 

All sorts of tricks are described for the capture of a fort without 
a serious fight. Attempts should be made to seduce the principal 
officers of the enemy from their loyalty to him, so that they may desert 
him (18.1.11-21). Or, advantage should be taken of the credulity 
or superstitious nature of the enemy king to induce him to come out 


7 The Wonder that was India, p. 125. 

8 J. P. Baikov has made a detailed analysis of the teaching of the Artha- 
$dstra on the organisation of the army, its equipment, on fighting arrangements, 
on flexible tactics, on battle-arrays and soon. He concludes that all this shows a 
high level of knowledge of military science and reveals great military talent. (Op. 
cit., pp. 550-560). 


DEFENCE AND EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 261 


of his entrenched position in the fort, when he can be done away with 
(Chapter 13.2). Other tricks include the smuggling of one’s troops 
into the fort in some disguise or inducing a part of the garrison to come 
out for putting down dacoities or enticing the troops in the fort to come 
out to help an ‘ally’ supposed to be attacking the besieging vijigisu, 
and so on (Chapter 13.3). 


If these tactics fail, the vijigisw may proceed to reduce the fort. 
All supplies must be prevented from going into the fort; crops and 
sowings may be destroyed. Moats should be emptied of water; an 
underground tunnel leading into the fort may be made, or a breach in 
the wall may be attempted (13.4.6-12). It should be remembered that 
these ways are recommended in the Manusmrti too (7.195-196). The 
text describes various ways of setting fire to objects or places inside the 
fort from the outside and also mentions some incendiary preparations 
(13.4.14-21). The final attempt to storm the fort:-(avamarda) should be 
made when there is a suitable opportunity, such as a fire raging in the 
fort or a festival being celebrated or some show proving a great 
attraction, or rain pouring down and so on (13.4.26). 


Conquest of a territory may mean its annexation. By successive 
conquests an empire may be built up in which the vyigisu would be the 
sole ruler. In case of annexation of territory, the vijigisu is advised to 
win over the people in that territory, and not to terrorize or exploit 
them for self-aggrandizement. This policy is called labdhaprasamana 
* pacification of what is conquered’. The conqueror is to do what is 
beneficial and agreeable to his new subjects, showing favour, granting 
exemptions, showering honours and so on. He is to adopt the dress, 
the language, the customs etc. of the new subjects and show reverence 
for the deities and enthusiasm for the festivals and fairs in the land. 
The new territory is thus not to be treated as a colony to be ruled and 
exploited from a distance. At the same time, efforts must be made to 
consolidate his rule in the new territory by proving his bona fides and 
eliminating mischievous and harmful elements (Chapters 13.5). 


However, instead of annexation of the conquered territory, the 
vijigisu may be satisfied with only receiving the submission of the 
conquered king. In this case, the relationship that is established 
between the two is that of a suzerain and a feudatory or vassal. ‘The 
empire built in this way differs from the one where territories are 
annexed. The text describes how the vassal king should conduct himself 
in his relations with the suzerain (7.15.21-30). It also refers to the 
principles that should guide the suzerain in his dealings with the 
feudatories so that they may remain completely loyal to him and his 
successors over the generations (7.16.17-33). 


KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


to 
a 
to 


In the latter kind of empire we may understand the creation of soine 
sort of feudal relationship. But this feudalism is not of the same type 
as the feudalism that prevailed in Medieval Europe.® ‘The surrender 
of troops by the conquered king is contemplated; but the vassal king 
does not hold the territory in fief with the obligation of going to the 
suzerain’s help with troops when he goes to war. His territory is not 
granted to him by his over-lord as a gift to a comrade-in-arms. It is 
his own legitimate kingdom, the independence of which is for the time 
being extinguished by the conquest. If circumstances change, the 
vassalage may be shaken off. In fact, it is possible to conceive a 
situation in which the tables are turned, the former vassal establish- 
ing his suzerainty over the former suzcrain. 

The ideal of conquest of the world—restricted, of course, to the 
Indian world—may perhaps be found fault with on the ground that it 
destroys the right of small or weak states to lead an independent life 
of their own. But the idea of conquest and empire-building has always 
exercised a fascination for rulers. What the text does is to take notice 
of such desires and proceed to analyse the ways of three types of conquer- 
ors. It is not quite correct to say, as does Basham, that the Arthasdsira 
‘evidently looks on conquest of the demoniac variety as the most 
profitable and advisable’.'° The section on dandopandyivrttam (Chapter 
7.16) requires that the conqueror should treat with due consideration 
the king subjugated by him. It calls an open fight dharmistha ;. and 
its kita-yuddha consists mostly of unexceptionable military tactics 
(10.3.1-26). And the asuravijaya of this text consists in this that the 
land and money are seized, the wives and children of the conquered king 
taken possession of and the enemy king himself killed. Moreover, the 
asuravyayin can be appeased by the surrender of the land and money 
(12.1.15-16). This is comparatively an innocuous affair when one thinks 
of the numerous conquests in antiquity, including those of Alexander, 
when whole cities were razed to the ground, the male population put 
to the sword and women and children sold into slavery.!! It is interest- 
ing to note in this connection the opinion of Breloer, who says that 
when the Arthasdstra teaches the laying waste of land (at the time of 
the siege), the teaching may have been derived from foreign sources ; 
he refers to Alexander who had carried out such complete devastation 
in the course of his expedition.1? 


9 Cf. L. Renou, Za Civilisation de V Inde ancienne (Paris, 1950), p. 183. 
10 The Wonder that was India, p. 125. 
11 Cf. W. W. Tarn, Hellenistic Civilization (London, 1927), p. 71. 
12 ‘Megasthenes uber dic indische Gescllshaft’ in ZDMG, as heat p. 148, 
n. 7. 


DEFENCE AND EXTERNAL AFFATRS 265 


The text preaches the ideal of conquest. It may, therefore, be 
rightly regarded as ‘a manual of imperial polity ’.% But the Artha- 
Sdstra is not merely that. It is also a guide to the withstanding of 
imperialism. Beside many sections in Book Seven, ydtavyavritih 
(Chapter 7.8), samsrayavritih (Chapter 7.2) and others, the entire 
Twelfth Book is devoted to the problem of saying a weak king from the 
actual or impending attack by a strong king. It teaches how the 
latter’s attempts to conquer should be frustrated and his imperialistic 
designs foiled. To start with, Kautilya rejects the advice of Bharad- 
vaja that the weak king must always submit to the strong king as well 
as the advice of Visalaksa that he should always fight whatever the 
consequences. His own advice is that the weak king should seek shelter, 
either with a more powerful king or in a fort (12.1.1-9). The text then 
goes on to describe how the various updyas should be tried to get 
the attack averted. How troubles should be engineered in the enemy’s 
kingdom so that he is forced to go back in order to save his own king- 
dom is described at great length. Again, the text shows how attempts 
should be made to get the chief army officers of the enemy to desert 
him or to get them killed (12.2 and 12.3). Attempts to get the enemy 
king himself trapped and killed are also described (12.5.1-8). If 
none of these efforts succeeds and the enemy keeps advancing, the 
weak king should entrench himself in the fort. He is then advised 
to burn down fuel and grass up to a distance of one yojana all round the 
fort, to spoil or drain away water and to put all possible obstructions in 
the path of the enemy’s march. Something like a scorched earth policy 
is clearly recommended here (12.5.13-15). When a siege is laid by the 
strong king, various tactics should be tried to outwit him. For example, 
an underground tunnel may be built and officers of the enemy or the 
enemy himself may be kidnapped, or poisoned supplies may be allowed 
to ‘ fall in the hands ’ of the enemy, with disastrous results to his army, 
and so on (12.5.16ff). When all efforts to save the fort fail, the 
weak king is advised to surrender the ‘fort and leave it secretly, taking 
care to see that he himself is not caught. He must keep himself free 
to strike back. That may be done by secretly re-entering, through 
passages known only to himself, the chamber where the enemy may 
be sleeping and killing him with a weapon or setting fire to the 
chamber and so on (12.5.43-48). 


We have thus in this text as full an advice on how to foil an ambi- 


tious king’s imperialistic designs as on how to conquer and. build up 


an empire. While it sets forth the ideal of conquest, it takes into 
account all possible situations in which any state may find itself and 
offers advice on what courses are open to it and which course it would be 


13 K. A. Nilakanta Sastri, 4ge of the Nandas and the Mauryas, p. 191. 


264 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


preferable to follow in any given situation. Its teaching is intended 
for all kings, for the weak king being attacked, the ydtavya, the hina, 
the abaliyas, the dandopanata, as much as for the strong, ambitious king, 
the jydyas, the balavat, the dandopandyin. That is what makes it so 
comprehensive. 


It is because of the author’s endeavour to imagine and provide 
for all possible situations which a state may have to face inits relations 
with foreign states that we sometimes find details that might appear 
to be of little significance. To regard this as an indication of his 
pedantry is, however, to misunderstand, the nature and scope of this 
work. It is not a treatise on general principles, but a work concerned 
with recommending practicable policies in any conceivable situation 
that may arise in actual political life. And its visualisation of such 
situations and the courses that are then open to a state is characterised 
by a realism that is altogether unique. And its teaching has not lost 
its relevance in these matters even to-day. C. W. Gurner has shown how 
the ‘ fortress policy ’ recommended in Chapter 7.15 was actually pursued 
by Great Britain during the Second World War, when it turned itself 
into an island fortress and successfully withstood the onslaught of the 
then more powerful Germans, making efforts in the meanwhile to gain 
strength and obtain new allies. Referring to the surrender of one 
Continental power after another to the might of the German forces, 
he points out how this is what Kautilya recommends when a ‘ fortress 
policy ’ is not possible. He refers to the flash of insight and vivid com- 
pression in the expression ‘entering the flame like a moth’ descriptive of 
a useless attack, as exemplified in a premature second front. Hespeaks 
of the great depth and penetration of Kautilya’s political teaching and 
shows that the principles he enumerates are as true to-day in their wider 
application as.they were in his days.!* 


The means recommended in this text for averting danger to the 
state and for achieving success over hostile elements might often appear 
to be obnoxious from the moral point of view. It should not be for- 
gotten, however, that the use of such means is intended against in- 
tractable enemies of the state. Its justification is that it is necessary 
in the interests of the state. One of the characteristic features of the 
realism of this text is that questions of morality are not allowed to 
intrude when policies are considered that are to be pursued towards 
enemies of the state, those who jeopardize its security and independence. 
This is a position that is tacitly recognised as necessary when it is a 
question of practical politics. Even when certain actions.may be re- 
garded as morally unjustifiable, they are in actual practice resorted to in 


14 ‘The Fortress Policy in Kautilya’s -irthasdstra’ in IC, VIII (1941-1942), 
pp. 251-252. 


DEFENCE AND EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 265 


the supreme interests of the state. Objections that some political 
actions are unethical assume that politics are a function of ethics. But 
in practical politics such a proposition is never accepted. Every state 
regards what it considers its own interests as supreme and in their defence 
often resorts ‘to actions that appear unethical. The dream that politics 
must be thoroughly ethical may perhaps be realised at some future date. 
It is, however, unfair in the meanwhile to condemn an author of ovér 
two thousand years ago—an author, moreover, frankly the most 
realistic and practical who ever wrote on this subject—for not recom- 
mending something that is found impracticable in politics even to-day. 





CHAPTER TWELVE 
CONCLUDING REMARKS 


Ir may be hoped that this survey of the teaching of the Kautiliya 
Arthagdstra has sufficiently indicated the nature and scope of this 
work. It is essentially a treatise on the art of government. It assumes 
that monarchy is the normal form of government ; hence it is primarily 
addressed to the king, advising him on how the administration of his 
kingdom should be carried on and how he should adjust his foreign 
policy to the best advantage of his state. In both respects—internal 
administration and foreign relations—the comprehensiveness of its 
treatment is almost unparalleled. 


Some of the interest roused by the work may be said to be due to 
the antiquity to which it is ascribed. It was argued earlier in these pages 
that it may well be assigned to the epoch to which it belongs according to 
tradition.1 However, it should be added that even if a somewhat later 
date be regarded as more probable for its composition, that will not 
detract from its essential worth. Even for the third century A.D., 
which seems to be the latest date to which it could be ascribed, it 
would still be a very remarkable achievement. 

The circumstance that tradition ascribes the composition of this 
work to Kautilya, who had helped Candragupta Maurya to come to 
power in Magadha, has led some scholars to assume that it was written 
by him with the specific purpose of instructing Candragupta in the 
art of government. It is also often believed that the text gives us a 
description of the actual system of administration that was established 
in Chandragupta’s Empire. Neither proposition, however, can be 
regarded as acceptable. The work is, no doubt, instructional in 
character. But there is nothing to show that its instructions are 
addressed to any particular king. It is a treatise that seeks to instruct 
all kings and is meant to be useful everywhere and at all times. It is 
also not possible to maintain that the administrative system it describes 
was in actual existence in any particular kingdom or empire at any 
perticular time. It gives general instructions on these as on other 
matters, and it is intended that the instructions should be and could be 
followed by any state that cares for an efficient administration for 
ensuring its prosperity and the well-being of its subjects. It was argued 
in the preceding chapter that the text does not teach only the ways of 


1 See Chapter 4, particularly pp. 98-105 above. 


CONCLUDING REMARKS 267 


building up an empire, and that with equal solicitude it shows the 
weak state how to save itself from the désigns of the empire-builder 
and preserve its independence.? 


In fact, the teaching in this text cannot be said to be all a creation 
of Kautilya. ‘There is no reason at all to doubt the statement found at 
the beginning that it is composed by bringing together the teachings of 
all earlier works on Arthasastra. It does not claim to be an entirely 
original work on the subject. As a matter of fact, there is ljttle doubt 
that most of its teaching is derived from earlier authorities and is, 
therefore, older than Kautilya. K. A. Nilakanta Sastri has remarked 
that it is in the sphere of foreign policy that this work seems te conform 
more to the tradition of the predecessors.2 That applies to Books 
Six to Thirteen. But it can hardly be seriously maintained that the 
remaining Books conform less to tradition. The topics in Book One 
(training of the prince), in Book Three (law and legal administration) 


and in Book Four (investigation of crime and punishment of criminals) ~ 


had surely engaged the attention of Kautilya’s predecessors. These are 
not problems that arose or assumed importance only in the days of 
Kautilya. And in all essential respects he appears to follow the earlier 
teaching even in these Books. As a matter of fact, the Books on for- 
eign policy contain many more occasions when Kautilya disagrees with 
the earlier teachers than do these three Books. As for Books Two and 
Five, which are concerned with details of administration, Kautilya’s own 
contribution may perhaps be a little larger than in the case of the other 
Books. It should, however, be pointed out that the idea of eighteen 
tirthas, who include practically all the principal administrative officers 
mentioned in this text, is most probably derived from tradition and, 
therefore, older than Kautilya. The samdharitr and the samnidhdatr, 
two of the most important officers in this system, are known to the earlier 
teachers (8:4.31), so are the antapdlas (8.4.84), also adhyaksas as a class, 
as may be inferred from 2.7.11-14 and 2.9.10-11. Apart from the 
Chapter on sdsanas or decrees (2.10), Kautilya’s own contribution to 
the constitution of the administration would appear to be negligible. 
In other words, even in the case of administration, he scems to have 
relied on and mostly reproduced traditional teaching. 


It is, therefore, not quite correct to look upon the text as giving us 
an exact picture of the political conditions prevailing in the Empire of 
Candragupta Maurya. Its politics—both in the internal and the external 
sphere—belongs mostly to the pre-Mauryan period, the period when the 
§astra originated and was extensively studied. Kautilya certainly 
disagrees with the ancient teaching on a large number of points, but 


2 See pp. 268-264 above. 
3 Age of the Nandas and the Mauryas, p. 187. 


ee 


ee 


ler 


268 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


this does not affect the fact that his teaching is in all essential 
respects the same as that of the earlier teachers. 


A pertinent question arises: How is it that a work written by one 
supposed to be the minister of Candragupta makes no mention of the 
political conditions with which he must have been intimately acquainted 
and to the creation of which he himself had probably contributed? In 
partial reply it may be said that early tradition makes Kautilya help 
Candragupta to seize the throne of Magadha, but says nothing about 
his being his minister. In fact, the tradition of the Mudrdraksasa 
represents him as anxious to retire from active politics once Candra- 
gupta was installed on the throne. The whole play centres round 
his schemes to get a former minister of the Nandas to accept the 
ministership of Candragupta. That implies his own retirement from 
active politics. As to the Mudrdrdksasa tradition, A. Hillebrandt, 
who has critically edited the play, remarks, “‘ Visékhadatta appears to 
have based his work on very sufficient information and to have reached 
out to the original tradition of the court very extensively.”* Besides, 
it does not seem: very likely that a person with the sort of temperament 
that tradition attributes to Kautilya could have for long continued to 
serve as a minister under any king whatsoever. 


Another reason why contemporary events and political conditions 
are ignored in this work appears to be provided by the method used by 
the Sastra to present its teaching. Since the purpose of the Sastra is not 
to describe actual political conditions prevailing at any particular time, 
it could refer to contemporary events or conditions, if at all, only by 
way of illustration. And given the basic teaching of the Sastra, with 
its theory of rdjamandala, its theory of sddgunya and so on—teaching 
which the author had decided to follow in all essentials—there was 
hardly any scope for bringing in conditions in Candragupta’s Empire 
by way of illustration. The Empire of Candragupta was to a large 
extent a legacy of the Nandas. In its expansion, the theory of the 
mandala appears to have played little part, if any. Candragupta may 
be supposed to have made use of the various updyas recommended 
in the Sastra. But the Sastra rarely gives any illustrations in these 
matters. In all the Books on foreign policy there are only two places 
where illustrations are given. Once with reference to the vice of gambl- 
ing the names of Jayatsena and Duryodhana and Nala and Yudhisthira 
are mentioned as the winners and losers at gambling respectively 
(8.3.41,43). In the other place, the names of Suyatra and Udayana 
are referred to as kings who saved their persons and were, therefore, 
able to recover their kingdoms (9.7.86). ‘The former illustrations are 


4 Uber das Kautiliyasdstra und Verwandtes (Breslau, 1908), p. 30. 


CONCLUDING REMARKS 269 


derived from the epics, the latter from old history, perhaps partly 
legendary. Elsewhere in the text, too, epic or legendary heroes are 
mentioned in connection with the necessity of controlling one’s senses 
(1.6.4-12) and cases of semi-historical kings murdered in their queens’ 

chambers are referred to (1.20.14-16). It appears extremely probable 
that even these few illustrations are derived by Kautilya from earlier 
authorities. One can, therefore, hardly find fault with the author for 
following his models closely and refraining from referring to contempo- 
rary events or conditions even when he knew them. That an author of 
a work on politics can refrain from making any allusion to contemporary 
political conditions may appear to be extraordinary to us. But such 
was the method of the Sastra. It was suggested in an earlier chapter 
that Kautilya probably composed this work when he was smarting 
under the insult suffered at the hands of the Nandas and when he was 
thinking of ways of destroying their power.® But it is equally possible 
to suppose that when he had retired from active politics, he reflected 
over this whole business of politics, made a study of the earlier works 
on the subject and finding them unsatisfactory composed his own 
work that could supersede them, without, however, deviating from the 
method followed by the sastra before his days. 


In any evaluation of a work of this kind comparisons are natural. 
It was H. Jacobi who had suggested a comparison of Kautilya with 
Bismarck as practical statesmen who held the ‘ Professors ’ in contempt 
for academic teaching divorced from reality. However, as A. Hille- 
brandt says, the comparison is unfair. Not only were Kautilya and 
Bismarck different, but the whole spiritual atmosphere in which the 
two moved was different. Kautilya, he points out, was a Brahmin and 
adhydpana was one of his duties.’ That meant that Kautilya was as 
much a Professor himself as a practical statesman, if not more. At the 
same time it seems extremely probable that most of the earlier Professors 
of this Sastra, if not all, were also practical statesmen. The Sastra, in 
fact, appears to be the product of men who combined Professorship with 
practical statesmanship, a phenomenon not at all rare in ancient India. 
In any case, it is doubtful if Kautilya can really be called the Indian 
Bismarck. 


A more usual comparison is with Machiavelli, the author of Zhe 
Prince. Before the publication of the Kautiliya Arthasdstra, C. Formichi 
had compared Kamandaka with Machiavelli and Hobbes. One may 
‘understand Kautilya in place of Kamandaka, as the latter is entirely 
derived from the former. According to Formichi, there is agreement 


5 See p. 108 above. 
6 IA, 47 (1918), p. 194. 
7 ZDMG, 69 (1915), p. 363. 


270 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


among Kamandaka, Machiavelli and Hobbes on the following points : 
(1) Man is governed more by passion than by reason; hence the ‘ state 
of nature’ and the need for punishment. (2) Nations are always 
hostile; hence the need to get rid of the enemy by force, fraud etc. 
(3) Reasons of state must prevail over religious sentiments. (4) There 
are no limits to absolute sovereignty. After the publication of the 
Arthasastra, G. B. Botazzi made a detailed comparison between 
Kautilya and Thucydides, both of whom he regards as the precursors 
of Machiavelli. B. K. Sarkar, to whom we owe these details of the 
views of these and other Italian scholars, himself says, ‘“‘ Denuded of 
all extraneous particulars, Machiavellism may be boiled down to two 
cardinal dicta: (1) The enemy, actual or potential, must be crushed 
at all costs. And here end justifies the means. (2) The manner in 
which a person behaves as the servant of a group, party or state must 
be different from that in which he appears as an individual in regard to 
other individuals.”2° He adds that both these principles are quite 
natural. And he argues that these principles are also at the basis of 
the Arthasdsira teaching. , 

W. Ruben, who has also made a detailed comparison between 
Kautilya and Machiavelli, argues that the standpoint of both is that of 
* Realpolitics ’, and hence according to both the statesman has to be 
dishonest, unorthodox, impious and egotistical, although at the same 
time he must be self-restrained and active (that is, not fatalistic)."! He 
also refers to the occasionally relentless candour and sobricty and liarsh- 
ness of the politician reflected in the works of both. 


In such comparisons there is evident a genuine desire to understand 
the teaching of Kautilya and Machiavelli. Often, however, the sobri- 
quet Indian Machiavelli is given to Kautilya, which implies a con- 
demnation of the teaching not only of Kautilya but also of Machia- 
yelli. Machiayellism is regarded as synonymous with unscrupulousness 
or crookedness and looked upon as something immoral. This shows a 
lamentable misapprehension of the significance of Machiavelli’s work. 
It is now widely recognised that the sinister reputation which has been 
his lot for centuries is thoroughly undeserved by him. As Lord Acton 
says, “ A sublime purpose justifies him, and he has been wronged by 
dupes and fanatics, by irresponsible dreamers and interested hypo- 
crites.”’12 


8 ‘This is from B. K. Sarkar, IHQ, I, pp. 551-552. 
9 Ibid., pp. 555-560 and 743-747. 
10 IHQ, II, p. 368. 
11 Acta Orientalia, Vol. XIII (Leiden, 1935), pp. 177-178. 
12 Introduction to L.. A. Burd's edition of Il Principe (Oxford, 1891), p. Xxxiv- 


CONCLUDING REMARKS 271 


Machiavelli’s political philosophy is based upon his own experience 
of affairs. He does not start with any preconceived notions about the 
nature of human beings and the motive-springs of their actions. “The 
Prince is bestrewn with truths that can be proved at every turn. Men 
will not look at things as they really are, but as they wish them to be and 
are ruined. Men are still the dupes of their simplicity and greed. The 
cloak of religion still conceals vices.’’}* As a result of his actual experience 
he found that politics cannot be regarded as a function of ethics. G. 
Catlin says, ‘‘ Machiavelli is the first political scientist. To an extent 
that Aristotle, his great predecessor, emphatically does not, Machiavelli 
makes a distinction between ethics and political science.”14 It is, 
however, wrong to suppose that Machiavelli, for this reason, disregards 
inorality or ethics. The political ends which he regards as specially 
important are independence, security and a well-ordered constitution. 
‘These are'surely unexceptionable ends. In fact, Italy found in Machia- 
velli’s work the idea of her unity and the germs-of her renaissance 
among the nations of Europe. Again, in the Discourses he begins by 
placing men in an ethical hierarchy. The best, he says, are the founders 
of religion; then come the founders of monarchy or republics; then 
literary men.'® To all this no objection can be taken on moral grounds. 
It is when Machiavelli asserts that in the political field the end justifies 
the means that his teaching is regarded as immoral and subversive. But 
it must not be forgotten that this doctrine is intended not for justifying 
an individual’s conduct as individual, but his conduct in the political 
sphere. Such a doctrine even in the political sphere is, no doubt, 
condemned by idealist philosophers ; but throughout the centuries, it 
has continued to be actually followed in practice by active politicians 
everywhere. Bacon was one of the first to praise Machiavelli for “saying 
openly and without hypocrisy what men are in the habit of doing, 
not what they ought to do.’2” Much of the conventional obloquy that 
attaches to Machiavelli’s name is due to the indignation of those who, 
for one reason or another, cannot stand a frank avowal of evil-doing. 
His ‘ intellectual honesty about political dishonesty’ is repugnant to 
idealists who have little conception of practical politics or to hypocrites 
to whose advantage it is to preach one thing and practise another. 


The same is largely true of the Arthasdstra, though it does not seem 
to have evoked in India the violent reaction that followed the publica- 
tion of The Prince in Europe. Machiavelli was burnt in effigy by the 


13 Introduction to the edition of The Prince in Everyman’s Library, 
p- XX. 
14 The Story of Political Philosophers (New York and London, 1939), p. 195. 
15 B. Russell, 4 History of Western Philosophy (London, 1945), p. 530. 
16 Ibid., p. 527. 
17 Cf. E. H. Carr, The Twenty Years’ Crisis (London, 1942), p. 82. 





| 
| 


272 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


Jesuits, his books were put in the banned list in the Index Librorum 
Prohibitorum drawn up by the Inquisition in Rome and scores of books 
were published to denounce its supposed nefarious teaching. What 
condemnation has fallen to the lot of the Arthasdstra and its author 
Kautilya is mostly in modern times at the hands of those who have 
drunk deeply at the fountains of Western idealism in one form or 
another. 

There can be no doubt that there is a great similarity in the 
standpoints of Machiavelli and Kautilya, despite the difference between 
the political conditions presupposed in their works and between the 
methods of their treatment. The ends which the Arthasastra has in 
view are the yogaksema and raksana of the subjects. That is certainly 
a commendable aim. The sastra would also agree that the end justifies 
the means. It recommends ways of overcoming opposition or destroy- 
ing enemies that have nothing to do with questions of morality. It 
should be pointed out, however, that the sastra recommends apparently 
immoral means against traitors and enemies of the state, and distinctly 
adds that such means are not to be used in the case of law-abiding 
subjects (evam dusyesu adhadrmikesu ca varteta, netaresu, 5.2.69). Just 
as Machiavelli’s teaching was based on his own experience of political 
affairs, the teaching of this Saéstra also was based on the practical ex- 
perience of administrators who were its originators. We, therefore, 
find a large number of dicta in the pages of The Prince which the writers 
of this Sastra would have clearly endorsed. A few examples may be 
given: “‘He who has relied the least on fortune is established the 
strongest.” (p.46).18 “A wise prince ought to adopt such a course 
that his citizens will always in every sort and kind of circumstances 
have need of the state and of him, and then he will always find them 
faithful.” (p:82). “‘ It cannot be called talent to slay fellow-citizens, 
to deceive friends, to be without faith, without mercy, without religion ; 
such methods may gain empire, but no glory.’ (p.69). “‘ Men ought 
cither to be well-treated or crushed; because they can avenge themselves 
of the lighter injuries, of more serious ones they cannot.’ (p.19). ‘A 
prince ought to.reckon conspiracies of little account when his people 
’ hold him in esteem ; but when they are hostile to him and bear hatred 
towards him, he ought to fear everything and everybody.” (p.153). 
“ Nothing makes a prince so much esteemed as great enterprises and 
setting a fine example.” (p.177). ‘‘ That war is just which is necessary, 
and arms are hallowed when there is no other hope but in them.” 
(p.2138).3° 


18 ‘The references in brackets are to pages in Everyman’s Library edition of 
The Prince. 

19 For commen points between Machiavelli and the .drthasdstra, compare 
also 13. K. Sarkar, THQ, III, pp. 212-214. 


CONCLUDING REMARKS 2738 


It may be tempting to find a parallel between Machiavelli’s longing 
to see Italy united under some Italian prince who could expel the 
French and the Spaniards dominating the Italian scene that was split 
up among contending city states and a possible desire on the part of 
Kautilya to see India united in a single empire so that the Greek inva- 
sions may be successfully beaten off. One may regard it as quite 
conccivable that Kautilya entertained such a desire and filled Candra- 
gupta with the ambition of freeing India from the yoke of the foreigners. 
However, such a desire is not revealed in the Arthasdstra. The foreign 
states it has in view have to be supposed to be situated within the 
cakravartiksetra, that is, within the borders of India. And all its teach- 
ing on the building up of an empire or on the saving of one’s state from 
an imperialist aggressor has relevance to inter-state relations confined 
to the Indian scene. And this teaching is almost certainly derived from 
earlier teachers, and there is no awareness in it of the danger of invasions 
by foreigners such as the Persians or the Greeks, much less of any burn- 
ing desire to free the country from the yoke of such foreigners. The 
reason for this difference between Kautilya and Machiavelli is that the 
latter had constantly before his mind’s cye the specific historical situa- 
tion in Italy at the time, while Kautilya’s work is unconcerned with 
any particular historical situation. 


That also partly explains the difference in the method of treatment 
in the two works. Machiavelli’s method is historical which makes him 
turn to history for confirmation of the conclusions drawn by him from 
his own observations. There can be no doubt that this adds consider- 
ably to the interest of his work. The Arthasdstra, on the other hand, 
practically ignores history and contents itself with imagining all possible 
political situations and indicating ways to meet them. That often makes 
it give lists of possibilities that appear to have little relevance to actual 
situations at any time. Of course, though these situations appear to 
be all imagined, they are not imaginary. Every one of thein can con- 
ceivably arise, given the political conditions presupposed in the work. 
That the method of its treatment has made the subject con less interesting 
cannot, however, be denied. 


One point should not be lost sight of. As has been maintained in 
these pages, the teaching found in the Arthasdsira is not entirely 
Kautilya’s own. Most of it is the traditional teaching of the Sastra. 
It is the Sastra, therefore, that may be called Machiavellian in its 
teaching, in whatever sense this expression is understood. Some of 
Kautilya’s predecessors—Bharadvaja amongst them—were more ruth- 
less in their teaching. But being the only extant representative of 
the Sastra, Kautilya has had to bear the blame or get the credit for 
its teaching. 





274 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


M. Winternitz has remarked, “ It is strange that the same Kautilya 
who in many places of the Arthasdstra proves himself to be an orthodox 
follower of Brahmanism and often recommends the performance of 
religious rites... that the same Kautilya has no scruples whatever in 
recommending stratagems which can only be called an abuse of religious 
institutions and a speculation on the credulousness and religiosity 
of the people.”2° ‘This is characteristic of the idealist’s desire to sec 
the rules of personal morality observed in public life. But the ex- 
ploitation of credulity and superstition for political ends is not un- 
common in practical politics. And in emergencies, such as war, even 
religious sentiments are often exploited for what are nothing but 
political ends. What the Arthaédstra has done is to recognise the 
existence of such practices. And it should not be forgotten that it 
recommends their use only in emergencies. 

A. B. Keith has commented, “It is a very misplaced patriotism 
which asks us to admire the Arthasdstra as representing the fine flower 
of Indian political thought. It would, indeed, be melancholy if this 
were the best that India could show as against the Republic of Plato or 
the Politics of Aristotle.”*!_ There can be no doubt that this is the best 
work on the subject produced in ancient India. It would be worth- 
while trying to find out in what respects it can stand no comparison with 
works from ancient Greece. 

A fundamental difference between the Arthasdstra and Greek 
writings on politics is in regard to the purpose for which they are written. 
The aim of the Arthasasira is thoroughly practical, to show how a state 
should be ruled. Greek writings scarcely concern themselves with this. 
They are rather concerned with the problem of the realisation of the 
highest good of man ; how best this can be achieved through the state 
is what they seek to investigate. Hence they try to visualise the perfect 
state. Plato’s Republic is such a search for the ideal state, where justice, 
regarded as the highest good of man, can be perfectly assured. Justice, 
Plato thinks, is hindered by ignorance and selfishness. His remedy for 
the former is a specialisation of the social functions of the state, society 
being divided into the three classes of rulers or guardians, fighters and 
farmers, men of gold, of silver and of iron and brass respectively. His 
remedy for selfishness was communism of a sort, involving the abolition 
not only of property, but also of the family. It is clear that Plato’s 
republic is an ideal that can never be realised in the realm of practical 
politics, as can be seen from Aristotle’s criticism of it.. 


It should be remembered that Plato offered other solutions too. 
In the Politicus, he advocates absolute monarchy, where the ruler is 


20 Some Problems of Indian Literature, pp. 92-93. 
21 YVreface to 4 History of Sanskrit Literature, yp. xviii. 


CONCLUDING REMARKS 275 


‘unfettered by public opinion and unhampered by law.’ This is 
an extreme solution, which presupposes a monarch who must be all- 
wise. A much more practical solution is the one in the Laws, where 
Plato abandons communism, recognises the need of a patriarchal 
family and recommends a mixed constitution, a mixture of monarchy 
and democracy. 


There can be no question about the high idealism that permeates 
all Plato’s writings, particularly the Republic. It has inspired political 
thinking in the West all through the centuries. It has also set the tone 
for all later thinkers. Since Plato’s day, politics has been a branch of 
philosophy, with the result that it has rarely, if ever, been considered 
apart from questions of the individual’s good, that is, from questions 
of morality. Plato, says Catlin, started political science off ‘ along a 
road in which its study is and is to remain for two millenia, thoroughly 
moralistic ’.*° Significantly, the change is now being made from political 
philosophy to political science. 

It is clear that there is little in common between Plato and the 
Arthasdsira. The latter does not look upon politics as a branch of 
philosophy. It has perhaps its own ideas of the highest good of man, 
but it does not regard the state as formed for the realisation of that 
good. It, therefore, keeps personal morality distinct from public good. 
And its practical realism is in sharp contrast with Plato’s idealism. 


To turn to Aristotle, it is interesting to note that he was a senior 
contemporary of Kautilya. He died in 322 B.C., about the time when 
the latter was plotting to overthrow the Nandas. It is evident that 
his pupil Alexander’s conquests had no influence on Aristotle’s teaching, 
which is centred on the conception of the city state, a conception 
that ceased to have any meaning as a result of those very conquests. 
In like manner, it seems, Kautilya shows no awareness in his work of 
Candragupta’s conquests, contenting himself mainly with the politics 
of a moderate-sized state. 


The Politics, too, is not written with the practical aim of showing 
how government should be run. It is a theoretical investigation of 
political problems in terms of their basis in human association and of 
the ends obtainable through such association. Like Plato, Aristotle, 
too, thinks in terms of the perfect state. But his method is to analyse 
the various forms of a state’s constitution, monarchy, aristocracy etc., 
with a view to find out which is best suited for the attainment of the 
highest good. He would tolerate monarchy only when there is some- 


22 Cf. E. Barker, The Political Thought of Plato and Aristotle (London, 1906), 
p- 168. 


23 The Slory of Political Philosophers, p. 42. 





276 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


one who is ‘ pre-eminent in virtue’. Aristotle defines a citizen as onc 
who has the power to take part in the ‘ deliberative or judicial admini- 
stration of a state’. A life of virtue being the highest good of man, 
the citizen ‘ must not lead the life of mechanics or tradesmen, for such 
a life is ignoble and is inimical to virtue’ (Politics, VII, 9). Aristotle 
wants the number of citizens in an ideal state to be strictly limited. 
Even the number of 5,040, suggested by Plato in the Laws is regarded 
by him as too excessive. Too large a number impairs the pursuit of 
a life of virtue and also makes direct participation in the exercise of 
sovereignty by all citizens difficult. Aristotle lays great emphasis on 
the education of citizens, so that ‘the virtues of leisure’, namely, 
‘philosophy, temperance and justice, are cultivated and the citizens 
become fitted for participation in the exercise of sovereignty. 

There can be no doubt about the high aims set before the state by 
Aristotle. That the state should care not so much to ensure the material 
comforts of its citizens as to enable them to lead a life of virtue is cer- 
tainly a very noble aim. And the intention that such a life should make 
it possible for them to cultivate philosophy, temperance and justice 
cannot be too highly praised. It should not be forgotten, however, 
that this life is intended only for a part of the state’s population. The 
non-citizens are regarded as unfit and ineligible to share this life with 
the citizens. It may be granted that in any given society the number 
of men who can meaningfully cultivate philosophy, justice and other 
noble things is bound to be very small. But the cleavage between 
citizens and non-citizens is assumed to be natural and is intended to be 
permanent by Greek philosophers. We thus find Aristotle defending 
slavery as natural. 

It is true, as E. Barker says, that no political philosophy can be 
detached from its environment in history.24 Not only did Aristotle 
adopt the city state as the only natural and desirable form of state- 
organisation, but he also accepted slavery, then prevalent everywhere 
in Grecce, as its natural concomitant. In Athens, according to Barker, 
the number of citizens was 50,000, while that of slaves, who were 
mostly public slaves and whose labour sustained practically its entire 
economy, was 100,000.*5 ‘The citizens could participate in the exercise 
of sovereignty and cultivate a life of virtue because they were freed 
from the necessity of labour on account of the slaves. Though 
Aristotle’s defence of slavery is thus explicable in the light of the 
conditions obtaining in Greece at the time, it can hardly be maintained 
that the defence does him credit. 


24 The Political Thought of Plato and Aristotle, p. 15. 
25 Lbid., Ppp. 463-464. 


CONCLUDING REMARKS 277 


It cannot be denied, of course, that India, too, knew inequalities. 
The varna system, which the Arthagastra fully endorses, is based on 
unequal rights and privileges. At one end of the scale we have the 
Brahmins, who are in a position to lead what Aristotle calls a life of 
virtue and to cultivate the virtues of leisure, and at the other end, the 
vast mass of Siidras, who sustain the economy of the state; and lying 
beyond the pale of society, we have the antdvasdyins. Perhaps the 
condition of the lower classes was no better than that of slaves. 
Nevertheless, the sort of slavery that obtained in Greece was not to be 
found in India, and no defence of slavery as something natural and 
desirable is to be found in the Arthasdstra or elsewhere. 


Greek political thought was part of a complete philosophy of man. 
The best kind of life for man was determined by certain ideals—mostly 
cthical—to be realised by him here on earth in this life. And the state 
is intended to make the realisation of these ideals possible. Hence the 
desire to discover the ideal state where this aim could be achieved. This 
has resulted in Greek political thinking paying such great attention 
to the form of state-organisation and the citizen’s place in it. On the 
other hand, the Arthasdstra is not concerned with the problem of the 
highest good of man. That is left to philosophy, which mostly regards 
man’s highest good as something other-worldly. So far as man’s life 
here on earth is concerned, what the state is expected to do is not only 
to enable him to follow his svadharma, which is determined for him by 
the varna and the dsrama system, but also to preserve this system as 
something sacrosanct. That has meant an emphasis on protection. 
The form of state-organisation being immaterial for this purpose, 
there is no investigation of the best form of that organisation. And all 
attention is concentrated on the practical aspects of government. 
Thus, while Greek political thought is mainly concerned with the 
theoretical questions of state-organisation and man’s relation to it, the 
Arthaégdstra is principally devoted to the practical problems of adminis- 
tration and defence. Though the subject-matter of both may be said 
to be politics, they really deal with different aspects of that science. 
Strictly speaking, therefore, a fair comparison between the two can 
hardly be made. In theoretical speculation, Greek political thought is 
undoubtedly unrivalled. But on questions of practical politics, the 
Arthasgdstra may equally well be said to be unparalleled. 


However, one must recognise that concentration on the practical 
aspects of government has placed severe limitations on the growth of 
this science in India. There is here little significant contribution made 
to the theoretical aspects of this science, which are, if anything, more 
important than the practical aspects of government. When one thinks 
of the long line of political thinkers in the West from Plato down to 


278 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


, 


Marx, who made significant and original contributions to this subject, 
the comparative barrenness of Indian thought in this field can scarcely 
be denied. What is more, in the restricted field on which the Sastra 
has concentrated its attention, there was little scope for any fresh 
thought or new ideas indicative of the development of the science. 
The Arthasdstra of Kautilya has practically said all that could be use- 
fully said on the subject. What later work there has been on it is, 
therefore, mostly a rehash of what it says. The science has known no 
growth in India. And there was little possibility of growth in view of 
the nature of its contents. 

K. V. Rangaswami Aiyangar has drawn attention to the great 
similarity between the Cameralist writers in 16th, 17th and 18th century 
Germany and the ArthaSsastra.2* The Cameralists, it seems, discussed the 
entire sphere of state activity, administration, law, economics, defence 
etc. And they dealt with the governance of a monarchical state. 
What is more, most of the writers were associated with practical adminis- 
tration in some German state or the other.?”? They also wrote in the 
form of maxims or precepts intended for the guidance of the monarch. 
There can be no doubt about the great similarity with the origin and 
nature of ArthaSastra. The similarity is very probably to be ex- 
plained by the fact that conditions in Germany, when the Cameralists 
wrote, were more or less similar to those prevailing in ancient India 
when this science was formulated. There were a number of states 
whose rulers were striving to establish their authority by destroying 
the power of the feudal barons. A centralized rule by a monarch suc- 
ceeded in stabilising and strengthening some of the German states like 
Prussia, Austria, Bavaria, and others. This stage is reflected by the 
Cameralists. With the formation of the Austrian Empire and then of 
the German Reich, the need for this system of thought disappeared. 
Similarly, ArthaSastra originated in the days when there were numerous 
States and monarchy had succeeded in replacing tribal or oligarchical 
forms of political organisation. The appearance of empires off and on 
in India did not affect the general pattern of political life, characterised 
by a number of monarchical states contending with one another for 
supremacy. Hence the teaching of the Sastra did not lose its validity 
till comparatively recent times, particularly since it took account of 
the struggle for supremacy and recommended ways of expansion. 


Aiyangar has suggested that the Arthasastra was feared because 
of the magic spells and the practical rules for the overthrow of 
princes contained in it and that therefore it was suppressed.28 He 


26 Indian Cameralism (Adyar Library, Anat 1949). 

27 © Ibid., pp. 8-9. 

28 K. V. Rangaswami Aiyangar, Considerations on Some Aspects of Ancient 
Indian Polity (Madras, 1916), p. 101. 


CONCLUDING REMARKS 279 


thinks that its meaning, apparently regarded as esoteric, was kept 
within a closed circle and powerful interests saw to it that the secrecy 
of its interpretation was maintained.*® And he considers it possible 
that the academies where such delicate questions were discussed 
were closed down once the Maurya Empire was established.*° These 
suggestions appear to be made to explain the scarcity of the manu- 
scripts of the Arthaésdastra, also because of the difficulty in understanding 
many of its passages. But none of the suggestions made appears to 
be at all plausible. Magical spells have not ceased to be widely 
used throughout the centuries, however much they may have been 
feared; nor have princes ceased to be overthrown now and then. No 
text-book was necessary for either purpose. Again, the study of the 
Arthasdstra in the academies could not have affected practical affairs 
in any Empire to such an extent as to force it to close them down ; and 
it is more than doubtful if such a course would have effectively stopped — 
the study of this: work over the whole of India. Nor is there any 
reason to suppose that its interpretation has any secrecy about it, or that 
its meaning is intended only for a closed circle. It is an open treatise, 
for the most part straightforward and not difficult to understand 
except for some technical terms. 

The scarcity of the manuscripts of the Kaufiliya Arthasastra at 
the present time is sometimes regarded as proof that its teaching was 
repudiated by India because of the cruel and immoral practices recom- 
mended in it. K. Nag, for example, says that Buddhism and Jainism 
strongly combated the brutality and cruelty of the Arthasastra, that 
Brahmins, too, emphasised the moral element in their schools so that 
the Arthasdastra was supplanted by and absorbed in the Dharmasastra 
and that the Hindu spirit rejected Kautilya and followed ASoka.** 
None of these statements has much relation to truth. 

It need not be surprising that writers with a definite moral purpose 
in their writing should disapprove of the Arthasastra. Thus ASvaghosa, 
when writing a life of the Buddha, naturally disapproved of it. But 
the Buddhist Lankavatarasitra refers to Kautilya as a rst, and AryaSsira, 
the author of the Jdtakamala, ‘parades his knowledge of the Artha- 
gastra’ 32. It is to be noted that the Nitivdkydmrta, a work on this 
$astra almost entirely based on Kautilya’s Arthasastra, was written by 
a Jain scholar, Somadeva, who refers to him respectfully as nayavid. 
Nor is there anything to show that Brahmin writers condemned the 


29 Ibid., p. 11. 

30 Ibid., p. 13. 

31 K. Nag, Les Théories diplomatiques de VInde ancienne et Virthagdsira 
(Paris, 1928), pp. 119ff. 

32 E. H. Johnston, JRAS, 1929, pp. 87 and 81-84. 








280 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


Arthasastra. Visikhadatta appears to show high appreciation of its 
‘teaching. If Bana appears to condemn it, it should be remembered 
that the condemnation is put in the mouth of the highly idealised 
minister, Sukanasa, in a romance of a highly imaginative character. As 
to Dandin, it is not he who ridicules the science. The ridicule is put in 
the mouth of a wicked servant of a prince, who induces the prince to 
flout the teaching of the Sastra so that he may fall a prey to vices and 
mect with ultimate ruin. The servant succceds in encompassing the 
ruin of the prince as planned, and this is intended by Dandin to show 
that the neglect of the teaching of the Sastra is likely to lead to 
a disaster (Ucchvasa VIII). 


Again, it is only partly true that the Dharmasastra absorbed the 
teaching of the Arthasdstra and supplanted it. That happened only 
in the case of law. As for the rest of the teaching of this Sastra, the 
Dharmasastra, after Yajnavalkya, ceased to concern itself with it. 
Even in the beginning, the DharmaSastra was really not concerned with 
matters of administration and foreign relations. After the appropriation 
of law by the DharmaSastra, these subjects were treated in specialised 
works like the Nitisdra of Kamandaka. We can speak of a bifurcation 
of the science, not the absorption of the whole by what concerned itself 
with only a part. In fact, it appears that works like the Nitisdra are 
to a large extent responsible for the neglect of the Kautiliya Arthasdstra. 
They presented the same teaching in the more casily assimilable form 
of verse. However, it is. not correct to suppose that the Kautiliya 
Arthasdstra was neglected during all these centuries. Apart from the 
many authors like ASvaghosa, Kalidasa, Bana, Visakhadatta, Dandin 
and others who clearly were conversant with it, we have references to 
it and quotations from it in the commentators right down to the days 
of Mallinatha and Caritravardhana in the 14th and 15th centuries A.D. 
It may have lost much of its validity with the establishment of the 
Mughal Empire and particularly with the advent of the British rule. 
But it must not be forgotten that the Nitisdra and other works based 
on Kautilya did not pass into oblivion even then. 

It is equally difficult to accept the proposition that the Hindu 
spirit rejected Kautilya and followed Asoka. If this is meant to imply 
that the principles of high morality embodied in ASoka’s dhamma are 
repudiated by Kautilya, that is quite wrong. He recommends the same 
high moral principles when he lays down for each individual, to which- 
ever varna and dgrama he may belong, the duties of ahimsd ‘ refraining 
from injury ’, satya ‘ truthfulness ’, gauca ‘ purity ’, anasiiyd ‘ freedom 
from malice’, Gnréamsya ‘compassion’ and ksamd ‘ forgiveness ’ 
(1.3.18). If it is objected that Kautilya is here paying only lip service 
to these principles, can it be seriously maintained that India has done 


CONCLUDING REMARKS 281 


anything else but this when it is said to have followed Asoka? And it 
is not in India alone that high moral principles have been accepted as 
ideals to be realised. Everywhere men have been exhorted to follow high 
moral precepts, everywhere they profess to follow them, which, however, 
often means little more than paying lip service to them. ‘The fact is 
that these ideals are meant for individuals. And Kautilya regards them 
as obligatory on individuals with as much sincerity as does Asoka. 
The only thing is that he does not agree that the conduct of public life 
should be guided by rules of individual morality. 


If the statement about India following Asoka is intended to mean 
that kings in India have generally followed the example of Asoka in 
conducting public affairs on the basis of the rules of individual morality, 
that again is something that is hardly acceptable. It is true that after 
the Kalinga War, Asoka renounced war and practised ahimsd. But it 
is precisely because all opposition to his Empire had been ruthlessly 
crushed in that war that he could afford the luxury of renouncing 
war as a policy. It is not known if in pursuance of his policy he had 
disbanded the army. Had he really done so, one may be sure that 
there would have been uprisings sooner or later in various parts of the 
Empire. The fact that the Empire survived for a few gencrations 
after ASoka indicates that the -army was intact. In fact, it was an 
army general who brought Maurya rule to anend. As for later kings, 
it is extremly doubtful if any of them could or did follow Asoka’s 
example. Unquestionably there have been kings in India who were 
inspired by a high moral ideal, as there have been such kings in other 
countries. But it is only the ruler of a very powerful statc, where 
all opposition from inside and outside has ceased to exist, who can 
afford to base his rule .on strictly moral principles, regardless of 
consequences. The rulers of small states, surrounded by similar states, 
for the most part hostile, as was the-case over long periods of history 
in India, could hardly have helped following the teaching of this 
Sistra, based as it is on the realities of such a situation. Had India 
really followed Asoka, we would not have had to read in history 
of wars, of acts of treachery and duplicity, or of assassinations from 
the days when Pusyamitra killed the last Maurya Emperor on the 
parade ground to the days when Peshwa Narayanrao was murdered 
in his palace. 

And was Kautilya really rejected by India? But fora stray remark or 
two there is no evidence to show that its teaching was looked upon with 
horror in ancient times as is done by many modern scholars. The horror 
is felt because of the cruel and immoral practices recommended in this 
text. But the fact is generally ignored that such practices are recom- 
mended only against traitors and enemies, only when there is an emer- 


282 KAUNILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


gency or the state is in a difficult situation. It is not realised that the 
preservation of the state at all costs is the foremost duty of the ruler~ 
and that the interests of the state have to take precedence over all 
other considerations. It is also forgotten that the text forbids the use of 
these practices againist loyal and peaceful subjects as well as in normal 
times. Moreover, such criticism assumes that the conduct of public 
affairs is or ought to be governed by rules of morality. We have the 
story of Machiavelli repeated, though in a milder form. It is the same 
idealistic wishful thinking that will not face the realities of actual 
political life and cannot keep questions of personal ethics separate from 
public affairs. The fault of the Arthasastra, as that of Machiavelli, 
lies in openly saying something that has always been actually practised 
by states everywhere. 


If we were now to ask what significance the teaching of the 
Arthasdstra has at the present time, it must be said that it has 
lost much of its relevance even in Indian conditions. Monarchy 
has disappeared cven from the princely states. India, incorporat- 
ing the major part of the cakravartiksetra, has been brought under 
a single rule. The form of government that has been adopted, a 
republic with the parliamentary type of democracy, is something that 
was quite inconceivable to the writers of this Sastra. The administra- 
tive machinery is largely different. A number of departments visu- 
alised in the Arthasdstra, have no place in the present set-up, while, 
on the other hand, a number of departments have come into being 
of which the sastra had little conception. Nonetheless, what the 
Sastra has to say on some matters is not without relevance even in 
present-day conditions. Its views about state servants, their qualifi- 
cations and appointment, their corruptibility and ways of keeping it in 
check are not quite irrelevant. Its recommendations about the secret 
service for keeping a watch over state servants or over the political 
activities of the subjects or for purposes of criminal investigation have 
a bearing even on modern conditions. Its teaching on the investigation 
of crime sounds almost modern. ‘The law which it embodies is the same 
law, which, coming down through the Smrtis as interpreted in commen- 
taries and digests like the Miutdksard, the Vyavaharamayiikha, the 
Dayabhaga and the Smrticandrika, has been in force through all thesc 
centuries and is only now being replaced by a code applicable to the 
whole of India. The very liberal views expressed in this work on many 
matters could well be of interest even to modern legislators. 

The strict control of economic life by the state that is visualised 
in this text is something not dissimilar to what is being actually practised 
in many modern states. Even those that are not totalitarian cannot 
afford to follow a policy of laissez faire. The reservation of certain 


CONCLUDING REMARKS 283 


spheres for the public sector and the regulation of private enterprise are 
features characteristic of the economic policy being followed at present 
in India. In essence, the text appears to recommend a similar policy 
though it could never have conceived the kind of economic life that has 
come into existence in a modern state as a result of the Scientific and 
Industrial Revolutions. The text also had no conception of what is 
called the socialistic pattern of society, which is the goal to be achieved 
by following the economic policy. Its modest aim was the welfare of 
the subjects together with the advancement of the state. It is possible 
that the text would not have disapproved the use of totalitarian methods 
for the enforcement of its economic policy. 


It is in the sphere of foreign policy that the Sastra may be said to 
have lost much of its validity at the present time. Yet it would be 
quite possible to maintain that what it says in this connection is still 
largely true in the wider field of world politics. We have still the same 
distrust of one nation by another, the same pursuit of its own interest by 
every nation tempered only by considerations of expediency, the same 
efforts to secure alliances with the same cynical disregard of them in 
self-interest, the same kind of intelligence service maintained by one 
nation in the territory of another which we find referred to in the Artha- 
sdastra. The present day cold war tactics are not essentially different 
from what the text recommends to the vijigisw when placed in similar 
situations. It must be admitted that a new factor has emerged in 
recent times, namely world opinion, that serves as a check on blatantly 
selfish policies. Yet, it is difficult to see how rivalry and the struggle 
for supremacy between the nations can be avoided and the teaching 
of this Sastra which is based on these basic facts rendered altogether 
superfluous until some sort of a one-world government or an effective 
supra-national authority is established. The arrival of the nuclear age 
might hasten the advent of such an authority by thestrengtheningof the 
United Nations. But until that happens, the teaching of the Sastra 
would in actual practice be followed by the nations, though it may be 
unknown to them and though it may be openly condemned by those 
that know it. 


<a tt tt, sas itt CC CC CL LL LL ALLL LL LLL LLL LL LLL LLL 


° _ : ; 


> ’ 
} 
7 
om 
* 
. 
7 
i ‘ 
oat 
= < € ‘ 
pe 
* yee 7 3 





< . - 
‘+ Fe iL Ee = 
8 


a tap le _ ’ . pie 
Pep te Pasi » 
ohe*. rs , s ? a “4 
i a i 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 
TEXT AND COMMENTARIES 


Arthasastra of Kaujilya, ed. R. Shama Sastri (Mysore, 1909), 2nd ed., 
1919, 3rd ed., 1924; 4th revised ed.: Kautaliydrthasastra of Sri 
Visnugupta, revised by N. S. Venkatanathacharya (Mysore, 1960). 

The Arthaésdastra of Kautilya, a New Edition, J. Jolly and R. Schmidt, 
Vol. I, Text (Lahore, 1923) ; Vol. II, Notes with the Commentary 
Nayacandrikd of MM. Madhavayajvan (Lahore, 192+). 


The Arthasdastra of Kautalya, with the Commentary Srimila of MM. T. 
Ganapati Sastri, Part I (Trivandrum, 1924) ; Part II (Trivandrum, 
1924); Part III (Trivandrum, 1925). 

The Pratipadapaicikd, a commentary on 2.8.5 to 2.86.47 by Bhatta™ 
svamin, ed. K. P. Jayaswal and A. Banerji-Sastri, JBORS, XI 
(1925) and XII (1926). 

The Kaujaliya, with a Malayalam Commentary, Part I (1st adhikarana), 
ed. K. Sambasiva Sastri, (Trivandrum, 1980); Part II (2nd 
adhikarana), ed. K. Sambasiva Sastri (Trivandrum, 1988) ; Part 
III (8rd adhikarana), ed. V. A. Ramaswami Sastri (Trivandrum, 
1945); Bhdsdé Kaujaliyam (Malayalam Commentary) adhikaranas 
4-7, ed. K. N. Ezhuthachan (Madras, 1960). 

Arthasdastra-vyakhya Jayamangalad (1st adhikarana), ed. G. Harihara 
Sastri (Madras, 1958). 


Canakya-Tikd of Bhiksu Prabhamati (2nd adhikarana and 38.1), ed. 
G. Harihara Sastri; serially, commencing with JOR, XXVI(1956-57). 

A Fragment of the Koutalya’s Arthasdstra alias Rajasiddhanta with the 
Fragment of the Commentary named Nitinirniti by Acharya 
Yogghama alias Mugdhavilasa, ed. Muni Jina Vijay, Preface by 
D. D. Kosambi (Bombay, 1959). 


Kaujiliyam Arthasastram, ed. with Hindi commentary Ranjana by 
Ramateja Sastri Pandeya (Kashi, 1959). 


The Kaufiliya Arthasdstra, Part I, A Critical edition with a Glossary, 
R. P. Kangle (Bombay, 1960). 


TRANSLATIONS 


BENGALI 


Basak, Radhagovinda, Kaufiliya Arthasdstra, tr. into Bengali, 
2 vols. Calcutta, 1950. 


286 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


ENGLISH 
Shamasastry, R., The Arthasastra of Kautilya, tr. into English. 
Bangalore, 1915. 6th ed., 1960. 


Kangle, R. P., The Kaufiliya Arthasastra, Part II, An English 
translation with critical and explanatory Notes. Bombay, 
1968. 


GERMAN 


Jolly, J., Das Erste Buch des Kautiliya Arthasdastra (German tr. of 
Ist adhikarana with notes), ZDMG, 7-4, 1920, pp. 821-355. 


Meyer, J. J., Das altindische Buch von Welt und Staatsleben : Das 
Arthagdstra des Kautilya, aus dem Sanskrit tibersetzt, 6 parts. 
Hannover and Leipzig, 1925-1926. 


- GUJARATI 
Joshipura, Jayasukhray, Kautiliya Arthasdstra, tr. into Gujarati 
with an Introduction. Baroda, 19380. 


HInvDI 
Vidyalankar, Pran Nath, Kaujiliya Arthasastra, tr. into Hindi. 
Lahore, 1923. 
Sastri, Udayavira, Kaufaliya Arthasdstra, with a Hindi translation. 
Lahore, 1925. 
Shastri, Gangaprasadji, Kaufaliya Arthasdstra composed by 
Acharya Canakya, with a Hindi translation. Delhi, 1940. 


Sastri, Devadatta, Kaufilya <Arthasdstra, tr. into Hindi with 
Introduction. - Allahabad, 1957. 


Gairola, Vachaspati, Kautiliydrthasdstram, ed. with Hindi transla- 
tion. Varanasi, 1962. 


ITALIAN 


Vallauri, M., Jl primo Adhikarana dell’ ((Arthagdstra di 
Kaujilya)) (Italian translation of 1st adhikarana with 
Notes), RSO, VI (1915), pp. 1317-1382. 


KANNADA 
Krishnabhatta, K., Kaufalyana Arthasdstra, Kannada translation 
with an Introduction. Dharwar, 1962. 
MALAYALAM 


IK. V. M., drthasdstram, Malayalam translation. Trichur, 1935. 
2nd edition revised by N. V. Krishna Variyar. Trichur, 1961. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 287 


MARATHI 


Karandikar, J. S. and Hivargaonkar, B. R., Kaufiliya Arthaésastra, 
with a Marathi translation and an Introduction, 2 vols. 
Karjat, 1927-1929. 


ORIYA 


Sarma, Anantarama Kara, Kaufilya-Arthasdastram, Oriya transla- 
tion, Vols. 1 and 2. Bhubaneswar, 1963-1964. 


Russtan 


Kalyanoy, V. I., Arthashastra ili nauka politiki, Russian translation 
with Notes, and articles by V. I. Kalyanov and I. P. Baikov. 
Moscow-Leningrad, 1959. 


TAMIL 


Chettiyar, M. K. and Ramanujachari, P.S., Canakya, Kaufaliyam 
parumul, Tamil translation with elaborate Notes on 1-3 by 
Chettiyar, M. K. and on 4-15 by Ramanujachari, P.5., Anna- 
malainagar, 1935. 


TELucu 
Venkatarangayya, M., and Venkata Sastri, A., Kautilydrihasdstram, 
Telugu translation. Vijayanagaram, 1923. 


STUDIES 


Bandyopadhyaya, N. C., Kautilya, Vol. I. Calcutta, 1927. 

Breloer, B., Kautaliya Studien, Vol. I: Das Grundeigentum in. Indien. 
Bonn, 1927. 

Kautaliya Studien, Vol. IL: Altindisches Privatrecht bet Mega- 
sthenes und Kaufalya. Bonn, 1928. 


— Kaufaliya Studien, Vol. III, 1: Finanzverwaltung und Wirt- 
shaftsfihrung. Leipzig, 193+. 


Hillebrandt, A., Uber das Kavutiliyasdstra wid Verwandtes. Breslau, 
1908. 


Krishna Rao, M. V., Studies in Kaufilya. Mysore, 1953. 


Shama Sastry, R., Indew Verborum to the Kaufiliya Arthasdstra, Parts 
I-III. Mysore, 1923. 





Sorabji, I. J., Some Notes on the Adhyaksa-Pracara. Allahabad, 1914. 


Stein, O., Megasthenes und Kautilya. Wien, 1921. 
Sten Konow, Kaufalya Studies. Oslo, 19-45. 


ADDL LDA LED 


288 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


Tipnis, G. G., Kaufiliyu Arthasastra Pradipa (in Marathi). Bombay, 
1923. 

Topa, I., The Minister as a King-maker. Allahabad, 1941. 

Wilhelm, F., Politische Polemiken im Staatslehrbuch des Kautalya. 
Wiesbaden, 1960. 


OTHER WORKS 


Aivangar, K. V: Rangaswami, Considerations on Some Aspects of Ancient 
Indian Polity. Madras, 1916. 

—-— Indian Cameralism. Madras, 1949. 

Altekar, A. S., State and Government in Ancient India, 2nd ed. Banaras, 
1955. 

Anjaria, J. J., The Nature and Grounds of Political Obligation i tle 
Hindu State. Bombay, 1935. 

Bandyopadhyaya, N. C., Development of Hindu Polity and Political 
Theories, Part II. Calcutta, 1938. 

Bandyopadhyaya (Banerjea), P. N., International Law and Custom in 
Ancient India. Calcutta, 1920. 

Banerjea, P. N., Public Administration in Ancient India. London, 1916. 

Barnett, L. D., Antiquities of India. London, 1913. 

Basham, A. L., The Wonder that wus India. J.ondon, 1954. 

Beni Prasad, The State in Ancient India. Allahabad, 1928. 


_ Bhandarkar, D. R., Some Aspects of Ancient Hindu Polity. Benares, 
1929. 


Chatterjee, H., International Law and Inter-state Relations in Ancient 
India. Calcutta, 1958. 

Dikshitar, V. R. Ramachandra, Hindu Administrative Institutions. 
Madras, 1929. 

——- Mauryan Polity, 2nd ed. Madras, 1953. 


Ghoshal, U. N., A History of Hindu Political Theories. London and 
Calcutta, 1928. 3rd and much enlarged ed.: A History of Indian 
Political Ideas. Bombay, 1959. 


Contributions to the History of the Hindu Revenue System. Calcutta, 
1929. 


Gopal, M. H., Mauryan Public#inance. London, 1935. 
Hillebrandt, A., Altindische Politik. Jena, 1928. 


Jayaswal, K. P., Hindu Polity, 2 Parts in one Volume. Calcutta, 1924. 
3rd _ edition, Bangalore, 1955. 





BIBLIOGRAPHY 289 





Manu and Yajriavalkya. Calcutta, 1980. 
Kane, P. V., History of Dharmasastra, Vol. I. Poona, 1980./ Vol. IIT. 


Poona, 1946. 

Keith, A. B., 4 History of Sanskrit Literature. Oxford, 1928. 2nd ed., 
1941, 

Kosambi, D. D., An Introduction to the Study of Indian History. Bom- 
bay, 1956. 


Law N.N., Studies in Ancient Hindu Polity. London, 1914. 
—— Aspects of Ancient Indian Polity. Oxford, 1921. 
—— Studies in Indian History and Culiure. London, 1925. 


Majumdar, R. C., Corporate Life in Ancient India, 2nd ed. Calcutta, 
1922. 


editor, Age of Imperial Unity (History and Culture of the Indian 
People, Vol. II). Bombay, 1951. 


Meyer, J. J., Uber das Wesen der altindischen Rechtschriften und ihr 
Verhalints 2u einander und zu Kaujilya. Leipzig, 1927. 


Monahan, F. J., The Early History of Bengal. Oxford, 1925. 
Mookerji, R. K., Candragupta Maurya and His Times. Madras, 1948. 


Nag, K., Les Théories diplomatiques de VInde ancienne et V Arthacastra. 
Paris, 1928. 


Pran Nath, A Study in the Economic Conditions of Ancient India. 
London, 1929. 


Renou, L., La Civilisation de Inde ancienne. Paris, 1950. 

—— and Filliozat J., L’Inde Classique, Tome II. Paris and Hanoi, 
1958. 

Sarkar, B. K., The Political Institutions and Theories of the Hindus- 
Leipzig, 1922. 

Sastri, K. A. Nilakanta, Age of the Nandas and the Mauryas. Banaras, 
1952. 

Sharma, R. M., Aspects of Political Ideas and Institutions in. Ancient 
India. Delhi, 1959. 

Sinha, H. N., Sovereignty in Ancient Indian Polity. London, 1988. 

Thapar, R., Asoka and the Decline of the Mauryas. Oxford, 1961. 

Thomas, F. W. in Cambridge History of India, Vol. I (editor: E. J. 
Rapson). Cambridge, 1922. 

Varma, V. P., Studies in Hindu Political Thought and its Metaphysical 
Foundations. Bandras, n.d. 





290 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 
Viswanatha, S. V., International Law in Ancient India. Bombay and 
Madras, 1925. 


Winternitz, M., Geschichte der indischen Litteratur, Dritter Band. Leipzig, 
1920. 


—— Some Problems of Indian Literature. Calcutta, 1925. 


ARTICLES 


Acrawala, V.S., ‘Some More References to Kautilya in Late Literature’, 
Poona Orientalist, [IV (1989), pp. 31-33. 


Baikov, I. P., ‘ Arthashastra—pamyatnik bolshoi istoricheskoi tsen- 
nosti’, appended to the Russian translation of the text, pp. 538-560. 


Basak, R.G., ‘The words nivi and vinita as used in Indian Epigraphs’, 
IA, 48 (1919), pp. 13-15. 

—— ‘Ministers in Ancient India’, IHQ, I (1925), pp. 522-532 and 
628-642. 


Berger, H., ‘ Kaujalya ist alter als Kaufilya’, Miinchener Stndien zur 
Sprachwissenschaft, Heft 6 (Munchen, 1955), pp. 27-29. 


Bhandarkar, D. R., ‘Date of Kautalya’, ABORI, VII (1926), pp. 65-84. 


Bose, A. N., ‘ The Date of the Arthasdstra’, IC, IV (1937-38), pp. 435- 
444, 


Botto, O., © Il Ndvadhyaksa nel Kaufiliyarthasdstra e Vattivita marinara 
nell’India antica’, RSO, 36 (1961), pp. 109-124. 

Breloer, B., ‘Zum Kautaliya-Problem ’, ZII, VII_(1929), pp. 205-232. 

‘ Megasthenes (etwa 300 v. Chr.) tiber die indische Gesellschaft’, 

ZDMG, 88 (1984), pp. 180-164. 


—— ‘Megasthenes iiber die indische Stadtverwaltung’, ZDMG, 8° 
(1985), pp. 40-67. 


—— ‘Drei Unbenannte Megasthenesfragmente tiker die pravrajyd’, 
ZDMG, 93 (1989), pp. 254-298. 


Charpentier, J., ‘Sagengeschichtliches aus dem eee sre des Kau- 
tilya’, WZKM, 28 (1914), pp. 211-240. 


Deb, H. K., ‘The Kautiliya Arthasastra «n Foims of Government’ 
THQ, XIV (1938), pp. 366-379. 


‘Dikshit, S. K., ‘Some Historical Traditions ’, IC, VI (1989-40), pp.39-44. 


Dikshitar, V. R. Ramachandra, ‘Kautalya and Machiavelli’, IHQ, 
III (1927), pp. 176-180. 


—— ‘ The Religious Data in Kautalya’s Arthasdstra’, ZII , VII (1929), 
pp. 251-258. 





BIBLIOGRAPHY 291 


-—--- * Tantrayukti’, JOR, IV (1930), pp. 82-89. 


——— ‘ Arthasdstra re-examined or the Culture and Date of the 4rtha- 
sdstra’, ABORI, XIII (1932), pp. 326-330. 

Kidgerton, F., ‘ The Latest Work on the Kaufiliya Arthasdstra’, JAOS, 
48 (1928), pp. 289-322. 

—~—- ‘Samadhi “hostage” and Related Matters from Kautilya’, 
JAOS, 60 (1940), pp. 208-216. 

Geiger, W., ‘Kenntnis der indischen Niti-literatur in Ceylon’, Festgabe 
Hermann Jacobi (ed. W. Kirfel), Bonn, 1926, pp. 418-421. 

Ghoshal, U. N., ‘ The Authority of the King in Kautilya’s Political 
Thought’, IHQ, XXVIII (1952), pp. 307-311 and IHQ, XXIX 
(1958), pp. 280-292. 

Gode, P. K., ‘Manuscripts of Commentaries of the Kautaliya Artha- 
sdstra’, Poona Orientalist, III (1938), pp. 176-182. 

Gurner, C. W., ‘The Fortress Policy in Kautilya’s Arthasastra’, IC, 
VIII (1941-42), pp. 251-252. 

Hazra, R. C., ‘ Kautilya Studies’, Our Heritoge, X, 1 (Calcutta, 1962) 
pp. 1-58. 

Hertcl, J., ‘Literarisches aus dem Kautiliyasdstra’, WZKM, 24 
(1910), pp. 416-422. 

Hillebrandt, A., ‘ Zu Kautilya ’, ZDMG, 69 (1915), pp. 360-364. 


J acobi, H., ‘ Zur Friihgeschichte des indischen Philosophie’, SKPAW, 
1911, pp. 782-748. (English translation by V. A. Sukthankar in 
IA, 47, 1918, pp. 101-109). 

—— ‘ Kultur-, Sprach- und Literatur-historisches aus dem Kaufiliyam’, 
SKPAW, 1911, pp. 954,978. (English translation by N. B. Utgikar 
in IA, 58, 1924, pp. 128-186 and 141-146). 

—— ‘Uber die Echtheit des Kaufiliya’, SKPAW, 1912, pp. 882-849. 
(English translation by V. S. Sukthankar in IA, 47, 1918, pp. 157- 
161 and 187-195). 

-——- ‘Ist das DaSakumdaracarita gleichzeitig mit dem Kaufiliya Artha- 
sdstra?’? ZDMG, 68 (1914), pp. 608-605. 

—— ‘ Jinteilung des Tages und Zeitmessung im alten Indien’, ZDMG, 
74 (1920), pp. 247-263. 

—— ‘On the Canakyasitrani’, DHQ, III (1927), pp. 669-676. 

Jayaswal, K. P., ‘The Arthasdstra Explains’, IA, 47 (1918), pp. 50-56. 

Johnston, E. H., ‘ Two Studies in the Arthasasira of Kautilya’, JRAS, 
1929, pp. 77-102. * 


—— ‘ A Note on Cattle-theft in the Arthasdstra’, JRAS, 1986, pp. 79-88. 


292 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


Jolly, J., ‘ Lexikalisches aus dem <lrthasdastra’, Indo-Germanische For- 
schungen, 31 (1912-13), pp. 204-210. 

‘ Arthasastra und Dharmasastra’, ZDMG, 67 (1913), pp. 45-96. 
‘Kollektaneen zum Kautiliya Arthasistra’, ZDMG, 68 (1914), 

pp. 345-359 and 69 (1915), pp. 369-378. 

—— ‘ Textkritische Bemerkungen zum Kaufiliya Arthasdstra’, ZDMG, 
70 (1916), pp. 547-554; 71 (1917), pp. 227-239 and 414-428 ; 72 
(1918), pp. 209-223. 

—— ‘Ganapati Sastri’s Kommentar zum Kautiliya Arthasdstra’, 
Festgabe Hermann Jacobi (ed. W. Kirfel), Bonn, 1926, pp. 422-428. 

— ‘ Kautilya oder Kautalya?’ ZIT, V (1927), pp. 216-221. 

Kalyanoy, V. I., ‘ Dating the Arthasastra’, in Papers presented by the 
Soviet Delegation at the XXIII International Congress of Oriental- 
ists, Indian Studies, Moscow, 1954, pp. 40-54. 

——- ‘ Arthashastra—vazneishii pamyatnik indiiskoi kulturi *, appended 
to the Russian translation of the text, pp. 501-537. 

Kane, P. V., ‘The Arthasdsira of Kautilya’, ABORI, VII (1926) 

pp- 85-100. 

‘The Meaning of Acdryadh’, ABORI, XXIII (1942), pp. 206-213. 

Kangle, R. P., ‘The Steelyard in Kautilya’, P. K. Gode Ceommemoration 
Volume (Poona, 1960), Part II, pp. 189-198. 

—— ‘Bharadvaja: An Ancient Teacher of Political Science’, Munshi 
Indological Felicitation Volume, Bhiratiya Vidyé, XX-XXI (Bom- 
bay, 1960-61), pp. 333-339. 

— ‘Manu and Kautilya’, Indian Antiquary (Third Series), [, 
Bombay, 1964, pp. 48-54. 

—— ‘Succession Crisis in the Arthasdstra of Kautilya’, Vishveshva- 
ranand Indological Journal, II (Hoshiarpur, 1964), pp. 298-303. 
Keith, A. B., ‘ The Authenticity of the Kautiliya’, JRAS, 1916, pp. 130- 

137. 

—— ‘The Authenticity of the Arthagdstra’, Sir Asutosh Memorial 

Volume (ed. J. N. Samaddar, Patna, 1926-28), Part I, pp. 8-22 


Kosambi, D. D., ‘ Ancient Kosala and Magadha’, JBBRAS, 27, Part If 
(1951), pp. 180-218. 


— ‘The Text of the Arthasdstra’, JAOS, 78 (1958), pp. 169-1738. 
(The article is now incorporated with a slight change as Preface to 
the edition of the Devanagari fragment by Muni Jina Vijay). 

Law N. N., ‘ The Jaénapada and the Paura’, THQ, IT (1926), pp. 385- 
407 and 683-650. 








BIBLIOGRAPHY 293 


---— ‘Machinery of Administration depicted in the Kautiliya’, IHQ 
V (1929), pp. 441-450 and 614-642, and THQ, VI (1930), pp. 31-48. 
-—— ‘Ihe Salaries detailed in the Kautiliya’, LHQ, V (1929), pp. 780-738. 
~ ‘'The Determination of the Relative Strength of a State and the 
Vyasanas ’, THQ, VI (1930), pp. 244-260 and 471-434. 
_——- * Duaidhibhava in the Kautiliya’, THQ, VII (1931), pp. 253-258, 
..— ‘Studies in the Kaufiliya’, THQ, VIIL (1931), pp. +64-474, 
(709-715, i.e.) 789-795 and THQ, VIII (1932), pp. 54-63. 
-—.- ‘The Political Significance of the Madhyama and the Udasina ’, 
THQ, IX (1983), pp. 770-783. 


Meyer, J. J., ‘ Bermerkungen zu Bernhard Breloer’s Kautaliya-Studien 
II’, ZI, VII (1929), pp. 194-204. 


Mukherji, P., ‘ Property Rights of Women as recorded in Kautiliya. 
Arthagastra and Manusmrti’, Our Heritage, IX, 1 (Calcutta, 1961), 
pp. £9-60. 


Narahari, H. C., ‘ Society in Mauryan India’, New Indian Antiquary, 
II (1939-40), pp. 710-720. 

Ojha, K. C., ‘ On the Controversy about the Arthasasira ’, THQ, XXVIII 
(1952), pp. 265-272. | 

Pran Nath, ‘The Date of the Compilation of Kautalya’s Arthasastra 
(484-510 A.D.) ’, LA, 60 (1981), pp. 109-112 and 121-128. 

-_— ‘Was the Kautaliya Arthasdstra in Prose or in Verse’, IA, 60 
(1981), pp. 171-17+. 

Raghavan, V., ‘On a Meaning of the Word Kausika’, JOR, XV (1945- 
46), pp. 110-116. 

—_.. ‘Kalidasa and Kautilya’, Proceedings of the XIII All-India 
Oriental Conference, Nagpur, 1946 (published 1951), Part II, 
pp. 102-108. 

Ray, J. C., ‘Textile Industry in Ancient India’, JBORS, III (1917), 
pp. 180-245. 

Ruben, W., ‘ Zur Friihgeschichte des indischen Philosophie ’, Festgabe 
Hermann Jacobi (ed. W. Kirfel), Bonn, 1926, pp. 846-367. 

--_—— ‘ Materialismus im Leben des alten Indien’, Acta Orientalia, 
XIII (1985), pp. 177-225. 

__— ‘ Uber den altindischen Staat ’, AOr, XIX (1951), pp. 478-491. 

—_—— ‘Inter-State Relations in Ancient India and Kautalya’s Artha- 
sastra’, Indian Year-Book of International Affairs, IV (Madras, 
1955), pp. 187-159. 

Saletore, B. A., ‘Some Historical and Quasi-historical Incidents in 
Kautalya’s Arthasastra ’, Poona Orientalist, I (1986), pp. 18-2+. 





294 KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 
Sarkar, B. K., ‘ Hindu Politics in Italian ’, DHQ, I (1925), pp. 545-560, 
748-749, and IHQ, II (1926), pp. 146-157 and 353-872. 
——— ‘Kautalya, Economic Planning and Climatology ’, THQ XI 
(1935), pp. 328-350. 
Sastri, G. Harihara, ‘Some Terms of the Kautiliya Arthasastra in the 
Light of Commentaries’, JOR, VIII (1934), pp. 352-357. 

—— ‘Notes on the Arthasdstra of Kautalya’, JOR, XXVI (1956-57), 
pp. 107-113. 

—— ‘Salaries and Allowances in the Arthasdstra of Kautalya’, JOR, 
XXVIII (1958-59), pp. 11-16. 

Sastri, K. A. Nilakanta, ‘ The Place of the Arthasdstra in the Literature 
of Indian Polity’, ABORI, XXVIII (1947), pp. 84-95. 

—— ‘The Authority of the King in Kautilya’s Political Thought ’, 
THQ, X XIX (19538), pp. 175-179. 

Saunders, V., ‘Some Allusions to Magic in Kautilya’s Arthasastra’, 
JAOS, 42 (1922), pp. 75-79. 

Sharma, Dasharatha, ‘The Arthasdstra Material in the Raghuvashsa’, 
THQ, XVII (1951), pp. 129-187. 

Sharma, Y. D., ‘ Building Laws in the Arthasdstra’, JOR, XX (1950-51), 
pp. 5-10. 

Stein, O., ‘ Diipry— und surunga’, ZI, III (1925), pp. 280-318. 

—— ‘ Pandyakavata ’, IHQ, IV (1928), pp. 778-782. 

—— ‘Versuch einer Analyse des Sdsanddhikdra’, ZII, VI (1928), 
pp. 45-71. 


—— ‘Neuere Forschungen zur altindischen Sozialgeschichte, Rechts- 
und Staatsrechtsliterature ’, AOr, III (1981), pp. 49-86, AOr, V 
(1988), pp. 246-269 and AOr, VI (1934), pp. 15-49. 

—— ‘ Per altindische Staat ’, AOr, IIT (1931), pp. 862-880. 


—— ‘ ArthaSastra and Silpasastra’, AOr, VII (1935), pp. 478-487, AOr, 
VIII (1986), pp. 69-90 and 384-856, and AOr, X (1988), pp. 163-209. 

Sternbach, L., ‘ Legal Position of Prostitutes according to Kautilya’s 
Arthasastra’, JAOS, 71 (1951), pp. 25-60. 

Trivedi, H. V., ‘The Geography of Kautilya”;-IC, I (1934-35), pp. 247- 
261. 

Wilhelm, F., ‘Das Wirtschaftssystem des Kaujaliya Arthasastra’, 
Journal of the Economic and Social History of the Orient, II 
(Leiden, 1959), pp. 294-812. 


Winternitz, M., ‘DharmaSastra and Arthasastra’, Sir Asutosh Memorial 
Volume (ed. J. N. Samaddar, Patna, 1926-28), Part I, pp. 25-48. 


aksapatala, 201 
atavibala, 246 
aticdras, 288 
aditikaugika, 163 
adhyaksas, 202 
adhydya, 25-6 
antapdla, 202, 211-2 
antamahdamata, 211 
antaramdtyas, 194 
antarvamsika, 194 
antdvasdyin, 147 
aparuddha, 141 
amatya, 182-5, 203-5 
amitrabala, 246 
artha, 1-2, 224 
arthopadhd, 204 
asuravijaya, 262 
asuTavijayin, 255 


adkranda, 248, 249 
dcaryah, 48-49 
dlivahika, 180 
dyamukha, 188 
ayasarira, 188 
asumrtaka, 237 
asramas, 151ff. 
dsana, 253 


indriyajaya, 180 
igvara, 89-90 


udakabhdga, 17+ 
uddsina, 248 
uddsthita, 206 
upajapa, 251 
upadhds, 204-5 
upavasa, 170 
updayas, 255 
ubhayavetana, 206 


aupanisadika, 159-160 


/ kantakasgodhana, 232fr. 


kanydprakarma, 288 
kara, 178 
karana, 218 


, karman, 285-7 


karmans, 118 

' karmabhigraha, 285 
kdpatika, 206 
kdémopadhd, 204 
kdrugdsitr, 185 
kulasamgha, 124 


WORD 


INDEX 


kugalas, 216 
kiitayuddha, 258-9 
krtyas, 208, 251 
ksetrika, 170 


ganikds, 164 
gidhijivins, 284  . ~ 
&rhapatikavyanjana, 206 
gopa, 195-6, 198 ° 
grdma, 168 
gramakiita, 197 


. gtamabhriaka, 196-7 


Srdmavrddhas, 197 
gramika, 197 


cakravartiksetra, 2n., O45 
caritra, 222 

cdraka, 241-2 
cinapatta, 74 
corarajjuka, 180, 212 


janapada, 120-1, 167 
jambhakavidyd, 159 
Jali, 148 

jeanapada, 185 


tajjata, 148 
tantrayuktis, 30-31 
tdpasavyanjana, 206 
liksna, 206 

lirthas, 194 


danda, 119-120 
dldsas, 186-7, 227-8 
durga, 244 
durgapala, 198-199 
dita, 202-8, 250 
diigyas, 242-8 
dega, 218 
dauv@arika, 194 
dvatdhibhdava, 254 
doairdjya, 122 


ee ee 


dhammamahdmdata, 211 
dharma, 18, 222-8 
dharmavijayin, 255 
dharmasthas, 215-6 
dharmopadhd, 204 


nagalaviyohdlaka, 212 
ndgarika, 198-9, 212 
nayaka, 247 
navadhyaksa, 179, 246-7 


296 


nikgepa, 227 
nydya, 222-8 


panayaird, 181 
panyddhyaksa, 176-7 
parivrajika, 154, 206 
Parisd, 212 
p4arusya, 229 
parsnigraha, 248-9 
pasandas, 154-6 
purohita, 9-10, 182 
paura, 185 

prakriis, 127-8 
pradesirs, 196, 282-8 
prasdastr, 199-200 
prdadegsika, 212 
preksda, 162 


bandhakiposaka, 164 
bandhandgara, 241-2 
bali, 178-4 

bahirika, 149-50 
brahmadeya, 171 


bhayopadhd, 204 
bhaga, 173 
bhiksuki, 206 
bhiimicchidra, 174 
bhriabala, 245-6 


madhyama, 248 
mantrins, 188-4 
mantriparisad, 184-5 
mahdmata, 211 
mahamdira, 194, 211 
manavas, 150, 284 
madnavavidyds, 159 
maulabala, 245 


yana, 258 
yukta, 208, 212 
yuta, 212 
yuvardja, 194 
yogaksema, 118 


rajju, 212 

fasa, 71 

rasada, 206 
rasapdaka, 71 
rasaviddha, 71-2 
rajamandala, 248-9 
rajasdsana, 222-4 
rajuka, 212 
rastrapdla, 196 
ripadarsaka, 181, 202 
ripajivd, 164 


KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


ripdbhigraha, 285 
ripika, 181, 183 


laksanddhyaksa, 181 
labdhapragamana, 261 
lobhavijayin, 255 


varnas, 148ff. 

vartani, 178, 180 
vartid, 166 

vigraha, 253 

vinaya, 129-180 

vriti, 1 

ursala, 154-5 
vaidehakavyanjana, 206 
vaidharana, 177, 188 
vaiydurtyakara, 185 
vairajya, 122-3 
vyayagarira, 189 
vyavahara, 216-7, 222-8, 224 
vyasanas, 130-1, 256 
vydji, 181, 183 

vytihas, 259 


$aktis, 128-9, 256-7 
$ankdabhigraha, 285 
g§inyanivega, 100, 167-9 
Sinyapdla, 258 
Srenibala, 246 

$rotr, 218 


sddguny @, 251-5 


samyana, 180 
samvadana, 159 
saméraya, 254 
samsihd, 222-3 
samsthds, 206 
samghas, 99, 124-7 
samcaras, 206 
3attrin, 206 

samdhi, 251-2 
samnidhatr, 200-1 
sabhdsads, 216 
samadhi, 252 
samahartr, 195-6, 200-1, 207 
sdmantas, 250 
sdhasa, 229 
sitadhyakga, 169-70, 172 
surungd, 76 

selu, 172 

sendpati, 194, 247 
sthdnika, 195-6, 198 
svavitiakdru, 185 
svdmisampad, 129 


GENERAL INDEX 


Acton, Lord, on Machiavelli, 270 


Administration, state, 194ff.; under the 
Mauryas, 211; origin of system of, 
218-4; of justice, 215ff. 


Agricultural operations, 172-3 


Aiyangar, K. V. Rangaswami, on 
Cameralism and the Arthagdstra, 278 ; 
on supposed suppression of the 
Arthasdastra, 278-9 


Ajivakas, 98-99, 155 

Alchemy, alleged knowledge of, 71-2 

Altekar, A. S., 188n.; on age of beginn- 
ings of ArthaSastra, 11 

Ambhiyas, 44, 48 

Anviksiki, 99-100, 130 

Aristotle, political thought of, 275-7 

Armoury, 247 

Army, kinds of, 245; units of, 245; 
ranks in, 247; arranging, on the 
battlefield, 259 

Arrest, circumstances justifying, 285 

ae quoted, 8, 70, 187; referred to, 


Artha law, so-called, 224 

Arthasastra, definition and scope of, 1-5 ; 
and Dandaniti, 3-5; origin of, 5-10; 
age of beginnings of, 10-12; distinctive 
features of, 12; relation to Dharma- 
Sastra, 12-16; schools of, 42-44; 
limitations of, 277-8 

Artisans, control over, 185 

Arts and artists, 162-4 

Afoka, Officers mentioned by, 211-8; 
and Kautilya, 280-1 

ASvaghosa, on founders of Rajasastra, 7; 
and the Arthasdstra, 92-5 

Audit, 201 

Aufanasas, 42-44 


Authorship of the -irthasdstra, 50ff. 


Bahudantiputra, 44, 47 
Baikoy, I. P., on feudal society, 188 ; on 
weapons, 248; on warfare, 260n. 


Banerji-Sastri, A. P., on form of 
author’s name, 110 


Barhaspatyas, 42-44 
Barker, E., 275n., 276 


Basham, A. I.., lln.; on Ajivikas, 98 ; 
on rdjagabdopajivin, 124n.; on Gyu- 
dhiyaprdya janapada, 167; on treat- 
ment of slaves, 187; on frenibala, 
246; on fair play in fighting, 260; 
on conquests, 262 

Battle-arrays, 259 

Beni Prasad, 78n.; 149n.; on date of 
the <Arthaédstra, 64 

Berger, H., on form of author’s name, 
111 

Bhandarkar, D. R., lln.;.80n.; 50; 
65n.; on meaning of ariha, 2; on 
original metrical form of the Artha- 
Sdstra, 82 

Bhandarkar, R. G., on non-existence of 
Kautilya, 61-2; on the -Arsthaédstra 
and the Kdmasiitra, 95 

Bharadvaja, 8, 9, 44-47 

Boéhtlingk and Jacobi, 110 

Bose, A. N., on coins in the rthasdsitra, 
17 

Botazzi, G. B., 270 

Botto, O., 247n. 

Brahmins, position and influence of, 
144-6; gifts of land to, 171 

Breasted, J. H., 75n. 

Breloer, B., 59; 97n.; J87n.; 1095n.; on 
style of the -irthagdstra, 87 ; on assis- 
tanta to Kautilya, 55; on city- 
administration, 72; on Megasthenes’s 
account, 78; on castes, 149; on 
ownership of land, 169-71; on land 
economy, 178; on sittrddhyaksa, 184; 
on state stores, 189 ; on Chapter 5.2, 
190; on planned economy, 191; on 
origin of fiscalism, 192; on necessity 
of statistics, 214; on suits before 
dharmastha, 217; on policy of devas- 
tation, 262 

Brhaspati, 7, 8 

Brough, J., on Kautilya gofra, 112 

Buhler, G., 15, 89 


Cameralism and the Arthaédstra, 278 
Cameron, G. G,, 75n. 


Canakya, patronymic of Kautilya, 118 
Candialas, position of, 147-8 


oO nn 
ee ees 


298 


Cundragupta and tne -{rihasdsira, 62; 
106-8 ; 266-9 

Carr, E. H., 271 

Castes, through mixing of varnas, 146-8 

Catlin, G., on Machiavelli, 271; on Plato, 
275 


Cattle-tending, 175-6 

Cess, road, 179-80 

Charpentier, J., 95n. 

China, 74-5 

City, buildings in, 160-1 ; lifein, 160-2 

Coins, 181 

Communities, mixed, 146-8 

Confederacies, 253 

Conquerors, types of, 255 

Conquest, expedition of, 256-8; ways of, 
256; of the world, 2-8 

Conspiracies against ruler, 141-2 

Constituent elements of the state, 127-8 

Contract, original, 116-7 

Contracts, law of, 216-7 

Corruption among officers, 207-8 

Counsellors, 184-5 

Courtesans, 164 

Crimes, suppression of, 232ff. 

Currencies, 181-2 

Curtius, quoted, 70-1 


Dacoits, capture of, 234-5 

Dandaniti and Arthasastra, 3-5 

Daéakumdracarita, 21; 60; 96 

Deb, H. K., on vairdjya, 128 

Debts, 227 

Decrees, writing of, 88-91 

Defence of the state. 244 

Deities, worship of, 156-7 

Deposits, 227 

DharmaSastra, its relation to Arthasastra 
12-16 

Dikshitar, ¥. R. Ramachandra, 59; on 
the meaning of karma, 236. 


Diodorus, quoted, 70 
Diskalkar, D. B., 111 

Divine origin of king, 117 
Dowry, 151-2 

Dress, 162 

Drinking, 161-2 

Duty, custom and excise, 178-9 


Economy, state, 166ff. 
- Education, not state subject, 210 


KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


Embezzlement, 207 $ 
Icemergency, measures during, 189-191 
Envoys, 202-3, 250-1 

Entertainments, 162-3 

Epic legends, 57-8 

Evidence, law of, 218-20 

Expedition of conquest, 256-8 
Expenditure, state, 189 

Export of state goods, 177 


Fairs and festivals, 157-8 

Feudalism, 262 ; feudal society, 188 

Fick, R., 188n., 145n., 178n. 

Fighting, ways of, 258; in 
246-7 ; fairnessin, 259-60 

Fitzgerald, C. P., 74n. 

Fleet, J. F., 59, 77n. 

Food, 161 

Forcign relations, 248ff. 

Forest tribes, 149 

Forests and forest wealth, 174-5 

Formichi, C., 269 

Fort, siege and capture of, 260-1 

Fortresses, 244 


water, 


Gains of expedition, 257 


Gambling, 164 ; 229-30 

Garrison in the fort, 244 

Gaurasgiras, 8 

Geiger, W., 111 

Ghosh, B., 14n.; on works on law, 17-38 

Ghoshal, U. N., 169n. ; 174n,; on Artha- 
Sistra and Dandaniti, 4; on age 
of beginnings of ArthaSastra, 11; 
on reconstruction of Sastra, 56; on 
Hindu political theories, 117; on 
identification of king with state, 128 ; 
on Rajadharma in Smrtis and the 
sirthagdstra, 181; on classification of 
state income, 188; on positive law, 
223 

Gold and silver, 
working in, 183 

Goods, state, sale of, 177 

Gopal, M...H., 174n. 

Grierson, G.,.75 

Gupta, U. C., 88n. 

Gurner, C. W., on applicability of the 
<Arthagdstra in modern times, 264 


mining of, 182; 


Hargovindas and Behechardas, 110 
Health, no department of, 210 


GENERAL INDEX 


Heretical sects, 154-6 

Hillebrandt, A., on Arthasastra schools, 
17; on later additions in the Artha- 
$astra, 30; on authorship, 101-5; on 
qualities of a ruler, 129 ; 
of Indian kings, 180; on social stric- 
ture, 150; on Mudrdrdksasa tradition, 
268 ; on comparison of Kautilya and 
Bismarck, 269 

Idols, 156 

Images of deities, 156 

Import of goods, 178-9 

Income, state, 188 ; 

Indra, 6, 8 

Industry, 183-6 

Inheritance, 158-4, 226 

Insurrections, 257 

Investigation of crimes, 234-8 

Irrigation works, 172 

Itihasa, 57 


from mines, 183 


Jacobi, H., 42n. ; 44n. ; 58n.; 59; O1n.; 
100n.; 103; on interpolations, 27 ; 
on differences in style, 36; on 
schools, 48; on order of mention of 
authorities, 49; on absence of cita- 
tions, 53-54; on purpose in writing 
the Arthasdstra, 56 ; on an interpreta- 
tion by Jolly, 96; on criticism of 
tradition, 97-8; on difference bet- 
ween Canakya and Kautilya, 113 ; on 
astronomical indications, 115; on 
Kautilya and Bismarck, 269 

Janapada Assembly, so-called, 135-8 

Jayaswal, K. P., 3n.; 16n.; 59; 107n.; 

~ 109n. ; 169n. ; 286n.; on the meaning 
of vriti, 1; on age of beginnings of 
ArthaSastra, 11; on Cina, 75; on 
vairdjya, 123 ; on samghas in the 
Arthasdstra, 125; on absence of veto, 
135; on Paura and Jénapada Assem- 

_blies, 185-8; on artha law and 
vyavahdara law, 224-5 

Jina Vijay, Muni, 21n. 

Johnston, E. H.,170n.; 173n.; 279n.-; 
on Aévaghosa and the Arthasdsira, 
92-5 ; on Buddhist evidence regarding 
date of Kautilya, 98 

Jolly, J., 16n.; 42n.; 50; 59; 62n.; 71n.; 
72n.; 73;-78; 96; 106; llln.; 129n.; 
on relation between Dharmasastra 
and Arthasgastra, 12-4; on style 
of the Arthasdstra, 37; on Megasthe- 
nes and Kautilya, 67; on worth of 
Megasthenes’s work, 69; on the 
-irthagadstra and Yajiiavalkya, 80; on 


on culture - 


299 


the -{rihagdstra and Manu, 82 ; on the; 
Arthasdstra and the Kdmasiitra, 95-6; 
on form of author’s name, 109; on 
Kautilya as Southerner, 113 

Jolly, J. and Schmidt, R., on Bharad- 
vaja, 46 

Judges, 215-6; wrongful acts of, 221-2 

Justice, administration of, 215ff. 


Kddambari, 61; 110 


Kalyancv, V. I., 97; on date of the 
Arthagdstra, 96; on slavery society 
and feudal society, 186 


Kamasititra and the rthagdasira, 95-6 

Kane, P. V., 5n.; ln. ; 59; 75n.; 88n.; 
89n.; 169n.; on Bhéradvaja and 
Kautilya, 46; on the meaning of 
dca@ryadh, 49; on form of author's 
name, 109; on Lokayata, 130; on 
wages in kind, 209 

Kaninka Bharadvaja, 9, 10, 46 

Kaunapadanta, 44, 47 


Kautiliya Arthasastra, contents, 19-20; 
extent, 20-1; adhyayas and prakara- 
nas, 25-6; interpolations, 26-31 ; 
homogeneity, 31; order of prakara- 
nas, 81; form, 32-5; sutra and 
bhasya, 35-7; style, 36-7; language, 
38-9; sources, 40ff.; earlier authori- 
ties in, 42-55; legends and tales in, 
57-8; authorship and date, 59ff.; 
place-names in, 68, 74-6; and state- 
ments of Megasthenes, 66-74; and 
Yajiiavalkya, 78-80 ; and Manu, 80-3; 
and Silpagastra, 88-6; and other 
Sastras, 86-8; and writing decrees, 
88-91; and ASsvaghosa, 92-5; and 
Kadmasiitra, 95-6; and Dasgakumdra- 
carifa, 96; and philosophy, 99-100 ; 
manual of imperial polity, 268; and 
ethics, 264-5; and tradition, 267 ; 
and Greek political thought, 274-7 ; 
alleged repudiation of teaching of, 
279-81; significance to-day, 282-3 

Kautilya, compared with Tribonian, 37, 
107-8 ; characteristics of opinions of, 
44, 56; and Bismarck, 638, 269; 
citations of self, 101-3; accounts of, 
108-9 ; correct form of name, 109-18 ; 
home of, 118-5; and Machiavelli, 
269-738 ; and Plato, 274-5 ; and Aristo- 
tle, 275-7; alleged rejection of, 281-2 

Keith, A. B., 85n.; 42n.; 59; Tin.; 


102n.; on division into adhyayas, 
26n.; on doctrines in verse, 38; on 


Bharadvaja and Kautilya, 45-6; on 





300 


cilations in the cirthasdstiu, 50, 61, 
10}; on absence of reference to 
Candragupta and Pataliputra, 62; 
on Megasthenes’s evidence, 67 ; on the 
-lrihagdstra and Yajfiavalkya, 80; 
on Kautilya’s school, 108; on politi- 
cal thought in India, 116; on the 
-Arthasastra and Greek thought, 274 

King, duties of, 117-8; identification 
with state, 128; as judge, 215 ; see also 
Ruler 

Kingship, origin of, 116-7 

Kosambi, D. D., 59; 99n.; 112n.; 
188n.; on loss of text, 21-28; on 
discrepancy in manuscripts, 23-25 ; 
on additions in ms. D, 26-7; on 
janapada, 121; on Paura and Jana- 
pada, 138-9; on vanna, 148 ; on heavy 
industry, 188-4; on slavery, 187 


: Krause, F. E. A., 7-4n. 


Ktesias, mention of Indian swords by, 70 
Kuiper, F. B. J., on surungd, 76 


Labourers, 228 

Law, in Rome and in India, 107-8 ; ori- 
gin of, 225; heads of, 225-6; im 
Dharmagastra and the -Arihasdstra, 
230-1 

Law, N. N., 59; 116n.; 188n. 

Legends and tales, 57-8 

Lippmann, VW., 192n. 

Lokiyata, 180 

Loyalty, regional, 131 


Machiavelli and Kautilya, 269-73 

Magical practices, 159 

Mahabharata, Dandaniti in, 3; on origin 
of Dandaniti, 5-6; ArthaSsastra 
quotations in, 6-7, 85; «authors of 
Rajasastra according to, 8-0; tales 
from, 57-8 


Maine, H. S., on customary law, 225 ; 


on influence of Brahmanism on law, 
231 

Maitra, S. K., 138n. 

Majumdar, R. C., 1ln.; 126n.; 1385n.; 
185n.; 211n.; on mantriparisad, 135 

Makrydimas, D., 14n. 

Manu, Pracctasa, 8-9 

Manu, son of Vivasvat, as first king, 
116-7 

Manufacture, of gold and silver articles, 
188; of textiles, 184; of wines, 162 

Manusmrti and the Arthasdstra, 80-88 


KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


Marriage und marital relat ons, 151-3, 
226 

Martini, M., 7 

McCrindle, J. W., 
S4n.; 187n.; 
putra by, 69 

Megasthenes, statements of, compared 
with the -Arthagdstra, 66-74; on 
castes, 149; on slavery, 187 


Meyer, Eduard, 181n. 


Meyer, J. J., l4n.; 42n.; 59; 129n.; 
on law in the Dharmasiitras, 13; on 
later additions, 27; on verse-form 
of law, 35; on home of Kautilya, 
113-4; on mdnava gangs, 150; on 
emergency measures, 189-90 


3n.; 7TOn.; T1n.3 
excavations at Piatali- 


Mines, ownership of, 171, 182 ; workiag 
of, 182-8; income from, 183 

Ministers, 132-5 

Mitra, R., 110 

Monarchy, origin of, 116-7; abnormal 
forms of, 122-4; hereditary, 140; 
succession in, 140-1 

Monks, wandering, 154 

Mookerji, R. K.,on parallels between 
the Arthasdstra and Agoka, 210-1 

-Mudrardksasa, 60-1; 110; 268 

Murder, investigation of, 237 


Nag, IX., 56n. ; 50; 71n. ; on homogencity 
of some Books, 31; on place-names 
in the -Irthasdsira, 74; on repudia- 
tion and rejection of Kautilya, 279 


Niebuhr, R., 145, 146 

Nitisdra of Kamanduaka, 4; 60 
Nitigastra, scope of, 3-5 
Nuns, 154 


Occult practices and manifestations, 


159 

Officers, offences by, 288-9; corruption 
among, 207-8 

Ojha, K.C., on Visnugupta and Kautilya, 
105-6 

Oldenburg, S. Th., 186 


Pacification of conquered territory, 261 
ParaSaras, 42-5 

Partition of estate, 226 

Partnership, 228 

Pastures, 173 


P&taliputra, absence of mention of, 62-3 
excavations at, 69-70 


GENERAL INDEX 


Paura Assembly, so-called, 185-3 

Peace, policy of, 251-3 

Philosophy, 99-100; study of, 129-80 
Pisuna, 44, 47, 47n. 

Planning, economic, 191 

Plato, political thought of, 274-5 
Post-mortem examination, 237 

Prakrits, use of, 91 

Pran Nath, 59; on order of prakaranas, 


31-2; on original verse-form, 31-2 ; 
on coinage, 77; on grdma, 165 


Prince in disfavour, 141 

Prisons, 241-2 

Procedure, law of, 216-23 

Property, 226-7 

Prostitutes, 164 

Punishment, forms of, 237, 238, 230 


Purohita;role in formation of the saéstra, 
9-10; appointment of, 132-3 


Raghavan, V., on Kausika, 163 


Rajadharma in Smrtis and the -{riha- 
Sastra, 131-2 

Raychaudhuri, H.C., 11n.; on use of 
Sanskrit, 91 and n. 

Records office, 201 

Renou, L., 262n.; on mnemonic 
16 


Revenue, land, 173-4 


verses, 


Rewards for bravery, 25 

Rocher, L., 229n. 

Rostovtzeff, M., 2138; on steclmaking, 
71; on control of economy,192 

Ruben, W., on philosophy in the -{rtha- 
Sdstra and the Gita, 100; on absence 
of picty in Kautilya, 118, 252; on 
slavery, 186-7; on rajamandala, 
248-9; on genesis of theory of 
rajamandala, 250; on Kautilya and 
Machiavelli, 270 

Ruler, duties of, 117ff.; ideal, 129; 
training of, 129-80; checks on, 
189-40 ; conspiracies against, 141-2 

Russell, B., on Machiavelli, 271 


Salaries and wages, 208-10 

Samkhya, 130 

Sanskrit, use of, 01 

Sarkar, B. K., 43; 1210. ; 272n.; on 
economic planning, 101; on Machiu- 
vellism, 270 


301 


Sastri, G. Harihara, 200n. 

Sastri, K. A. Nilakanta, 16n. ; 50 ; 75n.; 
126n.; 168n.; on origin of adminis- 
trative system, 213; on king as 
law-maker, 223-4; on genesis of 
kantakagodhana, 240; on imperial 
polity, 263; on the drthagdstra and 
tradition, 267 

Sastri, T. Ganapati, 35; 110; on 
Ambhiyas, 48; on Yajfiavalkya and 
the irthasdstra, 79-80 

Sastri, Udayavira, 110 

School of Kautilya, 103-5 

Schools of Arthasastra, 42-4 

Seal, B. N., 86n. 

Security, internal, 282{f. 

Sedition, 242-3 

Seducible parties, 208, 251 

Senses, control over, 180 

Service, secret, 205-7 

Service, state, securing of, 205 

Settlements, new, 100, 167-9 

Sex offences, 238 

Shamasastry, R., 50; 102n.; on the 
meaning of dcdryah, 49; on Yaj- 
favalkya and the drihasdsira, 79 

Siege of a fort, 260 

Silpagastra and the -[rthasdsira, 83-4 

Silver, sec Gold 

Slavery, 186-7 

Slokas in the Arthasdstra, 33-4 

Society in the Arthasdstra, 142ff. 

Sources of the 4rthasdstra, 40ff. 

Spies, 205-7 

State, identification with king, 128; 
size of, 63-5, 120-2 

Stcherbatsky, Th., on age of sutra 
works, 97; on style of the -trtha- 
Sastra, 97 

Stein, O., 593; 156n.; 218n.; on discré- 
pancies, 41; on Megasthenes and 
Kautilya, 66-74 ; on surungd, 76; on 
Silpasistra and the -{rthasdstra, 83-6; 
on the Chapter on decrees, 88-91 

Stores, importance of, 189; kinds of, 
200 

Style of the -Arihasastra, 86-7 

Subjects, protection of, 117 ; welfare of, 
118-9 

Succession to throne, 140 

Sudras, status of, 143-4 


302 


; 


Suleikin, D. A., on social organisation, 
96-7 ; on castes, 148; on periods of 
Indian history, 186 

Superstitious belicfs, 1358-9 

Surety, 217 


Tactics on the battlefield, 258-9 

Tales, epic and historical, 57-8 

Tarn, W. W., 262n.; on Indian guide for 
Nearchus, 75-6; on Sirynx, 76; on 
Madra samgha, 126 

Teachers, earlier, 42ff. 

Technical arts and crafts, 54-5 

Temples, worship in, 156; property 
of, 157 

: Tests, secret, 204-5 

Textiles, manufacture of, 184 

Thapar, R., 212n. 

Theft, investigation of, 235 


Thieme, P., 36n.; 158n.; on school 
books, 104 


Thomas, F. W., 43; 59; 169n.; 211n. 
Topa, I., 128n. 

- Torture, 235-7 

‘Trade, control of, 176-7 
Tradc-routes, 179 

Trading, state, 177 

Training of the prince, 129-30 
‘Trayidharma, 156 

Treasure, buried, ownership of, 171 
Treasury, replenishment of, 189-01 
Treaties, types of, 251-3 

Trenckner, V., 111 

Tribonian,and Kautilya, 37, 107 
Troops, types of, 245 

‘T'urnour, G., 115n. 


Undertakings, state, 118 
USsanas, 7, 8 , 


Vallée Poussin, I.. de La, 78n.; 75n.; 
on samghas, 126 


KAUTILIYA ARTHASASTRA 


Varna system, 143ff. ; protection of, 
119; discrimination on basis of 
varnas, 144; mixture of varnas, 146 

Vartta, 166ff. 

Vassalage, 261-2 

Vatavyadhi, 44, 48° 

Vices, 130-1 

Village officers, 196-8 

Vinogradoff, P., on common origin of 
law, 225 

Visalaksa, 8, 44, 47 

Visnugupta, personal namc of Kautilya, 
118; not different from Kautilya, 
105-6 

Waddell, L. <A., on excavations at 
Pataliputra, 66, 69 

Wages, 208-9 

Walsh, E. H. C., 77n. 

War, 258-60; fairness in, 259-60 

Water-rate, 174 

Weapons, 247-8 

Weights and Measures, 180-1 

Widows, 153 

Wilhelm, F., 42n.; 44n.; 138n.; 192n.; on 
Bhiaradvaja, 47 ; on order of mention 
of teachers, 49-50; on style, 51-2; 
on absence of quotations, 54 

Williams-Jackson, A. V., 75n. 

Wines, 161-2 

Winternitz, M., 59; 61n.; 71n.; 106 ; on 
Dharmaégastra and ArthaSastra, 14; 
on memorable verses, 16-7; on non- 
mention of Kautilya, 62; on work of 
a Pandit, 65; on Megasthenes’s evi- 
dence, 67; on Yajfiavalkya and the — 
Arthasastra, 80; on Manu and the' 
Arthasdstra, 82,88; on exploitation. 
of religion by Kautilya, 274 

Witnesses, 218-20 

Writing in the drthasdstru, 88-91 


Ydjnavalkyasmrti and the Arthasasira, 
78-80 . 
Yoga, 130 



















al milieu in the raion of this monarch. \. divided into Sone chante Of 
‘the first six deal vel ic cay life amily of the Emperor, the details of his 
the county during the period. 








Be the insertion Nore an index an addenda on some eine inscripions ane Rock 
pcs, fifteen plates gock a fae of eect S SIDS. 


aod) the social conditions of 


bogs tae 


iy ye . ae 


eee Bee de Pree. * 


#- x 
Se Rated 


ix) <® Ld ark eT 


y 


Ww 
‘ 


a RSS ue : t / 
eA) aoe tye 


» 
we bh , 

