THE TEXTS OF THE WHITE YAJURVEDA 

or vAjasaneya-samhitA. 

BOOK THE FIRST; 


Thee for food. Thee for vigour. Ye are breezes. 

To noblest work God Savitar impel you. Inviolable! swell 
his share for Indra. 

No thief, no evil-minded man shall master you rich in off¬ 
spring, free from pain and sickness. 

Be constant, numerous to this lord of cattle. Guard thou 
the cattle of the Sacrificer. 


Books L and II. contain the texts and formulas required at the New and 
Full Moon sacrifices, the regular performance of which is obligatory on the 
Br&hmanical householder during thirty years from his Agny&dMna or 
ceremonial establishment of his own sacrificial fires ; or, according to some 
authorities, during his whole remaining life. Each of these sacrifices usually 
requires two days for its performance, the work of the first day consisting 
in introductory ceremonies such as the preparation of the Ahavaniya and 
Dakshinlgni, or Eastern and Southern fire-places, for the reception of fire 
from the Western fire-place, the G&rhapatya or Householders hearth ; the 
solemn taking of the vrata or vow of fasting and abstention during the 
sacrifice ; and the performance by the sacrificer of the evening Agnihotra 
or burnt oblation of milk. On this day also, the day before the appearance 
of the New or the Full Moon, the Adhvaryu priest, who performs the 
practical part of the sacrifice, cuts a branch from a Parna or PalfLsa tree 
(Butea Frondosa), or from a Sami tree (Acacia Sum a), trims it and uses it 
as a switch to drive the calves away from the cows whose milk is to form 
part of the offerings of the next day’s special ceremony. 

1 Thee; * I cut 1 understood. The Pal&sa branch is addressed by the 
Adhvaryu. For food: as instrumental in obtaining the seasonable rain 
and the good harvest which will result from the sacrifice. Thee for vigour - 
* I cut or trim,’ in order to obtain the bodily strength which a sufficiency of 
food may be expected to bring. Ye: the Adhvaryu touches and addresses 
the calves. Breezes: as the winds purify the ground, so do ye with your 
droppings which are used for smearing, and so cleansing, the floors of 
houses; or, perhaps, meaning * intruders,’ preventing the milking of the 
cows; or, free to wander where you will, and then to return home. The 
following lines contain a benediction on the cows. Noblest work: the sacri¬ 
fice, in which their milk is the most important element. Savitar: the 
Sun-God as the great vivifier and stimulator. No thief etc: cf. R. Y. VI. 
28.7. Guard thou: the Adhvaryu addresses the sacred branch which he 
hides on the eastern side of the Ahavaniya or of the G&rhapatya house. 




2 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK L 

2 Strainer of Vasu art thou. Thou art heaven. Earth art 

thou. Thou art Matarisvan’s caldron. 

Thou art the All-container. Stand thou firmly, secure by 
Law Supreme, an4 do not totter. Nor be thy Lord of 
Sacrifice unsteady/ 

3 Thou art the strainer, hundred-streamed, of Vasu. Thou 

art the strainer, thousand-streamed, of Vasu. 

May Savitar the God with Vasu’s strainer, thousand-stream¬ 
ed, rightly cleansing, purify thee. 

4 Which didst thou milk 1 This is the cow Visvatyu. This- 

Visvakarman. This is Visvadhayas. 

Thee, Indra’s share, with Soma do I curdle. Be thou protec¬ 
tor of the oblation, Vishnu. 

5 I will observe the vow, Lord of Vows, Agni! May I have 

strength therefor. Success attend me. 

Now into truth from untruth do I enter. 

6 Who is it that unites thee i He unites thee. For what 

doth he yoke thee \ For that he yokes thee. 

You two for work, you two for its completion. 


2 Strainer of Vasu: cleanser, purifier, of the sacrifice; vasu meaning: 
originally good, kind, wealthy. This pavitram or strainer, made of two or 
three blades of Kusa grass or Darbha (Poa Cfynosuroides), used at religious 
ceremonies, is fastened with this formula on the hidden Pal&sa or Sami 
branch (verse 1). Thou art heaven: he puts the sthdli or cooking-pot on 
the Gftrhapatya fire, and addresses it. He calls it heaven because as an 
implement of sacrifice it aids in producing rain. Earth r as being made of 
clay. Mdtarisvan 8 caldron: a fanciful expression for the atmosphere or 
mid-region of air, M&tarisvan being here identified with V&yu the Wind- 
God. Lord of Sacrifice ; the yojamdha or householder who institutes and 7 
takes part in the sacrifice. The strainer is then put on the cooking-pot, 
and addressed. 

3 Purify thee: the milk which is to be used in the Agnihotra sacrifice. 

4 Which didst thou milk t .- this is properly part of verse 3. In reply to* 
this question, thrice repeated, of the Adhvaryu, the milker (who may be 
any one above the rank of a Sfcdra) mentions the ordinary name of each 
of the three cows, and the Adhvaryu gives her a sacrificial name, thereby 
imparting to her the virtues and powers which the name signifies. Visvdyu r 
All-life-containing. Visvakarmm All-effecting. Visvadhdyas: All-sup- 
porting. Thee: the milk which is now removed from the fire. The mixture 
is then covered over with a vessel not made of earth, and entrusted to the 
guardianship of Vishnu or the sacrifice. 

5 Spoken by the sacrificer who with hie wife is about to take the pres¬ 
cribed t rata or vow of abstinence from certain food and enjoyment during 
the performance of the ceremonies. Lord of Vows: Agni is said to be the 
Gods' Vratapati, Lord or Keeper of vows* Truth: reality, godhead. Un¬ 
truth : unreality, perishable humanity; that is, * I attain to a divine body 
and am no longer a mere man.' He is thus bound to speak nothing but 
the truth. 

6 Unites theet: places the vessel containing the water, which has been- 
formally brought forward, by the side of the Ahavantya fine f The question 



WHITE YAJURVEDA, 


VERSE 11.] 


3 


7 Scorched are the fiends, scorched the malignant beings. 

Burnt out are fiends, burnt out malignant beings. 
Throughout the spacious middle air 1 travel. 

8 Thou art the yoke. Injure thou him who injures. Harm 

him who harm us. Harm the man we injure. 

Thou art the Gods’ best carrier, bound most firmly, filled 
fullest, welcomest, Gods’ best invoker. 

9 Thou art unbent, receiver of oblations. Stand firmly in thy 

place and do not totter. 

Nor be thy Lord of sacrifice unsteady. 

Let Vishnu mount thee. To the wind lie open. The demons 
are expelled. Let the five grasp it. 

10 By impulse of God Savitar I take thee with arms of Asvins, 

with the hands of Ptishan, 

Thee dear to Agni, dear to Agni-Soma. 

11 Thee for abundance, not for evil Bpirit. May mine eye look 

upon the light of heaven. 


is asked by the Adhvaryu. For what t or For whom 1 For that: or For 
him : katmai, like Latin cui, being either masculine or neuter. The mean¬ 
ing of the questions is ambiguous, the interrogative pronoun lea, Who f t 
in all its cases being also regarded as a name of Praj&pati, Lord of Creatures. 
See The Hymns of the Rigveda, X. 121. You two: the ladle used in offer¬ 
ing the Agnihotras, and the winnowing-basket with which chaff and grain are 
separated. Work: the sacrifice. The words * I take * are understood. 

7 Scorched: the ladle and winnowing-basket are heated, to symbolise the 
expulsion of malignant spirits who infest the air, after which the Adhvaryu 
is free to move in all directions. 

8 The Adhvaryu addresses the yoke (dhur) of the cart which contains 
the grain and other elements of sacrifice. Injure: dhUrva. The play on 
the word is lost in translation. Bound most firmly: sasnitamam; or, in 
accordance with the etymology of the word, best provider, most liberal giver. 

9 He addresses the cart. Vishnu: the sacrifice. Lie open: he addresses 
the rice. The five: his fingers, with which, when he has mounted the cart, 
he touches the rice. 

10 By impulse: prasewe. Savitar; the Impeller and Vivifier. Afvins: 
twin Light-Gods, heralds of Dawn, who are the Adhvaryus of the Gods. 
PUshan: a solar Deity who distributes their respective portions to the 
Gods. Thee: the rice. Agni and the dual Deity Agni-Soma are mentioned 
because an unaddressed oblation would cause doubt and contention among 
the Gods. 

The offering to Agni at a Full Moon sacrifice is a rice-cake presented on 
eight potsherds, and that to Agni-Soma one on eleven. 

11 Thee: the remainder of the rice; *1 leave* being understood. For 
abundance: or, according to Mahldhara, for future oblation. For evil spirit: 
ardtaye ; or, with Mahldhara, for non-oblation. Light: comprehending, 
according to Mahldhara, sacrifice, day, Gods, and Sun. Those with doors: 
houses, especially the house of the Sacrifices Throughout , etc, see L 7. 
Navel ; or centre. Aditfs lap: the bosom of infinite Earth. 



4 


THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOH L 

May those with doors stand on the earth securely. Through¬ 
out the spacious middle air I travel. 

Upon the navel of the earth I place thee* on AditVs Jap. 
Protect the oblation, Agni! 

12 Ye two are strainers that belong to Vishnu. By Savftar’s 

impulse, with this flawless strainer I purify you with the 
rays of Surya. 

Bright Waters, flowing forward, foremost drinkers, lead for¬ 
ward now this sacrifice, lead forward the Sacrifice’s Lord, 
the God-devoted Lord of the Sacrifice, the liberal giver. 

13 Indra elected you in fight with Vritra: in fight with Vpitra 

you elected Indra. 

By over-sprinkling are ye consecrated. I sprinkle thee 
agreeable to Agni. I sprinkle thee welcome to Agni-Soma. 
Pure for the work divine be ye, and holy, pure for the sacri¬ 
fice to Gods. Whatever of yours the impure have by their 
touch polluted, hereby I cleanse for you from all defile¬ 
ment. 

14 Giver art thou of happiness. Rejected are fiends, rejected 

are malignant beings. 

Aditi’s skin art thou. May Aditi receive thee. A wooden 
stone art thou. Thou art a broad-based stone. May the 
skin of Aditi receive thee. 

15 Body of Agni art thou, the releaser of speech. I seize thee 

for the Gods’ enjoyment. 

A mighty stone art thou, formed out of timber. 

12 Strainers: he makes two (see I. 2), and addressee them. Vishnu : 
the sacrifice. Flawless strainer: the wind. You: the sacrificial waters. 
Foremost drinkers: of the Soma with which they are mingled. 

13 Elected: mixed with Soma, to inspirit him. Vritra: the cloud-demon 
who obstructs and withholds the rain. The root of the word is vri, to en¬ 
compass, also, to choose; hence the play on the words avrinita, he elected, 
avrinidhvam, ye elected, and Vritra, Cf. R. V. III. 34. 3, vritram avrinot, 
he (indra) encompassed Vritra the Encompasser. Thee ; the* oblation.* Be 
ye: the sacrificial vessels which he purifies by sprinkling. 

14 Giver , etc,: he addresses the black-antelope’s skin—‘one of the sym¬ 
bols of Br&hmanical worship and civilisation/ See Sacred Books of the 
East, XII. p. 23 note. It is spread under the wooden mortar in which the 
rice is husked and pounded, to prevent any loss of the sacred offerings. 
Rejected: more literally, * shaken off,' by shaking the skin as it falls to the 
ground. Aditi: Earth. 

Wooden stone: the mortar is addressed, made of wood but representing 
the pressing-stones with which Soma juice is extracted. 

15 Thou: the rice-oblations poured into the mortar. Rdeoser of speech : 
of the voice of the priest whioh hitherto has been restrained. Great wood¬ 
en stone: the pestle is addressed. HawishlcrU: oblation-preparer j the 
Sacrificer, his wife, or another. 


WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


VERSE 18 .] 


Make ready for the Deities this oblation: with careful pre¬ 
paration make it ready. 

Havishkrit, come ! Havishkrit, come! Havishkrit, come! 

16 Thoa art a cock whose tongue is sweet with honey. Call to 

us hither sap and manly vigour. 

May we with thee in every fight be victors. Bain-grown art 
thou. May the rain-grown receive thee. 

Cleared off are fiends, cleared off are evil beings. Expelled 
are fiends. May V&yu separate you. May Savitar the 
God, the golden-handed, with flawless hand unto himself 
receive you. 

17 Bold art thou. Cast away the Corpse-consumer. Drive off 

the fire that eats raw flesh, 0 Agni. 

That which makes offerings to the Gods bring hither. 

Firm art thou, Make earth firm. For the foe’s slaughter I 
set thee on, devoted to the priesthood, devoted to the 
nobles and the kinsmen. 

18 Agni, do thou accept our holy service. 

Keeper art thou : make firm the Air’s mid-region. For the 
foe’s death I set thee on, devoted to priesthood and nobi¬ 
lity and kinsmen. 

Thou art a stay: uphold the sky securely. For the foe’s 
death, etc. 

I set thee on for sake of all the regions. Formers of layers 
are ye, and heap-formers. With Bhrigus’ and Angirases’ 
heat be heated. 


16 Thou: the sacrificial implement, a peg or wedge, with which the press¬ 
ing-stones are beaten, is addressed. Cock: on account of the noise it makes. 
Sweet: to the Gods, as announcing the preparation of sacrifice. Rain-grown : 
the winnowing basket, made of reeds and strong grass that grow rapidly in 
the rainy season, is addressed. Thee: the husked rice, grown also in the 
Bains, which is poured into the winnowing-basket. Cleared off: together 
with the fallen husks. V&yu: the wind. You: the husked and unhusked 
grain. Flawless: letting no grains fall through separated fingers. Receive 
you : the husked grain. 

17 Thou: the poker or fire-shovel of Pal&sa wood is addressed. Corpse- 
consumer : the fire of the funeral pile. That eats raw flesh: domestic fire 
for cooking meat. These two. forms of fire are excluded, and the sacrificial 
fire is to remain. Firm art thou: the potsherd on which the oblation iB to 
be cooked is addressed. The kinsmen: of the Sacrifices 

18 Keeper: a second potsherd is addressed. Stay: a third potsherd is 
addressed. I set thee on: he addresses a fourth potsherd which he puts on 
the fire. Ye: the remaining potsherds, which he covers with live coals. 
Bhrigus and Angirases: ancient priestly families, most intimately connected 
with the worship of Agni. 



6 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOR /. 

19 Giver of happiness art thou. Rejected are fiends, rejected 

are malignant beings. Aditi’s skin art thou. May Aditi 
receive thee. 

Bowl, rock art thou. May Aditi’s skin receive thee. 

Thou art the sky’s supporting pillar. 

Bowl from the rock art thou. The rock receive thee. 

20 Grain art thou. Please the Gods. Thee for in-breathing. 

For out-breath thee. Thee for diffusive breathing. May 
I impart to life a long extension. 

May Savitar the God, the golden-handed, with flawlees hand 
unto himself receive you. 

Thee for the eye. Juice art thou of the Great Ones. 

21 By impulse of God Savitar I strew thee, with arms of Asvins, 

with the hands of Pfishan. 

With plants let waters, plants with sap be mingled. United 
be the rich ones with the moving. The sweet ones and 
the sweet be joined together. 

22 For generation’s sake I join thee. This is Agni’s. This Agni- 

Soma’s. Thee for food. 

Thou art the caldron, life of all that liveth. Spread thyself 
widely forth, thou, widely spreading. So may thy Lord of 
sacrifice spread widely. 

Thy skin let Agui harm not. In highest heaven let the God 
Savitar bake thee. 

23 Fear not Shrink not. Let not the sacrifice be languid, not 

languid be the Sacrificer’s offspring. 

For Trita thee. For Dvita thee. For Ekata thee. 

19 Giver, etc.: the black-antelope's skin is again addressed. See I. 14. 
Bowl, rock: the nether pressing-stone now placed on the skin. Bowl from 
the rock: the upper and smaller stone regarded as the offspring of the 
nether stone. 

20 Grain: the rice now poured on the nether stone is addressed. Please : 
dhinuhi, imperative of dhi from which Mahidhara derives dhdnyam , grain. 
In-breathing, etc.: three of the five or more vital airs. Life: of the sacri- 
ficer. May Savitar , etc.: repeated from 1.16. Thee: 1 1 look at ’ understood. 
For the eye: that the sacrificer’s sight may be strengthened. Thou: the 
clarified sacrificial butter. Great Ones: the cows. 

21 Thee: the ground rice which is now poured into a vessel which con¬ 
tains the two strainers (I. 12). Plants: the rice. Rich ones: the waters 
with which the flour is mixed. The moving: the plants, the rice. 

22 For generation's sake: that children may be born to the Sacrificer. 
The mixture of rice and water is addressed. This: the dough is divided, 
one lump or cake for Agni and one for the dual deity, Agni-Soma. Thee : 
the clarified butter. For food: as in 1.1. Caldron : the rice-cake is likened 
to the caldron used at the Pravargya ceremony, introductory to the Soma 
Sacrifice. See Sacred Books of the East, XII. p. 44, note. Agni: the fire 
on which the cake is put. 

23 Fear not: my touch. He addresses the cake and touches it. Trita 



WHITE YAJURYEDA. 


7 


VERSE 27 .] 

24 By impulse of God Savitar I take thee, with arms of Asvins, 

with the hands of Pftshan, thee who for Gods performest 
sacred service. 

Indra’s right arm art thou: sharp with a thousand spikes, 
a hundred edges. The keeu-edged Wind art thou, the 
foeman’s slayer. 

25 0 Earth, whereon men serve the Gods with worship, let me 

not do thy plant’s root any damage. 

Go to the pen, the cowstall. Heaveu rain for thee. 

On this earth’s farthest end, God Savitar, biud him, with 
hundred fetters bind the man who hates us and whom 
we hate. Thence do not thou realease him. 

26 May I drive Araru away from Earth, the seat of men’s obla¬ 

tions to the Gods. Go to the pen.release him 

(as iu verse 25). 

O Araru, thou shalt not soar to heaven. Let not thy drop 
mount upward to the sky. 

Go to the pen.release him (as in verse 25). 

27 I with the metre G&yatri enclose thee. I lay the Trishtup 

metre round about thee. With Jagati metre I confine 
and gird thee. 


—TpiTog third; an ancient Vedic Deity, perhaps Agni in his third or 
lightning form. Dvita and Ekaia, formed analogically from dvi, two, and 
eka, one, are Br&hmanical figments, and are said to be Trita’s brothers. 
See Macdonell, Vedic Mythology, pp. 67*69. According to Mahidhara 
the three are Agni’s brothers. Thee : 1 1 pour out ’ understood; the water 
with which the cooking-vessel has been rinsed. 

24 Thee: the sphya, a wooden implement shaped like a sword, used for 
stirring the boiled rice, drawing lines on the ground, and other sacrificial 
purposes. Thousand spikes: like, and representing in its power, the thunder¬ 
bolt of Indra. Foeman's slayer: destroyer of Asuras or fiends and of those 
who hate and interrupt sacrifices. 

25 0 Earth , etc.: with this formula the Adhvaryu throws the sphya on a 
clump of grass placed between him and the altar. Go to the pen, etc.: be 
not wasted ; mix with the droppings of the cows. He addresses the earth 
raised up by the sphya . Rain for thee: he addresses the altar. Earth's 
farthest end: that is, Naraka or hell. With this formula the loose soil is 
thrown upon the rubbish-heap. 

26 The sphya is thrown a second time. Araru: a certain Asura or fiend. 
See R. V. X. 99. 10; A. V. VI. 46. 1. Thy drop: earth, or the altar in the 
shape of the earth, is addressed, while the sphya is thrown a third time. 
The drop is earth’s life sustaining moisture which must not mount upward 
and be lost. 

27 The names of the three chief Vedic metres are given to the three 
lines drawn with the sphya on three sides of the altar. Thee: Vishnu, that 
is, the sacrifice. Sprung from good soil: the Vedi or altar is addressed. 





8 


WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


[ BOOK I. 


Sprung from good soil art thou, and bliss-bestowing. Pleas¬ 
ant art thou, and a fair seat to rest on. Thou hast both 
strengthening food and drink in plenty. 

28 Before the cruel foe’s secret departure, Mighty One, raising 

high earth, life-bestower, which to the Moon they lifted 
by oblations, that earth the sages still point out and wor¬ 
ship. 

Deposit in its place the sprinkling-water. Thou art the slayer 
of the man who hates us. 

29 Scorched are the demons, scorched the evil beings. Burnt 

out are fiends, burnt out malignant creatures. 
Unsharpened, thou art slayer of the foemen. Thee, rich in 
food, I cleanse for the food’s kindling. 

Scorched.creatures (as above). 

Thee rich in food, I cleanse for the food’s kindling. 

30 A zone for Aditi art thou. Pervader of Vishnu art thou. 

For great strength I take thee. I look upon thee with an 
eye uninjured. 

Thou art the tongue of Agni. Good invoker of Gods be 
thou at every holy statiou, at every sacrificial text I utter. 

31 By Savitar’s impulsion do I cleanse thee, with flawless 

strainer, with the rays of Sfirya. 

By Savitar’s impulsion do I cleanse you, with flawless strain¬ 
er, with the rays of Sfirya. 

Light art thou; thou art splendid ; thou art Amrit. Thou, 
truly, art the Gods’ beloved station, inviolable means of 
holy worship. 


28 The cruel foe's: probably the demon Aram is meant. Mighty One: 
Vishnu, or the sacrifice, is addressed. Point out ; in the spots of the 
Moon. Deposit: the Agnidhra or Fire-kindling priest is addressed. Its 
place: the altar. Thou: the water, which is called on to aid in defending 
the sacrifice from interruption. 

29 Scorched, etc.: the formula is repeated from I. 7. The sruva or 
dipping-spoon is symbolically heated. I cleanse: by wiping it with sacred 
grass. For the food's kindling: with sacrificial butter. With this formula 
he cleanses the sruk or offering-spoon. 

30 The Adhvaryu girds the Sacrificer’s wife with a triple cord of Mufija 
grass (Saccharum Munja), and initiates her as her husband's associate in 
the ceremony. Aditi; Earth, represented by the Sacrificer’s wife. Per- 
voder: the southward end of the girdle is addressed. Vishnu: the 
Sacrifice. I: the matron speaks as she looks down on the pot of sacrificial 
butter which the Adhvaryu places before her. 

31 The Adhvaryu speaks. Thee: the clarified butter. You: the sprink¬ 
ling waters. Thou ; the butter. Amrit: nectar, the drink of the Gods; 
or, immortal. Beloved station: 1 favourite resort (or, dainty) ’: Eggeling. 




BOOK THE SECOND. 


Thou art a black-buck dwelling in the covert. I sprinkle 
thee agreeable to Agni. 

Thou art the altar. Thee welcome to the sacred'grass I 
sprinkle. 

Thou art the sacred covering-grass. I sprinkle thee grateful 
to the sacrificial ladles. 

2 Thou art what giveth Aditi her moisture. Thou art the 

hair-tuft on the head of Vishnu. I spread thee, wool- 
soft, good for Gods to sit on. 

Hail to the Earth’s Lord! To the World’s Lord Hail! Hail 
to the Lord of Beings! 

3 For safety of this all let the Gandharva Visvavasu lay thee 

round as a protection. Thou art the Sacrificer’a guard, 
thou, Agni, lauded and worthy to receive laudation. 

Indra’s right arm art thou. For safety.laudation. 

For safety of This All, with firm law, northward let Mitra- 
Varuna lay thee round as keeper. Thou art the Sacri¬ 
fice's guard.laudation. 

4 Thee, Sage, who offerest to Gods their banquet, we will 

enkindle till thou shinest brightly, thee mighty in the 
sacrifice, 0 Agni. 


1 Thou: the Adhvaryu addresses the fuel placed on the altar, as he 
unties and sprinkles it. Black-buck: sacrifice in the shape of a black deer: 
Hahidhara. Altar: which he sprinkles. Sacred grass: the Barhis or 
sacrificial grass with which the altar is covered. 

2 Thou: the remainder of the water, which he pours on the roots of 
the grass. Aditi: the earth. Hair-tuft: this formula is addressed to the 
Prastara, a tied-up bunch of grass put upon the sacred grass which covers 
the altar. Thee: the sacred grass. Bail! etc.: the fire is enclosed with 
three fenders or fencing sticks. Any part of the oblation that falls outside 
these sticks is offered to Agni’8 three brothers who are here called 
respectively Earth’s Lord, World’s Lord, and Lord of Beings. 

3 Here begins the ceremony of laying the paridhis or enclosing-sticks, 
made of Palftsa or other sacred wood, round the sacrificial fire. Visvdvasu : 
Lord of all Treasure (see R. V. X. 85. 21; 139. 4, 5.), chief of the Gan- 
dharvas, a class of celestial beings closely connected with light and the 
aerial waters. Thee: the first enclosing-stick, placed on the west side of the 
fire. Jndra*s arm: the second stick, placed on the south side. The third 
stick is laid on the north side. Mitra ■ Varuna: Mitra (the Friend) is the 
Iranian Mithra and identified with the Sun. Varuna (Encompasser), origi¬ 
nally the starry heaven, is the chief Vedic deity next to Indra. 

4 A samidh or kindling-stick is applied to light the fire. Thee: the 
Ahavanlya fire. 






10 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK II. 

5 Thou art a kindler. From the east let Surya keep thee 

secure from every imprecation. 

You are the arms of Savitar. I spread thee as soft as wool, 
good for the Gods to sit on. On thee sit Yasus, Rudras, 
and Adityas! 

6 Thou who art called Juhti art rich in fatness. On this dear 

seat, with the dear home, be seated. 

Thou, Upabhrit by name, art rich in fatness. On this. 

be seated. 

Thou who art called Dhruv&, art rich in fatness. On this, etc. 
In the Law’s lap they have sat down in safety. 

Guard these. Guard thou the Sacrifice, 0 Vishnu. Keep 
thou the Sacrifice’s Lord in safety. 

7 0 Agni, Winner of the Spoil, I cleanse thee, thee who wilt 

hasten to the spoil, Spoil-winner. 

Obeisance to the Gods ! Svadha to Fathers ! Be both of you 
easy for me to handle. 

£ May I to-day offer Gods unspilt butter. Let me not with 
my foot offend thee, Vishnu. 

Agni, may I approach thy shade abounding in store of riches. 
Thou art Vishnu’s mansion. 

Hence Indra wrought his deed of manly vigour. The sacri¬ 
fice stood firmly elevated. 


5 Thou: a second kindling-stick is applied and addressed. From the east: 
as it is protected by enclosing-sticks on the three other sides. Stii'ya: the 
Sun-God, the expeller of evil spirits who would disturb the sacrifice. You: 
two blades of grass laid cross-wise on the grass which covers the altar. 
Thee: the Prastara (II. 2), which he unties and spreads. Vagus ; a group 
of deities eight in number, associated with Indra, and, in later texts, with 
Agni. Rudras ; a group of deities, sons of Rudra, eleven or thirty* three 
in number. Adityas : sons of Aditi, a class of Gods of whom Varuna is 
chief. Six are enumerated in R. V. II. 27.1. In R. V. IX. 114. 3 they are 
said to be seven in number, and in R. V. X. 72. 8 eight. 

6 The Adbvaryu addresses and takes hold of three offering-spoons or 
ladles made of different sorts of wood, the Juhfi, the Upabhrit, and the 
DhruvS, which he lays down in order, the first on the Prastara and the 
others on the Barhis or altar-grass beneath it The Law's lap: the bosom 
of sacrifice. Vishnu: the sacrifice. 

7 Spoil: or food, according to Mahidhara. I cleanse: he trims the fire. 
SvadhA: the prescribed sacrificial exclamation or prayer on presenting an 
oblation to the Fathers, Manes or Spirits of deceased ancestors. The word 
means also the food offered to them. Both of you .* the offering spoons 
called Juhfi and Upabhrit. 

8 With my foot: he must step to the south side of the altar with the left 
foot in advance of the right, and return with the right foot before the left. 
Vishnu: the personified Sacrifice. Shade: shelter; place of refuge. Hence: 
starting from this place of sacrifice. His deed; the slaughter of the drought- 
demon Vritra. Firmly elevated: securely established and uninterrupted 
after Indra’s victory. 




VERSE 14 .] WHITE TAJ UR VEDA. 11 

9 0 Agni, undertake the Hot&r’s office, take on thyself the 
duty of an envoy. 

Heaven and Earth guard thee! Guard thou Earth and Heaven. 
May Indra be, by this presented butter, maker to Gods of 
fair oblation. Svah& ! Let light combine with light. 

10 Indra bestow on me that Indra-power! May wealth in full 

abundance gather round us. Let blessings wait on us, 
yea, real blessings. 

Our Mother, Earth, hath been invited hither. May Earth, 
our Mother, in return invite us. I, through my Kindler- 
ship, am Agni. Sv&h&! 

11 The Father Heaven hath been invited hither. May Heaven 

the Father in return invite us. 

By impulse of God Savitar I receive thee with arms of 
Asvins, with the hands of P&ahan. I feed upon thee 
with the mouth of Agni. 

12 God Savitar, this sacrifice of thine have they proclaimed 

unto Brihaspati the Brahman Priest. 

Therefore protect the sacrifice, protect the sacrifice’s lord, 
protect thou me. 

13 The butter’s rapid flow delight his spirit! Brihaspati extend 

this act of worship. May he restore the sacrifice uuinjured. 
Here let all Gods rejoice. Om ! Step thou forward. 

14 This is the stick for kindling thee, 0 Agni. By means of 

this grow strong and swell to greatness. May we too grow 
in strength and swell to greatness. 

O Agni, thou who winnest food, I cleanse thee, thee who 
hast hastened to the food, Food-winuer. 


Hotar's: aacrificer’s or invoker’s ; he is the chief priest with whom the 
Adbvaryu is associated. Envoy : messenger to the Gods to whom he bears 
oblations. Svdhd /; a sacrificial exclamation : Ave ! Hail! Benedictio sit! 
Light combine: the butter in the Juhfi with that in the Dhruvft, which he 
now mixes. 

10 That Indra-power: the great power which I hope for. The formula is 
muttered by the Sacrificer. May wealth , etc.: taken from R. V. 1. 98. 3. 
Earth : Prithivi ; the broad, expansive one. 

11 Father Heaven: or Heaven*Father ; DyaushpitA (Dyauh pitri) = Z^C 
Varfip, Jupiter; the Universal Father, the Consort of Earth. I receive thee: 
said by the Brahman or directing priest as he takes his allotted portion of the 
oblation. 

12 Brihaspati: Lord of Prayer ; the Brahman Priest of the Gods, and 
the representative and impersouation of human priesthood. 

13 Om : the sacred mystical syllable; yea ; so be it; Amen. Step thou 
forward: the Brahman’s answer to the Adhvaryu. 

14 The kindling-stick is consecrated by the Hotar. Food ; or spoil, wealth, 
the prize. 




12 


THE TEXTS OP THE 


[BOOK 11. 

15 After the victory of Agni-Soma may I obtain the victory. 

By impulse of sacrificial food I speed me onward. 

May Agni-Soma drive off him who hates us, drive off tbe 
man whom we detest. By impulse of sacrificial food away 
I drive him. 

After the victory of Indra-Agni may I obtain the victory. 

By impulse of sacrificial food I speed me forward. 

May Indra-Agni.I drive him. 

16 For Vasus thee. For Rudras thee. Thee for Adityas. 

Be, Heaven and Earth, accordant with each other. With 
rain may Mitra-Vanina assist thee. 

May the birds go, licking what is anointed. 

Go to the Maruts’ speckled mares. Go, having become a 
speckled cow thyself, to heaven, and from that place bring 
the rain for us hither. 

Thou art the eye’s guard : guard mine eye, 0 Agni. 

17 The stick which thou, God Agni, laidest round thee, what 

time thou wast kept hidden by the Panis, this do I bring 
to thee for thine enjoyment. May it remain with thee 
and ne’er be fruitless. 

Approach, ye two, the place which Agni loveth. 

18 The residue ye have to be your portion, mighty by food, ye 

Gods, ye who are stationed on the grass-bunch, and to be 
laid as fences. 

All ye, applauding this my speech, be seated on this grass- 
bunch and there be joyful. Svaha 1 Vat! 

15 The formula is recited by the Sacrificer as he separates the Juhft and 
the Upabhrit spoons and moves the former eastward. Victory : their undis¬ 
turbed appropriation of the rice-cake offered to the dual Deity at the Full 
Moon sacrifice. Indra-Agni : as in the case of Agni-Soma, but the formula 
is to be used at the New Moon sacrifice. 

16 With the first three formulas the Adhvaryu anoints the three enclos¬ 
ing-sticks in the order in which they were laid down. Thee: ‘ I anoint * 
beiug understood. A ccvrdant: in producing rain. Mitra- Varuna: who 
are especially Rain-Gods (see R. V. V. 63 and 69). Birds: the metres G&yatri 
and others, according to Mahidhara. What is anointed: the Prastara. 
According to the Satapatha-Brdhmana, the formula is: ‘May (the Gods) 
eat, licking the anointed bird (the Prastara)/ See Sacred Books of the 
Bast, XII. p. 242 Speckled mares: which convey the Maruts, the Gods of 
storm and rain. Speckled cow: representing the Earth. 

17 The stick: the Adhvaryu throws the western eudosing-stick on the 
fire. Panis: demons of darkness who steal the Gods* cows, the rays of 
light, and hide them in caverns. Ye two: the remaining sticks which are 
now thrown into the fire. 

18 The residue: of the sacrificial butter. Ye Gods: Visve devdfa the 
Visvedevas or All-Gods. Grass-bunch: the Prastara. Pences: that is, re¬ 
presentatives of the enclosing-sticks. Svdhd: All hail! Vdt : a sacrificial 
exclamation on making an offering of clarified butter, meaning, probably* 
Take, or carry (to tjie Gods). 




VERSE 21 ] WHITE YAJURVBDA. 13 

19 Rich in oil are ye. Guard the two yoke-fellows. Ye two 

are full of grace, to grace conduct me. 

Glory to thee, 0 Sacrifice, and increase ! Stand firm in my 
auspicious, righteous worship. 

20 0 Agni of unweakened strength, far-reaching, protect me 

from the lightning-flash, protect me from bondage, from 
defect in sacrificing, from food injurious to health protect 
me. 

Make thou the food that feeds us free from poison in the 
home good to sit in. Svaha i Vat! 

Hail to the Lord of close embracements, Agni! Hail to Sa- 
rasvati enriched with glory ! 

21 Veda art thou, whereby, 0 godlike Veda, thou hast become 

for Deities their Veda: thereby mayst thou become for 
me a Veda. 

O Deities, ye knowers of the Pathway, walk on the path¬ 
way having known the Pathway. 

God, Lord of Spirit, hail J bestow upon the Wind this sacri¬ 
fice. 

22 Blest be the Grass with sacred food and butter. Let Indra 

be united with the Adityas, the Vasus, Maruts, and the 
Visvedevas. Let Sv&ha-ofFerings rise to heavenly ether. 


19 Ye: the Juhfi and Upabhrit spoons. Yoke-fellows: the two oxen who 
draw the cart containing the sacrificial elements. 

20 0 Agni: he grasps the two spoons, the sruk or Juhfi and the aruva. 
In the home good to sit in: Mahldhara alternatively supplies, ‘ establish me.’ 
lord of close embracements: oblation is oftered to Agni as a God who presides 
over the production of children, and to Sarasvatt or V&k, Goddess of Speech 
and Eloquence, who will make them famous. 

21 The Matron, the Sacrificer’s wife, unties the Veda, the tied-up bunch 
of sacred grass used for various purposes in sacrifice, passed from one priest 
to another, and handed to the Sacrificer, and to his wife when she recites 
a text or formula, as she does in this place. Their Veda: (from vid, to 
know, or obtain) their knower, or finder. For me a Veda: a finder, or 
obtainer. 0 Deities: he addresses all the invited Gods. Pathway: the 
sacrifice. Walk on the pathway: go your several ways; the formula of dis¬ 
missing the Gods who are present at the sacrifice, lord of Spirit: Genius 
of man*s spiritual power and life ; the Moon, according to Mahidhara, or 
Paramesvara the Supreme Lord. The Wind: representative of the New or 
Full Moon sacrifice. This sacrifice : speoial sacrifice, which is to be estab¬ 
lished in, or united with, the other. 

22 The Grass: the Bar his. or altar grass. Mahidhara explains the verse 
differently: Together with Adityas, Vasus, Maruts, and Visvedevas, 
thoroughly may Indra anoint the Grass with butter like to havis (sacred 
food). Svdhd-offeringt: duly consecrated oblations. Heavenly ether: the 
Sun in heaven. 




14 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK If. 

23 Who liberates tbee from the yoke 1 He frees thee. For whom? 

For him he looses thee. For pleuty. 

Thou art the Rakshasas’ allotted portion. 

24 We have combined with lustre, vigour, bodies; we have 

united with the blessed spirit. May Tvashtar, bounteous 
giver, grant us riches, and clear each fault and blemish 
from the body. 

25 By Jagati metre in the sky strode Vishnu. Therefrom ex¬ 

cluded is the man who hates us and whom we detest. 

By Trishtup metre in the air strode Vishnu. Therefrom, etc. 
By Gayatri upon the earth strode Vishnu. Therefrom, etc. 
From this food. From this resting-place excluded. 

We have reached heaven. We have combined with lustre. 

26 Thou, noblest ray of light, art Self-existent. Giver art thou 

of splendour. Give me splendour. 

I move along the path that Sfirya travels. 

27 Agni, may I become a good householder, through thee, 

Home-master, 0 Householder Agni. Mayst thou become 
an excellent Householder through me the master of the 
house, 0 Agni. 

Through hundred winters may our household matters—not 
like a one-ox car—be smoothly managed. 

I move along the path that S&rya travels. 

28 I have performed the vow, Lord of Vows, Agni! Full power 

was mine, and it has proved successful. 

Now am I he I truly am, no other. 


23 He pours on the altar the holy water which has been brought forward 
(pranitd) for the ceremony by the Adhvaryu from the G&rhapatya house. 
Who ?: or Ka. See I. 6. Thee: the holy water. He: Prajftpati. Plenty : 
the prosperity of the Sacrificer. Thou: the refuse of the rice, which is 
strewn on the rice-cake potsherd, under the black-buck’s skin, as the allott¬ 
ed share of the Rakshasas or fierce and malicious demons. 

24 The Adhvaryu, having gone round the fire, pours out a full vessel of 
water which the Sacrificer catches with both hands hollowed and placed 
together, aud recites the text. Bodies: limbs and members fit for the per¬ 
formance of religious duties, or, perhaps, our wives and sons. Tvashtar : 
the divine Artificer, developer and shaper of the forms of living beingB. 

25 He makes the three ceremonial vishnu-strides in imitation of that 
solar deity's strides through the three divisions of the world. By Jagatf : 
supernatural powers are attributed to the Vedic metres as representations 
of effectual prayers. 

26 Thou: the Sun, to which he looks. 

27 Hundred winters: regarded as the natural duration of human life. 
See The Hymns of the Rigveda, and The Hymns of the Atharva-veda, 
Index. 1 move: he turns' from left to right. 

28 Having completed the vow, the Sacrificer discharges himself of fur¬ 
ther obligations. He I truly am,: a man, not a semi-divine being as I was 
while performing the vow. See 1. 5 and note. 


VERSE 8S.] WHITE TAJURVEDA. 1» 

29 To Agni Hail 1 who bears gifts due to Sages. To Soma Hailt 

accompanied by Fathers. 

Expelled are Asuras and fiends who sate upon the covering’ 
grass. 

30 The AsuraA, attracted by oblation, who roam at will assum¬ 

ing varied figures, from this our world may Agni drive 
them, whether they clothe themselves in large or little 
bodies. 

31 0 Fathers, here enjoy yourselves. Come hither, like bulls, 

come each to his allotted portion. 

The Fathers have enjoyed themselves, and hither, like bulls, 
come each to his allotted portion. 

32 Obeisance to your geuial sap, 0 Fathers f Fathers, obeisance 

unto you for Ardour ! Fathers, obeisance unto you for 
Svadha! Obeisance unto you for Life, 0 Fathers! 

Fathers, to you obeisance for the Awful! Fathers, obeisance 
unto you for Passion ! 0 Fathers, unto you be adoration. 
Bestow upon us houses, O ye Fathers. Of what is ours, O 
Fathers, will we give you. With this your raiment clothe 
yourselves, 0 Fathers. 

33 Fathers, bestow on me a babe, a boy enwreathed with 

lotuses, so that there may be here a man. 


29 The following are texts for the Pindapitriyaj&a, the monthly ancestral 
sacrifice or offering of obsequial cakes to* the* Fathers or Manes as part of 
the New and Full Moon sacrifices. To Agni: part of the oblation i» 
presented to him as the general receiver of all sacrificial offerings. Sages : 
a special class of Manes. To Soma: as especially connected with the 
Fathere. See R. V. VIII. 48. 13; A. V. XVIII. 4. 72, 73 ; Macdonell, 
Vedic Mythology, p. 109. Expelled: he draws a line of demarcation from, 
north to south. 

30 He lays down a firebrand to keep the fiends at a distance. Varied 
figures: even the forms of departed ancestors. Large or little bodies: thie 
.is Mahldhara’s explanation of the doubtful words purdpurah and nipvrah. 

32 Obeisance is offered to the Fathers six times in accordance with the 
seasons of the year. Your genial sap: the fresh juices of trees and plants 
in Spring. Ardour: the Summer. Life: the vivifying water of the Rains. 
Svadhd: or, viands ; the food offered to the Fathers, representing fruitful 
Autumn. The Awful: the cold Winter. Passion: the chilling Dewy 
Season which kills the plants, Similarly it was the belief of the Old North¬ 
men that their dead patriarchs had the power of sending good seasons. See 
Corpus Poeticum Boreale, II. 414, 418. Houses: wives and families. Rai¬ 
ment : threads, or wool, or hairs from the Sacrificer’s chest, placed on each 
obsequial cake. 

33 The matron who wishes for a son eats the middlemost of the three 
cakes and recites this formula. 



16 


WHITE YAJUHVEDA. 


[BOOK II. 


34 Bearers of vigour aud immortal fatness, milk and sweet be¬ 
verage and foaming liquor, je are a freshening draught. 
Delight my Fathers. 

34 He addresses the waters which he pours on the cakes. Immortal fat - 
ness: imperishable ghritam, ghl, or clarified butter which goes to the Gods. 
According to Mahidhara, amritam here means destroyer or banisher of all 
disease and death. Sweet beverage: ktldla; a kind of Metheglin. Foam - 
ing beverage: parimU ; a sort of beer. 





BOOK THE THIRD. 


Serve Agni with the kiudling-brand, with drops of butter 
wake the Guest. 

In him pay offerings to the Gods. 

2 To Agni Jatavedas, to the flame, the well-enkindled God, 

Offer thick sacrificial oil. 

3 Thee, such,0 Angiras, with brands and sacred oil we magnify, 

O very briliiaut, Youthfuliest. 

4 Rich in oblations, dropping oil, to thee, sweet Agni, let 

them go. 

Accept with favour these my brands. 

5 Earth ! Ether! Sky ! 

Like heaven in plenty and like earth in compass ! Upon thy 
back, Earth, place of sacrificing to Gods, for gain of food 
I lay food-eating Agni. 

6 This spotted Bull hath come and sat before the Mother and 

before 

The Father, mounting up to heaven. 

This Book contains formulas for the Agnihotra or morning and evening 
burnt oblation of milk which is obligatory on the householder during ( with 
some exception) the whole of his life, and for the Four-monthly sacrifices 
at the beginning of the three chief seasons, Spring, Rains, and Autumn. 

1 This verse and the following contain texts for the Agny&dhdna, the 
ceremonial laying-down or establishment of his own sacrificial fires by the 
young householder. Guest: Agni who is constantly maintained in mens* 
houses. 

2 Jdtavedas: knower of ( all) beings ; Omniscient. The text is taken 
from R. V. V. 5. 1. 

3 Angiras Agni, as the chief messenger to the Gods. Youthfuliest: 
youngest of Gods, as being perpetually reproduced at sacrifice. Them: 
the three kindling-sticks of Asvattha wood, anointed with sacrificial butter, 
which are put on the fire with the texts 1,3,4 respectively. 

5 Earth l Ether! Sky: he lays down the Ahavaniya-fire on the place 
prepared for it, with this solemn sacrificial exclamation which is said to 
comprehend the Universe, the aid of which the sacrificer thus obtains. Or, 
according to Mahidhara, the three words refer to the respective creation 
of priests, nobles, and people; or self, human beings, and lower animals. 
Like heaven etc: * May I become ’ understood. In plenty: in the number 
of its stars. So numerous may my sons and cattle be. Like earth: so 
may I spread with my offspring, or be the refuge of living creatures. 

6 With the recitation of this and the two following verses, which form 
Hymn 189 of Book X. of the Rigveda, he offers worship to Agni and lays 
•down the Dakshinlgni or Southern Fire. Spotted Bull: the Sun, here 
represented by Agni. The Mother: Earth. The Father : the Sky. 

2 



18 THE TEXTS OB THE [BOOK III . 

7 As expiration from his breath his radiance penetrates within : 
The Bull shines out through all the sky. 

8 He rules supreme through thirty realms. Song is bestowed 

upon the Bird 

Throughout the days at break of morn, 

9 Agni is light, and light is Agni. Hail! 

Surya is light, and light is Surya. Hail ! 

Agni is splendour, light is splendour. Hail! 

SCirya is splendour, light is spleudour. Hail! 

Light is Surya, Surya is light. Hail l 

10 Accordant with bright Savitar and Night with Indra at her 

side, 

May Agni, being pleased, enjoy. All-hail! 

11 Approaching sacrifice, may we pronounce a text to Agni 

who 

Heareth us even when afar. 

12 Agui is head aud height of heaven, the Master of the earth 

is he : 

He quickeneth the waters' seed. 

13 You two will I invoke, 0 Indra-Agni, will please you both 

together with oblation. 

Givers, you twain, of vigorous strength and riches, you 
twain do I invoke for gain of vigour. 

14 This is thine ordered place of birth whence, sprung to life, 

thou shonest forth. 

Knowing this, Agni, rise thou up and cause our riches to 
increase. 

15 Here by ordainers was this God appointed first Invoker, 

best at worship, to be praised at rites, 

Whom Apnavana and the Bhrigus caused to shine, bright- 
coloured in the wood, spreading to every house. 


8 Thirty realms: all the divisions of the world, the number being used 
indefinitely. The Bird: or the winged One ; the Sun, his morning song 
representing prayer. 

9 Here begin the formulas of the Agnihotra, or morning and evening 
oblations of burnt milk. Agni: formula to accompany the evening obla¬ 
tion. Srirya,: formula to be employed in making the morning offering. 

12 Taken from R. V. VIII. 44. 16. The waters' seed: as lightning, Agni 
impregnates the waters of the air. 

14 This: the Gdrhap&tya fire. The verse is taken from R. V. III. 29. 10. 

15 Taken from R. V. IV. 7. 1. Ordainers: regulators of sacrifice, the 

ancient fire-priests. Apnavana: an ancient Rishi, connected with the 
priestly family of the Bhrigus aud the earliest worship of Agni. Cf. R. V. 
VIII. 91. 4. ‘ 



19 


VERSE 22.] WHITE YAJURVEDA. 

16 After bis ancient splendour they, the bold, have drawn the 

bright milk from 

The Sage who wins a thousand gifts. 

17 Thou, Agni, art our bodies* guard. Guard thou my body. 
Giver of life art thou, O Agni. Give me life. 

Giver of spleudour art thou, Agni. Give me splendour. 

All that is wanting in my body, Agni, supply for me. 

IS Enkindled we enkindle thee through hundred winters, thee 
the bright; 

We healthy, thee who givest health; we strong, thee author 
of our strength; 

We, never injured, Agni, thee uninjured injurer of foes. 

O rich in shining lights, may 1 in safety rioh the end of thee. 

19 Thou hast attained, 0 Agni, to the splendour of Surya, to 

the eulogy of Rishis, aud to the habitation which thou 
lovest. 

May I attain to lengthened life, to splendour, to offspring 
and abundant store of riches. 

20 Ye are food, may I enjoy your food. Ye are might, may I 

enjoy your might. Ye are energy, may I enjoy your 
energy. Ye are abundant riches, may I enjoy your abuu- 
dant riches. 

21 Sport, wealthy ones, in this abode, this fold, this spot, this 

dwelling-place. 

Remain just here, and go not hence. 

22 Composed art thou of every form and colour. With sap and 

ownership of kiue approach me. 

To thee, dispeller of the night, 0 Agni, day by day with 
prayer, 

Bringing thee reverence, we come; 

16 Taken from R. V. IX. 54. 1. In the original hymn the bold are the 
Soma-pressers, and the sage is Soma. Here Mahtdhara, to suit the sacrificial 
occasion, explains the words as 1 milkers ’ and ‘ cow.' 

18 Enkindled: brightened or made illustrious by thy favour. Hundred 
winters: implying a prayer for life extended to that period. Shining lights; 
Moon and stars; he addresses Night. 

19 Splendour of SHrya: at night, when the setting Sun has entered the 
Ahavaniya fire. Habitation: or dainty offering. 

20 He approaches the cow that has been milked for the oblation. Ye: 
thou and the other cows. Food: in the shape of milk and butter. 

22 Thou: he touches and addresses the cow. To thee: he approaches 
the G&rhapatya fire and reverences it. This text and verses 23, 24 are 
taken from R. V. 1.1. 7*9. 



20 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK HI. 

33 Ruler of sacrifices, guard of Law eternal, radiant One, 
Increasing in thine own abode. 

24 Be to us easy of approach, even as a father to his son : 

Agni, be with us for our weal. 

25 0 Agni, be our nearest Friend; be thou a kind deliverer 

and gracious Friend. 

Excellent Agni, come thou nigh to us, and give us wealth 
most splendidly renowned. 

26 To thee then, 0 most bright, 0 radiant God, we come with 

prayer for happiness for our frieuds. 

So hear us, listen to this call of ours, and keep us far from 
every evil man. 

27 0 Ida, come, 0 Aditi, come hither. Come hither, much- 

desired 1 From you may I obtain my heart’s desire. 

28 0 Brahmanaspati, make him who presses Soma glorious, 

Even Kakshiv&n Ausija. 

29 The rich, the healer of disease, who findeth wealth, increaseth 

store, 

The prompt,—may he be with us still. 

30 Let not the foeman’s curse, let not a mortal’s treachery fall 

on us: 

Preserve us, Brahmanaspati! 

31 Great, heavenly, unassailable, ours be the favour of the Three, 
Aryaman, Mitra, Varuna. 

32 For over them, neither at home nor upon pathways perilous, 
The evil-minded foe hath power. 

33 For they, the Sons of Aditi, bestow eternal light upon 
A mortal man that he may live. 


23 Law eternal: the order of the universe, or. specially, established sacrifice- 

25 This and the following verse make up Hymn 24 of R. V. V., the two 
halves of 26, transposed, forming verses 3 and 4. 

27 He approaches and addresses the cow. Idd : or 114, Nourishment 
personified; here a symbolical name of the cow as representing plenty. 
Aditi: here and elsewhere a sacrificial name of the cow. 

28 This verse and the two following are taken from R. V. I. 18. 1-3. 
Brahmanaspati: —Brihaspati; Lord of prayer, or Guardian of the Veda, 
the special deity and prototype of the Br&hmans and the priestly commu¬ 
nity, and Purohita or tribal Priest of the Gods. Kahshivdn: called Ausija 
or son of Usij, a renowned Rishi, the seer of several hymns of the Rigveda. 
Glorious: or clear of voice. * 

29 The rich , etc,: Brahmanaspati. 

31 This verse and the two following form, with a variation in 33. Hymn 
185 of Book X. of the Rigveda. Aryaman : the name of one of the Adityas, 
commonly invoked with Mitra and Varuna. 



VERSE 41.] WHITE YA JURY EDA. 21 

34 Ne'er art thou fruitless, Indra, ne'er dost thou forsake thy 

worshipper. 

But now. 0 Liberal Lord, thy bounty as a God is ever pour¬ 
ed forth more and more. 

35 May we attain that excellent glory of Savitar the God : 

So may he stimulate our prayers. 

36 May thine inviolable car wherewith thou guardest worship¬ 

pers 

Come near to us from every side. 

37 Earth ! Ether ! Sky ! May I be rich in offspring, well-man¬ 

ned with men aud opulent with riches. Friendly to men ! 
do thou protect my offspring. Worthy of praise ! do thou 
protect my cattle. 

0 pointed One, protect the food that feeds me. 

38 We have approached the Omniscient, best finder-out of 

wealth for us. Splendour and strength bestow on us, 
0 Agni, thou Imperial Lord. 

39 Lord of the Home, this Agni Garhapatya is best at finding 

riches for our children. 

Splendour aud strength bestow on us, 0 Agni, Master of the 
Home. 

40 Rich, furtherer of plenty is this Agni, Master of the Herd. 
Splendour and strength bestow on us, 0 Agni, Master of 

the Herd. 

41 Fear not, nor tremble thou, 0 House. To thee who bearest 

strength we come. 


34 Indra, as Deity of the sacrifice, is associated with Agni. The verse is 
taken from R. V., V&lakhilya, 3. 7. 

35 Taken from R. V. III. 62. 10. This stanza is the S&vitri, the G4yatri 
par excellence, ‘ the celebrated verse of the Vedas which forms part of the 
daily devotions of the Brahmans, and was first made known to English 
readers by Sir William Jones’s translation of a paraphrastic interpretation : 
be renders it, Let us adore the supremacy of that divine sun who illumin¬ 
ates all. from whoni *11 proceed, to whom all must return, whom we invoke 
to direct our understandings aright in our progress towards his holy seat.’ 
Wilson. See Rigveda Sanhitd, Vol. III. p. ill. Prayers: or, thoughts. 

36 Addressed to Agni Come near to : or, encompass. 

37 Earth / etc.: see III. 5. Friendly to men: he approaches and addresses 
the G&rhapatya fire. Pointed One: flame of the fire. 

38 He approaches the Ahavaniya fire. The Omniscient: Agni. 

40 Master of the Herd: purUhya: the original meaning of purisha is rub¬ 
bish, loose soil, manure, and is used symbolically for the cattle which pro¬ 
duce the manure. 

41—43 Formulas to be used by the householder on approaching the Dak* 
abina fire on departing from aud returning to his house. Fear not: in the 
roaster’s absence. 



22 THE TEXTS OP THE [BOOK IIL 

I, bearing strength, intelligent and happy, come to thee^ 
House, rejoicing in my spirit. 

42 The home on which the wanderer thinks, where cheerfulness 

aud joy abound— 

We call the Home to welcome us. May it know us who 
know it well. 

43 Here have the cows been called to us, the goats and sheep 

have been called near, 

And in our home we have addressed the meath that sweeten- 
eth our food. 

I come to thee for safety and for quiet. May joy be ours, 
felicity, and blessing. 

44 We invocate the Maruts, the voracious, eaters of their foes, 
Delightiug in their mess of meal. 

45 We expiate by sacrifice each sinful act that we have done, 
Whether in village or the wild, in company or corporeal 

sense. Svaha ! 

46 Let us not here contend with Gods, 0 Indra, for, Fierce 

One ! here is thine own sacred portion, 

Thine, Mighty One, whose friends, the bounteous Maruts, 
his song who pours oblation, streamlike, honours. 

47 The skilful workers have performed their work with voice 

that gives delight. 

Having performed the work for Gods, go, ye companions, to 
your home. 

48 0 ever-moving Cleansing Bath, thou movest gliding on thy 

way. 


42 Meath: lcildla ; a sweet beverage, the nature of which is uncertain. 

44 Formulas follow for the three Four-monthly sacrifices at the begin¬ 
ning of Spring, the Rains, and Autumn. The Sacrificer’s wife is first called 
upon to confess her infidelities, if she has been guilty of any, and to declare 
the name or names of her lover or lovers. After confession, or declaration 
of innocenoe, she is made to recite the text. Eaters: consumers, destroyers. 
The correctness of this traditional interpretation is doubtful. See Prof. 
Oldenberg, Vedic Hymns, Part II. p. 14 Mm of meal: a sort of gruel or 
porridge. 

45 Spoken by the Sacrifioer’s wife, or by her and her husband. In vil¬ 
lage: by oppression. The wild: by cruelty to wild animals. In company: 
by contemptuous behaviour. Qoi'poreal sense: by abuse of the tongue or 
other unruly member. 

46 Taken from R. V. I. 173. 12. Spoken by the Saorificer. 

47 Spoken by the Matron. Skilful workers: priests. 

48 The Avabhritha, or Purificatory Baptism in a stream of fresh water, 
is performed by the Saorificer and his wife. Who loudly roars: the terrible 
fiend. 




VERSE 55.] 


WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


23 


With Gods may I wash out the sin that I have sinned 
against the Gods, with meu the sin against mankind. 
Preserve me safe from injury, 0 God, from him who loudly 
roars. 

49 Full, fly away, 0 spoon, aud filled completely fly thou back 

to us. 

0 Satakratu, let us twain barter, like goods, our food and 
strength. 

50 Give me, I give thee gifts : bestow on me, and I bestow on 

thee. 

To me present thy merchandize, and I to thee will give my 
wares. 

51 Well have they eaten and regaled: the friends have risen 

and passed away. 

The sages, luminous in themselves, have praised thee with 
their latest hymn. 

Now, Iudra, yoke thy two Bay Steeds. 

52 Thee will we reverence, thee, 0 Lord of Bounty, who art 

fair to see. 

Thus praised, according to our wish come now with riehly- 
ladeu car. Now, Indra, yoke thy two Bay Steeds. 

53 We call the spirit hither with a hero-celebrating strain, 

Yea, with the Fathers* holy hymns. 

54 The spirit comes to us again for wisdom, energy, and life, 
That we may long behold the Sun. 

55 0 Fathers, may the Heavenly Folk give us the spirit once 

again, 

That we may be with those who live. 

49 Here begin the formulas for the presentation of the SAkamedha offer¬ 
ings on the full moon of KArfctika (October-November). The Adhvaryu 
officiates. Full: of the boiled rice to be offered to Indra. Spoon: the ladle 
called dai'vi. Filled completely: with blessings in return. S.itakratu: Lord 
of a Hundred Powers; or sacrifices, according to the Commentators. Barter: 
cf. A. V. III. 15. 1: I stir and animate the merchant Indra. Food and 
strength * the saered food purchasing strength for the worshipper. 

50 Give me , etc.: dehi me, daddmi te ; do ut des : the fundamental prin¬ 
ciple underlying sacrifice. According to Mahtdhara, line 1 is spoken by 
Indra and line 2 by the Sacrifices 

51, 52 Taken from K V. I. 82. 2, 3. Food is offered to the Fathers, and 
Indra is addressed. They .... the friends : the Fathers. See II. 31. 

53—56 Taken from R. V. X. 57, 3— 6. The spirit: the mind or thought 
of the worshippers which in paying obeisance to the Fathers has, as it were, 
gone to the world of the Departed and is now invited to return to earth. In 
the original hymn the application is different, the spirit of a deceased man 
being recalled. See Max Muller, Royal Asiatic Society’s Journal, 1866. pp. 
449 and 458. Strain: stomena: the R. V. has sonena , with Soma. 




THE TEXTS OF THE 


24 


[BOOK III. 


56 0 Soma, with the spirit still within us, blest with progeny, 
May we be busied in thy law. 

57 0 Rudra, this is thine allotted portion. With Ambika thy 

sister kindly take it. This, Rudra, is tby share, the rat 
thy victim. 

58 We have contented Rudra, yea, put off Tryambaka the God, 
That he may make us wealthier, may make us yet more 

prosperous, may make us vigorous to act. 

59 Thou art a healing medicine, a balm for cow and horse and 

man, a happiness to ram and ewe. 

60 Tryambaka we worship, sweet augmenter of prosperity. 

As from its stem a cucumber, may I be freed from bouds of 
death, not reft of immortality. 

We worship him, Tryambaka, the husband-finder, sweet to 
smell. 

As from its stem a cucumber, hence and not thence may I 
be loosed. 

61 This, Rudra, is thy food: with this depart beyond the 

Muj avaus. 

With bow unstrung, with mufled staff, clothed in a garmeut 
made of skin, gracious, not harming us, depart. 

62 May Jamadagni’s triple life, the triple life of Kasyapa, 

The triple life of Deities—may that same triple life be ours. 

56 0 Soma: as being closely connected with the Fathers. 

57 Rudra, the fierce Tempest-God, destroyer of men and cattle is to be 
propitiated. This : a rice-cake. There is to be one cake for each living 
son and servant of the Sacrificer, and one over for future additions, and 
these cakes are all to be on one potsherd. Ambikd : the personification of 
Autumn with which Rudra kills. The rat : the supernumerary cake is to 
be buried in the earth thrown up by a rat or vole, and this symbolic sacri¬ 
fice will satisfy Rudra and induce him to spare other animals. 

58 Tryambaka: a name of Rudra as having three wives, sisters, or 
mothers, or Triocular, the Three-eyed God, as Siva is represented in later 
literature. 

59 Thou : Rudra in his gentle mood. 

60 Spoken by the girls of the Saci ificer’s family as they walk round the 
altar. The first two lines are taken from R. V. VII. 59. 12. Husband-Jinder: 
more usually a title of Aryaman. See A. V. XIV. 1. 17. Hence and not 
thence: from my father’s house and not from my future husband’s. Cf. 
R. V. X. 35. 25. 

61 Thy food : provisions for thy journey ; the remains of the rice-cakes 
packed in two baskets at the end of a pole and fastened on a tree, post, 
bamboo, or ant-hill. See Muir. Original Sanskrit Texts, II. 352. MUjavdns : 
apparently a hill-tribe in the North-west. 

62 Jamadagni and Kasyapa were ancient Vedic Rishis. See The Hymns 
of the Rigveda, Index. 



VERSE 63.] 


WHITE TAJURVEDA. 


25 


63 Gracious, thy name; the thunder is thy father. Obeisance 
be to thee : forbear to harm me. 

I shave thee for long life, for food to feed thee, for progeny, 
for riches in abundance, for noble children, for heroic 
vigour. 


63 The Sacrificer’s head and beard are shaved. Gracious: the razor is 
addressed. Thunder: the vajra or thunderbolt, made of iron like the razor. 
1 shave thee: the Adhvaryu speaks, using the word nivartaydmi (cause thee 
to be turned round) the technical term to be employed at this sacrificial all¬ 
round shaving. 




BOOK THE FOURTH. 


We have reached this earth’s place of sacrificing, the place 
wherein all Deities delighted. 

Crossing by Rik, by Saman, and by Yajus, may we rejoice 
in food and growth of riches. 

Gracious to me be these Celestial Waters! 

Protect me, Plant. 0 Knife, forbear to harm him. 

2 The Mother Floods shall make us bright and shining, cleans¬ 

ers of holy oil, with oil shall cleanse us. 

For, Goddesses, they bear off all defilement. I rise up 
from them purified and brightened. 

The form of Consecration and of Fervour art thou. I put 
thee on, the kind and blissful, maintaining an agreeable 
appearance. 

3 The Great Ones’ milk art thou. Giver of splendour art 

thou : bestow on me the gift of splendour. 

Pupil art thou of Vritra’s eye. The giver of eyes art thou. 
Give me the gift of vision. 

4 Purify me the Lord of Thought! Purify me the Lord of 

Speech ! Purify me God Savitar with perfect strainer, with 
the beams of Surya! 


Books IV.—VIII. contain formulas for the Soma sacrifice in general. 

1 Place of sacrificing: which has been carefully selected and prepared with 
shed, hall, etc. The Sacrificer recites the formula, holding in h is hand the 
aranis or two pieces of the woodeu fire-drill, and grasping the chief post of 
the sacrificial hall. Rik, Sdman , Yajus: by means of the verse of praise, 
the chanted psalm, and the sacrificial formula. Waters: to be used in the 
Apsu-Dikshfi or Consecration Ceremony by water or baptism. He moistens 
his right whisker for shaving. Plant: a blade of Kusa grass placed on his 
whisker. Knife : the razor, which is said to be a svadhiti , or thunderbolt. 
See III. 63. Him: the Sacrificer. 

2 The first two lines are taken from R. V. X. 17. 10. The Sacrifices 
bathe in the consecrating waters. Defilement: the stain of sin as well as 
bodily impurity. I rise up: he steps out of the water. Thee : the linen, 
garment prescribed for the occasion. Fervour: ardour, religious zeal, 
penance, or austere devotion. 

3 Great Ones* milk: product of the cows; the fresh butter with which 
he is anointed from head to foot. Pupil art thou: the Adhvaryu anoints 
his eye with collyrium. It is said in the Taittiriya-Samhitfi* VI. 1. 5 that 
Vritra’s eye-ball, when Indra conquered him, fell away and became ointment. 

Lord of Thought: Praj&pati, Lord of Creatures. Lord of Speech: the 
same deity, or Brihaspati Lord of Prayer. Perfect strainer: or purifier, 
V4yu the wind. Lord of the strainer: or of the means of purification, the 
Sacrificer who has gone through the ceremony. The meaning is, May I be 
able to accomplish the sacrifice in accordance with my preconceived wishes. 




VERSE 10.] WHITE YAJURVEDA. 27 

Of thee, Lord of the Straiuer! who art by the strainer 
purified, 

With what desire I purify myself, may I accomplish it. 

5 We come to you for precious wealth, 0 Gods, as sacrifice 

proceeds. 

O Gods, we call on you to give blessings that wait on sacrifice. 

6 Sv&ha! from mind the sacrifice. Sv&h4! from spacious 

firmament. 

Svdha! from Dyaus and Prithivi. Sv4h& ! from Wind I 
seize. Sv&h&! 

7 To Resolution, Motive, Agni, Sv&ha ! All-hail to Wisdom, 

and to Mind, and Agni! 

All-hail to Consecration, Fervour, Agni! Hail to Sarasvati, 
Pfishan, and Agni! 

Ye vast, diviue, all-beneficial Waters, ye Heaven and Earth 
and spacious Air between them, 

Let us adore Brihaspati with oblation. All-hail! 

5 May every mortal man elect the friendship of the guiding 

God. 

Each one solicits him for wealth: let him seek fame to pros¬ 
per him. 

9 Rik’s, Biman’s counterparts are ye. I touch you. Protect 

me till the sacrifice be euded. 

Thou art a place of refuge. Give me refuge. Obeisance 
unto thee ! Forbear to harm me. 

10 Strength of Angirases art thou. Wool-soft, bestow thou 
strength on me. 

Thou art the garment-knot of Soma. Vishnu’s refuge art 
thou, the Sacrificer’s refuge. 

6 Svlhd: Ave! AU-hail! The sacrifice: *1 grasp, or take hold of’ being 
understood. Various bendings of fingers and final closing of the hands are 
prescribed Dyaus and Prithivi: Heaven and Earth. 

7 These formulas, with the oblations which they accompany, are specially 
called Audgrabhana or Uplifting, because they raise the Sacrificer to 
heaven. Resolution : the intention or purpose of sacrificing. 

8 Taken from R. V. V. 50. 1. Guiding God: Savitar, the Impeller and 
Leader. 

d Two blaok-antelope skins, tacked together and stretched on the 
ground for consecration purposes, are addressed and touched. Counterparts : 
in full accord, as used in sacred ceremonies, with the recited verses and 
chanted hymns of sacrifice. The white on the skins resembles the llik, 
and the blaok the S&man. Thou art , etc.: he kneels with his right knee 
on the skin. 

10 He binds on and addresses a girdle of two plaited strands of hemp 
and one of Mufija grass. Angirases: descendants of Angiras, a semi-divine 




28 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK IV. 

Thou art the womb of Iudra. Make the crops produce 
abundant grain. 

Staud up erect, 0 Tree. Protect me from harm until this 
sacrifice be ended. 

11 Prepare ye vow-food. Agni is the Brahmau, Agni is sacri¬ 

fice, the tree is holy. 

For aid we meditate divine Intelligence, most merciful, 
Free-giver, bringiug worship. May it guide us gently, as 
we would. 

Favour us Gods, mind-born, endowed with mind and intel¬ 
lectual might! All-hail to them ! May they be our pro¬ 
tectors. 

12 Waters that we have drunk ! become refreshing, become 

auspicious draughts within our belly. 

Free from all sin and malady aud sickness, may they be 
pleasant to our taste, divine Ones, immortal, strength- 
eners of eternal Order. 

13 This is thy sacrificial form. 

Not offspring, waters I discharge. Freeing from sin and 
consecrate by Svaha enter ye the earth. Be thou united 
with the earth. 

14 0 Agni, watch thou well. May we take joy in most refresh¬ 

ing sleep. 

Protect us with unceasing care. From slumber waken us 
again. 


patriarchal Rishi. See Index to The Hymns of the Rigveda. Garment-knot: 
the meeting ends of the cloth worn round the body ; ‘ tuck' : Eggeling. 
Of Soma : belonging to Soma nfter the consecration of the wearer, and to 
the Fathers before that ceremony. Vishnu's: the Sacrificer’s. The womb of 
Indra : he addresses a black-buck's horn which he ties to the fringe of his 
garment. See the legend. Sacred Books of the East. XXVI. 30—38. 
Malndhara gives a somewhat similar legend, from the Taittiriya-Samhitfi, 
ascribing Indra’s birth to the union of Yajfia (Sacrifice) with DakshinS, 
Sacrificial Guerdon) instead of Vdk (Speech ). Make the crops : he draws 
a liue with the horn on the ground. 0 Tree: a staff of Udumbara (Ficus 
Glomerata) wood which the Adhvaryu gives to the Sacrificer. 

11 Vow food : or fast-food, chiefly milk which the attendants prepare. The 
Sacrificer pronounces this formula thrice. The Brahman: (neuter) the 
priesthood, or, according to Mahidhara, the three Vedas. The tree: the 
Khadira (Acacia Catechu) and other treeB whose wood is used for sacrificial 
purposes. For aid: to help us in the performance of the sacrifice. 

12 Recited after drinking the milk. 

13 This, etc.: micturiens , he takes up with the horn a lump of earth or 
something similar, and addresses embodied sacrifice: This earth is thy 
sacrificial form. i. e. place meet for worship. Ye: the waters of which he 
relieves himself. Be thou: he throws down the lump of earth. 

14 With a prayer to the Guardian Agni he goes to §leep. 



VERSE 19 ] 


WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


29 


15 Thought hath returned to me, and life; my breath and 

soul have come again. 

Our bodies’ guard, unscathed, Vaisvanara Agni preserve us 
from misfortune and dishonour. 

16 Thou, Agni, art the guardian God of sacred vows among 

mankind, thou meet for praise at holy rites. 

Grant this much, Soma! bring yet more. God Savitar who 
giveth wealth hath given treasure unto us. 

17 This is thy form, 0 Bright One, this thy lustre. Combine 

with this thy form and go to splendour. 

Impetuous art thou, upheld by mind, and Vishnu loveth 
thee. 

18 Moved by thine impulse who hast true impulsion, may I 

obtain a prop to stay my body. 

Pure art thou, glistering art thou, immortal, dear to all the 
Gods. 

19 Thought art thou, mind, intelligence, the Guerdon, royal, 

worshipful, Aditi with a double head. Succeed for us in 
going forth, succeed for us in thy return. May Mitra 
bind thee by the foot. May Pftshan guard thy pathways 
for Indra whose eye is over all. 


15 Uttered on awaking. Vaisvdnara: All-men’s; friendly or dear to all 
Aryan men. 

16 The first two lines are taken from R. V. VIII. 11. 1. Grant etc.: 
this formula is to be used when a gift has been offered to him after his 
consecration. 

17 This is the formula for the Hiranyavati-Ahuti or Offering with Gold. 
Having poured the butter left in the dhruvd ladle into the juhfl, he throws 
on the butter a piece of gold tied with Darbha grass. This (1) : the 
butter. This (2) : the gold which is identified with light. So in old 
Northern poetry gold is called the gleam of Ocean ; the fire of Oran 
(a Scottish stream); the sun of the deep. See Corpus Poeticum Boreale, 
II. p. 468. Impetuous: vcgayuktd is Mahldhara’s explanation of jfih. 
According to the Satapatha-Br&hmana, the meaning is 4 singer of praises.’ 
V4k or Speech is addressed. Vishnu: Sacrifice; or Soma. 

18 Thine: V&k’s, as represented by the cow which is to be given in 
exchange for the Soma required for the sacrifice. Pure art thou: he 
addresses the piece of gold which he takes up. 

19 The Adhvaryu addresses the Soma-purchasing cow. Guerdon: 
priestly fee, consisting chiefly of a cow or cows. Aditi: regarded as the 
Cosmic Cow. See R. V. IX. 96. 15. With double head: as mistress of the 
pr&yaniya (introductory) and udayaniya (concluding) libations; or facing 
both ways, regarded as Vftk or Speech. In going forth : to procure the 
Soma. Bind thee: to prevent wandering and loss. Pdshan: as the guide 
of travellers and guardian of ways. 



30 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOR IV. 

20 Thy mother give thee leave to go, thy father, thine own 

brother, and thy friend of the same herd with thee ! 

Go thou, 0 Goddess, to the God. To Soma go for Indra’s 
sake. 

May Rudra turn thee back. Return safely with Soma as 
thy friend. 

21 Thou art a Vasvl, thou art Aditi, thou art an Adity&, thou 

art a RudrA, thou art a ChandiA. 

Brihaspati vouchsafe thee rest and comfort! Rudra with 
Vasus looks on thee with favour. 

22 On Aditi’s head I sprinkle thee, on the earth’s place of 

sacrifice. 

Footstep of Ida art thou, filled with fatness. Hail! 

Rejoice in us. Thy kinship is iu us. In thee are riches. 
Mine be riches ! Let us not be deprived of abundant 
riches. Thine, thine are riches. 

23 I with my thought have commerced with divine far-sighted 

Dakshina. 

Steal not my life. I will not thine. May I, 0 Goddess, in 
thy sight find for myself a hero son. 

24 Tell Soma this for me : This is thy share allied with Gayatri. 
For me say this to Soma: This is thine allotted Trishtup 

share. 

Tell Soma this for me : This is thy share allied with Jagati. 
Tell Soma this for me: Win thou sole lordship of the metres’ 
names. 

Ours art thou : pure thy juice for draught. Let separators 
pick thee out. 


20 Rudra : as Lord of Cattle. ^ 

21 Vasvlj a female Vasu. See II. 5. Adityd: a daughter of Aditi; 
a female Aditya. Rudrd: a female Rudra. Chandrd: a female Moon ; 
bright as the Moon-God. 

22 Aditi'8 head: the surface of the earth. Thee: an oblation of 
clarified butter. Footstep of Idd : he addresses the footprint of the cow 
identified with Id&, a Goddess of Devotion, the daughter of Maou or man 
thinking on and worshipping the Gods. In thee are riches: he gives the 
impressed earth to the Sacrificer. Mine : the Sacrificer replies. Let us not: 
the Adhvaryu speaks for himself aud others. Thine, thine: totoh for tvayi 
tvayi; spoken by the matron, to whom also the impressed earth has been 
given 

23 Spoken by the matron, on whom the cow has been made to look. 
Dakshind: or Guerdon, the Soma-cow. See verse 19. 

24 Spoken by the Sacrificer to the Adhvaryu. With Odyatri : this and 
the two other metres being used, respectively, at the morning, noon, and 
evening Soma-pressings. Ours art thou: the Soma-plant is addressed. 
Pick thee : selecting the parts that are fit for sacrificial use. 


VERSE 28.] 


WHITE YAJURVEDA . 


SI 


25 I sing ray song of praise to him, Savitar, God between the 

Bowls, strong with the wisdom of the wise, of true impul¬ 
sion, wealth-giver, the well-belov&d thoughtful Sage. 

To him at whose impulsion shone aloft in heaven the splen¬ 
did light. 

Most wise, the Golden-handed hath measured the sky with 
skilled design. 

Foi *viug creatures, thee. Let living creatures breathe 
after thee. Breathe after living creatures. 

26 Thee who art pure, with what is pure I purchase, the bright 

with bright, immortal with immortal. 

The Sacrificer keep thy cow. Let thy gold pieces be with us. 
Fervour’s form art thou, and Praj&pati’s nature. With the 
most noble animal art thou purchased. May I increase 
with thousandfold abundance. 

27 As friend, the giver of good friends, approach us ! 

Take thou thy seat on the right thigh of Indra, yearning on 
yearning, pleasing on the pleasing. 

Anghari, Svana, Bhraja, and Bambh&ri, 0 Hasta, and Su- 
hasta and Krisanu, 

These are your prices for the Soma purchase. Keep them 
securely, let them never fail you. 

28 Keep me, 0 Agni, from uurighteous conduct: make me a 

sharer in the path of goodness. 


25 The Bowls: heaven and earth, so called from their hemispherical 
appearance. But see Hillebrandt, Vedische Mythologie, I. p. 177, and 
Ludwig, Ueber die Neuesten Arbeiten auf dem Gebiete der Rgveda- 
forschung, p. 87. For living creatures , thee: I tie thee (Soma) up in the 
wrapper, the ends of which are brought together, for the good of living 
creatures who will be benefited by the sacrifice. 

26 Thee: the Soma What is pure: gold brought for the purchase. 
The Sacrificer: spoken by the Adhvaryu. The cow given iu exchange for 
the Soma is now given back, and the gold pieces are similarly returned; the 
bargaining here being only a form, and the price of the Soma having pro¬ 
bably been settled beforehand. See Sacred Books of the East, XXVI. 71 ; 
Haug’s Aitareya-Br&hmanam, II. 59, note 2. Fervours form: the Sacrificer 
addresses a she-goat, said to have sprung from the Fervour or Austere Devo¬ 
tion of Prajdpati, which has been placed looking westward. Prajdpati's 
nature : dear to the Gods as Praj&pati the Lord of Creatures ; or because 
she produces young three times a year, hence also called most noble or most 
excellent 

27 He gives the she-goat to the Sorqa-seller and takes the Soma with his 
right hand in exchange, reciting the formula. Approach us: O Soma. 
Indra : the Sacrificer (endowed during the ceremony with the attributes 
of Indra) on whose bared thigh the Soma is placed. A nghdri, etc. : the 
names of the seven Guardians of the celestial Soma, purchased from them 
by the Gods. Krisanu is frequently mentioned in the Rigveda. These: 
the articles given to the Soma-seller. 

28 Recited by the Sacrificer. Immortals : especially Soma. 



32 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOH IV. 

I, following Immortals, have arisen with longer life, with a 
good life before me. 

29 Now have we entered on the path that leads to bliss without 

a foe, 

The path whereon a man escapes all enemies and gathers 
wealth. 

30 The skin of Aditi art thou. Sit on the lap of Aditi. 

The Bull hath propped the sky and air’s mid-region, the 
compass of the broad earth hath he measured. 

He, King Supreme, approached all living creatures. Truly 
all these are Varuna’s ordinances. 

31 Over the woods the air hath he extended, put milk in kine 

and vigorous speed iu horses, 

Set intellect in hearts and fire in houses, Surya in heaven 
and Soma on the mountain. 

32 Ascend the eye of Surya, mount the pupil set in Agni’s eye 
Where, radiaut through the Wise One, thou speedest along 

with dappled steeds. 

33 Approach, ye oxen, fit to bear the yoke ; be yoked without 

a tear. 

Slaying no man, urging the Brahman forward, go happily 
to the Sacrificer’s dwelling. 

34 Lord of the World, thou art my gracious helper : move for¬ 

ward on thy way to all the statious. 

Let not opponents, let not robbers find thee, let not malig¬ 
nant wolves await thy coming. 

Fly thou away having become a falcon. Go to the dwelling 
of the Sacrifices That is the special place for us to rest in. 


29 He puts the Soma on his head and goes towards the cart in which 
the Soma has been brought, reciting the text taken, with one variation, 
from R. V. VI. 51. 16. 

30 The antelope-skin is spread in the Soma cart by the Adhvaryu who 
recites the formula. Skin of Aditi: See I. 14. Sit: 0 Soma. The Bull: 
the mighty Varuna, here meaning Soma. The text is taken, with alteration 
of two words, from R. V. VIII. 42. 1. Approached : * pervades : ’ Mnhi- 
dhara; ‘hath taken his seat over:’ Eggeling. Living creatures : or, worlds. 

31 He wraps the Soma in a cloth, reciting the texts taken from R. V. 
V. 85. 2. 

32 He addresses the antelope-skin which he hangs up in front of the 
Soma-cart. Wise One : the All-knowing Sun. The skin, representing the 
Sun and Agni, will keep off evil spirits. 

33 Ye oxen: the pair that draw the Soma-cart. The Brahman: the 
priest, or the sacrifice. Happily : or, safely, uninjured by evil spirits. 

34 Spoken by the Sacrificer. Lord of the World: Soma is addressed. 
Stations: the Patnis&li or Matron’s Hall, the Havirdh&na or Oblation- 
Store, and other places in the sacrificial enclosure. 



VERSE 37.] 


WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


33 


35 Do homage unto Varuna's and Mitra’s eye: offer this solemn 

worship to the Mighty God, 

Who seeth for away, the Ensign born of Gods. Sing praises 
unto Surya, to the Son of Dyaus. 

36 Thou art a prop for Varupa to rest on. Te are the pins that 

strengthen Vanina's pillar. 

Thou art the lawful seat where Varuna sitteth. Sit on the 
lawful seat where Varuna sitteth. 

37 Such of thy glories as with poured oblations men honour, 

may they all invest our worship. 

Wealth-giver, furtherer with troops of heroes, sparing the 
brave, eome, Soma, to our houses. 


35 The Sacrificer recites the text taken from R V. X. 37. 1. Varuna 1 8 
and Mitra’t eye: Sfirya, the Sun represented by the Soma. Pyaut ; Zeus, 
Heaven or Sky personified. 

36 Thou: the prop that supports the pole of the cart, which has now 
become the support of Varuna represented by the Soma. Ye: two wooden 
pegs that keep the prop steady. The lawful teat: he addresses the seat 
or throne on which Soma is placed, the antelope-skin having been spread * 
over it. Varuna is represented by Soma throughout the verse. 

37 The Sacrificer recites the text taken from R. V. I. 91. 19, as Soma 
is brought into the sacrificial hall. Oloriet: powers: Eggeling. 




BOOK THE FIFTH. 


Body of Agni art thou. Thee for Vishnu. Body of Soma art 
thou. Thee fot Visbpu. Thou art the Guest's Reception. 
Thee for Visbpu. Thee for the Soma-bringing Falcon. 
Thee for Vishnu* Thee for the giver of abundance, Agni. 
Thee for Vishnu. 

3 Birth-place art thou of Agni. Ye are sprinklers. Thou art 
Urvagi, Thou art Ayu. Thou art Pur&ravas. 

I rub and ohurn thee with G&yatri metre. I rub and ehurn 
thee with the Trishtup metre. I rub and chum thee with 
the Jagati metre. 

3 Be ye for us one-minded, be one-thoughted, free from spot 

and stain. 

Harm not the sacrifice, harm not the sacrifice's lord. Be 
kind to us this day, Omniscient Ones! 

4 Preserver from the curse. Son of the Rishis, Agni is active 

having entered Agui. 

Here for ua kindly with fair worship offer oblation to the 
Gods with care unceasing. Svhhfi! 

5 For him who flies around and rushes onward I take thee, 

for Tanunapat the mighty, the very strong, of all-surpass¬ 
ing vigour. 

Verse* \—4 contain formulas for the Atithya or Ceremonial Reception and 
Entertainment of Soma when introduced into the sacrificial halL 

1 The Adhvaxyu takes the havis or sacrificial food, that 1% the el e men ts, 
of oblation, from the cart, and addresses it with the formula. Them : the 
sacred food Ffahnn.' meaning, according to Mahtdhara, Soon the p e m da r 
of the sacrifice* Thm: ‘1 take* understood. FeUam * that broi^ht the 
So am from heaven. See Ik V. IT. 27. 

t Tkm: a pieee of wood forming the lower pvt of the fire-driB,in which 
the spark is produced bp sapid friction. SprhUUrs - or, stalSona, males*. 
Two blndee of Kuga gram, Maced on the firedrill, ace addrmmd. fleer 
the lower jwece of the drill. Wrm iff - a celebrated Apsarae er wlntiil 
nymph. Apn. the butter in the pan is said to be Ayu the so* ef Uriah, 
Perdreena ; the human husband of Urvast and father of Aya. The up¬ 
per piece of the (kill is addressed as it i* placed on the tower puma. The 
etarmed butter, or sacrifice* is the child produced by the uniat, Fur the 
legend of Ifrvagt and Purfirevas, see R. T. X 36 (The Hymns «£ The |g- 
veda, Vol XL (2nd ed) pp* 937—930), and Max Midler, Chips from a Ger¬ 
man Workshop.. VoL XT. (new edL> pp. 107—114. The*: Agni, the fire. 
With while varum in these metres are recited. 

3 T*: the Ahavani^a ire and the newly-kindled fire which is t hr o wn am 
it Qmnmimt One: jdftmeftiswi; ‘yeknowersef beings:’ Efcgsfing 

4 Son th* IjkihH: produced in sacrifice by the print*. 

6 Here follow formulae 6>r the Ttefmaptra, a ceremony in whmhThmbm 
pkt, usually Agni (Son of HSmaalf, bum front other firefe here T4pn the 




WHITE YA JURY EDA. 


35 


VERSE 8.] 

Strength of the Gods, inviolate, inviolable still art tbou, the 
strength that turns the curse away, uncursed and never 
to be cursed. 

May I go straight to truth. Place me in comfort. 

6 0 Agni, Guardian of the Vow, 0 Guardian of the Vow, in 
thee 

Whatever form there is of thine, may that same form be 
here on me: on thee be every form of mine. 

0 Lord of Vows, let our vows be united. May Diksh&’s 
Lord allow my Consecration, may holy Fervour’s Lord 
approve my Fervour. 

7 May every stalk of thine wax full and strengthen for Indra 
Ek&dhanavid, God Soma! 

May Indra grow in strength for thee: for Indra mayest thou 
grow strong. 

Increase us friends with strength and mental vigour. May 
all prosperity be thine, God Soma. May I attain the 
solemn Soma-pressing. 

May longed-for wealth come forth for strength and fortune. 
Let there be truth for those whose speech is truthful. To 
Heaven and Earth be adoration offered. 

8 That noblest body which is thine, 0 Agni, laid in the lowest 
deep, encased in iron, hath chased the awftil word, the 
word of terror. Svaha ! 

That noblest.encased in silver, etc. Sv&hfi! 

That noblest .... with gold around it, etc. Sv&hfi ! 


Wind-God, is invoked, and the sacrificial butter is touched by sacrificer and 
priests as a form of adjuration or bond of friendship. Who flies, etc.: Vftyu. 
Thee: the sacrificial butter. Go straight to truth: faithfully keep the pro¬ 
mise which I am making. Place me in comfort: according to Mahldhara, 
establish me in the fair path, the performance of sacrifice. 

6 Formulas for a kind of minor Consecration. The Sacrificer exchanges 
persons with, and becomes, Agni. Dtlcshd's Lord: Soma, Lord of Conse¬ 
cration. Fervour: or Penance. 

7 The priests perform the ApyAyana, the sprinkling of the Soma with 
water to make it swell. Ekadhawwid: according to Mahldhara, receiver 
or finder of the one chief prise, t. e. Soma ; or, knower of the Ekadhanas. 
pitchers which hold the water which is to be mixed with the Soma. 

8 Formulas for the UpasadB (services or sieges; Milton's ‘ beseeching and 
besieging'), offerings of butter to Agni, Soma, and Vishnu thrice daily for 
three days or more. According to the legend, the Asuras or rebel demons, 
having been defeated in battle by the Gods, made three castles, one of iron 
on earth, one of silver in mid-air, and one of gold in the sky. Agni, at the 
Gods’ request, in the form of the Upasad deity entered and burnt then 
and they became the three bodies of Agni mentioned in the text. T 
awful word; the threats of the Asuras. 




30 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOR V. 

9 For me thou art the home of the afflicted. For me thou art 
the gathering-place of riches. Protect me from the woe 
of destitution. 

Protect me from the state of perturbation. 

May Agni know thee, he whose name is Nabhas. Go, Agni, 
Angiras, with the name of Ayu. 

Thou whom this earth containeth, down I lay thee with each 
inviolate holy name thou bearest. 

Thou whom the second earth, etc. Thou whom the third 
earth, etc. 

Thee, further, for the Gods’ delight. 

10 A foersubduing lioness art thou : be fitted for the Gods. 

A foe-subduing lioness art thou : be purified for Gods. 

A foe-subduiug lioness art thou : adorn thyself for Gods. 

11 Indra’s shout guard thee in the front with Vasus. The Wise 

Oue guard thee from the rear with Rndras. The Thought- 
swift guard thee on the right with Fathers. The Omnific 
guard thee, leftward, with Adityas. 

This heate/d water 1 eject aud banish from the sacrifice. 

12 Thou art a liouess. All-hail! Thou art a lioness winning 

Adityas. All-hail! 

Thou art a lioness winning Brahmans and Nobles. All-hAil t 

Thou art a lioness that wins fair offspring, win abundant 
wealth. All-hail! 

A lioness art thou. Bfing the Gods hither for him who 
offers sacrifice. All-hail! 

To liviug creatures, thee. 

9 The lines of the altar and of the pit from which earth is to be dug out 
for its construction are now marked out. Thou: ^the eartii. Thee: the 
earth dug out of the pit. . Nabhas: or. Vapour. Ayu: Life, said to be a 
name of Agni. Before this address to Agni, the Adhvaryu throws the 
Sphya or wooden sword to the place where the pit is to be dug. Thou 
whom: 0 Agni, who art in this loose dug earth which (-scatter on the place 
where the high altar is to be. Second. . . . third: the ceremony aud he 
formula are repeated with these substitutions for ‘this.’ Thee, further: he 
takes up earth a fourth time. 

10 He sets apart the earth required for the high altar, addresses and 
sprinkles it. 

11 Indrots shout: as God of Battles. The Wise One: Vanina, the 
moral Governor of the world, from whom no secrets are hid. The Thought- 
swift : Yam a, God of the Departed. The Omnific: Visvakarm&n, an abstract 
deity representing the Supreme God as Creator of all things. Heated water: 
after having sprinkled waters on four sides he pours away the rest outside 
the altar place. 

12 With four invocations he pours butter on the four corners of the altAr 
place, and with the fifth on the centre. Thee: the offering-ladle. ‘ I raise ’ 
understood. 



VERSE 17.] WHITE YAJURVRDA. 37 

13 Firm art thou, steady thou the earth. Firm-seated art thou, 

steady thou the air. 

Movelessly set art thou, steady the sky. Agni’s completion 
art thou. 

14 The priests of him the lofty Priest well-skilled in hymns 

harness their spirits, yea harness their holy thoughts. 

He only knowing works assigns their priestly tasks. Yea, 
lofty is the praise of Savitar the God. All-hail! 

15 Forth through This All strode Vishnu : thrice bis foot he 

planted, and the whole was gathered in his footstep’s dust. 
All-hail! 

16 Rich in sweet food be ye, and rich in milch-kiue, with fer¬ 

tile pastures, faiii to do men service. 

Both these worlds, Vishnu, hast thou stayed asunder, and 
firmly fixed the earth with pegs around it. 

17 Heard by the Gods, ye twain, to Gods proclaim it. 

Go eastward, 0 ye twain, proclaiming worship. Swerve ye 
not: bear the sacrifice straight upward. 

To your own cow-peu speak, ye godlike dwellings. 

Speak not away my life, speak not away my children. 

On the earth’s summit here may ye be joyful. 

13 He encloses the centre or navel of the altar place with sticks of Pltu- 
d4ru (Pinus Deodara). With three invocations he addresses, respectively, 
the middle stick, the southern, and the northern. Completion: or equip, 
meut; purisha: all that is required to make Agni complete, bdellium 
(guggulu), sweet-scented reed-grass, and the tufts that have grown between 
the horns of a ram. 

14 The Commentator gives rules for the construction of Havirdh&nas or 
sheds for the carts that bring Soma and other elements of sacrifice, of the 
Sadas or Priests* shed, of the Soma-pressing place, and of the Dhishnyas or 
side-altars or hearths. The priests: an offering of butter, taken up in four 
ladlings, is made to Savitar with recitation of this text from R. V. V. 31. 1. 
Knowing works: skilled in the rules which regulate religious functions. 

15 Having laid a piece of gold in the right-hand track of the right-hand 
eart he makes an offering with this text from li. V. I. 22. 17. Thrice : on 
earth, in the air, in the sky. 

16 Ye: the offering ladle and the pot ot saucer of sacrificial butter which 
the Pratipraath&tar or assistant priest takes up, and having laid a piece of 
gold in the left-hand track of the left-hand cart makes an oblation with the 
text taken from R. V. VII. 99. 3, the first line of which appears to be, origi¬ 
nally, Vishnu's benediction on heaven and earth when he parted and sup¬ 
ported them. Pegs : such as those used for stretching a woven cloth or a 
akin. In later literature the word means also * rays,' sunbeams. ' With 
beams of light didst thou hold fast the earth on all sidesEggeling. 

17 Ye: the Matron addresses the two axle-pins, which she anoints with 
the remains of the butter. Straight upward: to the Qods. Cow-pen: sig¬ 
nifying wealth in cattle to the Sacrifioer. Dwellings: the house-like carts. 
Speak not away : destroy uot with ill-omened creaking. Earth's summit: 
the high sacrificial ground. Be joyful: in your rest. # 




38 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOR V. 

18 Now will I tell the mighty deeds of Vishnu, of him who 

measured out the earthly regions. 

Who propped the highest place of congregation, thrice set¬ 
ting down his foot and widely striding. 

For Vishnu thee. 

19 Either from heaven or from the earth, 0 Vishnu, or, Vishnu, 

from the vast wide air’s mid-region, 

Fill both thy hands full with abundant riches, and from the 
right and from the left bestow them. 

For Vishnu thee. 

20 For this his mighty deed is Vishnu lauded, like some wild 

beast, dread, prowling, mountain-roaming, 

He within whose three wide-extended paces all living crea¬ 
tures have their habitation. 

21 Thou art the frontlet for the brow of Vishnu. Ye are the 

corners of the mouth of Vishnu. Thou art the needle 
for the work of Vishnu. Thou art the firmly-fastened knot 
of Vishnu. To Vishnu thou belongest. Thee for Vishnu. 

22 By impulse of God Savitars I take thee with arms of Asvins 

and/with hands of Pushan. 

Thou art a woman. Here I cut the necks of Rakshasas away. 
Mighty art thou, mighty the sound thou makest. Utter thy 
mighty-sounding voice to Indra: 

23 Fiend-killing, charm-destroying voice of Vishnu. 

Here I cast out that charm of magic power whioh stranger 
or housemate for me hath buried. 

18 The Adhvaryu puts up a wooden prop to support the pole of the right- 
hand or southward cart, and recites the text taken from R. V. L 154. 1. Thee: 

1 1 support ’ understood. 

19 Similarly the Pratiprastli&tar supports the left-hand or northward cart, 
reciting the text from Atharva-veda, VII, 26. 8. 

20 The Sacrifices after touching the middle reed'mat of the cart-shed, 
recites the text from R. V. I. 154. 2. Paces: see verse 18. 

21 Thou: he addresses a post on which is a wreath of Darbha grass. Ye: 
the ends of the band of grass. Needle: * sewer*: Eggeliug. This is a 
wooden peg used in stitching together the folding doors (‘hurdles': Eggeiing) 
of the cart-shed. Knot: he ties the string in a knot. Thou belongest: he 
touches the completed shed. Thee: 4 1 touch ’ understood. 

22 Formulas to accompany the preparation of the Uparavas or sound- 
holes made in the earth to increase the noise of the pressing or pounding of 
the Soma. Thee ; a wooden digging instrument, a trowel or short spade. 
Woman: connected as a helper with the men who manage the ceremony. 
Moreover, the word abhri, spade, is feminine. Here .* he draws outlines 
of the holes. M&kshasas: the maliguant Sends who would mar or obstruct 
the sacrifice. Mighty: he addresses eaoh hole that he has dug. Utter: 
when thou art made use of at the Soma pounding. 

23 Of Vishnu belonging to him as guardian of the sacrifice. Charm of 
magic power: valagai a collection of bones, nails, hair, etc., tied up in a 




WRITE YAJURYEDA, 


39 


VERSE 26.] 

Here I east out the charm of magic power buried for me 
by equal or unequal. 

Here I cast out the charm that hath been buried for me by 
non-relatiou or relation. 

I cast the charm of magic out. 

24 Self-ruler art thou, conquering foes. Ruler for ever art 

thou, killing enemies. 

Men’s ruler art thou, slaying fiends. All ruler, killing foes, 
art thou. 

25 I sprinkle you whom Vishnu owns, killers of fiends and evil 

charms. 

I lay down you whom Vishnu loves, killers of fiends and 
wicked charms. 

I scatter you whom Vishnu loves, killers of fiends and 
wicked charms. 

You two whom Vishnu loves, who kill fiends and (11 charms 
do I lay down. 

You two whom Vishnu loves, who kill fiends and ill charms 
I compass round. 

To Vishnu thou belongest Ye are Vishnu’s. 

26 By impulse of God Savitar I take thee with arms of Asvins, 

with the hands of Pushan. 

Thou art a womau. Here I cut the necks of Rakshasas away. 
Barley art thou. Bar off from us our haters, bar our enemies. 
Thee for heaven, thee for earth, thee for air’s region. 

Pure be the worlds, the Fathers 5 dwelling-places. Thou art 
the habitation of the Fathers. 


piece of old matting or cloth, and buried arm-Weep in the ground to injure 
euemies. See The Hymns of the Atharva-veda, X. X. 18. and note. The 
•digger of these sound-holes dislodges by his act any such charms as have 
been buried there, and recites a formula as he throws up the earth from 
each bole. 

24 By way of benediction the Saci iftcer touches and addresses each of the 
completed holes, with & formula for each. 

25 He sprinkles lustra! water over the holes. I lay down: two pressing- 
beards, one on each of two pits. I scatter: blades of Darbha grass. You 
two: the pressing-boards. I compass round: with earth to keep them 
steady. Tkou: the skin used in the Soma-pressing process. Ye: the five 
pressing-stones which beloug to Vishnu as guardian of the sacrifice. 

26 Formulas for putting up a branch or post of Udumbara (Ficus Glo- 
merata) in the centre of the Sadas or shed where the priests sit By im¬ 
pulse, etc,: two lines repeated from verse 22. He throws barley into the 
sprinkling-water. Barley: yarn. Bar off: yavaya. There is a play on the 
words. Thee for heaven: he sprinkles the top of the branch. For earth: 
the bottom. For air's region : the middle. Pure be the ivorlds: he pours 
the remaining water into the hole made for the branch. Thou: a layer of 
Darbha grass which he strews in the hole. 




40 


THE TEXT8 OF THE 


[BOOK V. 

27 Prop heaven, fill full the air, on earth stand firmly. Dyutana, 

offspring of the Maruts, plant thee!, Mitra and Varuna 
with firm upholding. 

I close thee in, thou winner of the BnLhmans, winner of 
Nobles and abuudant riches. 

Strengthen the Brahmans, strengthen thou the Nobles, 
strengthen our vital power, strengthen our offspring. 

28 Firm-set art thou. Firm be this Sacrificer within this home 

with offspring and with cattle. 

O Heaven and Earth, be ye filled full of fatness. 

Indra’s mat art thou, shelter of all people. 

29 Lover of song, may these our songs encompass thee on every 

side; 

Strengthening thee of lengthened life, may they be dear 
delights to thee. 

30 Thou art the needle for the work of Indra. Thou art the 

firmly fastened knot of Indra. Indra’s art thou. Thou art 
the Visvedevaa’. 

31 All-present art thou, carrying off. Oblation-bearing priest 

art thou. 

Thou art the Swift, the Very Wise. Tutha art thou, who 
knoweth all. 

32 Thou art the yearning one, the sage. Angh&ri, Bambhari 

art thou. 


27 He raises and addresses the branch or post. Dyutdna: the name of a 
Vedic Rishi, seer of R. V. VIII. 85. It Is said to mean VAyu, the son or 
attendant of the Storm-Gods. I dose thee in: with earth put round it. 

28 Thou: the Udumbara post, which he (the Sacrificer) touches. O 
Heaven and Earth: he pours clarified butter on the forked top of the posh. 
Indra’s mat: of grass, to thatch the Sadas or PriestB* shed. AB people: 
the Sacrificer and the officiating priests. 

29 After enclosing the shed with mats, he addresses Indra as Lord of 
the Sadas with the text taken from R. V. I. 10. 12. 

30 Thou: he addresses the rope with which the mats are fastened. 
Needle: * Sewer ’: Eggeling. See verse 21. Thou art Indra’$ : he addresses 
the enclosed Sadas. Vijvedevae’: belonging to the All-Gods. See II. 13. 

31 and 32 contain formulas for the consecration of the eight Dhishnyas, 
side-altars or hearths, each of which is addressed in turn: (1) the Aguldb- 
riya or hearth of the Agntdhra or Fire-kindler ( carrying off, meaning ‘bear* 
ing oblations to the Gods ’); (2) the Hotar’s hearth ; (3) the hearth of the 
MaitrAvaruna or first Assistant of the Hotar ; (4) the hearth of the Brih- 
manftchhansi ( Tutha meaning ( Brahman priest,’ who knows how priestly 
fees are to be distributed). 

32 (5) ^ie hearth of the Potar or Cleansing Priest is addressed as 
the yearning one; (6) the hearth of the Neshtar, the priest who leads 
forward the Sacrificer’s wife, iB addressed by the names of Angh&ri and 



VERSE 35. 


WRITE YAJURVEDA. 


41 


Aid-seeker art thou, worshipping. Cleanser art thou, the 
cleansing-place. Krisanu, Sovran Lord, art thou. 

Thou art the Pavamana of the assembly. Thou art the 
welkin ever moving forward. Swept clean art thou, preparer 
of oblations. Thou art the seat of Law, heaven’s light 
and lustre. 

33 A sea art thou of all-embracing compass. Aja art thou, who 

hath one foot to bear him. Thou art the Dragon of the 
Depths of ocean. Speech art thou, thou the Sadas, thou 
art Indra’s. Doors of the sacrifice, do not distress me ! 
Lord, Ruler of the pathways, lead me onward. In this God- 
reaching path may I be happy. 

34 Look ye upon me with the eye of Mitra. 

0 Agnis, ye, receivers of oblations, are by a lauded name 
lauded together. Protect me, Agnis! with your glittering 
army. Fill me with riches, Agnis ! be my keepers. To 
you be adoration. Do not harm me. 

35 Thou art a light that wears all forms, and figures, serving 

the general host of Gods as Kindler. 

BambhAri, two of the guardians of the celestial Soma. See IV. 27; (7) the 
hearth of the AohhAvAka or Inviting Priest is addressed as A id-seeker ; (8) 
the MArjAliya hearth on which the sacrificial vessels are cleaned is addressed 
as Chanter. After the completion of the Dhishnyas the Ahavaniya fire is 
pointed stand addressed as KrisAnu, the chief guardian of the Celestial 
Soma. The Pavamdna: the Adhvaryu addresses the BahishpavamAna place, 
the place where a morning Stotra or hymn of praise is sung outside the 
Vedi or altar Assembly: of priests. Welkin: the pit from which the 
earth for the altar and Dhishnyas is taken is likened to the sky with 
openings between clouds. Moving forward: or, perhaps, precipitous, 
shelving downward. According to Mahidhara, circumambulated by the 
priests* Swept clean: the slaughtering-place is addressed. Seat of Law: 
the Udumbara post, where SAmans are chanted at sacrifice. 

S3 A tea: the seat of the Brahman priest, to which all Oods resort and 
where the Brahman of fathomless knowledge sits. Aja: the fire at the 
door of the Pr&chtnavamsa hall (the hall whose supporting beam is turned 
eastward) is addressed Aja EkapAd, or the One-footed Unborn, is perhaps 
the Sun or Lightning. See The Hymns of the Uigveda, VI. 50. 14, and 
Macdonell, Vedic Mythology, pp. 73, 74. Dragon of the Depths: Abi 
Budhnya, frequently associated with Aja-EkapAd, is a deity of the 
atmospheric ocean. See The Hymns of the Rigveda, Index, and Macdonell, 
Vedic Mythology, pp. 72, 73. The Garhapatya fire is thus addressed. Speech: 
the Sadas or shed in which the priests perform religious duties with spoken 
words. Doors , etc. : that is, let me pass in and out without stumbling. 
Ruler of the pathways: the Sun is addressed. God-reaching path: sacrifice. 

34 Look ye: the priests are addressed. Mitra: or, of a friend. Agnis : 
the fires of the Dhishnyas. Glittering: raudrena; or, Rudra-like, awful, 
destructive of enemies. 

35 With the text, he takes clarified butter mixed with sour curds. 
Thou: the clotted butter. Kindler: * for,' says Mahidhara,’ * the Gods are 
illuminated or brightened when they have enjoyed the sacrificial butter/ 




42 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK V. 

Thou, Soma, wilt withhold thy wide protection from body- 
wouudiug hatreds shown by others. All-hail! 

Let the Swift graciously enjoy the butter. All-hail! 

36 By goodly paths lead us to riches, Agni, thou God who 

knowest every sacred duty. 

Remove the siu that makes us stray and wander: most 
ample adoration will we bring thee. 

37 Wide room and comfort may this Agni give us, and go be¬ 

fore us cleaving down our foemen. 

May he win booty in the fight for booty : May he quell foes 
in his triumphant onset. 

38 0 Vishnu, stride thou widely forth, give ample room for our 

abode. 

Drink butter, homed in butter! Still speed on the sacri¬ 
fice’s lord. All hail! 

$f) To theq, God Savitar, belongs this Soma. Guard him secure¬ 
ly : let not demons harm thee. 

Now hast thou joined the Gods as God, God Soma: men 
have I joiued here through abundant riches. 

All-hail! from Varuna’s noose am I delivered. 

40 0 Agni, Guardian of the Vow, 0 Guardian of the Vow, on 

me whatever form of thiue hath been, may that same 
form be upon thee. Whatever form of mine hath been on 
thee, may that be here on me. 

O Lord of Vows, our vows have been accomplished. Diksha’s 
Lord hath approved my Consecration, and holy Fervour’s 
Lord allowed my Fervour. 

41 O Vishnu, stride thou widely forth, make ample room for 

our abode. 

Drink butter, homed iu butter! Still speed on the sacrifice’s 
lord. All-hail ! 


Thou , Soma • with this formula he offers an oblation. Let the Swift • he 
offers to Soma a second time. 

36 The Sacrificer recites the text taken from R. V. 1. 189. 1. 

37 The Adhvaryu lays the fire on the Agnidhra hearth, and in its shed 
puts down the pressing-stones, the Soma>trougb, and the Soma vessels, aud 
offers oblation with the text. 

38 He offers oblation in the Ahavaniya fire with the text. 

39 He spreads the black-antelope skin in the right-hand or southward 
cart, and lays the Soma thereon with the text. JJelivei'ed: handing over 
the Soma has secured me from danger of punishment by Varunu. 

40 He lays a kindling-stick on the Ahavaniya fire. 0 Agni , etc .; repeated 
from verse 6. 

41 Formulas for the preparation of the Yfipa or Sacrificial Stake. 
The ceremony begins with an offering and a verse (repeated from 38) to 
Vishnu, as he is the sacrifice and the stake belongs to him. 



VERSE 43.] 


WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


43 


42 I have passed others, not approached to others. On the near 

side of those that were more distant, and farther than 
the nearer have I found thee. 

So, for the worship of the Gods, with gladness we welcome 
thee God, Sovran of the Forest! Let the Gods welcome 
thee for the Gods* service. For Vishnu thee. Plant, guard! 
Axe, do not harm it! 

43 Graze not the sky. Harm not mid-air. Be in accordance with 

the earth. 

For this well-sharpened axe hath led thee forth to great 
felicity. 

Hence, with a hundred branches, God, Lord of the Forest, 
grow thou up. 

May we grow spreading with a hundred branches. 


42 He them takes the rest of the butter and goes with the carpenter to 
the wood in search of a suitable tree, a Palfiaa, Khadira, Vilva (Aegle 
Marmelos or Bel), or the like. When he has found it he recites the verse 
expressing the trouble he has taken. Others: other trees. Sovran of the 
Forest: vanaspati ; a large tree ; the technical name of the Sacrificial Stake 
regarded as a form of Agni. For Vishnu thee: he touches it with the 
dipping-spoon. Plant!: a blade of Kusagrass which he puts where the 
first cut will be made. 

43 He addresses the tree as it falls, and as it, as well as the axe, is a 
thunderbolt, entreats it to sj>are the three worlds. To great felicity: m 
bearing a most important part in sacrifice. Hence : from this stump. 


* 






BOOK THE SIXTH. 


By impulse of God Savitar I take thee with arms of Asvius, 
with the hands of Pdshan. Thou art a woman. Here 
I cut the necks of Rakshasas away. Barley. art thou. 
Bar off from us our haters, bar our enemies. 

Thee for heaven, thee for earth, thee for the welkin. Pure 
be the worlds, the Fathers 1 dwelling-places. Thou art the 
habitation of the Fathers. 

2 Thou art a leader, easy, to U one tars, of access. Know 

this. It will stand upon thee. 

Savitar, God, anoint thee with sweet butter. Thee for the 
plants laden with goodly fruitage ! 

Thou with thy top hast touched the sky, hast with thy 
middle filled the air, and steadied with thy base the earth. 

3 Those seats of thine which we desire to visit, where there 

are many-horned and nimble oxen, 

There, of a truth, was mightily imprinted the loftiest step 
of widely-striding Vishnu. 

I close thee in, the winner of the Brahmans, winner of 
Nobles and abundant riches. 

Strengthen the Br&hmans, strengthen thou the Nobles, 
strengthen our vital power, strengthen our offspring. 

4 Look ye on Vishnu’s works, whereby the Friend of Indra, 

close-allied, 

Hath let his holy ways be seen. 

The Sacrificial Stake, which may be of any length from five cubits to 
seventeen or even more, is then brought to the enclosure and erected with 
the following formulas. 

1 The formula is the same as that for the erection of the Udumbara post. 
See V. 26. Thee: the spade. 

2 Thou: The first chip cut from the stake and thrown into the hole in 
which the stake is to stand. Leader ; introducer of the stake into its recep¬ 
tacle. Unnetars .* priests who pour the Soma juice into the cups. Know this: 
that the stake will stand on thee. Savitar , etc.: he anoints the stake. Thee 
for the plants: he anoints the cap or wooden top-ring and fastens it on the 
stake, that rice and other plants may thrive and be productive. Thou with 
thy top: the stake is erected. 

3 He fixes the stake in the hole with the text which is a modification of 
R. V. 1.154. 6. Oxen: the stars with their ever-twinkling rays. Cf. R. V. I. 
105. 10. 

4 The Sacrificer touches the stake and recites the verse taken from R. V. 
J. 22. 19. Let ... be seen: Mahtdhara takes paspase as from spash, to 
bind: * bound ou himself.* According to Slyana, the meaning is anutishihi - 
ti, performs. 




TERSE 10.] 


WHITE YA JURY EDA, 


45 


5 The priuoes evermore behold that loftiest place where 

Vishnu is, 

Laid as it were an eye in heaven. 

6 Thou art invested. Heavenly hosts invest thee ! Riches of 

men invest this Sacriticer! 

Heaven’s son art thou. This is thine earthly station. Thine 
is the beast whose home is in the forest 

7 Eocourager art thou. The hosts of heaven have come to 

yearning.Gods, the best conductors. 

God Tvasbtar, make the wealth of cattle quiet. Delightful 
to the taste be thine oblations. 

8 Joy, wealthy ones! Brihaspati, save our riches. 

1 bind thee with the noose of holy Order, thou offering to 
the Gods. Bold be the Slayer. 

9 By impulse of God Savitar I bind thee, with arms of Asvins 

and with hauds of Pftshan, thee welcome unto Agni and 
to Soma. 

Thee for the waters, thee for plants. Thy mother grant 
* thee permission, and thy father, brother born of one dam, 
thy friend, thy herd-companion. I sprinkle thee welcome 
to Agni-Soma. 

10 Drinker art thou of water. May the Waters, the Goddesses, 
add sweetness to the oblation prepared for Gods, even 
though already sweeteued. 


5 He looks up to the cap of the stake. Princes: the wealthy institutoro 
of sacrifice. 

6 Thou art invested: he girdles the stake with a triple band of Kusa 
grass. Heaven's son: he addresses a chip of the stake which he inserts 
under the girdle of grass. The chip is cut from the stake which is produced 
from rain which comes from heaven. Thine: the stake is addressed. 

7 Formulas for binding and slaughtering the victim. Encourager: he 
takes up and addresses some grass which, as a companion, encourages and 
guards him in his work. He touches the victim with the grass and recites 
the text. Hosts of heaven: the sacrificial animals which have consented to be 
immolated to the Gods. Conductors: of the Sacrifices to heaven. TvaShtar: 
as creator and lord of cattle. Thine oblation : he addresses the victim.* 

Wealthy Ones : the cows rich in milk. I bind: he puts a.noose round the 
victim* Bold be the Slayer: this is Mahidhara’s explanation of * d harsh 4 
m&nushah,* which seems rather to mean, as Prof. Eggeling observes, * be 
bold: I am (or he, the slaughterer is) a man.’ 4 Dare, being human,’ addres¬ 
sed to the Immolator, would seem to give the meaning. 

9 He binds the victim to the stake with the following formulas. Thu: 
* I sprinkle ’ understood. Waters .... plants: rain and grass, to which the 
victim owes its existence. Mother . . . father: Earth and Heaven, accord¬ 
ing to Mahldhara. Grant thee permission • consent to thy sacrifice. 

10 Drinker: he holds lustral water under it6 mouth. May the Waters : 
he sprinkles the victim’s chest and belly. Thy breath : he anoints the ani- 




46 


THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK VI. 

Thy breath join wind, thy limbs those meet for worship, the 
sacrifice's lord the boon he prays for. 

11 Balmed, both of you, with butter, guard the cattle. Grant, 

Rich! the Sacrificer's prayer. Approach thou. 

Meeting with heavenly Wind, from air's mid-region. Be 
thou united with this offering’s body. 

0 Great One, lead the sacrifice's master on to a sacrifice of 
loftier order. All-hail to Gods ! To Gods All-hail! 

12 Become no serpent, thou, become no viper. To thee, 

0 widely-spread, be adoration. 

Advance, unhindered, on thy way. To rivers of butter 
move along the paths of Order. 

13 Bear the oblation to the Gods, ye Waters celestial and pure 

and well-provided. May we become providers well-provided. 

14 1 cleanse thy voice, thy breath, thine eye, thine ear, thy 

navel, aud thy feet, thy sexual organ, and thy rump. 

15 Let thy mind, voice, and breath increase in fulness, thine 

eye be fuller, and thiue ear grow stronger. 

Whatever there is in thee sore or wounded, may that be 
filled for thee, cleansed and united. 

Blest be the days. Plant, guard ! Axe, do not harm him. 

16 Thou art the demons’ share. Expelled are demons. Here 

I tread down; here 1 repel the detnous; here lead the 
demons into lowest darkness. 


mal’a forehead, shoulder and loins. Join wind: like to like. Meet for wor¬ 
ship ; the Gods, or sacrifices offered to them. 

11 Both : a chip from the stake and the whittle or slaughtering-knife 
with Which he touches the victim’s forehead. Cattle: honorific plural, the 
victim. Rich!: the Goddess of Speech, V&k. Approach: and inspire the 
Sacrificer. From air’s, etc.: * Guard him * understood. 0 Great One : or, G 
Rain-born ; he addresses a blade of grass thrown down behind the §4mitr* 
or Slaughteriug-plaoe. All-hail!: Some Gods, says Mahidhara, have Sv&hft 
or All-hail i before them and some have it after them. 

12 He throws the victim’s halter into the pit. Serpent . .. viper : a snake 
b called the Rope with Fangs. See A. V. IV. 8. 2 ; XIX. 47. 8. To thee r 
the Matron, bringing water for washing feet, recites the text. O widdy- 
tprmd: the sacrifice. 

14 The Matron wipes each organ of the animal as she recites the appro- 
priate clause of the text. In the original, iwidhdmi, * I cleanse,’ b repeat¬ 
ed as each organ b named. 

15 The Adhvaryu and the Sacrificer sprinkle all the members of the 
victim and recite the text Plant ; a blade of grass laid upon the victim 
when turned over on its back. Axe : here meaning the slaughtering-knife. 

1$ ThfOu: the lower part of the blade of grass which he has spaeared with 
bloo4 Ye two: sticks, called vap&arapanla, on which the omentum or caul 
when extracted from the victim, is wrapped for roasting. 0 Vdyu: the 
Adhvaryu throws the upper part of the grass-stalk into the Ahavantya fira 




VERSE 20.] 


WHITE YAJURVBDA. 


47 


Invest, ye two, the heaven and earth with fatness. 

O V&yu, eagerly enjoy the droppings. Let Agni eagerly 
enjoy the butter. All-hail! 

Go, both of yon, by Svah& consecrated, to Ordhvaoabhas, 
offspring of the Maruts. 

17 Ye Waters, wash away this stain and whatsoever taint be here, 
Each sinful act that I have done, and every harmless curse 

of mine. 

May Waters rid me of that guilt, and Pavam4na set me free. 

18 Be they united, with the Mind thy mind, and with the Breath 

thy breath. 

Thou quiverest. Let Agni make thee ready. Waters have 
washed together all thy juices. 

Thee for the Wind's rush, for the speed of Pftshan. From 
heated vapour may it reel and totter,—the disconcerted 
hatred of our foemen. 

19 Ye driukers-up of fatness, drink the fatness; drink up the 

gravy, drinkers of the gravy ! Thou art the oblation of the 
air’s mid-region. All-hail! 

The regions, the fore-regions, the by-regions, the intermediate 
and the upper regions,—to all the regions Hail! 

20 In every limb is Indra’s out-breath seated, in every limb is 

Indra’s in-breath settled. 

God Tvashtar, let thine ample forms be blended, that what 
wears different shapes may be one-fash ion ed. 

To please thee let thy friends, mother and father, joy over 
thee as to the Gods thou goest. 

Butter: which is poured on the omentum. Both of you: the roasting-sticks 
which are thrown into the fire, urdhvanabhas: He who is in the cloud on 
high ; V&yu. 

17 The priests, the Sacrificer, and his wife purify themselves at the pit 
with the text which is found aleo in A. V. VII. 89. 8. Cf. R. V. I. 23. 22; X, 
9. 8. Pavamdna ; he who flows clear, or blows to purify; Soma, or Vftyu. 

18 The Adhvaryu sprinkles the victim's heart with clotted butter. 
Mind: = heart; let thy heart be united with the heart of the Gods, and thy 
breath with theirs. Thou quiverest: he takes up the vas4 or melted fat and 
pieces of cooked meat. Agni: the fire. Thee: * I take' understood. P&- 
than: the Sun. Heated vapour: the wind. 

19 Ye drinkers: the All-Gods, to whom the oblation is offered. The 
gravy: the vas4. See verse 18. Thou: the gravy. The regions , etc.: I 
have borrowed Prof. Eggeling's translation of the words used to designate 
the intermediate points. 

20 He touches the remaios of the victim as be recites the text. The 
purpose of this part of the ceremony is to re-unite the separated portion* 
and to re-animate the body for life in heaven. 




48 THE TEXTS OP THE [BOOK VI. 

21 Go to the sea. All-hail! Go to the air. All-hail! Go to God 

Savitar. Allhail! 

Go thou to Mitra-Varuna. All-hail! Go thou to Day and 
Night. All-hail! 

Go to the Metres. All-hail! Go to Heaven and Earth. All¬ 
hail! Go to the sacrifice. All-hail! Go to Soma. AU- 
hail! Go to the heavenly ether. All-hail! Go to Vai§vi- 
nara Agoi. A11 hail! Bestow upon me mind and heart. 
Thy smoke mount to the sky, to heaven thy lustre. Fill 
thou the spacious earth full with thine ashes. 

22 Harm not the Waters, do the Plants no damage. From every 

place, King Varuna, thence save us. 

Their saying that we swear our oath by sacred cows, by 
Varuna, 

0 Varuna, save us therefrom. 

To us let Waters and let Plants be friendly; to him who 
hates us, whom we hate, unfriendly. 

23 These waters teem with sacred food: rich in that food, one 

longs for them. 

Rich be the holy rite therein. In sacred food be Sfirya rich. 

24 I set you down in Agni’s seat whose home is indestructible. 
Indra-and-Agui’s share are ye, Mitra-and-Varuna’s share are 

ye- 

The share of all the Gods are ye. 

May waters gathered near the Sun, and those wherewith the 
Sun is joined. 

Speed on this sacred rite of ours. 

25 Thee for the heart, thee for the mind, thee for the heaven, 

thee for the Sun. 

Bear up erect to heaven, to Gods, this rite, these sacrificial 
calls. 

22 He addresses the heart-spit, the stick on which the victim’s heart 
has been roasted, and which is now buried where dry ground and moist 
ground meet. Waters .. .plants: being between both and not touching either. 
From every place: the St. Petersburg Lexicon suggests that dkdmno- 
dhAmnah of the text is a corruption of ddmno-ddmnah, * from every bond 
or fetter.' Their saying: the meaning is not clear. Perhaps, Save us 
from our enemies * blame when they find fault with us for swearing by cows 
and by Varuna, when an oath on cows alone would be sufficient. 

23 These waters: the Vasativari waters, to be used in pressing out the 
Soma juice. Rich m that food: the Sacrifices 

24 The text is taken from R. V. I. 23. 17. 

25 The Adhvaryu takes Soma down from the cart, lays him on the pres* 
sing-stones, and recites the text. Heart. ...mind: I take thee down in 
order to fulfil the wish and purpose of the Sacrificer. Sacrificial calls : or, 
according to Makidhara, the seven chief priests themselves. 




WHITE YAJURVBDA. 


49 


TERSE 30.] 

26 Descend, 0 Soma, King, to all thy people. Down, unto thee, 

go, one and all, thy people ! 

May Agni with his fuel hear my calling. Hear it the Waters 
and the Bowls, Divine Ones! Hear, Stones, as knowing 
sacrifice, my calling. May the God Savitar hear mine 
invocation. All hail! 

27 Waters Diviue, your wave, the Waters 1 offspring, fit for ob¬ 

lation, potent, most delightful— 

Upon those Gods among the Gods bestow it, who drink the 
pure, of whom ye are the portion. All-hail! 

28 Drawing art thou: I draw thee up that Ocean ne’er may 

waste or wane. 

Let waters with the waters, and the plants commingle with 
the plants. 

29 That man is lord of endless strength whom thou protectest 

in the fight, 

Agni, or urgest to the fray. 

80 By impulse of God Savitar I take thee with arms of Asvins, 
with the hands of P&shan, 

Free with thy gifts art thou. Perform for Indra this deep, 
most excellently ordered worship. 

With the most noble bolt I pay the worship enriched with 
strengthening food and milk and sweetness. 

Ye are Nigrabbya waters, beard by Deities : make me con¬ 
tent. 


26 Bowls: there is some doubt as to the exact meaning of dhishands 
here. From the pontext sacrificial implements of some kind are clearly 
implied. See Oldenberg, Vpdic Hymns, II. 121. Mahldhara explains the 
word as meaning Divine Voices or Words, i. e. hymns. Stone*: for pressing 
Soma. 

27 He pours butter into the water and recites the text. The pure: 
Soma. 

28 Drawing: or ploughing- B e removes the oblation by means of the 
Maitr&varana priest's cup, that is, he makes the sediment float away. / 
draw : lie takes some water in the Maitr&varun&’g cup. Waters with the 
water* : the Vasatfvart water and that in, the cup, which he brings together.. 
Plant* with the plant* : beans, dentils, etc., with rice and other grains. 

29 If the ceremony be the liturgical rite called Agnisb$otna ( Praise of 
Agni ), a& oblation is to be offered with this text taken from Ik V. I. 27. 7. 

30 Formula^ .for the Morning Soma-Pressing. I take thee t. the stone 
-called 'Dp&msusavana or Low-voiced Presser. Mo*t noble bolt: Soma, like 
a thunderbolt in power. ,/ pay the worship; or, I make the Soma; the 
wprdsare understood. NigrdbhyA: the technical name of the Yasativari 
waters when poured into the Hotar’s cup. This water is now brought, and 
ithe rest of the text, with the verse that follows, is recited over it. 

4 



50 


WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


[BOOK VL 


31 Content my mind, content my speech, content my breath* 

content mine eye, contest mine ear, content my soul, con¬ 
tent my progeny, content my herds, content the troops- 
of men about me: never may the bands of men about me 
suffer thirst. 

32 For Indra girt by Vasus and accompanied by Rudras, thee- 

For Indra with Adityas, thee. For Indra foe-destroyer, 
thee. Thee for the Soma-bringing Hawk. For plenty¬ 
giving Agni, thee. 

33 Soma, what light there is of thine in heaven, what on the 

earth, what in mid-air^s wide region, 

Therewith give broad space to the Sacrifice! for his enrich¬ 
ment : Comfort thou the giver. 

34 Auspicious are ye, conquerors of Vritra* formed for bestow¬ 

ing wealth, the Immortal’s Consorts. 

Lead to the Gods this sacrifice* Divine Onest and at our in¬ 
vitation drink of Soma. 

35 Be not afraid; shake not with terror. Take thou strength. 
Ye two Bowls, being firm, stay firm, and take ye strength. 
Mishap—not Soma—hath been killed. 

36 East, west, north, south, from every side to meet thee let 

the regions run. 

Fill him, 0 Mother* let the noble meet together. 

37 Thou, verily, 0 Mightiest, as God sbalt gladden mortal man. 
0 Bounteous Lord, there is no comforter but thou. Indra, 

I speak my words to thee. 

32 He measures out Soma on the Up&msu press-stone, five handfuls with 
a formula for each Somarbringing Hawk': see V. L 

33 He touches the measured-out Soma. 

34 He pours the NigifibhyA waters on the Soma. Conquerors of V*itra? 
as blended with Soma the inspires and strengthener of Indra. Cf. 1.13. 
The Immortal's Consort* : as closely connected with the imperishable Soma. 

35 He addresses the Soma whioh he beats with the press-stone. Take 
thou strength: give sap or juice, according to Mahtdhara. Two Bowls? 
Heaven and Earth; or the sacrificial implements, bowls or boards, may bi 
meant. See verse 2d, note. Take ye strength: or, put juice (into the Somak 
Killed: by the beating. 

36 Thee: Soma. FtU him: or, satisfy him; the formula is obscure. “I 
take the last part of the formula to mean, ‘ May he (Soma) win (or per- 

J 0 ?. I the , lon ? ill g ( wa tew Efcgeling, Sacred Books of the East, 

XXVI. 245. Mother: each Region. 

37 Thou: Indra. The tent is taken, from R. V. L 84. 13. Mortal man - 
the S&crificer. 




BOOK THE SEVENTH. 


Flow for V&ohaspati, cleansed by hands from the two off¬ 
shoots of the Bull. 

Flow pure, a Deity thyself, for Deities whose share thou art. 

2 Sweeten the freshening draughts we drink. 

Soma, whatever name thou hast, uuconquerable, giving life, 

To that thy Soma, Soma ! Hail! 

3 Self-made Art thou from all the Powers that are in heaven 

and on the earth. 

May the Mind win thee, thee, All-hail! for Surya, 0 thou 
nobly-born. 

Thee for the Deities who sip light-atoms. 

Truly fulfilled, 0 Plant divine, be that for which I pray to 
thee. 

With ruin falling from above may So-and-So be smitten, 
crash! 

Thee for out-breathing, thee for breath diffused 1 

4 Taken upon a base art thou. Hold in, Rich Lord! be Soma’s 

guard. 

Be thou protector of our wealth: win strengthening food by 
sacrifice. 

Formulas for the Grahagrahana or drawing cups or libations of Soma 
juice. He first presses and draws the UpAipgu Gratia or draught, so named 
from the Up&msusavana or Low-voiced Press-stone used for the purpose. 
See VL 80, note. 

1 Flow: 0 Soma. Vdchaspati: Lord of Speech ; Prftna, Breath, the 
Genius of Life which remains in the human body as long as the power of 
speech. Hands: of the priests. Offshoots of the Bull: two sprigs of the 
mighty Soma through which the juice is poured. Flow part: he draws a 
second cup. 

2 He draws a third cup, still addressing the Soma. 

3 Self-made: the Upamsugraha is said to be Prftna or Breath. The Mind: 
meaning Prajapati. Thee for the Deities: he wipes off and addresses the 
Soma that has adhered to the cup. Sip light-atoms: or, according to 
M&htdhara, guard the motes of light which are distinct from the rays of 
the Sun. Truly fulfilled: this formula is to be used when the Sacrificer 
wishes to invoke a curse upon autonomy. Plant: a sprig of the Soma plant. 
So-and So: asau ; iste : the name of the enemy is to be supplied. Thee: I 
put thee, the oup, down. Out-breath: prdna. Breath diffused: vydna; 
another of the five or more vital airs, that whieh circulates or is diffused 
through the whole body. He puts down the Up&msu press-stone which he 
addresses. 

4 Taken upon a base: a frequently recurring expression for an offering 
that is supported or held up. The base or support being the cup or the earth 
oo which it is deposited. Here the Antary&ma Graha (a cup to be drawn after 
sunrise with suppression of voice and breath) is addressed. Hold in: ardarya* 
chha ; a play upon the word; retain the juice in the vessel, or, withhold 
from our enemies certain fiendish powers. Rich Lord: Indra is addressed. 




52 THE TEXTS OF TEE [BOOK VII . 

5 The heaven and spacious earth I lay within thee, I lay within 

thee middle air’s wide region. 

Accordant with the Gods lower and higher, Rich Lord, re¬ 
joice thee in the Antary&ma. 

6 Self-made art thou.light-atoms (verse 3 repeated). 

Thee for the upward breath. 

7 0 V&yu, drinker of the pure, be near us: a thousand teams 

are thine, All-bounteous Giver. 

To thee the rapture-giving juice is offered, whose first 
draught, God, thou takest as thy portion. 

$ These, ludra-V&yu! have been shed; come for our offered 
dainties’ sake: 

The drops are yearning for you both. 

Taken Upon a base art thou. For Vayu, Indra-Vayu, thee. 
This is thy home. Thee for the close-knit friends. 

9 This Soma hath been shed for you, Law-strength eners, 
Mitra-Varuna 1 

Here listen ye to this my call. 

Taken upon a base art thou. For Mitra thee, for Varuna. 

10. May we, possessing much, delight in riches, Gods in oblation, 
and the kine in pasture; 

And that Milch-cow who shrinks not from the milking, 
0 Indra-Varuna, give to us daily. 

This is thy home. Thee for the righteous Twain. 

11 Distilling honey is your whip, Asvins, and full of pleasantness^ 
Sprinkle therewith the sacrifice. 

Taken upon a base art thou. Thee for the Asvins. This is 
thy home. Thee for the Honey-lovers. 


7 Formulae for the Aindra-V&yava Grab a, libation to the dual deity Indra- 
V&yu. This verse is taken from R. V. VII. 92. 1. Of the pure : Soma. 
First draught: cf. R. V. I. 134. 1; 135. 1; IV. 46. 1 ; V. 43. 3 ; VIII. 89.2. 

8 Taken from R. V. I 2. 4. These: Soma juices. Thau: the Soma. 
Thee: * I draw * understood. This: the earth, on whioh he deposits the 
cup. Thy: Indra and V4yu or Indra* V£yu being regarded as one Deity. The 
close-knit friends: Indra and V&yu. 

9 Formulas for the MaitrsL-Varujia Graha, libation to Mitra-Varuna. The 
text is taken from R. V. II. 41. 4. 

10 He mixes the Soma with milk symbolizing wealth in cattle. The 
text is taken from R. V. IV. 42. 10. The added formula is repeated from 
verse 8. Milch-cow: wealth. The righteous Twain: Mitra and Varuna. 
Eitdyubhydm , dative dual of fitdyu, observing the Law, devoted to the Right, 
is explained in the Satapatha Br&hmana (Sacred Books of the East, XXVI. 
p. 2/2) as Rita, Right or Truth, that is, Mitra, and Ayu, Life, meaning 
Varuna. 

11 Formulas for the Asvina Graha, the cup or libation offered to the 
Asvins. Whip ; this Whip is glorified in A. V. IX. 1. It signifies, perhaps, 




VERSE 16.1 WHITE YAJURVEDA. 53 

12 Thou in the first old time, as all were wont, so now drawest 
from him, light-finder, throned on sacred grass; 
Preeminence and strength, from him turned hither, swift, 
roaring, who winneth those whereby thou waxeat strong. 
Taken upon a base art thou. Thee for Sanda. 

This is thy home. Protect thou manly power. 

Sanda hath been removed, may Deities who drink the pure 
libation lead thee forward. Invincible art thou. 

1-3 Well stored with heroes and begetting heroes, with growth 
of wealth surround the Sacrificer. 

The Bright, conjoined with Heaven and with Earth, with 
the brightly-shining one. 

Expelled is Sapda. Thou art Sukra’s dwelling. 

14 May we, 0 radiant Soma, be the keepers of thine uninjured 

strength and growth of riches. 

This is the first all bounteous Consecration: he the first, 
Varuna, Mitra, and Agni. 

15 He is the first Brihaspati, the Prudent. Offer ye juice with 

Sv&hfi ! to that Indra. 

Content be priestly offices, those with good sacrifice of meath, 
those that are pleased when they have gained fair offer¬ 
ings with the solemn Hail! 

The Kindler of the Fire hath sacrificed. 

16 See, Vena, born in light hath driven hither on chariot of 

the air the calves of Prisni. 

the early stimulating and life-giving morning breeze which accompanies the 
first appearance of tbe Asvins the Lords of Light, who precede and herald 
Dawn, and represents in the Atharva-veda hymn all creative, vivifying, and 
sustaining power. But see Prof. Max Muller, Vedic Hymns, Part I. p. 187. 
The Commentators explain kasd, whip, as a name of V&k, Voice, or Speech. 
Honey-lovers: or lovers of sweetness, the Asvins. The text is taken from 
B. V. I. 22. 3. 

12 Formulas for the Sukra Graha, or libation to the Bright One, the Sun. 
The text, taken with a variation from R. V. V. 44. 1, is hopelessly obscure. 
Thou: Indra. Him: Soma. Those: the saorificial waters. See the 
Hymns of tbe Rigveda, where the verse is differently interpreted. Sanda: 
Jin Asura or demon, for whom the cup is drawn, and then offered to a deity. 
He is said to be Sukra’s sou. Invincible art tkou: the right hip of the high 
altar, on which the Adhv&ryu deposits his cup, is addressed and secured from 
the attacks of demons. 

13 The Sukra cup or libation is addressed by the Adhvaryu. 

14 Keepers: givers, according to Mahtdhara. 

15 Priestly offices : meaning, apparently, the priests themselves. Accord¬ 
ing to Mahldhara the deified sacrificial metres are intended. Kindler of the 
Fire: the Agntdh, who is the last to sacrifice. 

16 He draws the Manthin cup of Soma juice mixt with meal, with the 
very obscure text from R. V. X. 123.1. Manthin is said to be-the Moon, 




*4 THE TEXTS OP THE [BOOR VII. 

Siegers with hymns caress him as an infant there where the 
waters and the sunlight mingle. 

Taken upon a base art thou. Thee for Marka. 

17 To bis oblation, swift as thought ye hurried and welcomed 

eagerly the prayers he offered. 

With arrows in his hand the Very Mighty forced from him 
all obedience of a servant. 

This is thy dwelling-place. Protect the people. Marka hath 
been removed. 

Gods, drinkers of the Manthin, lead thee forward} Invinci¬ 
ble art thou. 

18 Well stored with people and begetting people, with growth 

of wealth surround the Saorificer. 

The Manthin joined with Heaven and Earth and with the 
Manthin-shining one. 

Expelled is Marka. Thou art Man thin’s dwelling. 

19 0 ye eleven Gods whose home is heaven, 0 ye eleven who 

make earth your dwelling. 

Ye who with might, eleven, live in waters, accept this sacri¬ 
fice, Ye Gods, with pleasure. 

20 Taken upon a base art thou. Thou art Agrayana, good first 

libation. 

Be thou the guard of sacrifice: protect the sacrifice’s lord. 
Vishnu with might protect thee. Guard thou Vishnu. 
Guard on all sides the Soma sacrifices. 

21 Soma flows pure, Soma flows pure for this Priesthood, for 

the Nobility, pure for the worshipper who presses out 
the juice, flows pure for food and energy, for waters and 
for plants; flows pure for general prosperity. Thee for the 
Universal Gods. This is thy home. Thee for the Universal 
Gods. 


as Sukra is the Sun. Vena: the loving Sun; apparently the 8un rising in 
the* mist of morning. Prifni: the Speckled Cow, the variegated eloud. 
Her calves are the masses of mist which the Sun dispels. Marka: son of 
Sukra, and Purohita or tribal priest of the Asuras. 

17 The text as it stands, taken from R. V. X. 61. 8, seems unintelligible 
and is probably corrupt. See The Hymns of the Rigveda, new ed. Vol. 
II. 465. The following formula is, mutatis mutandis, identioal with that 
in verse 12. Manthin: Soma juice mixed and stirred up with meal. 

18 The Pratiprasth&tar or assistant priest, on the north side of the Saori* 
ficial Stake, addresses a chip of the Stake which he has sprinkled, and throws 
it on the Ahavantya fire. Cf. verse 13. 

19 The formula for the Agrayana Graha, a libation ofiered to the All- 
Gods, with the text taken from R. V. I. 189. 11. Waters: of air. 

20 FtsAnu .* the Sacrifice. 

21 Thee .* he deposits the oug. 




.VBITE YAJURVEDA. 


55 


VERSE 26 .] 

22 Taken upon a base art thou. For Indra Lord of the Brihat, 

strong with vital vigour, I take thee lover of the invo¬ 
cation. 

Indra, what mighty vigour thou possessest, for that do 
I take thee, take thee for Vishnu 
This is thy home. Thee for the recitations. 

For the Gods take I thee, the Gods’ protector ; yea, for the 
sacrifice’s life I take thee. 

23 For Mitra-Varuna thee, the Gods protector, yea, for the 

sacrificed life I take thee. 

For Indra, thee, etc. For Indra-Agni, thee, etc. For Indra- 
Varuiia, thee, etc. For Indra-Brihaspati thee, etc. For 
Indra-Vishpu thee, etc. 

24 Him, messenger of earth and head of heaven, Agni Vaisva- 

nara, born in holy Order, 

The Sage, the King, the Guest of men, a vessel fit for their 
mouths, the Gods have generated. 

25 Taken upon a base art thou. Firm, firmly resting, the 

firmest of the firm, the most securely grounded of those 
who never have been shaken. 

This is thy home. Thee for Vaisv&nara. 

I pour forth with firm mind, with voice, firm Soma. So 
now may Indra verily make our people all of one heart 
and mind and free from foemen. 

26 Whatever drop of thine leaps forth, whatever stalk from 

the bowls’ lap, shaken by the press-stone, 

From the Adhvaryud hand or from the filter, that, con¬ 
secrated in my mind with Vashat I offer unto thee with 
cry of Svaha 1 

Thou art the way by which the Gods ascended. 

22 Formula for the Ukthya Graha. Brihat: the Great (Psalm ); one of 
the most important S&uia hymns, S&maveda II. ii. i. 12, taken from R. V. 
VI. 46. 1, 2 Recitations: Ukthas or hymns of praise. 

23 For Mitra-Varuna: he gives a portion of the draught to the Maitrft- 
varuna priest. For Indra: to the Br&hman&chhamst. For Indra-Agni: 
to the Achh&vAka. 

24 Formula for the Dhruva Graha, or Firm Libation ; probably so called 
because, drawn in the morning, it remains unoffered till the evening. The 
text is taken from R. V. VI. 7. 1. 

25 Firm: dhruva. 

26 Formula for the Viprud-Homa or Drop-Oblation, to expiate any drop¬ 
ping of Soma during the ceremony of pressing and drawing the juice. 
Vashat: the sacrificial exclamation, May he (Agni) carry (it to the Gods). 
The text is taken, with two variations, from R. V. X. 17. 12. Thou: the 
Chfitvftla or pit, into or towards which the Adhvaryu throws one of two 
blades of graas taken from the altar. Ascended: through sacrifice to heaven. 




56 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK *#. 

27 Giver of splendour, grow thou pure for splendour for my 

outward breath. 

Giver of splendour, grow thou pure for splendour for my 
spreading breath. 

Giver, etc. .. ... for my upward breath. 

Giver, etc. for my power of speech. 

Giver, etc. .. for my sense and will. 

Giver, etc. for my hearing power. 

Givers of splendour* grow ye pure for splendour for my 
orbs of sight. 

28 Giver of splendour, grow thou pure for splendour for my 

living self. 

Giver, etc. . for my energy. 

Giver, etc. for my vital power. 

Givers of splendour, grow ye pure for splendour for all 
sprung from me. 

29 Who art thou? Which of all art thou? Whose art thou? 

Who art thou by name ? 

Even thou on whose name we have meditated, thou whom 
we have delighted with our Soma. 

30 Taken upon a base art thou. For Madhu thee. Taken 

upon a base art thou. For Madhava thee. 

Taken, etc. For Sukra thee. Taken, etc. For Suchi thee. 
Taken, etc. For Nabhas thee. Taken, etc. For Nabhasya 
thee. Taken, etc. For Food thee. Taken, etc. For 
Energy thee. Taken, etc. For Sahas thee. Taken, efb* 
For Sahasya thee. Taken, etc. ForTapas thee. Taken, etc. 
For Tapasya thee. Taken, etc. For Amhasaspati thee. 

27 The Avak&sa formulas, the Sacrificer being made to look at the liba¬ 
tion cups in the order in which the offerings have been made, with a slightly 
varied formula addressed to each. Given: he looks at and addresses the 
Sukra and the Man thin cups. 

28 Givers: he looks at the two Soma troughs, Pfftabhrit and AdhavanSya. 

29 He looks at the Dronakalasa or large wooden Soma reservoir. Who t .* 
Ka, PrajApati, according to Mahldhara. See 1.6, note. Which of all t: or 9 
Eminently PrajApati. Whose ?; or PrajApati’s. 

30 Formulas for the Ritu Grahas or libations to the deified Seasons. The 
eups are drawn in turn by the Adhvaryu aud the Pratiprasth&tar. Madhu 
Honey, or sweetness { here a name of the first month of the year, Chaitra, 
Mid-March to Mid-April. Thee: ( I take* understood. Mddhava : Honey ~ 
like, vernal; the month VaisAkha, April-May. Sukra: Bright; the month 
Jyaishtha,May-June. Suchi: Pure; AshAdha, June-July. Nabhas: Mist; 
SrAvana, July-August. Nabhasya: Misty ; BhAdra, August September, 
Food: Ish; Asvina, September-October. Energy: Orj; KArtika, October* 
November. Sahas: Strength; MArgasirsha,, November-December. Saha - 
sya: Strong; Pushya,December-January. Tapas: Pain; MAgha, January* 
February. Tapasya: Painful; PhAlguna, Febru&ry-M&rch. Amhasaspati r 
Lord of Trouble; the Genius of the thirteenth or intercalary month. 





VEB8E 36 . WHITE YAJUBVEDA. *7 

31 Moved, Indra-Agni, by pur hymns, come to the juice, the 

precious dew. 

Driuk ye thereof, impelled by song. 

Taken upon a base art thou. For Indra-Agni thee. This 
is thy dwelling. Thee for Indra-Agni. 

32 Hitherward! they who light the dame and straightway 

strew the sacred grass, 

Whose Friend is Indra ever young. 

Taken upon a base art thou. For Indra-Agni thee. This 
is thy dwelling. Thee for Indra-Agni. 

33 Ye Visvedevas who protect,reward, and cherish men,approach 

Your worshipper's drink-offering. 

Taken upon a base art thou. Thee for the Universal Gods. 
This is thy home. Thee for the Visvedevas. 

34 0 ye All-Gods, come hitherward : hear this my invocation; 

seat 

Yourselves upon this sacred grass. 

Taken upon a base art thou. Thee for the Universal Gods. 
This is thy home. Thee for the Visvedevas. 

35 Here drink the Soma, Indra girt by Maruts ! as thou didst 

drink the juice beside S&ryata. 

Under thy guidance, in thy keeping, Hero! the singers serve, 
skilled in fair sacrifices. 

Taken upon a base art thou. For Indra girt by Maruts thee. 
This is thy home. For Indra girt by Maruts thee. 

36 The Bull whose strength hath waxed, whom Maruts follow, 

free-giving Indra, the Celestial Ruler, 

Mighty, all-conquering, the victory-giver, him we invoke to 
give us new protection. 

Taken upon a base art thou. For Indra girt by Maruts thee. 
This is thy home. For Indra girt by Maruts thee. 

Taken upon a base art thou. Thee for the Maruts' energy. 


31 The Adhmryu draws the Aindragna Cup, or libation to Indra and 
Agni, with the text from R. V. III. 12. 1. This : the mound on which be 
deposits the cup. 

32 This text, from R. V. VIII. 45. 1, is also recited. 

33 He draws the cup for the Visvedevas, the All-Gods or Universal Gods, 
with the text taken from R. V. I. 3. 7. 

34 He recites another text, from R. V. II. 41. 13. 

85 The Morning-Pressing having been finished, the formulas for the 
Midhyamdina-savana or Midday-Pressing begin. First the M&rutvatlya Cups 
are drawn for Indra Marutv&n or Manit-girt. The text for the first cup is 
taken from R. V. III. 51. 7. Betide S&rydta: that is, at the sacrifice offered 
by S&ry&ta, said to have been a king, son of Sary4ta who may be identified 
with Sary4ti son of Manu Vaivasvata. See R. V. I- 51. 12; 112. 17. 

36 He draws the second cup for Indra Marutv&n with the text taken from 
R. V. III. 47. 5, 




58 the TEXTS OF THE [BOOH VII. 

37 Indra, accordant with the banded Maruts, drink Soma, 

Hero! as wise Vritra-slayer. 

Slay thou our foe men, drive away assailants, and make us 
safe ou every side from danger. 

Taken, etc. For Indra girt by Maruts thee. This is tby 
home. For Indra girt by Maruts thee. 

38 Drink, Indra Marut-girt, as Bull, the Soma: for joy, for 

rapture even as thou pieasest. 

Pour down the wave of meath within thy belly: thou art 
the King of juices shed fortnightly. 

Taken, etc......Maruts thee (as above). 

39 Great* hero-like, controlling men is Indra, unwasting in 

his powers, doubled in vastness. 

He, turned to us, hath grown to hero vigour: broad, wide, 
he hath been decked by those who serve him. 

Taken upon a base art thou. Thee for Mahendra. 

This is thy dwelling-place. Thee for Mahendra. 

40 Indra, great in his power aud might, and like Parjanya rich 

in rain, 

Is magnified by Vatsa’s lauds. 

Taken, etc. ( as in 39 ). 

41 His bright rays bear him up aloft, the God who knoweth 

all that lives, 

Sfirya, that all may look on him. All-hail! 

42 The brilliant presence of the Gods hath risen, the eye of 

Mitra, Varuna, and Agui. 

Soul of all moving, soul of all that moves not, the Sun 
hath filled the air and earth and heaven. 

43 By goodly paths lead us to riches, Agni, thou God who 

knowest every sacred duty. 

Remove the sin that makes ns stray and wander: most 
ample adoration will we bring thee. 

44 Wide room and comfort may this Agni give us, and go 

before us cleaving down our foemen. 

37 An offering-prayer taken from R V. III. 47. 2. 

39 He draws the M&hendra Graha ; the Cup for Mahendra, Great Indra, 
with the text taken from R. V. VI. 19. 1. 

40 The text is from R. V. VIII. 6. 1. Parjanya: God of the rain-cloud. 
Vatsa: the seer of the hymn. 

41 The text, taken from R. V. 1.50.1, accompanies an offering (DAkshina- 
homa or oblation in the Southern fire) to Sflrya. 

42 A second oblation is offered to Surya with the text from R. V. 1.115.1. 

43 The text, from R. V. 1.189.1, accompanies an oblation in the Agnt- 
dhra fire to Agni. 

44 He offers again with the text. Verses 43, 44 occur also in V. 35. 37; 




VERSE 48.] WHITE YAJURVBDA. 59 

May be win booty in the fight for booty: may he quell 
foes in his triumphant onset. 

45 I through your beauty have attained to beauty. The Tutha, 

the omniscient, allot you ! 

Go forth, bright-gifted! on the path of Order. Look thou 
upon the heaven and air’s mid-region. Unite thee with 
the priests who keep the Sadas. 

46 This day may it be mine to find a Brahman sprung from a 

lauded father and grandfather, 

Offspring of Rishis and himself a Rishi, the fit recipient of 
priestly guerdon. 

Go to the Gods, bestowed by me, and enter into him who 
gives. 

47 To Agni, yea, to me let Varuna give thee. May I gain life 

that shall endure for ever. 

Be thou strong vital power to him who gives thee, and com¬ 
fort unto me the gift’s receiver. 

To Rudra, yea, to me let Varuna.for ever. 

Be thou the breath of life to him who gives thee, and vigour 
unto me the gift’s receiver. 

To me Bphaspati let Varupa.for ever. 

Be thou a covering skin to him who gives thee, and comfort 
unto me the gift’s receiver. 

To Yama, yea, to me let Varuna.for ever. 

Be thou a steed to him who gives the guerdon, and vital 
power to me the gift’s receiver. 

48 Who hath bestowed it ? Upon whom bestowed it ? 

Desire bestowed it, for Desire he gave it. Desire is giver 

and Desire receiver. This, 0 Desire, to thee is dedicated. 

45 The Sacrificer, having some gold with him, addresses the cows that 
are to be given to the priests. The Tutha: the Brahman priest, or, accord¬ 
ing to Mabidhara, Prajipati in his form. Cf. V. 81. Allot you: distribute 
you among the officiating priests. Order: the sacrificial ceremony. Look 
thou: he addresses the representative cow, meaning, I, through you cows, 
behold the heavenly world. Unite thee with: or, exert thyself to enrich. 
Sadas: the priests’ shed. See Y. 28. 

48 The Sacrificer goes to the Agnidh or Fire-Kindler and recites the text. 
Oo to the Gods: he sits down beside the Agnidh and gives him the gold and 
other gifts which are thus addressed. Enter into: return to me, the Sacri¬ 
ficer, in the shape of earthly and heavenly blessings. 

47 The Adhvaryu recites the first formula as he receives the guerdon of 
gold. Thee: the gold. To Rudra: spoken as he receives the cow. To rhe y 
JBfihaspati: spoken as he receives a cloth. To Yama: God of the Dead ; 
spoken as he receives the horse. 

48 Spoken on the receipt of any additional gift such as gruel, sesamum, 
etc. Desire bestowed it: the reward has been given in hope of receiving bles¬ 
sings in return. The text is taken, with variatious, from A. V. III. 29. 7. 







BOOK THE EIGHTH. 


Taksn upon a base art thou. Thee for the Adityas. 

Here, 0 Far-striding Vishnu, is thy Soma. Guard it from 
injury. Let them not harm thee. 

2 Ne'er art thou fruitless, Indra; ne'er dost thou desert thy 

worshipper. 

But now, 0 Liberal Lord, thy bounty as a God is poured 
forth ever more and more. Thee for the Adityas. 

3 Never art thou neglectful: thou guardest both races with 

thy care. 

The Soma feast, 0 Fourth Aditya, is thy strength. Amrit 
is stablished in the heavens. Thee for the Adityas. 

4 The sacrifice obtains the Gods* acceptance. Be graciously 

inclined to us, Adityas. 

Hitherward let your favour be directed and be our best de¬ 
liverer from trouble. Thee for the Adityas. 

5 This is thy Soma draught, 0 bright Aditya: take delight 

therein. 

To this mine utterance, 0 ye men, give credence, what .good 
the man and wife obtain by praying: 

A manly son is bom and gathers riches, and thrives forever 
sinless in the dwelling. 

6 Fair wealth, 0 Savitar, to-day, to-morrow, fair wealth pro¬ 

duce for us each day that passes. . 

May we, through this our song, be happy gainers, God! of 
a fair and spacious habitation. 


This Book contains the formulas required for the Third or Evening Soma- 
Pressing, and first, as a preliminary ceremony, for the Aditya Graha or 
Libation to the Adityas. 

1 The Pratiprasth&tar draws the Soma from the trough into the Aditya 
vessel. Thee: * I pour out * understood. Here : in the Sth4li, bowl, or pot 
into which he pours the juice from the Aditya vessel which is then placed 
on it as a cover. Them • the evil spirits. 

2 He draws the Aditya cup with the text from R V., Vfil&khflya III. 7.' 

3 He withdraws the cup, and again takes the juice with the text taken 
with a variation from R. V. VAlakhilya IV. 7. Both races: Gods and men. 
Fourth Aditya: next to Varuna, Mitra, Aryaman. Amrit: or Ambrosia'; 
celestial Soma. 

4 He mixes the Aditya libation with sour milk with the text from R. V. 

I. 107.1. * 

5 Bright Aditya: Sfirya the Sun is addressed. To this: the Sacrificer’s 
wife recites the text which is takeu partly, and with variations, from A. V. 
XIV. 2. 9. 

6 He draws the S&vitra Graha or Cup for Savitar, with the text frail 
R. V. VI. 71. 6. 



FRBMMl] WHITE YAJURVEHA. «1 

7 Taken upon a base art thou. 

Savi tar’s giver of delight art thou. Giver of joy art thou: 
vouchsafe me joy. 

Speed thou the sacrifice, speed thou the sacrifice’s lord to 
win his share. Thee for the God, for Savitar. 

8 Taken upon a bade art thou. 

Thou art a good protector, firmly stablished. To the Great 
Bull be reverential homage. Thee for the Visvedevas. 
This is thy home: Thee for the Visvedevas. 

9 Taken upon a base art thou. 

May it be mine to prosper the libations of thee Brihaspati’s 
son, 0 radiant Soma, of thee, strong Indu, mated with 
thy Consorts. 

I am in heaven above, on earth beneath it. The intermedi¬ 
ate, region was my father. 

I saw the Sun both from above and under. I am what Gods 
in secret hold the highest. 

10 Agni, associate with the Dames, accordant with the God 

Tvashtar, drink. All-hail! 

Thou art Prajapati, strong male, impregner: may I obtain 
from thee, strong male, impregner, a son who shall him¬ 
self become a father. 

11 Taken upon a base art thou. 

Thou art bay-coloured, Yoker of Bay Coursers. Thee for 
the pair of tawny-coloured horses. 

United with the Soma, ye, for Indra, are corn for his two 
tawny steeds to feed on. 

12 That draught of thine which winneth cows or horses, offered 

with sacrificial text and lauded 

7 He addresses the Soma in the cup. 

8 He draws from the Pfttabhrit, a vessel containing strained Soma juice, 
the MahAvaisvadeva Cup or Libation to the Great All-Gods. The Great 
Bull: Praj&pati, the Lord of Creatures. 

9 He drawn the P&tnlvata Cup or Libation to Him with Consorts, here 
meaning Soma. Bfikatpati son ; poured forth by priests whose representa¬ 
tive is Bfihaspafci. Indu : drop, juice ; a common name of Soma. Contort* ; 
the waters with which Soma is mixed. / am in heaven, etc.: the Adhvaryu 
recites, identifying himself in his sacerdotal character with the Supreme Self. 

10 He offers the PAtnivata Cup to Agni. The Dame*: the Consorts of 
the Gods; with a reference also in this place to the wife of the Sacrificer. 
Thou art Prajdpati; spoken by the Matron who is led up by the Neshtar 
(see V. 31) and directed to look at and address the Udg&tar or SAma-Chanter. 
From thee: through thy favour. 

11 He draws the HAriyojana Cup, or Libation to Indra Harnesser of the 
Haris or Bay Steeds. Ye : grains of parched corn which he throws into 
the cup. 

12 The priests smell the grains taken from the cup, and throw them, on 
the high altar. 




62 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK YUl. 

With chanted hymns and sodgs of adoration—of that per¬ 
mitted do I take permitted. 

13 Of sin against the Gods thou art atonement. Of sin against 

mankind thou art atonement. 

For sin against the Fathers thou atonest. Of sin against 
oneself thou art atonement 

Of every sort of sin thou art atonement. The sin that I 
have knowingly committed, the sin that unawares I have 
committed, of all that wickedness thou art the atonement. 

14 We with our bodies have again united, with lustre, vital sap, 

and happy spirit. 

Giver of boons, may Tvashtar grant us riches and smooth 
whate’er was injured in our body. 

15 Lead us with thought to wealth in kine, 0 Indra, to princes. 

Lord of Bounty ! and to welfare. 

Lead thou us on to God-inspired devotion, to favour of the 
Gods who merit worship. All-hail! 

16 Verse 14 repeated. 

IT May this please Savitar and liberal Dh&tar, Prajapati the 
Treasure-Guard, bright Agni, 

Tvashtar, and Vishnu : blessing him with children, grant 
store of riches to the Sacrificer. 

18 Gods, we have made your seats easy of access, who, pleased 

with us, have come to this libation. 

Bearing and bringing hitherward your treasures, grant to 
this man, good Lords, abundant riches. All hail! 

19 The willing Gods whom, God, thou hast brought hither, send 

them to their own dwelling-place, 0 Agni. * 

As all of you have eaten and have drunken, approach the 
air, the beat, the light of heaven. 


13 Thou; a splinter of the Sacrificial Stake. Six of these splinters are 
thrown on the fire and severally addressed with a formula. 

14 The priests touch the Chamasas, cups or bowls, filled with water, and 
recite the text taken from A. V. VI 53. 8. 

15 He makes nine offerings called S&misbtayajuaee or final sacrificial texts 
and oblations, and with the first he recites the text taken from B. V. V. 42.4. 
Princes: wealthy sacrifices# who trill liberally reward our services. 

16 The second offering is made with repetition of verse 14. 

17 The third offering, with the text from A. V. VII. 17. 4* This: our 
oblation. Liberal: or rdti may mean the Oblation personified. Dhdtar : 
the Creator, or Ordainer. Grant: ye, the Deities mentioned. 

18 The fourth, with the text whose first three Padas are taken from A. V. 
VII. 97. 4. Easy of access: sacrifice leading the worshipper to heaven. 

19 The fifth, with the text from A. V. VII. 97. 8 . Eaten; the sacrificial 
rice-cakes. Drunken: libations of Soma. 



TERSE 26.] WHITE TAJURVEDA. 6S 

20 Here, Agni, as this sacrifice proceedeth, have we elected thee 

to be our Hotar. 

Special have been thine offerings and thy labour. Well 
knowing sacrifice, as sage, come near us. 

21 Do ye, 0 Gods, discoverers of the Pathway, go forward on 

the path when ye have found it 
0 God, thou Lord and Master of the Spirit, bestow—All- 
hail !—this sacrifice on V&ta. 

22 Go, Sacrifice, to the sacrifice : seek thou the sacrifice’s lord, 

seek thine own home. All-hail ! 

Lord of the sacrifice, this is thy sacrifice, followed by many 
heroes, loud with hymns of praise. Accept it thou. All¬ 
hail l 

23 Become no serpent thou, become no viper. 

King Vanina hath made a spacious pathway, a pathway for 
the Sun wherein to travel. 

Where no way was he made him set his footstep, and warn¬ 
ed afar whate’er afflicts the spirit. 

To Varuna be reverential homage! Varuna’s noose beneath 
our feet is trampled. 

24 The waters, face of Agni, have I entered, 0 Waters’ Child, 

repelling evil spirits. 

Offer the fuel in each home, 0 Agni. Let thy tongue dart 
—All-hail!—to meet the butter. 

25 Thy heart is in the flood, within the waters. With thee let 

plants and waters be commingled, 

That, Lord of Sacrifice, we may adore thee with singing 
praise and telling forth our homage. All-hail! 

26 This, 0 celestial Waters, is your offspring. Support him 

dearly loved and gently nurtured. 


20 The sixth, with the text whose first line is taken from A. V. VII. 97.1. 

21 The seventh, with the text repeated from II. 21. Pathway: the sac¬ 
rifice. The path: your own homeward way. 0 Ood: Praj&patu 

22 The eighth, with the text. This is thy sacrifice: he offers the ninth 
i and last oblation of the series. 

23 After this set of oblations, the Adhvaryu throws the black-buck’s horn 
(see IV. 10, note) and the girdle into the Ch£tv&la or pit. Thau: the girdle 
of rope (see VI. 12). The Sacrificer then recites the text from B. V. I. 24. 8. 
To Varuna: spoken by the Sacrificer as he steps into the Avabhritha or 
other water. Varuna's noose ; affliction sent as a punishment for sin by 
the Moral Governor of the world. 

24 The Sacrificer throws a kindling-stick into the water and makes an 
offering thereon with four ladlefuls of butter. 

25 The Adhvaryu floats a jar containing the dregs of the Soma, and re¬ 
cites the text. Thy heart: 0 Soma. 

26 This ; Soma. Briny .... ward off: I follow Mahfdhara. Prof. Egge- 
ling refers mkskm in both eases to vaksh instead of vah: 1 thrive thou well 
therein and thrive thou thoroughly.* 



«4 THE TEXTS OP THE [ BOOK 7111. 

This is th y station, 0 celestial Soma; therein bring happiness 
and ward off evil. 

27 0 restless Purifying Bath, thou glidest onward restlessly. 
May I with aid of Gods remove the stain of sin against the 

Gods, and wash away with mortals’ help the wrong that 
hath been done to men. Preserve me, God, from injury, 
from the loud-roaring demon foe. Thou art the fuel of 
the Gods. 

28 Let, still unborn, the ten-month calf move with the follow¬ 

ing after-birth. 

.Even as the wind is moving, as the gathered flood of ocean 
moves, 

So may this ten-month calf come forth together with the 
after-birth. 

29 0 thou who hast a womb of gold and offspring meet for 

sacrifice, 

Him with all limbs unbroken have I brought together with 
his dam. All-hail! 

30 Multiform, rich in wondrous operation, the strong juice 

hath enrobed itself with greatness. 

Let the worlds praise her uniped and biped, three-footed 
and four-footed and eight-footed. All-hail 1 

31 Verily, best of guardians hath he in whose dwelling-place 

ye drink, 

0 Maruts, giants of the sky. 

32 May Heaven and Earth, the Mighty Pair, besprinkle this 

our sacrifice, 

And feed us full with nourishments. 

27 He immerses the jar. Purifying Bath: he addresses the Avabhritha. 
The text is repeated from III. 48. Thou art the fuel: he puts a kindling- 
'stick on the Ahavauiya fire. 

28 A course of expiation to be followed when a sacrificial cow, supposed 
to be barren, is found after immolation to be in calf. Of. R. V. V. 78. 7—9, 
which Sgyana calls *the liturgy of child-birth.’ Ten-month: 1 although the 
embryo be not of ten months’ growth’, says Mahtdhara, * the priest makes 
it such by prayer and sacrificial text.’ 

29 0 thou: the Vasft or Sacrificial Cow is addressed. Him: the embryo calf. 

30 Multiform: the fat juice of the embryo, with butter poured over it, 
is offered as an oblation. Greatness: derived from the cow. Praise: or 
celebrate; prakhydtdm Icurmntu: Mahidhara. Uniped ; as containing one 
chief element of sacrifice, the omentum. Biped: containing omentum and- 
limbs for sacrifice. Three-footed: with elements of by-offerings in addition. 
Eight-footed: when in calf. Cf. R. V. II. 7. 5. 

31 When the Samishtayajus oblations are finished, he takes the embryo 
wrapped in a bandage and offers it on the sacrificial hearth to the Marut* 
with the text from R. V. I. 86.1. 

32 The embryo is covered up with coals, and the text from R. V. I. 22. It 
is recited. 



VERSE 38.] WHITE YAJURVEDA. 65 

33 Slayer of Yritra, mount thy car: thy Bay Steeds have been 

yoked by prayer. 

May, with its voice, the pressing-stone draw thine attention 
hitherward. 

Taken upon a base art thou. For Indra thee, for Shodasi. 
This is a dwelling-place for thee. For Indra thee, for 
Shodasi. 

34 Harness thy pair of strong Bay Steeds, long-maned, whose 

bodies fill the girths, 

And, Indra, Soma-drinker, eome to listen to our songs of 
praise. 

Taken upon a base, etc., as in 33. 

35 His pair of tawny Coursers bring Indra of unresisted might 
Hither to Rishis 7 songs of praise and sacrifice performed by 

men. 

Taken upon a base, etc., as in 33. 

36 Than whom there is none other born more mighty, who 

hath pervaded all existing creatures— 

Prajapati, rejoicing in his offspring, he, Shodasi, maintains 
the three great lustres. 

37 Indra chief Lord and Varu^a the Sovran have made this 

draught of thine the first and foremost. 

I, after, drink their draught. May she, the Goddess of 
Speeeh, rejoking, sate herself with Soma—All-hail!—with 
Prana as her feast-companion. 

38 Skilled in thy task, 0 Agni, pour lustre and hero strength 

on us, 

Granting me wealth and affluence. 

Taken upon a base art thou. For Agni thee, for splendour. 
This is thy home. For Agni thee, for splendour. 

Thou, lustrous Agni, mid the Gods art splendid. May I 
among mankind be bright with lustre. 

33 Formulas for additional Soma sacrifices, and, first, the Shodasi (sixteen- 
fold, or sixteen-hymned) libation to Indra who is called Shodasi as connected 
with this service. The libation is drawn at the Morning-Pressing in a four- 
comered cup of Khadira wood, with the text from R. V. I. 84. 3. 

34 Or this text from R. V. I. Id. 3 may be recited. 

35 Or a third text from R. V. L 84. 2. 

38 He approaches the cup and recites the text. Three great lustre*: Agni, 
V&yii, Sdrva, or Fire, Wind, and Sun. 

37 He drinks the cup. The Goddess of Speech: Sarasvati. Prdna: the 
•Genius -of Vital Breath. 

38 Formulas for the Dvftdas&ha or Twelve-Day Ceremonial, of which the 
Prishthyashadaha, a period of* six sacrificial days, forms part On the first 
tluree'days of* this period the three Atigr&hyas (Additional or Superiority 
Cups) are drawn with appropriate texts for Indra, Agni, and Surya. The 
first cup is for Agni, with the text in G&yatri from R. V. IX. 66. 21. 

5 




66 THE TEXTS OP THE [BOOK VII t. 

39 Arising in thy might thy jaws thou shookest, Indra, having 

drunk 

The Soma which the mortar pressed. 

Taken upon a base art thou. For Indra thee, for mighty 
strength. 

This is thy home. For Indra thee, for might. 

Among the Gods thou art the mightiest, Indra. Among 
mankind I fain would be most mighty. 

40 His herald rays are seen afar refulgent o'er the world of 

men, 

Like flames of Are that burn and blaze. 

Taken upon a base art thou. For Surya, for the Bright One, 
thee. 

This is thy home. For Stirya, for the Bright One, thee. 
Thou among Gods art brightest, brightest Surya. Among 
mankind I fain would be the brightest. 

41 His herald rays bear him aloft, the God who knoweth all 

that lives, Stirya, that all may look at him. 

Taken upon a base, etc., as in 40. 

42 Smell thou the vat. Let Soma drops pass into thee, 0 

Mighty One. 

• Return again with store of sap. Pour for us wealth in thou¬ 
sands thou with full broad streams and floods of milk. 
Let riches come again to me. 

43 Ida, delightful, worshipful, loveable, spleudid, shining One, 
Inviolable, full of sap, the Mighty One, most glorious, 

These are thy names, 0 Cow; tell thou the Gods that I act 

righteously. 


29 The second Atigr&hya is drawn for Indra with the text hr Gdyatri 
from R. V. VIII. 65.10. Shookest: in delight* 

40 The third cup is drawn for SUrya with a Gftyatrt text from R. V. 1.50.3. 

41 A G&yatri text from R V. 50.1. to accompany the drawing of an 
Atigr&hya Cup for Sftrya on the middle day of the great twelve-months 
Bacrificial Sattra or Session called Gav4mayana or Procession of the Cows. 
The rest of the formula is repeated from verse 40. 

42 Formulas for the Gargatrir&tra, a festival of three days, in which a 
thousand cows are given to the officiating priests, three hundred and thirty* 
three each day. The full number of a thousand is to be completed with a 
red cow who is led up to the sacrificial enclosure and stationed between the 
H&virdh&na shed and the Agnldhra hearth where she is made to smell the 
Dronakalasa or large wooden Soma vat or reservoir. O Mighty One; the red 
cow is addressed. 

43 Idd: one of the cow’s sacrificial names : see III. 27; IV. 22* Invio¬ 
lable : more literally, * unrestrained, or Aditi,' another name of the cow ; 
see III. 27. Full of sap: or Sarasvati, also a name of the cow* 



WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


67 


VEJRJ3R 49.] 

44 0 Indra,beat our foes away,humble the men who challenge us: 
Send down to nether darkness him who seeks to do us injury. 
Takeu upon a base art thou. For Indra, foe-dispeller, thee. 
This is thy home. For Indra, foe-dispeller, thee. 

45 Let us invoke to-day, to aid our labour, the Lord of Speech, 

the thought-swift Visvakarman. 

May he hear kindly all our invocations, who gives all bliss 
for aid, whose works are righteous. 

Taken upon a base art thou. For Indra Visvakarman thee. 
This is thy home. For Indra Visvakarman thee. 

46 With strengthening libation, Visvakarman, thou madest 

Indra an undying guardian. 

The people of old time bowed down before him because the 
Mighty One was meet for worship. 

Taken upon a base, etc., as in 45. 

47 Taken upon a base art thou. 

I take thee lord of Gayatri for Agni. For Indra take I thee 
the lord of Trishtup. 

I take thee lord of Jagati for All-Gods. Anushtup is the 
song that siugs thy praises. 

48 I stir thee for the fall of cloud-borne waters. I stir thee for 

the fall of streams that gurgle. I stir thee for the fail of 
those that gladden. I stir thee for their fall who are most 
lovely. I stir thee for their fall that are the sweetest. I 
stir thee for the waters' fall, I stir thee, pure one, in the 
pure, in the day's form, in Sfirya's beams. 

49 The Bull's majestic form is shining brightly, the pure the 

pure '9 preceder, Soma Soma's. 

Whatever name invincible, stimulating, is thine, 0 Soma, 
for that name I take thee. 

All-hail to Soma, unto thee, 0 Soma. 


44 Formulas for the drawing of the Mah&vratlya Graha, or Great Vow 
Libation, on the penultimate day of the Gav&mayana. He draws the cup 
for Indra with the text from B. V. X. 152. 4. Foe-dispeller; Vimridh; 
f Averter of ScornEggeling. 

45 A second text for Visvakarman, the Omnific Indra, called also V&chas- 
pati, Lord of SDeech. 

46 A third alternative text. Undying: avadhyam ; not slayable. 

47 Formulas for drawing the Adabhya Graha, the XJndeceivable or Invin¬ 
cible Libation. Lord of: accompanied by. Agni: to whom the Gdyatri 
metre is specially devoted. Three sprigs of the Soma plant are thrown into 
the vessel containing the Nigrdbhyd (VI. 30) waters. 

48 He approaches the Ahavanlya fire-house, and stirs the Nigr$bbyd 
waters with the Soma sprigs. I stir thee: Soma. In the pure ; prater. 

49 The Bulls majestic form: the Sun, identified with Soma. 




68 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOO* VUI\ 

50 0 radiant Soma, eagerly draw nigh to Agni’s well-loved food* 
0 radiant Soma, willingly go to the food that Indra loves. 
Go, radiant Soma, as our friend, to the All-Gods’ beiovM food* 

51 Here is delight: enjoy yourselves; here surety, surety of 

your own. All-hail! 

Loosing the suckling to his dam, the suckling as he milks 
bis dam— 

May he maintain the growth of wealth among us. All-hail! 

52 Thou art the Session’s happy termination. 

We have attained the light and grown immortal. 

We have gone up from earth to sky, have found the Gods 
and heaven and light. 

53 Indra and Parvata, our champions in the fight, drive ye away 

the man who fain would war with us, drive him far from 
us with the bolt. 

Welcome to him concealed afar shall be the lair that he 
hath found. 

So may the Render rend our foes on every side, rend them, 
0 Hero, everywhere. 

Earth! Ether! Sky! May we be rich in offspring, rich in 
brave sons and rich in food to feed us. 

54 Parameshthin when contemplated. Praj&pati in uttered 

speech. 

Food when approached. Savitar in the partition. Visva- 
karman in Consecration. Pfishan in the Soma-purchasing 
cow. 


51 Formulas for the SattrotthAna or Rising up from the Sacrificial 
Session. Two oblations are offered in the SAlAdvArya, or Sacrificial Hall 
Door fire, and two texts are recited. Here it delight: the cows are ad¬ 
dressed. Looting the trickling: he offers the second oblation. The suckling is 
Agnij and hit dam is the Earth whose moisture he drains, or whose produce 
in the shape of sacrificial food he consumes. He ' AgnL 

52 Thou: the Soma in the cup. We have attained, etc.: cf. R. V. VUL 48.8. 

53 The Sacrificers creep eastward under the axle of the southern 
Havirdb&na or Soma cart with the text from R. V. 1.132. 6. Parvata e 
mountain ; the presiding Genius of mountains and clouds, frequently asso¬ 
ciated with Indra, or, according to SAyana, another form of that God. 

54 This and the four following verses contain thirty-four formulas for 
rectifying and expiating any neglect, error or mischance in the sacrificial 
performance. If the cow who should supply milk for the Gharma or Warm 
Libation fails to give any, another is to be milked and thirty-four oblations 
of butter are to be offered on her right tail-bone. See Sacred Books of the 
East, XXVI. 411, 412. The sacrifice, Soma, is identified with each of the 
Deities and sacred objects whose names are mentioned. Paramethfhin: 
Supreme Lord; an epithet applied to various Deities. Soma-purchating cow; 
see IV. 19, 26. 



WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


69 


VERSE 59.] 

55 A» Indra aud the Maruts he is stationed ready for the sale :• 

Asura, being bought aud sold. Mitra when purchased; 
Vishnu Sipivishta when on the Sacrificer’s thigh he resteth; 
Vishnu Narandhisha brought on the barrow; 

56 Soma when come: when seated on the platform, Varuna; 

Agni in the sacred fire-place; 

Indra upon the sacrificial barrow; Atharv&n when deposited 
for pounding; 

57 All-Gods when offered in the scattered fragments; Vishnu, 

the guard of those who soothe his anger, when he is filied 
and swelling in the waters; Yama in pressing; Vishnu 
in collection; 

V&yu what time they cleanse and purify him; the Bright 
when cleansed; the Bright with milk about him; Man- 
thin commingled with the meal of barley; 

58 All-Gods when he is drawn away in beakers; Life when up¬ 

lifted for the fire-oblation; Rudra when offered; Vata 
when reverted; Man-viewer when beheld; drink when 
they drink him; deposited, the N&r&samsa Fathers; 

59 Sindhu when ready for the bath that cleanses; the sea 

when he is carried to the waters; Water is he when he is 
plunged beneath it. 

To those most mighty hath it gone, most manly in vigour, 
by whose strength the worlds were stablished, 

Who rule as Lords resistless in their grandeur, Vishnu and 
Varuna, at the prayer of morning. 


55 Asura: Lord; Divine Being. Sipivishta: a title of Vishnu of uncertain 
etymology and meaning. ‘ Invested with rays of light,’ according to S&yana. 
See The Hymns of the Rigveda, VII. 100. 6, note. Sacrifices thigh: see 
IV. 27, note. Narandhisha: variously explained by Mahldhara as * world- 
destroying,’ ‘not injuring men,* and, frt XXII. 20, as ‘man-praising.’ Accord¬ 
ing to the St. Petersburg Lexicon the meaning is probably ( man-observing.’ 

56 Atharvan: an ancient priest, the first who obtained fire and instituted 
the worship of Agni. 

57 Fragments: the severed stalks or filaments of the plant. Filled and 
swelling : see V. 7, note. In collection: when he is being procured and pre¬ 
pared for sacrifice. The Bright: Sukra. See VII. 13. Manthin: said to mean 
the Moon. See VII. 16. 

58 Vdta :=VAyu, the Wind-God. Reverted: carried away, for partition, 
to the Sadas or Priests’ shed. Ndrdfaijisa: so'called as referred to in certain 
Soma libations at which the name of Agni Narftsamea, or Praise of Men, 
is mentioned. 

59 Sindhu: the Indus, or, River. Water Is now to be poured on any 
Soma that has been spilt during the performance, with recitation of the 
text takah, with variation, from A. V. VII. 25.1. Hath it gone: the Spilt 
portion of Soma. 




70 WHITE YAJURVEDA . [BOOK VIII 

60 To Gods, to sky the sacrifice hath gone: come riches thence 

to me! 

To men, to air the sacrifice hath gone : come riches thence 
to me t 

To Fathers, earth, the sacrifice hath gone: come riches 
thence to me! 

Whatever sphere the sacrifice hath reached, may wealth 
come thence to me. 

61 The threads that have been spun, the four-and-thirty, which 

stablish this our sacrifice with Svadh4, 

Of these I. join together what is broken. All-hail! to Gods 
go the warm milk oblation! 

62 Spread far and wide is sacri6ce’s milking: eightfold along 

the heaven hath it extended. 

Pour, Sacrifice! in plenty on mine offspring: may I obtain 
prosperity for ever. All-hail! 

63 Soma, send wealth in gold and steeds and heroes. All-hail! 

bring hitherward booty in cattle. 


61 The threads: the sacrificial formulas which have now come to an end. 
See verse 54. With Svadhd: with the appropriate oblation. 

62 The Sacrificer recites the text. Eightfold: directed to the quarters of 
the sky aDd the intermediate points. 

63 He touches the spilt Soma as he recites the text. 



BOOK THE NINTH. 


Otjr sacrifice, God Savitar, speed onward: speed to his share 
the sacrifice’s patron. 

May the celestial Gandharva, cleanser of thought and will, 
make clean our thought and purpose : the Lord of Speech 
sweeten the food we offer. 

2 Thee, firmly set, settled in man, in spirit. 

Taken upon a base art thou. I take thee, draught acceptable 
to Indra. This is thy home. Thee, welcomest to Indra. 
Thee set in waters, butter, realm of ether. Taken upon 
.Indra. 

Thee seated in the sky, earth, air’s mid-region, among the 
Gods and in the vault of heaven. Taken, etc. as above. 

3 The strength-arousing essence of the waters, gathered in 

the Sun, Essence of waters' essence, that, most excellent, 
I take for you. 

Taken, etc., as above. 

4 Cups of strength-giving sacrifice, inspirers of the sage’s 

hymn— 

Of you, the handleless, have I collected all the sap and 
strength. 

Taken, etc., as above. 

United are ye twain: with bliss unite me. Parted are ye : 
keep me apart from evil. 


Books IX. and X. contain the formulas required for the performance vi 
two important modifications of the Soma sacrifice, the Vajapeya, Draught 
of Strength or Cup of Victory, and the RAjasuya, Inauguration or Consecra¬ 
tion of a King. For the VAjapeya, see Sacred Books of the East, XLI. pp. 
1—40; Hillebrandt, Ritual-Litteratur, pp. 141—143; Weber, Cber den 
VAjapeya (Sitzungsberrchte der K. Preussischen Akademie der Wissens- 
chaften, pp. 765—813). 

1 The Sacrificer offers an oblation of butter and recites the text. Celestial 
Gandharva: the Qod in the form of the Sun’s disc, according to Mahldhara. 
Lord of Speech: PrajApati. The food: vdjam. 

2 Thee: the first of the five VAjapeya Cups which he draws for Indra. Thee 
set in waters: he draws the second cup. The rest of the formula is repeated 
from lines 2 and 3. In the sky , etc .; he draws the third cup. The rest 
as in lines 2 and 3. Soma is considered as pervading the three worlds. 
Earth, Air, and Sky. 

3 He draws the fourth cup. Gathered in the Sun : meaning the purifying 
VAyu or Wind. That most excellent: meaning PrajApati. For you: 0 Gods. 
The rest of the formula is repeated as above. 

4 He draws the fifth cup. Hdndleless: or noseless, or jawless; without 
spouts or side-handles. Ye twain: a cup of Soma and another of SurA, a 
kind of wine or beer made from rice or barley with a kind of leaven to make 
it ferment. See Zimmer, Altindisches Leben, p. 280. 




72 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK IX. 

5 Thou art the thunderbolt of Iudra, dinner of wealth: with 

thee may this man win him riches. 

In gain of wealth we celebrate with praises her, Aditi by 
name, the Mighty Mother, 

On whom this Universe of life hath settled. Thereon God 
Savitar promote our dwelling! 

6 Amrit is in the Waters, in the Waters healing medicine* 

Yea, Horses! at our praises of the Waters grow ye fleet 
and strong. 

Whatever wave, 0 ye celestial Waters, wealth-giving, 
towering high, and swiftly rushing, is yours, therewith 
may this man win him riches. 

7 It was the wind, or it was thought, or the Gandharvas 

twenty-seven— 

These at the first harnessed the horse: they set the power 
of speed in him. 

8 Steed, being yoked grow wind-swift: be beauteous as Indra’s 

right-hand steed. 

Omniscient Maruts harness thee ! Tvashfar put swiftness in 
thy feet! 

9 What speed, 0 Horse, was laid in thee in secret, what 

passed in wind, bestowed upon the falcon, 

With that same strength be strong for us, 0 Courser, 
wealth-winning aud victorious in battle. 

Starting to run your course, winners of riches, smell ye 
Brihaspati’s portion, 0 ye Horses. 

10 By impulse of God Savitar, true Impeller, may I ascend 

Brihaspati’s highest heaven. 

5 Here begin the formulas for the chariot-racing which is a characteristic 
and important part of the V&japeya. The Sacrificer addresses the Chariot 
which he takes down from its stand, draws to the south of the Ch&tv^Ja or 
pit, and places by the altar. On whom: as Earth. 

6 He takes water and sprinkles the chariot horses, reciting the text from 
A. V. I. 4. 4., the first line of which is taken from R. V. I. 28.19. Amrit: 
nectar or ambrosia. 

7 He harnesses the off horse with the text. Wind . . . thought: as em¬ 
blems of rapidity. Gandharvai : see II. 8. note ; here representing the 
Nakshatras, Lunar Mansions or stages through which the Moon passes, and 
signifying the flight of time. 

8 He yokes the near horse. Omniscient : or, All-possessing. 

9 He yokes a third horse as off side-horse. In secret: in the region of 
thy heart. In battle : or, at the gathering (of the Gods at sacrifice), accord¬ 
ing to the §atapatha-Br&hmana. Brihaspati’s portion: a mess of boiled 
wild-rice, dedicated to Brihaspati the representative of the priesthood. Th«r 
horses are made to smeU it in order to assure their victory. 

10 The Brahman mounts a chariot-wheel placed on a post, with the loti 
lowing line of text if the Saorificer is a Br&hman. Indra: as the represent 



VERSE 14] WHITE YAJtTEVEDA. 73 

By impulse of God Savitar, true Impeller, may I ascend 
the highest heaven of Indra. 

By impulse of God Savitar, true Impeller, Brihaspati’s 
highest heaven have I ascended. 

By impulse of God Savitar, true Impeller, I have ascended 
Indra’s loftiest heaven. 

11 Brihaspati, win the prize. Lift up your voices to Brihaspati. 

Make ye Brihaspati win the prize. 

Do thou, 0 Indra, win the prize. To Indra lift your voices 
up. Make Indra winner of the prize. 

12 True hath been this your league whereby ye made Brihas¬ 

pati win the prize. 

Brihaspati have ye caused to win the prize. Be freed, ye 
Forest-lords. 

Faithful was this your league whereby ye have made Indra 
win the prize. 

Ye have made Indra win the prize. Be ye set free, ye 
Forest-lords. 

13 Through impulse of God Savitar, true Impeller, mine be 

Brihaspati’s prize who winueth prizes. 

On to the goal, ye Steeds, winners of prizes, blocking the 
ways and meting but the courses! 

14 Bound by the neck and at the flanks and in the mouth, 

that vigorous Courser lends new swiftness to his speed. 


tartive of the Kah&tra or nobility; this part of the text being uaed when 
the Sacrihcer is a RAjanya, a man of the princely, noble, or military class. 
The third line also is to be used when the Brahman descends from the wheel, 
if the Sacrificer be a Br&hman. and the fourth when he is a R&janya. 

Seventeen being the number sacred to Praj&pati, whose favour is to be 
won in the ceremony, seventeen four-horse chariots have been prepared and 
assembled, the goal round which they have to turn being the branch of an 
Udumbara tree (Ficus Glomerate) planted' in the ground at a distance of 
seventeen bowshots from the starting-place. 

11 The Brahman beats one of the seventeen drums ranged along the 
edge of the altar ground, and recites the text, the rest of the drums being 
considered to be Simultaneously beaten. Brihaspati: this, if the Sacrificer 
is a Br&hman. Lift up: 0 Drums. 0 Indra: this, if the Sacrificer is a 
B&janya. 

12 After the racing he takes down, with the text, the drum that has been 
beaten, and the others in silence. Your league: the union of your voices. 
Brihaspati . . . Indra: as in verse 11. Forest*lords: trees, the drums 
made chiefly of wood. 

13 This refers to an earlier stage of the proceedings When the Sacrificer 
mounts the chariot. 

14 The Adhv&ryu makes an offering of butter, or addresses the running 
hones with two verses taken respectively from R. V. IV. 40. 4, 8. Dadhikrds> 
or in the crude form, Dadhikr&: a kind of divine horse, probably a perso¬ 
nification of the morning Sun. The word appears to be an apocopated form 
of Dadhikravan in the following verse, with which it is interchangeable* 




74 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK IX. 

Drawing himself together as his strength allows, Dadhikras 
speeds along the windings of the paths. All-hail! 

15 His pinion, rapid runner, fans him on his way, as of a bird 

that hastens onward to its aim, 

And, as it were a falcon's gliding through the air, strikes 
Dadhikr&van's side as he speeds on with might. All-hail! 

16 Bless us the Coursers when we call, while slowly they move, 

strong singers, to the Gods' assembly. 

Crushing’ the wolf, the serpent, and the demons, may they 
completely banish all affliction. All-hail! 

17 May all those vigorous Coursers listen to our cry, hearers 

of invocation, speeders on their way ; 

Winners of thousands, fain to win where meed is won, who 
gather of themselves great wealth in every race. 

18 Deep-skilled in Law Eternal, wise, immortal, 0 Coursers, 

help us in each fray for booty. 

Drink of this meatb, be satisfied, be joyful: then go on 
paths which Gods are wont to travel. 

19 To me come plenteous growth of wealth! Approach me 

these. Heaven and Earth, who wear each form and figure ! 
Hither may Father come to me, and Mother. Soma with 
immortality approach me! 

20 To the Friend, Hail! To the Good Friend, Hail! To the 

Later-born, Hail! To Resolution, Hail! To the Vasu, Hail! 
To the Lord of Days, Hail! To the Failing Day, Hail! 
To the Failing sprung from the Transitory, Hail! To the 
Transitory sprung from the Final, Hail! To the Final 
Mundane, Hail! To the Lord of the World, Hail! To the 
Sovran Lord, Hail! 


16 He addresses the horses with the text from R. V. VII. 38. 7. Strong 
singers: or, perhaps, high-mettled. 

17 He addresses them again with the text from R. V. X. 64. 6. Meed: the 
priestly fee. 

18 He addresses them a third time with the text from R. V. VII. 38 8. 
This meath: a mess made of wild-rice which the horses are made to smell 
before the race and to drink after it. See verse 9. 

19 The Sacrificer having dismounted from the chariot touches the mess of 
wild-rice and recites the text. Father: Heaven. Mother: £arth; or per¬ 
haps the Sacrifioer’s parents are intended. 

20 The Adhvaryu makes twelve oblations with the dipping-spoon, or 
makes the Sacrificer recite the following twelve formulas, one for each 
month, addressed to Prajlpati as the Presiding Genius of the Year. The 
Friend: perhaps the first month after the winter solstice when the weather 
becomes milder. The Lord of Days: the month containing the longest day. 
The meaning of some of these fanciful expressions is obscure, and their 
applicability to the respective months is not apparent. Cf. XVIII. 28; 
XXII. 32. • 




VERSE 26.] 


WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


75 


21 May life succeed through sacrifice. May life-breath thrive 

by sacrifice. May the eye thrive by sacrifice. May the 
ear thrive by sacrifice. May the back thrive by sacrifice. 
May sacrifice thrive by sacrifice. 

We have become the children of Prajapati. Gods, we have 
gone to heaven. We have become immortal. 

22 In us be your great might and manly vigour, in us be your 

intelligence and splendour. 

Obeisance to our Mother Earth! Obeisance to our Mother 
E%rth! 

This is thy Sovranty. Thou art the ruler, thou art control¬ 
ler, thou art firm and stedfast. 

Thee for land-culture, thee for peace and quiet, thee for 
wealth, thee for increase of our substance. 

23 Of old the furtherance of strength urged onward this Sovran 

Soma in the plants and waters. 

For us may they be stored with honey: stationed in front 
may we be watchful in the kingdom. All-hail! 

24 The furtherance of strength extended over this heaven and 

all the worlds as sovran ruler. 

He, kuowing, makes the churl a bounteous giver: wealth 
may he grant us with full store of heroes. All-hail! 

25 Surely the furtherance of strength pervaded all these exist¬ 

ing worlds in all directions. 

From olden time the King moves round, well knowing, 
strengthening all the people and our welfare. 

26 As suppliants, for aid we grasp Soma the King, and Agni, the 
Adityas, Vishpu, Stirya, and the Brahman-priest Brihaspati. 


21 He offers six oblations, or makes the Sacrificer recites the following 
six formulas, one for each season, belonging to Praj&pati as Lord of the 
Year. Sacrifice: meaning the V&japeya now in course of performance. 
The back: or, possibly, a special arrangement of S&mans called Prishtha. 
We have gone to heaven : or, to light; here the Sacrifices mounting by a 
ladder, touches the dough cap or head-piece of the sacrificial stake. Become 
immortal: he mounts higher till bis head is above the top of the stake. 

22 He looks towards the four quarters of the sky and the intermediate 
points, and addresses the text to them or to their presiding deities. Obeis¬ 
ance: here he looks on the ground. Thy Sovranty: he points to a seat of 
Udumbara wood, on whioh he spreads a goat-skin. Thou: addressed to the 
Socrificer whom he seats on the Asandi or throne. Thee: • I seat ’ understood. 

23 He offers oblations of milk, rice and other grain collected in a vessel 
of Udumbara wood, and recites seven texts. These offerings are called 
Vdjaprasavanlya, Strength-Furthering, the first three texts beginning with 
Vdjatya . . . prasavah, the furtherance of strength. Of old: in the be¬ 
ginning of creation. The churl ; literally, * him who is unwilling to give.’ 

26 Taken with a variation from R. V. X. 141. 3. 




76 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK IX. 

27 Urge Aryamati to send us gifts, and Indra, and Brihasp&ti, 
Yak, Vishnu, and Sarasvati, and the strong Courser Savitar. 

28 Agni, speak kindly to us here, be graciously inclined to us. 
Winner of thousands, grant us boons, for thou art he who 

giveth wealth. 

29 Let Aryaman vouchsafe us wealth, and P&shan, and Brihas¬ 

p&ti. 

May Vfik the Goddess give to us. All-hail! 

30 Thee by the radiant Savitar’s impulsion, with arms of 

Asvins, with the hands of Pfish&n. 

To Vak Sarasvati’s controlling guidance, hers the controlling 
leader, I consign thee. 

I with Brihaspati's supreme dominion endow thee by the 
balm of consecration. 

31 With the monosyllable Agni won vital breath: may I win 

that. With the dissyllable the Asvins won bipeds: may 
I win those. With the trisyllable 
Vishnu won the three worlds: may I win those. With 
quadrisyllable metre 

Soma won four-footed cattle : may I win those. 

32 With five-syllable metre Pfishan won the five regions: may 

I win them. 

With six-syllable metre Savitar won the six seasons : may 
I win them. 

With seven-syllable metre the Maruts won the seven domes¬ 
tic animals : 

May I win them. With octosyllabic metre Bfihaspati won 
the G&yatri: may I win that. 

33 With nine-syllable metre Mitra won the Trivjit Stoma: 

may I win that. With decasyllabic metre Varuna won 
Virfij : may I win that. 


27 Taken from R. V. X. 141. 5, Vftk, the Goddess of Speech, being sub¬ 
stituted for Vita the Wind-God. 

28 Taken with a slight variation from R. V. X. 141.1. 

29 The first line is taken from R. V. X. 141. 2, Pushan being substituted 
for Bhaga the Distributor of food or wealth. 

30 Thee: * I besprinkle ’ understood. The priest sprinkles the Sacrifioer 
with the remainder of the sacrificial elements. I endow the*: addressing 
him by his name. 

31 He offers oblations, or makes the Sacrificer recite the Ujjitis or Victory. 
Formulas. MonotyUable: metre of one syllable. Six Seaton*: Spring, 
Summer, Rains, Autumn, Winter, Dews. See II. 32. 

32 Seven domestic animals: ox, horse, sheep, goat, mule, ass, man. See 
The Hymns of the Atharva-veda, II. 34.1, note; III. 10. 6 and note. 

33 Trivrit Stoma: Triple Praise-Song; a recitation in which first the first 
three verses of each triplet of R. V. IX. 11 are sung together, then the 
second verses, and lastly the third. 




VERSE 37.1 


WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


77 


With hen decasyllabic metre Indra won Trishtup: may I 
win that. 

With dodecasyllabic metre the All-Gods won Jagatl: may 
I win that. 

34 The Vasus by thirteen-syllable metre won the Thirteenfold 

Stoma: may I win that. The Eudras by fourteen-syllable 
metre won the fourteenfold Stoma: may I win that. The 
Adityas with fifteen-syllable metre won the Fifteenfold 
Stoma: may I win that Aditi with sixteen-syllable metre 
won the Sixteenfold Stoma: may I win that. Prajapati 
with seventeenfold metre won the Seventeenfold Stoma: 
may I win that. 

35 This is thy portion, Nirriti! Accept it graciously. All-hail! 
To Gods whose guide is Agni, to the eastward-seated Gods, 

Ail-hail j 

To Gods whose guide is Yama, to the southward-seated 
Gods, All-hail! 

To Gods whose guides are the AU-Gods, those who are seated 
westward. Hail! 

Hail to the northward-seated Gods, to those whose guides 
are Mitra and Yaruna or the Marut host! 

To Gods whose guide is Soma, who, worshipful, sit on high, 
All-bail! 

36 Gods who have Agni as their guide, whose seat is eastward, 

Hail to them! 

; Gods who have Yama as their guide, whose seat is southward, 
Hail to them ! 

Gods who have AU-Gods as their guides, whose seat is west¬ 
ward, Hail to them ! 

Gods who have Mitra-Varuna for guides, north-seated, Hail 
to them! 

Gods who have Soma as their guide, high-seated, worshipful, 
Hail to them] 

37 Agni, subdue opposing bands and drive our enemies away. 
Invincible, slay godless foes; give splendour to the worshipper. 

35 Here begin the formulas for the B&jasuya or King’s Inauguration, 
the Ceremony in verse 30 being merely an entr'acte, A rice-cake is prepared 
for Anumati or Divine Favour ; then the Sacrificer takes a firebrand, goes 
towards the south, and having made up a fire in a natural cleft in the 
ground, or on barren land, offers to Nirriti, or Earth in her lowest depths. 
This: mess of meal. He offers in five fires, or in five parts of the fire, to 
the five classes of Gods mentioned, with an address to each class. 

37 He then offers the Ap&m&rga oblation, an exorcising ceremony per¬ 
formed with seeds of the Ap&m&rga plant (Achyranthus Aspera: see The 
Hymns of the A. Y. IY. 17.6), having taken a firebrand from the southern 
fire, and reciting the text from R. Y. III. 24. 1. 




78 WHITE YAJURVEDA. [BOOK IX.. 

38 Thee at the radiant Savitar’s impulsion, with Asvins’ arms 

and with the hands of Pushan, 

I offer with the strength of the Upamsu. Slain is the demon 
brood. All-hail! 

Thee for the slaughter of the brood of demons. The demons 
have we slain, have slain. So-and-So, So-and-So is slain. 

39 Savitar quicken thee for sway of rulers, Agni of householders, 

of the trees Soma, 

Brihaspati of Speech, for lordship Indra, Rudra for cattle, 
Mitra for true-speaking, Varuna for the sway of Law’s 
protectors. 

40 Gods, quicken him that none may be his rival, for mighty 

domination, mighty lordship, 

Him, son of Such-a-raan and Such-a-woman, of Such-a-tribe. 
This is your King, ye Tribesmen. Soma is Lord and King 
of us the BriLbmans. 


38 He puts the fire together and offers an oblation of Ap&m&rga seeds. 
UpAm.su: the Soma libation so named. See VI. 80. Thee for the slaughter: 
with these words he throws the dipping-spoon towards the place where he 
offers oblation. So-and-So: in the performance of the ceremony the name 
of the enemy whom the Sacrificer wishes to destroy is to be substituted for 
the asau (iste) of the text. Cf. VII. 8. 

39 Oblations are prepared for the eight Devasfis, Quickening or Further¬ 
ing Gods, and the Adhvaryu recites the formulas holding the Sacrificer by 
the right arm, and proclaiming his name and parentage. Rulers: or * orders/ 
according to Mahidhara ; tavdndm , from su ‘ to impel/ the root of Savitar, 
Impeller. Householders: Grihapati, Lord of the Household, being a little, 
of Agni. Trees: Soma being called Vanaspati, Tree or Plant par excellence. 
Speech: Brihaspati being Lord of Speech, i. e. Prayer. Lordship ; or pre¬ 
eminence, Indra representing royalty and being King of Gods* Cattle : 
Rudra being Pasupati, Lord of Beasts or Cattle. True-speaking ; Mitra, as 
the Sun, being called the Truthful (Solem quis dicere falsum Andeatt). 
Law's: Varuna being the Moral Governor of the world. 

40 Him: he pronounces the name of the Sacrificer. Such-a-man. etc.: 
he declares the names of the Sacrificer's parents. Tribe: or people. Tribes¬ 
men : or, people : here the name of the tribe or people* e. g. Ye Kurus, or 
Pa&ch&las, or Bharatas, as the case may be, is to be substituted in the per¬ 
formance of the ceremony. 




BOOK THE TENTH. 


The Gods drew waters with their store of sweetness, succu¬ 
lent and observant, king-creating, 

Wherewith they sprinkled Varuna and Mitra, wherewith 
they guided Indra past his foemen. 

2 Wave of the male art thou, giver of kingship. Do thou— 

All-hail!—bestow on me the kingdom. 

Wave of the male' art thou, giver of kingship. Do thou on 
So-aud So bestow the kingdom. 

Thou hast a host of males, giver of kingship. Do thou— 
All-hail!—bestow on me the kingdom. 

A host of males hast thou, giver of kingship. Do thou on 
So aud-So bestow the kingdom. 

3 Swift at your work are ye, givers of kingship. Do ye—All¬ 

hail !—bestow on me the kingdom. 

Swift at your work are ye, givers of kingship. Do ye on 
So-and-So bestow the kingdom. 

Endowed with strength are ye, givers of kingship, etc. 

O’erflowing floods are ye, etc. 

The Waters’ Lord art thou, giver of kingship. Do thou, etc. 

The Waters’ Child art thou, etc. 

The Rftjasuya Ceremony is continued, with formulas for the collection 
and mixing of waters from different streams and sources for the Abhisheka, 
Aspersion or Consecration of a King. For fuller details of the Sacrifice, see 
Sacred Books of the East, XU. pp. 73 seq ; Weber, Ober den lUjasfiya ; 
Hillebrandt, Ritual-Litteratur, pp. 148—147. 

1 The Adhvaryu first takes water brought from the Sarasvatt, the sacred 
river of the earlier Hindus, and recites the text. Varuna and Mitra: pre¬ 
decessors, as Kings, of Indr*. 

2 Of the male: raised by a male animal, beast or man. He steps into the 
water, and takes the ripple that rises in front of him. On me: to be trans¬ 
ferred to the Sacrificer. So-and-So: the Sacrificer who is to be consecrated 
King, and whose name he mentions. Host of malee: the ripples are likened 
to an opposing band of armed men. With this formula he takes up the 
wavelet that rises behind him. 

3 Stanzas 1 and 2 are formulas for taking water from a tank or pool— 
that in stanza 1 being mixed with Sarasvatl water; he now takes water 
from a stream. So-and-So: as in verse 2. Endowed with strength: which is 
to be conferred upon the Sacrificer. He takes water that runs iu the opposite 
direction. O'er flawing: signifying abundant wealth. He takes water that 
escapes from its channel. Waters ’ Lord: he takes water that has been 
brought from the sea. Wafers’ child: he takes water from an eddy. 




so 


THE TEXTS OF THE 


[BOOK X. 


4 With sun-bright skins are ye, givers, etc. 

Brilliant as Suns are ye, etc. 

Bringers of joy are ye, etc. 

Dwellers in cloud are ye, etc. 

Desirable are ye, etc. 

Most powerful are ye, etc. 

Endowed with might are ye, etc. 

Man-nourishing are ye, etc. 

All-nourishing are ye, etc. 

Self-ruling Waters are ye, giving kingship. On So-and-So 
do ye bestow the kingdom. 

Together with the sweet let sweet ones mingle, obtaining 
for the Kshatriya mighty power. 

Rest in your place inviolate and potent, bestowing on the 
Kshatriya mighty power. 

5 Brilliance of Soma art thou: may my brilliance grow like 

thine. 

To Agni Hail! To Soma Hail! To Savitar Hail! To Sara- 
svati Hail! To Pfishan Hail! To Brihaspati Hail! To 
Indra Hail! To the Noise Hail! To Fame Hail! To Amsa 
Hail 1 To Bhaga Hail! To Aryaman Hail 1 

6 Ye are two strainers, Varuna’s own possession. I make you 

pure at Savitar’s impulsion, with flawless strainer, with 
the beams of Sflrya. 

Thou, friend of speech, heat-born, art undefeated. Soma's 
share art thou. Hail, ye king-producers ! 


4 With sun-bright skint: he takes water from a pool on which the sun 
shines. Brilliant: rain-water that falls in sunshine. Bringers of joy: water 
from a lake. Dwellers in cloyd: 4 fold-dwellers*: Eggeling ; waters from a 
welL Desirable: or, perhaps, obedient: the water of dew-drops. Most power¬ 
ful: he takes flowing honey. Endowed with might: fluids of an unborn calf. 
Man nourishing: milk. All-nourishing: clarified butter. 8elf-ruling: sun- 
motes which, after taking seventeen kinds of water, he takes and mingles 
with them. Together: he mixes them all in a vessel of Udumbara wood. 
The Kshatriya : the prince who is being consecrated King. 

5 He spreads a tiger-skin, one of the emblems of royalty, before the 
Maitr&varuna's dhishnyd or fire-hearth, and recites the formulas. Of Soma : 
because Indra became a tiger after he had drunk Soma, says the Commen¬ 
tator. The tiger, in the Atharva-veda, is the king of beasts And the type of 
heroic strength and courage. See A. V. IV. 8.4, 7. The Noise: of his pro¬ 
clamation as king. Am^a: the name of one of the Adityas* 

6 Ha makes two strainers (see I. 8), and interweaves them with golcb 
Friend of speech: the mingled waters are addressed in the singular number. 
Man, it is said, has the power of speech so long as there is water in his 
vital airs or breathings. Heat-bom: from fire smoke, from smoke oloud, 
from cloud water. Soma's share: when the priests moisten the plant with 
water. 




TERSE 10.] WHITE YAJURVEDA. 81 

7 Sharers in joy are these majestio Waters, inviolate, indus¬ 

trious, investing. 

In these as homes hath Varupa made his dwelling, he, Child 
of Waters, in the best of mothers. 

8 Thou art the inner caul of princely power. Thou art the 

outer caul of princely power. Of priucely power thou art 
the womb, the navel. 

Thou art the Vritra-slaying arm of Indra. Mitral art thou, 
thou Varuna’s possession. With thee to aid may this man 
slaughter Vritra. 

Cleaver art thou; thou Render \ thou art Shaker. Protect 
him ye in front, protect him rearwards; protect him side- 
. wards; from all quarters guard him. 

9 Visible, 0 ye men. Informed is Agni, Master of the House¬ 

hold. Informed is Indra of exalted glorv. Informed are 
Mitra-Varuna, Law-Maintainers. Informed is Pftshan, Lord 
of all Possessions. Informed are Heaven aud Earth, the 
All-propitious. Informed is Aditi who gives wide shelter. 

10 Appeased by sacrifice are biting creatures, Ascend the East. 
May G&yatri protect thee, the psalm Rathantara, the 
triple praise-song, the season Spring, and the rich trea¬ 
sure, Priesthood. 


7 Sharers in joy j ‘playmates’: Eggeling. He moves them into various 
consecration vessels of Pal&sa and Udumbara wood. Investing: forming the 
raiment of Vanina in the ocean of air. Best of mothers: or, most maternal, 
as nourishing all life. 

8 The royal Sacrificer puts on various garments, first a tdrpya, perhaps a 
silk under-garment (See Sacred Books of the East, XLI. 85 note) which is 
addressed in the first formula of the verse. Inner caul: or amnion. Outer 
caul: or chorion ; he puts on a woollen garment which is thus addressed. 
The womb: he puts on a mantle. The navel: he puts on a turban with the 
ends hanging down, which is thus addressed. These garments symbolize 
the development of an embryo till it reaches maturity, and the progressive 
stages of the King’s Consecration. Vritra-slaying arm: the Adhvaryu strings 
a bow, an emblem of military and princely rank. Mitra's: he addresses 
the right end of the bow. Varuna’s: the left end. Thee: the bow. Vritra : 
the typical enemy ; all foes. He then gives the King three arrows, and 
addresses each by name. Shaker: Kshum& ; causing the foe to tremble. 

9 He recites the formulas announcing and introducing the newly-conse¬ 
crated King. Visible: he stands before you. Lord of all possessions: or, all- 
knowing. 

10 He puts a piece of copper in the mouth of a long-haired person, that 
i?, a eunuch, seated in the Sadas. Biting creatures: such as serpents, or 
Rikshasas who disturb sacrifices. Rathantara: one of the most important 
S&mans, consisting of verses 22, 23 of R. V. VII. 32 = S$mave<Ja II. i. i. 11. 
Triple praise-song : or Trivrit Stoma. See IK. 33. 

6 



82 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK X. 

11 Ascend the South. Be thy protectors Trishtup, the Brihat 

Saraan, the fifteenfold praise-song, the season Summer, 
and the treasure Kingship. 

12 Ascend the West. May Jagati protect thee, the psalm Vai- 

rupa, the seventeenfold praise-song, the Rainrtime, and 
that store of wealth, the People. 

13 Ascend the North. Thy guardians be Anushtup, Vairaja 

psalm, the twenty-onefold praise-song, the season 
Autumn, that rich treasure Fruitage. 

14 Ascend the Zenith. Pankti be thy keeper, Sakvara, Baivata 

the pair of Samans, 

Praise-songs the thirty-threefold and thrice-ninefold, both 
seasons, Winter, Dews, that treasure lustre. 

The head of Namuchi hath been cast from me. 

15 Brilliance of Soma art thou, may my brilliance grow like th ine. 
Save me from death. Vigour art thou, victory, everlasting life. 

16 With golden bodies, at the flush of morning, ye rise on 

high, two Sovran Lords, and Surya. 

Ascend your car, 0 Varuna and Mitra : thence view infinity 
and limitation. 

Thou art Mitra, thou art Varuna. 

IT Thee with the strength of Soma, Agni’a lustre, with Surya’s 
splendour, lndra’s might l sprinkle. 

Be lord of princes: safe past arrows guard him. 


11 The King is now called on to ascend, that is, to master, the four quar¬ 
ters of the sky and the zenith and so to assume universal sovranty. Bnhatr 
See VII. 22 note. 

12 Vairdpa: the name of an important Saraan 

13 Anushtup: a Vedic metre of four octosyllabic P&das or quarter-verses. 
Vairdja: another important S&man. 

14 Pankti : a metre of five octosyllabic P&das. $dhvara, Baivata: two 
important SHmans. Hews: one of the six seasons, comprising the months 
M&gha and Ph&lguna. Lmtre: spiritual light. The head of Namuchi: he 
kicks away a piece of lead which has been placed on the hinder part of the 
tiger-skin (see X. 5). The lead symbolizes the head of the demon Namuchi 
tom off by lndra. See The Hymns of the Rigveda, Index. 

15 The first line is repeated from X. 5. The King steps on the tiger-skin. 
Save me: he addresses a piece of gold placed under his foot. Vigour art 
thou: another piece of gold, pierced with nine holes, and placed on the 
King’s head. 

16 The Adbvaryu raises the King’s arms, witn the text taken, with vari¬ 
ations, from R. V. V. 62. 8. Infinity and limitation: or Aditi and Diti, 
the former being infinite Nature and the latter a vague abstract conception 
regarded as a Goddess in contrast to her; the two together meaning the 
entire aggregate of visible nature. 

IT The Purohita (the Kings household priest) or the Adhvaryu sprinkle* 
him as he stands looking eastward. He is also sprinkled by his brother. 



WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


VERSE 21] 


& 


18 ^=IX. 40. 

19 Forth from the summit of the bull, the mountain, pouring 

spontaneously, the ships keep moving. 

They, lifted up, have turned them back and downward, still 
flowing onward, after Ahibudhnya. 

Thou art the stepping-forth of Vishnu: thou art 'Vishnu*® 
outstep; Vishnu’s step art tbou. 

20 Praj&pati, thou only comprehendest all these created forms, 

and none beside thee. 

Give us our heart’s desire when we invoke thee. So-and-So’s 
father is this man. Sire of this man is So-and-So. 

May we—All-hail 1—be lords of rich possessions. 

What active highest name thou hast, 0 Rudra, therein thou 
art an offering, art an offering at home. All-hail! 

21 Indra’s bolt art thou. I by the direction of Mitra-Varuna, 

Directors, yoke thee. 

I, the uninjured Arjuna, mount thee for firmness, thee fbr food. 
By quickening of the Maruts be thou victor. May we obtain 
by mind : with power united. 

22 Let us not, Indra, conqueror of the mighty, unfit through 

lack of prayer fail to obtain thee. 

Ascend the car which thou whose hand bears thunder 
controllest, and the reins with noble horses. 


& friendly R&janya, and a Vaisya, man of the people or third class, from the 
three other vessels of consecrating water, made respectively of Udumbara, 
Banyan or Ficus Indica, and Asvattha (Ficus Religfona) wood. Guard kirn : 
0 Soma, according to Mabtdhara. 

19 The bully the mountain: originally meaning a mighty elond, and here 
the King, preeminent over all, from whose head the drops of consecrating 
water flow. Shift: streams of water. Lifted up: from the earth by the 
Sun. Ahibudhnya: a mysterious atmospheric deity, regent of the depths 
of the Armament; the Dragon of the Deep. See The Hymns of the Rig. 
veda, Index. The stepping-forth: the Sacrificer is made to take three steps 
on the tiger-skin in imitation of Vishnu's three strides, as the Su% over 
earth and through firmament and heaven. 

20 The Sacrificer, with his son holding on to him behind offers an oblation 
in the fire at the door of the sacrificial hall (the Gdrhapatya fire) and recites 

the text, taken, with additions, from R. V. X. 121. 10. So-and-So's . So- 

and-So: the names of son and father are to be substituted. Rudra: 
addressed as Lord of Cattle, the chief wealth of the earlier Hindus. Active: 
powerful to injure: Mahidhara. Thou: he addresses the oblation of the- 
residue of the sacrificial material. 

21 He takes down the V&japeya chariot from its stand (see IX. 5) and 
yokes the four horses at the right corner of the altar. Arjuna: a name of 
Indra, whom the Sacrificer, as King, represents. Be thou victor : he addresses 
the off yoke horse. By mind: he stops the chariot in the midst of the as¬ 
sembled cows. By power: he touches a cow with the end of the bow. 

22 He gives the owner of the cows, his brother, as many as, or mom 
than, he has taken by the symbolical act of touching one in verse 21, and - 





84 THE TEXTS OF TEE [BOOK X. 

23 All hail to Agni, Master of the Household 1 All*hail to Soma, 

Sovran of the Forest! 

All-hail to the great vigour of the Maruts ! All-hail to the 
effectual might of Indra ! 

Injure me not, 0 Mother Earth, and may I never injure thee. 

24 The Hamsa throned in light, the Vasu in mid-air, the 

Priest beside the altar, Guest within the house, 

Dwelling in noblest place, mid men, in truth, in sky, born 
of flood, kine, truth, mountain, he is mighty Law. 

25 So great art thou: life art thou; give me life. 

Mate art thou: thou art splendour; give me splendour. 
Strength art thou: give me strength. I draw you down¬ 
ward, two arms of Indra mighty in achievement. 

26 Fair art thou, good to sit on, womb of kingship. 

Sit on the fair one, sit on that which offers a pleasant seat: 
sit in the womb of kingship. 

27 Varuna, Law’s maintainer, hath sat down among his people, be 
Most wise, for universal sway. 

28 Supreme Lord art thou. May these five regions of thine be 

prosperous, Brahman ! Thou art Brahman. Savitar art 
thou, faithful in impulsion. Varuna art thou, he whose 
power is real. Indra art thou, whose strength is of the 
people. Rudra art thou, the very kind and gracious. 


then passes on in front of the Sacrificial Stake ancl stops the chariot before 
the hall where he recites the text which is partly taken, with variations, 
from R. Y. Y. 33. 3. 

23 He offers the four Rathavimochaniya or Car-unharnessing oblations 
with their respective formulas. 

24 He dismounts from the chariot reciting the text taken from R. V. IV. 
40. 5. Hamsa: or Swan ; the Sun who floats through the sky- 

In truth: or in the sacrifice. Kine: or rays of light. Mountain: cloud 
behind which he rises. Mighty law: * the great truth’: Eggeling. 

25 The S&crificer touches one of two gold discs or beads fastened on the 
right wheel of the car-stand, and addresses it with the text. Life: cf. X.15. 
Strength art thou: he touches and addresses a branch of an Udumbara tree 
which has been hidden in the wheel-track. I draw: the Adhvaryu draws 
the Saorifioer’8 arms down to the mess of curds placed on the tiger-skin. 

26 Fair art thou: the Adhvaryu addresses a throne of Khadira wood 
(Acacia Catechu) which has been placed on the tiger-skin. Good to sit on: 
he spreads a mantle on the seat. Womb of kingship: investing the embryo 
King. Sit: he addresses the Sacrifices 

27 The Adhvaryu touches the Sacrificer’s breast with the text from R.V fc 
I. 25. 10. Varuna: the moral Governor of the world, typifying the new 
King. 

28 He puts five dice into the Sacrificer’s hand, in the shape of golden 
shells, representing the four quarters of the sky and the zenith. See S. B. E. 
XU- 10. 6. note. Brahman !: the Sacrificer addresses the Brahman priest. 




VERSE 32 ] 


WHITE YA JURY EDA. 


89 


Doer of much, Improver* Wealth-incre&ser! 

Indra’s bolt art thou. Be therewith my vassal. 

29 May spacious Agni, Lord of Duty, gladly, vast Agni, Duty’s 

Lord, accept the butter. All-hail! 

Hallowed by Svah&, with the beams of Sftrya, strive for his 
ceutral place among the kinsmen. 

30 I creep forth urged onward by Savitar the Impeller; by 

Sarasvati, Speech; by Tvasbtar, created forms; by Pushan, 
cattle; by this Indra; by Brihaspati, Devotion; by 
Varupa, Power; by Agni, Brilliance ; by Soma, the King } 
by Vishnu the tenth Deity. 

31 Get dressed for the Asvins. Get dressed for Sarasvati. 

Get dressed for Indra the Good Deliverer. 

Soma the Wind, purified by the strainer, Indra’s meet 
friend, hath gone o’erflowing backward. 

32 What then ? As men whose fields are full of barley reap 

the ripe corn, removing it in order, 

So bring the food of these men, bring it hither, who pay 
the Sacred Grass their spoken homage. 

Taken upon a base art thou. Thee for the Asvins. 

Thee for Sarasvati, and thee for Indra, for the Excellent 
Protector. 


Thau art Brahman: the priest’s reply. Varuya, etc.: the priest’s second 
reply to the Sacrificer’s secoud address. Indra art thou : the third reply to 
tbe address repeated for the third time. Rudra: as above, the fourth time. 
Doer of much: the priest addresses the Sacrificer for the fifth time. Indra’* 
bolt: the wooden sacrificial sword is addressed, which the Purohita or the 
Adhvaryu hands to the Sacrificer. It is to be used for marking out the gam¬ 
ing-ground ; on which the dioe are thrown, and the winning numbers pre¬ 
sented to the King as tokens of victory and Supremacy. 

30 Formulas for the Dasapeya (To be Drunk by Ten) Libations or Sacri¬ 
fices. The priests, officiating and others, a hundred in number, meet toge¬ 
ther at the ceremony on a Soma-pressing day, and having each counted ten 
ancestors who have offered Soma sacrifices, perform the Samsrip or Creep¬ 
ing oblation, so called because the priests creep along to their respective 
fire-hearths. The formula is recited by each of the priests. 

31 Formulas follow for the performance of the Sautr&mant, a ceremony 
originally instituted to obviate or atone for excess in Soma drinking, subse¬ 
quently a supplement to other sacrificial rites. Get dressed: he addresses 
the Surft (see IX. 4) prepared for the ceremony. Good Deliverer: Sutrd- 
man, whence the name of the sacrifice is formed. Soma: he purifies the 
Surd in a vessel with blades of Darbha grass. The Wind: meaning, accord¬ 
ing to Mahidhara, (purified) by the wind. According to the St. Petersburg 
Lexicon, vdyu here means 1 inviting,’ a rendering adopted by Prof. Eggeling, 
The word may, perhaps, mean 'purifying.* Cf. the plural vdyavah, * breezes/ 


32 He throws meal of Badarl or Jujube fruit into thepurified Surfi and 
draws a draught of the liquor in a vessel of Vaikankata (Flacourtia Sapida) 
wood, with the text, taken, with an important variation in the last P&da, 
from K V. X. 131. 2. 




81 WHITE YAJURVEDA. [BOOK X 

33 Te Asvins, Lords of Splendour, drank full draughts of 

grateful Soma juice, 

And aided Indra in his deeds with Namuchi of Asura birth. 

34 As parents aid a son, both Asvins aided thee, Indra, with 

their wondrous powers and wisdom. 

When thou with might hadst drunk the draught that 
gladdens, Saras vati, 0 Bounteous Lord, refreshed thee. 


33 The Sacrificer recites two Inviting Texts taken from R. V. X. 131. 4, 
5. Namuchi: see X. 14. This Asura, the friend of Indra, is said to have 
drunk up, with Sur4 and Soma, the manly strength of Indra who, on his 
complaining to the Asvins and Sarasvatl, received from them a thunderbolt 
in the shape of the waters’ foam with which he cut or tore off Namuchi’s head. 


BOOK THE ELEVENTH. 


Harnessing, first of all, the mind, Savitar having stretched 
the thought 

With reverent look upon the light of Agni bore them up 
from earth. 

2 By impulse of God Savitar we with our spirit harnessed strive 

With might to win the heavenly. 

3 Savitar, having harnessed Gods who go to light and heaven¬ 

ly thought, 

Who will create the lofty light—Savitar urge them on their 
way! 

4 The priests of him the lofty priest well skilled in hymns, 

harness their spirit, yea, harness their holy thoughts. 

He only, skilled in rules, assigns their priestly tasks. Yea, 
lofty is the praise of Savitar the God. 

5 I yoke with prayer your ancient inspiration : may the laud 

rise as on the prince’s pathway. 

All Sons of the Immortal One shall hear it, who have resorted 
to celestial dwellings. 

Books XL—XVIII. contain formulas for the construction of altars or 
hearths for the various sacrificial fires, and first and chiefly for building up 
with about 10,800 bricks, all laid with special consecrating texts, the 
Uttaravedi or High Altar which represents the Universe and is identified 
with Agni himself. This ceremouy, called the Agnichayana requires a 
year for its complete performance and is of corresponding importance ( see 
Sacred Books of the East, XLIIL, Introduction). The High Altar is con¬ 
structed in the shape of an outspread bird, probably an eagle or a falcon. 

1 Harnessing: applying to the holy work. Savitar: the Impeller, here 
meaning Praj4pati, the Lord of creatures, who is identified with Agni, that 
is the Fire Altar which is now to be built. Them: oblations ; or bricks, 
according to Mahldhara. With this and the seven following formulas the 
Adhvaryu offers an eightfold oblation, that is, a single oblation of eight 
dipping-spoonfuls of clarified butter poured into the offering-ladle. 

2 To win the heavenly: to merit heaven by the due performance of our 
task. 

3 Having harnessed: engaged them in Agni’s service. By thought: or 
devotion, or skill. Lofty light: the Sun, Agni. On their way: to perform 
their task. 

4 Taken from R. V. V. 81. 1. The lofty Priest: Savitar; or Agni-Praj&- 
pati. Well skilled in hymns: or * inspirer of devotion ’ : Eggeling. Rules: 
that regulate sacrifice. 

5 Taken from R. V. X. 13. 1. Your: referring to the Sacrificer and his 
wife, according to Mahldhara. Inspiration : brahma ; according to Mahl¬ 
dhara, the vital airs, the Seven Rishis, and Br&hmans who are engaged in 
the holy work. The prince's pathway ; the prince or noble is the Sacrificer, 
whose praise is to pervade earth and heaven. Sons of the Immortal One: 
the Gods whose father is Praj&pati. 




88 THE TEXTS OF TUB [BOOK XL 

6 Even he, the God whose going forth and majesty the other 

Deities have followed with their might, 

He who hath measured the celestial regions out by his great 
power, he is the Courser Savitah 

7 Our sacrifice, God Savitar! speed forward: speed to his share 

the sacrifice’s patron. 

May the celestial Gandharva, cleanser of thought add will, 
make clean our thoughts and wishes. 

The Lord of Speech sweeten the words we titter! 

8 God Savitar, speed this God-loved sacrifice of ours, fiiend- 

findiug, ever-conquering, winning wealth and heaven. 
Speed praise-song with the sacred verse, Rathantara with 
Gayatra, Brihat that runs in Gayatra. All-hail 1 

9 By impulse of God Savitar I take thee, with arms of Asvias, 

with the hands of Pushan, in Angiras* manuer, with 
Gayatri metre. 

From the earth’s seat bring thou Purishya Agni, as Angiras 
was wont, with Trish^up metre. 

10 Spade art thou; woman art thou. Ours be power with thee 

to dig out Agni iu his dwelliug, as Angiras was wont,with 
Jagati metre. 

11 Savitar, beariug iu his hand the gold spade which he took 

therewith, 

Looking with reverence on the light of Agni, raised it from 
the earth, 

With the Anushtup metre and as Angiras was wont to do. 

12 Run hither, urged to speed, 0 Horse, along the most extend¬ 

ed space. 

6 Taken from U. V. V. 81. 3. 

7 Repeated from IX. 1. Celestial Gandharva: Savitar, the Sun-God 

8 Praise-song: stoma. Sacred verse: rich ; recited verse of praise. Ma* 
thantara: see X. 10. Bfihat: see VII. 22; X. 11. 

9 Thee: the spade (see V. 22; VI. 1.) that is to be used for digging up 
earth and clay for the construction of the Altar. In Angiras ’ manner: as 
Angiras, one of the institutors of Agni’s worship, and the priestly members 
of bis family did aforetime. Purishya: an epithet of Agni identified with 
the Altar, abiding in the loose earth or rubble used as mortar to fill the 
spaces between the bricks and to bind them together. Mahidhara gives 
another meaning also: good to purtshas, that is, cattle. See III. 40. 

10 Woman: nAri; the word for spade, abhri, being feminine. According 
to Mahidhara, nAri =s na + arih, may mean, not having an enemy. See V. 
22, note. 

11 A formula to be used on taking up the spade. 

12 Holding the spade, he addresses the animals, a horse, an ass, and ft 
he-goat, that have been posted looking eastward. First the horse is ad¬ 
dressed as representing the Sun in heaven, Vfiyu in mid-air, and Agni oil 
earth. 



TSJISE 18.1 WHITE YAJVUV&DA. M 

Thy loftiest birthplace is in heaven, thy navel is in air’s 
mid-realm, tbe womb that bare thee is on earth. 

13 Upon this course, 0 lords of wealth, harness, ye twain, the 

A88 w T ho bears 

Agni, and kindly favours us. 

14 In every need, in every race we call, as friends, to succour ns, 
Indra, the mightiest of all. 

15 Come, speeding on and trampling imprecations, cotne glad¬ 

dening to the chieftainship of Rudra. 

Speed through the wide air thou whose paths are pleasant, 
with Pfishan for thy mate, providing safety. 

16 From the Earth’s seat, like Angiras, bring thou Purishya 

Agni forth. 

After the wont of Angiras we to Purtshya Agni go. 

Agtli Purishya we will bear after the wont of Angiras. 

17 Agni hath looked along the van of Mornings, looked on the 

days, the earliest Jatavedas, 

And many a time along the beams of Surya: along the hea¬ 
ven and earth hast thou extended. 

18 The Courser, started on his way, shakes from him all hosti¬ 

lities. 

He longs to look with reverent eye on Agui iti the mighty 
seat. 

13 Lord« of wealth : the Sacrificer and the Adhtaryu, 

14 He addresses the goat with the text taken from R. V. I. 80. 7. 

15 Without touching the animals he makes them go eastward. He ad¬ 
dresses the horse. Imprecations: ill-wishes, or slauderous words of the 
Sacrificer’s enemies. Rudra: as Pasupati, Lord of Beasts. Speed: here 
he addresses the ass, the steed of the Asvins. Pilshan: here said to mean 
Earth. 

16 He addresses the goat, sacred to Agni. Thou: the spade. We: the 
three fires having been lighted, the Sacrificer, the Brahman, and the Adh- 
varyu go to the lump of clay, representing Agni Purishya, which has been 
prepared for making the Ukh4 or Fire-pan and placed in a square hole 
iu the ground. Will we bear: with this formula the Adhvaryu looks at the 
puppet or mock-man, the anaddMpurusha (one of no use to Gods, men, or 
Manes), to which a passive part in the ceremony is assigned. Prof. A. 
Hillebrandt, (Ritual-Litteratur, p. 165) suggests that this doll or effigy 
tnay be a figure representing some enemy of the Sacrificer; and Prof A. 
Weber that it is a Rort of corpus vile, inteuded to bear the blame of any 
accidental hitches and oversights in the performance of the ceremony. 

17 A hollow ant-hill is placed between the lump of clay and the Ahava- 
nlya fire, and through the cavity the Adhvaryu looks at the clay, reciting 
the text taken, with variations, from A. Y. VII. 82. 5. 

18 He addresses the horse. Hostilities: attacks, toils and troubles, and 
evils of all kinds. Agni: represented by the lump of clay. On the mighty 
seat: manifested on the sacrificial ground. 




90 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XL 

19 O Courser, having come to earth, seek Agni with a longing 

wish. 

Tell us by trampling on the ground where we may dig him 
from the earth. 

20 Heaven is thy back, the earth thy seat, the air thy soul, 

the sea thy womb. 

Looking around thee with thine eye trample the adversaries 
down. 

21 Wealth-giver, Courser, from this place step forth to great 

felicity. 

May we enjoy Earth’s favour while we dig forth Agni from 
her lap. 

22 Down hath he stepped, wealth-giver, racer, courser. Good 

and auspicious room on earth thou madest. 

Thence let us dig forth Agni, fair to look on, while to the 
loftiest vault we mount, to heaven. 

23 I thoughtfully besprinkle thee with butter, thee dwelling 

near to all existiug creatures. 

Broad, vast through vital power that moves transversely, 
conspicuous, strong with all the food that feeds thee. 

24 I sprinkle him who moves in all directions : may he accept 

it with a friendly spirit. 

Agni with bridegroom’s face and lovely colour may not be 
touched when all his form is fury. 

25 Round the oblation hath he paced, Agni the wise, the Lord 

of Strength, 

Giving the offerer preeious boons. 

26 We set thee round us as a fort, victorious Agni, thee a Sage, 
Of hero liueage, day by day destroyer of our treacherous foes. 

27 Thou, Agni, with the days, fain to shine hitherward, art 

brought to life from out the waters, from the stone, 

19 He puts the horse’s near forefoot on the lump of clay. With a longing 
wish: ruckd ; or, perhaps, with thy light, or eye. 

20 He holds his hand over the horse's back. The sea: the ocean of air in 
which the Sun, represented by the horse, springs to birth. 

21 He removes the horse’s foot from the clny lump. 

23 He sits down and offers two oblations on the lump of clay and the 
horse’s hoof-print, and recites two texts taken (the first with variations) 
from R. V. II. 10. 4, 5. Thee: Agni, represented by the clay. Line 1 of verse 
23 is first recited, then line 2 of 24; then line 2 of 23 and line 1 of 24. 

24 With bridegroom's grace: or, ‘ revered by men.’ 

25 He draws a liue with the spade three times round the lump of clay, 
and recites the texts taken respectively from R. V. IV. 16. 3 ; X. 87. 22; II, 
1 . 1 . 

27 The waters: of the firmament, ns lightning. Forest trees : in the com 
flag ration 8 caused by the fiictiou of dry branches. 



VIRSS 33.] 


WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


91 


From out the forest trees and herbs that grow on ground, 
thou, Sovran Lord of men, art generated pure. 

28 At Savitar’s, the Shining One’s, impulsion, with arms of 
Asvins and with hands of Pushan, 

As Angiras was wont to do, I dig thee forth from the seat 
of Earth, Agni Purishya. 

Thee, Agni, luminous and fair of aspect, resplendent with 
imperishable lustre, gracious tojhving creatures, never 
harming, 

As Angiras was wont to do, we dig thee forth from the seat 
of Earth, Agni Purishya. 

29 Thou art the Waters’ back, the womb of Agni, around the 
ocean as it swells aud surges. 

Waxing to greatness, resting on the lotus, spread thou in 
amplitude with heaven’s own measure. 

30 Yea are a shelter and a shield, uninjured both, and widely 
spread. 

Do ye, expansive, cover him : bear ye Purishya Agni up. 

31 Cover him, finders of the light, united both with breast and 
self, 

Bearing between you Agni, the refulgent, everlasting One. 

32 Thou art Purishya, thou support of all. Atharvan was the 
first, Agni, who rubbed thee into life. 

Agni, Atharvan brought thee forth by rubbing from the 
lotus, from 

The head of Visva, of the Priest. 

33 Thee too as Vpitra-slayer, thee breaker of forts, the Sage 
Dadhyach, 

Son of Atharvan, lighted up. 

28 He digs round the lump of clay and recites the text. 

29 Northward of the hole from which he has dug the hidden lump of clay 
(see verse 16. note) he spreads a black-antelope’s skin with the neck turned 
to the east; on this he puts a lotus-leaf, and on this the lump of clay. Thou : 
he address the lotus-leaf representing the sky. Waxing: Agni, represented 
by the lump of clay. Spread forth: as the Sun, fill the whole heaven with 
thy grandeur 

30 Ye: the antelope skin and the lotus-leaf, both of which he touches as 
f he recites the two texts. 

32 He touches the lump of clay reciting the first line of the text taken, 
in part, from R. V VI. 16.18. Purishya: according to Mahldhara =pa$avya, 
favourable to cattle. See XI. 9, note. Atharvan: see VIII. 56. Here he 
takes hold of the lump of clay with both hands. The lotus: the sky, or the 
waters of the air. Visva: perhaps Heaven personified ; or the Universe. 
The last line of the text is obscure, and has been variously explained. See 
Sacred Books of the East, XII. 217, 218, note. 

83 Taken from R. V. VI. 16. 14. Dadhyach : see The Hymns of the 
Rigveda, I. 84. 13. 


92 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XI. 

34 Pathya the Bull, too, kindled thee the Dasyus’ most destruc¬ 

tive foe, 

Wiuuer of spoil in every fight. 

35 Sir, Hotar, in the Hotar’s place, observant: lay down the 

sacrifice in the place of worship. 

Thou, dear to Gods, shalt serve them with oblation. Agni, 
give long life to the Sacrificer. 

36 Accustomed to the Ho tar’s place, the Hotar hath seated him, 

bright, splendid, passing mighty, 

Whose foresight keeps the Law from violation, excellent, 
pure tongued, bringing thousands, Agni. 

37 Seat thee, for thou art mighty: shine, best entertainer of 

the Gods. 

Worthy of sacred food, praised Agni! loose the smoke, rud¬ 
dy and beautiful to see. 

38 Pour heaveul j Waters honey-sweet here for our health, for 

progeny. 

Forth from the place whereon they fall let plants with good¬ 
ly berries spring. 

39 May Vayu Matari^van heal and comfort thy broken heart as 

there supine thou liest. 

Thou unto whom the breath of Gods gives motion, to Ka f 
yea, unto thee, 0 God, be Vashat! 

40 He, nobly born with lustre, shield and refuge, hath sat down 

in light. 

0 Agni, Rich in Splendour, robe thyself in many-hued attire. 

41 Lord of fair sacrifice, arise 1 With Godlike thought protect 

us well. 

34 From R. V. VI. 16. 15. P&thya the Butt: or, the hero Pithya, pro¬ 
bably some celebrated Sacrificer. Prof. Max Miiller (Vedio Hymns, Part I. 
p. 153) takes vrishd here as a Proper Name, Vrishan P&thya. Dasyus: 
hostile aborigines. 

35 Hotar: Agni,the Sacrificing Priest, or Invoker, of the Gods. The 
text is taken from R. V. HI. 29. 8. 

36 The text is taken from R. V. II. 9. 1. 

37 Taken from R V. I. 36. 9. Seat thee: on the lotus-leaf. 

38 He pours water into the hole from which the lump of clay was taken. 
Pour: 0 Spade, or 0 Heaven, or 0 Adhv&ryu : Mahidhara. 

39 He fans air into the hole, and with the first line of the text addressee 
the wounded earth. Mdtari$van: in the R. V. generally a name or form of 
Agni, here a designation of Wind as breathing, moving, or growing in his 
mother the Air. See I. 2, note. Ka: Praj&pati (see 1. 6, note), that is, 
V&yu in his form. Vashat: a sacrificial exclamation; benediction. 

40 He takes up the edges or comers of the antelope-skin and the lotos-tost 
ties them together, and wraps them round the lump of day, reciting the text 

41 He takes the wrapped up lump of clay and stands up reciting the text 
Cf. R. V. VIII. 23. 5. 



WHITE YAJURVEDA . 


93 


VERSE 17.] 

With great light splendid to behold come, Agni, through 
sweet hymns of praise. 

42 Rise up erect to give us aid, staud up like Savitar the God; 
Erect as strength-bestower when we call aloud, with un¬ 
guents and with priests on thee. 

43 Thou, being born, art Child of Earth and Heaven, parted, fair 

Babe, among the plants, 0 Agni. 

The glooms of night thou, brilliant child, subduest, and art 
come forth, loud roaring, from the Mothers. 

44 Steady be thou, and firm of limb. Steed, be a raoer fleet of 

foot. 

Broad be thou, pleasant as a seat, bearing the store which 
Agni needs. 

45 Be thou propitious, Angiras, to creatures of the human race. 
Set not on tire the heaven and earth, nor air a mid-regiou, 

nor the trees. 

46 Forth with loud neighing go the Steed, the Ass that shouteth 

as he runs. 

Bearing Purishya Agni on, let him not perish ere his time, 
Male bearer of male Agni, Child of Waters, Offspring of the 
Sea. Agni, come hither to the feast. 

47 The Law the Truth, the Law the Truth, As Angiras was 

wont to do, we bear Purishya Agni on. 

Ye Plants, with joyous welcome greet this Agni, auspicious 
One who cometh on to meet you. 

Removing all distresses and afflictions, here settle down and 
banish evil purpose. 

42 With uplifted arms he holds it up towards the east, and recites the 
text taken from R. Y, I. 36L13. Unguents...priest*; or, shining ministrunts; 
priests who bear oblations. 

43 Among the plants: the shrubs that serve as fuel; or phosphorescent 
plants in which he dwells; or, acoording to Mahidhara, rice and other 
plants from which sacrificial cakes are mad*. The Mothers: the trees whose 
dry wood feeds him. The text is taken from R. V. X. 1. 2. 

44 He addresses the ass (see verse 12 ). The store: the equipment of 
Agni, all Jbhat is required to make the Altar complete. See V. 13, note. 

45 He addresses the goat, here called Angiras, a name of Agni ( see III. 
3 ), as sacred to that God. 

46 He holds the lump of olay over the animals without touching them, 
first over the horse, reciting the text. The Ass: here ironically coupled with 
the horse. Bearing: the horse. Male: the ass, over which he now holds 
the lump of clay. Offspring of the Sea: boro as lightning in the aerial ocean. 
Agni, come hither : he takes the lump down. 

47 He holds the clay-lump over the goat, and recites the first P&da or 
quarter-division of the text. The Aaw, etc.: meaning Agni as the Sun, being 
himself both Law and Truth. 


94 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XI. 

48 Welcome him joyfully, ye Plants, laden with bloom and 

goodly fruit. 

This seasonable Child of yours hath settled in his ancient 
seat. 

49 Resplendent with thy wide-extending lustre dispel the ter¬ 

rors of the fiends who hate us. 

May lofty Agni be my guide and shelter, ready to hear our 
call, the good Protector. 

50 Ye, Waters, are beueficent, so help ye us to energy 
That we may look on great delight. 

51 Give us a portion of the sap, the most propitious that ye 

have. 

Like mothers in their longing love. 

52 To you we gladly come for him to whose abode ye lead ua 

on : 

And, Waters, give us procreant strength. 

53 Mitra, having commingled earth aud ground together with 

the light— 

For health to creatures mix I thee Omniscient and nobly 
born. 

54 The Rudras, having mixed the earth, set all aglow the lofty 

light. 

Bright and perpetual their light verily shines among the 
Gods. 

55 The lump of clay that hath been mixed by Vatus, Rudras, 

by the wise, 

May Siuivali with her hands soften and fit it for the work. 

56 May SinivaU with fair braids, with beauteous crest, with 

lovely locks, j 

May she, O mighty Aditi, bestow the Fire-pan in thy hands*, j 


49 The lump of clay haa been deposited on a mound sprinkled and cover¬ 
ed with gravel. It is now freed from its wrapper (see verse 40), with tbs. 
text taken from R. Y. III. 15.1. Some of the goat's hair is then cab oft 
and the three animals are driven towards the north-east. 

50 He pours on the lamp of day water that has been heated with that 
gum of the Parna or Pal&sa tree, and recites the triplet from R. Y. X. 1—8. 

53 He mixes the clay with the goat’s hair and recites the text. Iftfrs: 
the Sun. Earth: meaning sky, according to Mahfdhara. Light? sym¬ 
bolized by the hair of the goat sacred to Agni. Thee : Agni, identified with, 
the clay. 

54 He mixes with gravel, iron-filings or rust, and small stones, and. Molts* 
the text. Rudras: the Maruts, sons of Rudra the Storm -God. 

55 He mixes the mass more thoroughly, and recites three texts. SmMU: 
the presiding Goddess of the day of New Moon, associated with child-bstlb * 

56 Fire-pan: ukM ; a sort of saucepan ; a pot or cooking-vessel. 



VERSE 60.] WHITE YAJURYEDA. 95 

57 Aditi shape the Fire-pan with her power, her arms, her in¬ 

tellect, 

And in her womb bear Agni as a mother, in her lap, her 
son. 

58 With Gayatri, like Angiras the Vasus form and fashion thee ! 
S ted fast art thou, thou art the Earth. Establish in me pro¬ 
geny, command of cattle, growth of wealth, kinsmen for 
me the worshipper. 

With Trishtup may the Rudras, like Angiras, form and 
fashion thee. 

Stedfast art thou, thou art the Air. Establish in me, etc., 
as above. 

With Jagati, like Angiras, Adityas form and fashion thee ! 
Stedfast art thou, thou art the Sky. Establish in me, etc. 
Friends of all men, the All-Gods with Anush tup form thse 
Angiras* like. 

Stedfast art thou, thou art the Quarters. Establish in me, 
etc. 

59 The zone of Aditi art thou. Aditi seise thy hollow space. 
She, having made the great Fire-pan, a womb for Agni, 

formed of clay, 

Aditi, gave it to her Sons and, Let them bake it, were her 
words. 

60 The Vasus make thee fragrant, as Angiras did, with Gayatri? 
The Rudras make thee fragrant with the Trishtup, as did 

Augiras ! 

With Gayatri, like Angiras, may the Adityas perfume thee. 
Dear to all men, may the All-Gods with the Anush tup 
sweeten thee, as Angiras was wont to do. 

May Indra make thee odorous. May Varuna make thee 
odorous. May Vishnu make thee odorous. 


57 Aditi: as Mother of the Gods. Thou: the lump of day out of which 
the Fire-pan is to be made, representing the hearth of the Ahavanlya fire. 
Of sacrifice: or of Makha, a certain mythical being. Cf. XXXVII. 8—10 ; 
R. V. IX. 101. 13 j X. 171. 2. 

58 He spreads the clay which is to form the bottom of the Fire-pan. The 
Rudras: here he lays down the first lower side of the pan. Adityas: here 
he adds the upper side. With the rest of the formulas he continues the 
work. 

59 He puts on the rim and addresses it. Aditi seize: he takes hold of the 
pan by the mouth. She: he places the completed pan on the ground. Her 
Sons: the God3. 

60 He fumigates the pan with the smoke of seven lumps of horse-dung, 
rtciting seven formulas, one for each Deity or class of Deities mentioned. 



96 THE TEXTS OF TEE [BOOK XI\ 

61 Pit! Angiras-like may Aditi the Goddess, beloved by all 

Gods, dig thee in Earth’s bosom. 

Pan ! Angiras-like may the Gods’ heavenly Consorts, dear 
to all Gods, in the Earth’s bosom place thee. 

Pan ! Angiras-like may Dhishanas, Divine Ones, dear to all 
Gods, in the Earth’s bosom light thee. 

Pan ! Angiras-like may the divine Varutris, dear to all Gods, 
in the earth’s bosom heat thee, 

Pan ! Angiras-like may the celestial Ladies, dear to all Gods, 
in the earth’s bosom bake thee. 

Angiras-like may the celestial Matrons, beloved by all the 
Gods, with unclipped pinions, within the lap of Earth, 
0 Fire-pan, bake thee. 

62 The gainful graoe of Mitra, God, supporter of the race of 

man, 

Is glorious, of most wondrous fame. 

63 With lovely arms, with lovely hands, with lovely fingers 

may the God Savitar make thee clean, yea, by the power 
he hath. 

Not trembling on the earth fill thou the regions, fill the 
Quarters full. 

64 Having arisen wax thou great, yea, stand thou up im¬ 

movable. 

To thee, 0 Mitra, I entrust this Fire-pan for security. May 
it remain without a break. 

65 Thee may the Yasus, Angiras-like, fill with the metre 

Gayatri. 

Thee may the Rudras, Angiras-like, fill with the Trishtup 
metre full. 


61 He digs a square hole and addresses it with the first line of the text. 
Pan t: he deposits it, with the mouth downwards, in the hole, on the north- 
side of the Invincible briok, the first-laid briok of the Altar. Contorts: the 
wives of the Gods are here said to be the life-supporting Plants. Dhishands a 
apparently regarded as Goddesses of Wealth and Abundance. See Prof. H. 
Oldenberg, Vedic Hymus, Part II. pp. 120—122. Here he deposits silently 
in the hole the bricks called AU-lights, and heats the Fire-pan with fire from 
the Dakshina or southward hearth, reciting the three following formulas. 
VarutrU: Protecting Goddesses, said to be the Nych them era or Days-and- 
Nights. Celestial Ladies: the Gnfis, or Divine Dames, said to be the deities 
of the sacred Metres. Celestial Matrons; the presiding deities of the stars. 
With unclipped pinions: moving freely and without interruption. 

62 He trims the fire, reciting the text from R. V. III. 59. 6. 

63 He removes the ashes, and recites the text. Not trembling: he turns 
the pan, and sets it down with the mouth upwards. 

64 He takes up the Fire-pan with both hands, reciting the first line. To 
thee: he deposits it on another vessel that has been placed for the purpose. 

65 He pours goat’s milk into it, and recites the formulas. 



WRITE YAJURVEDA. 


17 


i mate ft] 

Thee tufty Adilya*, Angiras-like, fill with the metre Jagati. 
With the Anttshinp metre may the Ail-Gods, dear to all 
men, fill theeiull, as Angiras was wont. 

66 Intention, Agai, Motive, Hail! Mind, Wisdom, Agni, Motive, 

Hail! 

Thought, Knowledge, Agni, Motive, Hftil! Buie of Speech, 
Agni, Motive, Hail 1 

To Manu Lord of creatures, Hail! To Agni dear to all men, 
Hail 1 

67 May eyery mortal man elect the friendship of the guiding God. 
Each one solicits him for wealth : let him seek fame to 

prosper him. All-hail ! 

68 Break not, nor suffer any harm. Endure, 0 pother, and 

be braye; 

This work Will thou and Aghi do. 

69 Be firm for weal, 0 Goddess Earth. Made in the wonted 

manner thou 
Art a celestial design. 

Acceptable to Gods be this oblation. Arise thou m this 
sacrifice uninjured. 

70 Wood-fed, bedewed with sacred oil, ancient, Invbker, 

excellent. 

The Son of Strength, the Wonderful. 

71 Abandoning the foeman’s host, pass hither to this company; 
Assist the men with whom I stand. 

72 From the remotest distance come. Lord of the Bed Steeds, 

hitherward. 

Do thon Purtshya, Aghi, loved of many, overcome our foes. 

66 Having offered the five Audgra^bana oblations customary-at Soma 
sacrifices (see IV. 7), he now offers seven connected with the building of 
the Fire-altar, and recites the appropriate formulas. Intention: our deter¬ 
mination to build the altar. Manu: the representative Matf> identified with 
Praj&pati. 

67 He offers to Savitar with the text from R. V. V. 50. 1, repeated from 
Book IV. 8. 

68 The Saerificer or the Adhvaryu, standing towards the north-east, 
places the Fire-pan embedded in Mufija grass and hemp, on the Ahfrvanly* 
fire, and addresses it with the two texts. 

69 Earth: the Fire-pan being made of day.' 1 

76 When the fire has burnt up, he places on it a kindling-stick of Krimuka 
wood (a tree unknown to European botanists ) with the text taken from 
R. V. II. 7. 6. Son of Strength : Agni, as sprung froto the violent agitation 
of the five-drill. 

71 He puts on a stick of Vaikankata (Flaeourtia Bapida) with the text 
from R. V. yIII. 64. 15. 

72 He puts on a third stick, of Udumbara (Ficus Olomerata) with ths 
text. Our foes • mridah ; ‘ the scorners ’: Eggeling, 

7 




93 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XL 

73 0 Agui, whatsoever.be the fuel that we lay on thee. 

May that be butter unto thee. Be pleased therewith) Most 
Youthful God. 

74 That which the termite eats, .away, ibat over which the, 

emmet crawls— 

Butter be all of this, to thee. Be pleased therewith, Most 
Youthful God. 

75 Bringing to him, with care unceasing, fodder day after day 

as to a stabled courser, 

Joying in food’ and in the growth of riches, liaay we thy' 
neighbours, Agnij ne’er be injured. 

76 While on earth’s navel Agni is enkindled, we call, for 

ample increase of bur riches, 

On Agni joying in the draught, much-lauded, worshipful, 
victor conquering in battle. 

77 Whatever hosts there are, fiercely assailant, charging In 

lengthened lines, drawn up in order, « 

Whatever thieves there are, whatever robbers, all these I 
cast into thy mouth, 0 Agni. 

78 Devour the burglars with both.tusks,, destroy the robbers 

with thy teeth. 

With both thy jaws, thou Holy One, eat up those thieves 
well champed .and ohewed. 

79 The burglars living among men, the thieves and robbers in 

the wood, 1 

Criminals lurking in their lairs, these do I lay between thy 
• jawsi 

80 Him who would seek to injure us, the man who looks on 

us with hate 

Turn thoi^ to ashes, and the man who slanders and would 
injure us. 


73 He puts on a stick of some sacrificial tree, that has not been cut off 
bat has fallen or been blown off by tbe wind, and recitea the text from 
R. V. VIH. 91. 20. 

74 He adds a fifth stick, that has been found lying on the ground, with 
the text from R./Y. VIII. 91. 21. Termite: commonly called white ant, a 
great devourer of wood &ad a most destructive pest in houses. 

75 He puts on, with eight texts, eight kindling-sticks of PaHaa wood* 
The first text is taken from A. V. XIX. 55. 1, • day after day* being sub¬ 
stituted for * night after night. 

76 Earth*$ navel: the central and most important spot where Agni is 
nowkindled. 



WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


VERSE 83.] 

81 Quickeued is this my priestly rank, quickened is manly 

strength and force, 

Quickened is his victorious power of whom I am the House¬ 
hold priest. 

82 The arms of these meu have I raised, have raised their 

lustre and their strength. 

With priestly power I ruin foes and lift my friends to high 
estate. 

83 A share of food, 0 Lord of Food, vouchsafe us, invigorating 

food that brings no sickness. 

Onward, still onward lead the giver. Grant us maintenance 
both for quadruped and biped. 


81 He puts on eleven sticks in ordinary cases, but twelve for a Kshatriya 
or a Purohita. In the latter ease he recites the text taken, with variations, 
from A. V. III. 19. 1. Quickened: or, sharpened, intensified. 

82 In the case of a prince or noble (R&janya, Kshatriya) being the Sacri- 
fioer, he recites this text, the second line of which is taken from A. V. III. 19. 3. 

83 He dips a kindling-sticl in the vow-milk (see IV. 11, note) presented 
by the Adhvaryu, lays it on the fire, and recites the text. 




BOOK THE TWELFTH. 


Far bath be shone abroad like gold to look on, beaming im¬ 
perishable life for glory. , 

Agni by vital powers became immortal when his prolific 
Father Dyaus begat him. 

2 Night and Dawn, different in hue, accordant, meeting to¬ 

gether, suckle one. same infant v 

Golden between the heaven and earth he shineth. The 
wealth-possessing Gods supported Agni. 

3 The Sapient One arrays himself in every form: for,quadrup¬ 

ed and biped he hath brought forth good. 

Excellent Savitar bath looked on. heaveu’s high vault.: he 
shineth after the outgoings of the Dawn. 

4 Thou art the goodly-pinioned Bird : thou hast theTriviit for 

thy head. 

Gayatra is thine eye, thy wings are Brihafc and Bathantara. 

The hymn is self, the metres are bis limbs, the formulas his 
name. 

The Vamadevya Saman is thy form, the Yajfiayiyfiiya thy 
tail, the fire-hearths are thy hooves. 

Thou art the goodly-pinioued Bird: go skyward, soar to 
heavenly light. 

This Book contains formulas relating chiefly to the treatment of Ukhya 
Agni or Agni of the Fire-pan, and the preparation of the Ahavantya Fire- 
Altar. 

1 The Sacrificer binds on his neck a circular piece of gold with twenty-one 
knobs sewed up in the black-antelope’s skin and strung above his navel on 
a hempen string of three strands. The gold plate symbolises the Sun, that 
is, Agni, and the knobs represent the months, five seasons, the three worlds, 
and the Sun. He then recites the text taken from R. V. X. 45. 8. 

2 With two small round mats of Mufija grass he takes hold of the Fire¬ 
pan and recites the text taken, with variations, from R. V. I. 96. 5, setting 
it down on a seat or stool of Udumbara wood as he recites the last sentence. 
The two mats symbolize Heaven and Earth, the Fire-pan is Agni or the Sun, 
and the seat is the ground. One same infant: Agni as the Sun. 

3 He ties round his neck the main cord of the suspensory sling in which 
the Fire-pan is to be carried about, and recites the text from R. V. V. 81. 2. 
The Sapient One: the Sun, Agni. Every form: every object that he dis* 
closes after the darkness of night. 

4 He raises up the sling, and addresses Ukhya Agni with the text. Tri- 
irit: the hymn of three triplets (see IX. 32). The hymn: meaning the 
Panchadasa Stoma or form of recitation in fifteen verses. Formula»: sacri¬ 
ficial prayers and texts. Vdmadevya : belonging to VAmadeva, the Rishi or 
inspired seer of Book IV. of the R. V., the name given to various S4mans. 
Yajndyajhiya: a S4raan named after the beginning (Yajh4-yajfi4, at every 
sacrifice) of R. V. I. 168. 1. The text expresses the form (that of an eagle) 
in which the Fire-altar is to be built. 



WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


101 


VERSE 11] 

5 Thou art the rival-slaying stride of Vishnu. Mount the 

Gayatra metre : sUide along the earth. 

Thou art the foe-destroying stride of Vishnu. Mount the 
Trishtup metre : stride along mid-air. 

Thou art the, traitor-slaying stride of Vishnu. Mount the 
Jagati metre : stride along the sky. 

Thou art the foeman-slaying stride of Vishnu. Mount A Bush- 
tup metre : . stride along the Quarters, 

6 Agni roared out like Dyaus What time he thunders : lieking 

full oft the earth round plants he flickered. 

At once^ when born, he looked about, enkindled: he shineth 
forth between the earth and heaven. 

7 Return to me, thou still-returning Agni, with life, with 


$ 

turns. 

With increment of increase bring thou back to us what we 
have lost. Again bring hitherward our wealth. 

9 Return again with nourishment; Agni, again with food and 
life. Again preserve us from distress. 

10 Agtii, return with store of wealth. Swell with thine over¬ 

flowing stream that feedeth aH on every side. 

11 I brought thee: thou hast entered in. Stand stedfast and 

immovable. 

Let all the people long for thee. Let not thy kingship fall 
away. 

12 Vanina, from the upmost bond feleftse us, let down the 

lowest and remove the midmost. 

So in thy holy law may we made sinless belong to Aditi, 0 
thou Aditya. 

-- : -:--:- f - 

5 fle makes four strides representing the course of Viahpu as the Sun, 
with an address to each stride. 

6 He holds up Ukbya Agni towards the east, reciting the text taken from 
R. V. X. 45. 4. Round plant* he flickered: * stroking the plants/ ‘literally 
anointing (f either furbishing, or impregnating': Eggeling. 

*7 He brings the Fire-pan lower and lower four times, reciting a text each 
time. 

11 Holding the Fire-pan above his navel he addresses Agni with-the text 
taken, with the exception of the first Pada, from R. V. X. 179.1. 

12 He unties the cord of the suspensory sling and the string of the gold 
disc, reciting the text taken from R. V. 1. 24. 15. Varuna: addressed in 
the original hymn as the Moral Governor of the world, armed with a noose 
or cord with which he binds the wicked, 


lustre, progeny, and treasure. 

With profit, wisdom, riches, ana abundance. 

A hundred, Agni Angiras 1 be thy ways, a thousand thy re- 




102 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XII. 

13 High hath the Mighty risen before the Mornings, and come 

to us with light from out the darkuess. 

Fatr-sbapen Agni with white-shining splendour hath filled 
at birth all human habitations. < 

14 The Hamsa homed in light, the Vasfi in mid-air, the Priest 

beside the altar, Guest within the house, 

Dweller in noblest place, mid men, in truth, in sky, born 
of flood, kine, truth, mountain, he is holy Law. The Great. 

15 Knowing all holy ordinances, Agni, be seated in the lap of 

this thy mother. 

Do not with heat or glowing flame consume her: shine thou 
within her with refulgent lustre. 

16 Within this Fire-pan with thy light, 0 Agnr, in thy proper seat. 
Glowing with warmth, be gracious thou, 0 Jatavedas, unto her. 

17 Being propitious unto me, 0 Agni, Bit propitiously. 

Having made all the regions blest, in thine own dwelling 

seat thyself. 

18 First Agni sprang to life from out of heaven, the second 

time from us came Jatavedas. 

Thirdly the Manly-souled was in the waters. The pious 
lauds and kindles him Eternal. 

19 Agni, we know thy three powers in three stations, we know 

thy forms, in many a place divided. 

We know what name supreme thou hast in secret: we know 
the source from which thou hast proceeded. 

20 The Manly-souled lit thee in sea and waters, Man’s Viewer 

lit thee in the breast of heaven. 

There as thou stoodest in the third high region the Bulls 
increased thee in the waters* bosom. 

13 Be holds Agni up to the south-east with the test taken from R. V. 

X. 1.1. 

14 He lowers him with the text (repeated from X. 24) taken from R. V. 
IV. 40. 5, and a. sacrificial formula of one word. The Great: hrikat; Truth, 
understood; that is, Agni. As he pronounces this formula he lays Agni on 
the seat. 

15 He stands by Ukhya Agni, reverencing him with three texts. 

18 He worships with the Vdtsapra rite, the recitation of Hymn 45 of Book 
X. of th<5 Rigveda, ascribed to the Rishi Vatsapr! son of Bhalanda. From 
out of Heaven : or, from Dyaus or Heaven his father, in the shape of the 
Sun. From us: produced by men in the shape of sacrificial and doxnestie 
fire. In the waters: of the firmament, in the shape of lightning, the third 
form of Agni. Manly-souled: or, Friend of men. 

19 In secret: unknown to those who know not the Veda : Sdyana. 

20 Manly-souled: or, Friend of men; Varuna, according to SAyana, and 
Prajftpati, according to Mahtdhara. Prof. Ludwig thinkB that Dyaus (cp». 
verse 8) may be meant, and Prof. Grassmann that Indra, the kindler of tbfe 
lightning, is intended. The Bulls ; or, the Mighty Ones j the Maruts. 




WHITE YAJtiRVEDA. 


VERSE SO.] 


10$ 


21 Agoi roared out, etc. (verse 6 repeated). 

22 The spring of glories and support of riches, rouser of 

thoughts and guardian of the Soma, 

Good Son of Strength, a King amid the waters, in forefront 
of the Dawns he shines enkindled. 

23 Germ of the world, ensign of all creation, he sprang to life 

and filled the earth and heaven. 

Even the firm rock be cleft when passing over, when the 
Five Tribes brought sacrifice to Agni. 

24 So among mortals was immortal Agni stablished as cleans- 

ing, wise, and eager envoy. 

He waves the red smoke that be lifts above him, striving 
to reach the heaven with radiant lustre* 

25 Far hath he shone, etc. (verse 1 repeated). 

26 Whoso this day, 0 God whose flames are lovely, makes thee 

a cake, 0 Agni, mixed with butter, 

Lead thou and .further him to higher fortune, to bliss be¬ 
stowed by Gods, 0 thou Most Youthftil. 

27 Eudow him, Agni, with a share of glory, at every song of 

praise sung forth enrich him. 

Dear let him be to Sfirya, dear to Agni, preeminent with son 
and children’s children. 

28 While, Agni, day by day men pay thee worship they win 

themselves all treasures worth the wishing. 

Allied with thee, eager and craving riches, they have dis¬ 
closed the stable filled with cattle. 

29 Agni, man’s gracious Friend, the Soma’s keeper, Vaifvanara, 

hath been lauded by the Bishis. 

We will invoke benignant Earth and Heaven: ye Deities, 
give us wealth with hero children. 

30 Pay service unto Agni with your fuel, rouse your Guest 

with oil: 

In him present yonr offerings. 

23 The firm rock: the massive cloud, according to Sftyana and ttabtdhara. 
Some extraordinary forest conflagration may, perhaps, be referred to. The 
Fine Tribee : literally, the five men ; according to S&yana, men in general, 
and according to Mali Id bare, the iustitutor of the sacrifice aud the four chief 
priests. But some special and remarkable occasion seems to be referred to, 
such as the associated sacrifice offered by representatives of the Five Confe¬ 
derate Aryan races or tribes. See The Hymns of the Rigveda, Index. 

28 Stable filled with cattle: a common expression for great possessions. 

29 Soma'9 keeper: as connected with the Moon, the great receptacle of 
the celestial Soma, the nectar or ambrosia of the Gods. See A. Hillebrandt. 
Vedische Mythologie, I. 330—336. 

30 Formulas for the Van!v4hanam or Driving Hither and Thither of Agni. 
The Sacrificer stations a car northward of Ukhya Agni, turned towards the 
east, and lays a kindling-stick on the fire, reciting the text. 



104 THE TEXTS OB THE [BOOS XlT, 

31 May all the Gods, 0 Agni, bear thee upward with their ear¬ 

nest thoughts: 

Not to be looked on, rich ii? light, be thou propitious unto us. 

32 Agni, go forth resplendent, thou with thine auspicious flumes 

of fire. 

Shining with mighty beams of light harm not my people 
with thy form. 

33 Agni roared out, etc. (verse 21 repeated) 

34 Far famed is this the Bharata’s own Agni : he fttrineth like 

the Sun with lofty splendour. 

He who hath vanquished Parii in the battle, the heavenly 
Guest hath shone for us benignly. 

35 Receive these ashes, ye celestial Waters, and lay them in a 

fair place full of fragrance. 

To him bow down the nobly wedded Matrons ! Bear this on 
waters as her son a mother. 

36 Agni, tby home is in tbe floods ; into the plants thou fore- 

est way, 

And as their child art horn anew. 

37 Thou art the offspring of the plants, thou art the offspring 

of the trees r 

The offspring thou of all that is, thou, Agni, art the Waters 9 
Child. 

38 With ashes having reached the womb, the waters, Agni f 

and the earth, 

United with the mothers, thou blazing hast seated thee again. 

39 Seated again upon thy seat, the waters, Agni l and the earth, 
Iu her, thou, most auspicious One, liest as in a mother’s lap. 

31 Ho lifts up Ukhya Agni together with the seat ( see verse 2 ), and 
standing on the south side puts him on the car. 

32 He yokes iu silence two oxen, and goes eastward reciting the text. 

33 When the axle creaks he mutters the text repeated from X£I. 6 aud 21. 

34 At his dwelling he takes down Uttbya Agni on a spot that has been 
raised and Sprinkled, lays a kindling-stick on the fire, aud recites the text 
taken from K. V. VII. 8. 4. Bkarata’s: God of Vasishtba, the Purohitaor 
Tribal Priest of the Bharatas, a warlike tribe. P4ru : the Purus (ooe of 
the Five Aryan Tribes) who opposed the Bharatas. According to Maht- 
dhara, Puru was a R&kshasa or demon. 

35 He takes the ashes from the Fire-pan in a basket or tray made of the 
leaves of a Pal4?a, Ficus Iudioa (banyan), or other sacred tree, and throws 
them into water, reciting the text. To him ' Agni m the ashes. Nobly 
wedded: Consorts of Vahina who rules over the waters. 

36 He takes ashes in the basket again, and throws them into the water as 
before, with two texts, the first of which is taken from H. V. VIII. 43. fit. 

33 With his little finger he takes some ashes from the water, and throws 
part of them back, reciting the four texts. 




VtBlTff YAJVkVEBA. 105 

40,41 Return again, etc. Agni, return, etc. (verges 9 and 10 
repeated). 

42 Mark this nay speech, Divine One, thou Most Youthful, 

offered to thee by him who gives most freely : 

One hates thee, and another sings thy praises. I thine 
adorer laud thy form, 0 Agni. 

43 Be thou for us a liberal Prince, Giver and Lord of precious 

things. 

Drive those who bate us far away. 

To the Omnific One All-hail 1 

44 Again let the Adityaq, Rudraa, Vaaus, and Brahmans with 

their rites light thee, Wealtb-brhager t 
Increase thy body with presented butter: effectual be the 
Sacrifice's wishes. 

45 Go hence, depart, creep off* in all directions, both ancient 

visitors and recent comers; 

Yaraa hath given a place on earth to rest in. This place 
for him the Fathers have provided. 

46 Knowledge art thou : accomplishment of wishes. In me be 

the fulfilment of thy wishes. 

Thou art the ashes, thou the mould of Agni. Rankers are 
ye, rankers around. Rankers right upward, be ye fixed. 


42 Having returned from the pool he throws into the Fire-pan some of 
the ashes taken from the water, and stands by the fire worshipping with two 
texts taken respectively from R, V. I. 147. 2.and II. 6. 4, the last lineof the 
verse being au original Yajus or sacrificial formula. 

43 Prince: or Patron. 

44 He stands up after a burnt offering of butter and replaces the same fire- 
stick on the Ukhya Agni reciting the text. 

45 Formulas for the construction of the G&rhapatya hearth, representing 
the domestic fire-place of the householder who institutes sacrifice. The 
Adhvaryu sweeps the ground where the hearth is to be built with a Pal&sa 
branch, and throws away the grass and rubbish, reciting a Pftda of the text 
(see R. V. X. 14. 9 ) as he sweeps each side beginuiqg with the east. Go 
hence: in the original funeral hyuiu this is, according to SAyan^, addressed to 
the Pis&chas and other evil spirits that hauut the place of cremation. Here, 
say8 Mahtdhara, the ministers of Yatna, Lord Paramount of the ground, are 
meant. For him: for the Sacrifices 

46 Over the site of the future altar he scatters saline earth, when he has 
thrown out the Pallas branch towards the north, and addresses it with the 
text. Knowledfjt: of the cattle, inasmuch as they smell out aud lick the 
soil on which a saline efflorescence appears.. Completion of thy withes ; mayi 
te pvsavo bkrfydwh; on me may there be cattle for thee: Mahtdhara. Thou 
art the athes: here be spreads Band over the saline earth. Ranker*: he 
surrounds the altar site with twenty-one small enclosing stones, forming a 
range or rank, Round; set in a circle. Upward; set upright ig the ground. 




106 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XII. 

47 This is that Agni where the longing Indra took the pressed 

Soma deep within his body. 

Winner of Bpoils in thousands like a courser, with prayer art 
thou exalted, J&tavedas. 

48 The splendour which is thine in heaven, 0 Agni, in earth, O 

Holy One, in plants, in waters, 

Wherewith thou hast o’erspread mid-air’s broad region, that 
light is brilliant, billowy, man-surveying. 

49 0 Agni, to the flood of heaven thou mountest, thou callest 

hither Gods, the thought-inspirers. 

The waters, those l>eyond the light of Sfirya, and those 
that are beneath it here, approach thee. 

50 May the Purisbya Agnis in accord with those that spring 

from floods. 

May they, benevolent, accept the sacrifice, full, wholesome 
draughts. 

51 As holy food, Agni, to thine invoker give wealth in cattle, 

lasting, rich in marvels. 

To us be born a son and spreading offspring. Agni, be this 
tby gracious will to us-ward. 

52 This is thine ordered place of birth whence, sprung to life, 

thou shonest forth. 

Knowing this, Agni, mount on high and cause our riches to 
increase. 

53 Ranker art thou : Angiras-like sit steady with that Deity. 
Ranker round art thou ; Angiras-like sit steady with that 

Deity. 


47 Sitting on the south of the circle and looking northward the Adhvaryu 
lays down four bricks in the middle of the circle, the first with the text from 
R. V. m. 22. 1. 

48 He lays the second brick with the text from R. V. IH. 22. 2. 

49 He lays the third brick with the text from R. V. III. 22. 3. 

50 He lays the fourth with the text from R. V. III. 22. 4. Purftkga : 
according to Mahtdhara, friendly to. cattle; * Fires tljat dwell in mint *: The 
Hymns of the R. V. Bom from foods ; the meaning of prdvanebkih Is un¬ 
certain. 

51 He sits on the north side facing the south, and lays down the south¬ 
ward one of the two hinder bricks with the text from R. V. III. 22. 6. 

52 He lays down the northern one with the text, repeated from III. 14, 
taken from R. V. III. 29. 10. 

53 Sitting on the south side, facing the north, he toys the northern one 
of the two front bricks, reciting the text. Angiras-like: as thou wast wont 
to do with the ancient Fire-priest Angiras. Ranker-round: he lays down 
the second southward brick. That Deity .* according to Mahtdhara, that 
famous deity Vftyu. 




WBITB YAJURVEDA. 


107 


VERSE 01] 

54 Fill up the room, supply the void, then settle steady in thy 

place. 

Indjr-Agni and fyihaspati have set thee down in this abode. 

55 The dappled kine who stream with milk prepare his draught 

of Soma juice— 

Clans in the birthplace of the Gods, in the three luminous 
realms of heaven, 

56 All sacred songs have magnified Iudra expansive as the sea, 
The best of warriors borne on oars, the Lord, the very Lord 

of Strength. 

57 Combine ye two and harmonize together, dear to each other, 

brilliant, friendly-minded, 

Abiding in one place for food and vigour. 

58 Together have I brought your minds, your ordinances, and 

your thoughts. 

Be thou our Sovran Lord, Agni Purishya; give food and 
vigour to the Saerificer. 

59 Thou art Purishya Agni, thou art wealthy, thou art prosper¬ 

ous. 

Having made all the regions blest, here seat thee in thine 
own abode. 

60 Be ye one-minded unto us, both of one thought, free from 

deceit. 

Harm not the sacrifice, harm not the Patrou of the sacrifice. 
Be gracious unto us to-day, ye knowers of all thiugs that be. 

61 Even as a mother bears her son, Earth, Uklia bath borne 

within her womb Purishya Agni. 

Maker of all, accordant with the All-Gods and Seasons, may 
Prajapati release her. 

62 Seek him who pours not* offers not oblation; follow the 

going of the thief aud robber. 

54 He lays down three lokamprituU or Space-filling bricks—those thathave 
no special prayer appropriated to them—, and addresses' each. tndr-Agni: 
the two Gods combined as a diial Deity. 

55 As he settles the two bricks (verse 53) he recites the text called the 
SOdadohas from the word iHdadokatah , streaming with milk, taken from R. 
V. VIII. 58 3. 

56 He brings mould from the place of the pit and throws it on the G&rha- 
patya hearth that is building, with the text taken from R. V. I. 11.1. 

57 He throws the Ukhya Agni, that is the fire in the pan, on the G&rb*» 
patya hearth, with the four following texts. 

61 He fills the Fire-pan with sand, looses it from the suspensory sling, 
and sets it down at the distance of a cubit north of the fire, reciting the text. 

62 Formulas for averting Nirriti, the Goddess of Destruction. He lays 
down the black bricks dedicated to Nirriti, that have been baked with rice- 
hutks, NirriU’s perquisites, in some natural hollow in the ground or a bar¬ 
ren place, with the following texts. 



108 THE TEXTS OP THE [BOOK XIl. 

This is thy way ; leave iw and seek some other. • To thee t 
0 Goddess Nirriti, be homage. 

69 To thee, sharp-pointed Nirriti, foil homage t Loose and 
detach this iron bond that binds him. 

Unanimous with Yama and with Yami to the sublimes! 
vault of heaven uplift him. 

64 Thou, Awful One, thou in whose mouth i diet for the un¬ 

loosing of these binding fetters, 

Whom people hail as Earth with their glad voices, as Nirritr 
in every place I know thee. 

65 The binding noose which Nirriti the Goddess hath fastened 

on thy neck that none may loose it, 

I loose for thee as from the midst of Ayus. Sped forward 
now, eat thou the food we ■offer. 

To Fortune, her who hath done this, be homage. 

66 Establishes the gatherer of treasures, he looks with might 

on every form and figure. 

Like Savitar the God whose laws are constant, like Indra 
he hath stood where meet the pathways. 

67 Wise, through desire of bliss with Gods, the skilful bind the 

traces fast, and lay the yokes on either side. 

68 Lay on the yokes and fasten well the traces: formed is the 

furroW, sow the seed within it. 

Through song may we find hearing fraught with plenty: 
near to the ripened grain approach the sickle. 


63 Yama: here meaning Agoi. Yamt: Yama’s sister. See The Hymus 
of the Rigveda, X. 10. Him: the Sacrifice!*, iron bond: of tin. 

65 He throws down on the farther side of the bricks the suspensory sling, 
the cord of the gold plate (see 1) the two reed mats ( 2 ) and the wooden seat 
(2), anil addresses the Sacrlficer with the text. From the midtt of Ague: 
from the G&rhapatya hearth which is the middle of Agni: Habidhara. 
* Ayus may rather have to be taken in the sense of ‘life’ or ‘vital power*: 
Eggeling. Sped forward: by being freed from the bonds of Nirriti. To 
Fortune: he pours out a jarful of water. 

66 The Brahman-priest, the Sacrifices and the Adhvaryu return to the 
sacrificial euclosure from the place where the Nirriti bricks were laid down, 
aud the Adhvaryu stands worshipping Agni, in the form of the G&rhapatya 
hearth, with the texts, taken With variations, from R. Y. X. 139. 3. Path- 
wuys: the R. Y. has dhandndm, that is in the meeting or conflict for booty; 
and Mahtdhara explains patktndm , of the pathways, by ‘ with robbers or 
infesters of the way.* 

67 Standing behind the right or southern hip of Agni or the Fire-altar, 
the Adhvaryu addresses the plough to which oxen are being yoked for the 
purpose, with two texts from R. V. X. 101, 4, 3. Through desire of blue wUk 
Oods: or, through desire of pleasing the Gods ; 4 with mind devoted to the 
Gods'; Eggeling. 




WBiTE YAJU&VEDA . 


VEMSB 75.] 


K>9 


69 Happily let the shares turn up the ploighlaud, happily go 

the ploughers with the oxeu ! 

Suna and Sira) pleased with, our oblation, cause ye our 
plants to bear abundant fruitage. 

70 Approved by Vrevedevas 1 and by Maruts, balmed be the 

furrow with sweet-flavoured fatness. 

Succulent, teeming with thy milky treasure, turn hitherward 
to us with milk, 0 Furrow. 

71 The keen-shdred plough that bringeth bliss, good for the 

Soma-drinker’s need, 

Shear out for me a cow, a shefep, a rapid drawer of the car, 
a blooming woman, plump and strong! 

72 Milk out their wish, O Wishing-Cow, toMitra and to Varuna, 
To Indra, to the Asvius, to Pfishan, to people and to p&nts. 

73 Be loosed; inviolable, Godward furers! We have attained 

the limit of this darkness: we have won the light. 

74 The year together with the darksome fortnights; Dawn with 

the ruddy-coloured cows about her; the Aavins with 
their wonderful achievements; the Sun together with his 
dappled Coarser; Vfctisv&u&r* with Id4 and with batter. 
Svaha! 

75 Herbs that sprang up in time of old, three ages earlier than 

the Gods, — ’ 

Of these, whose hue is brown, will I'declare the hundred 
powers and seven. 


69 On the site of the Altar, near the enclosing stoues, he ploughs lour fur¬ 
rows, smith. West, north} and east* With lour texts, one for each furrow. The 
first text is from A. V. III. 17. 5, the first half being taken fromR. V. IV. 
57. 8. Sung, and Sira: two deities or deified objects which bless or are closely 
connected with agriculture. See A. V. III. 17, 5, note. 

70 TWcea from A. V. III. 17. 9. 

71 Taken from A V. III. 17. 3. with a variation. See S. B K. XU. 828. 

72 0 Withiny-Cow . 0 Furrow, productive as the Cow of Plenty. 

73 He looses aud addresses the oxen. Inviolable: ayhnvd hot to be'slain 
or injured. The word is usually applied to cows. Goctaara fitms : as assist¬ 
ants at sacrifice. Limit of (kit dttrinm ;• R. V. I. 92. & Darkness here 
meaning distress arising from hungej and thirst, according to Mabldhara. 

74 He places a bunch of Kusi grass in the middle of the Altar site and 
offers an oblation with five takings of saorificial butter, reciting the formula 
of thirteen utterances (SvA-hl, divided, counting as two) each of which re¬ 
presents a layer of the Fire-altar. See S, B. E. XLI. 334. 

75 Having poured fifteen jars of water on the Altar site he sows t^e seed 
of various plants und herbs reciting five triplets. Verses 75—96 are taken 
from R. V. X. 97 which is a physician’s charm addressed to the medicinal 
herbs, some of which he is about to apply to a patient. Pdkdru : perhaps 
dyspepsia i or some disease of the mouth, abscess or gumboil. 



11(* THE TEXTS OP THE [BOOK XII. 

76 Ye, Mothers, have a hundred homes, yea, aud a thousand are 
** your growths. 

Do ye who have a thousand powers free this my patient from 
disease. 

77 Be glad and joyful in the Plants, both blossoming and bearing 

fruit, 

Plants that will lead us to success like mares who conquer in 
the race. 

78 Plants, by this name I speak to you, Mothers, to you the 

Goddesses: 

Steed, cow, and garment may I win, win back thy very self, 

, 0 man. 

7J The Holy Fig tree is your home, your mansion is the Parna 
tree: 

Winners of cattle shall ye be if ye regain for me this man. 

80 He who hath store of Herbs at hand like Kings amid a crowd 

of men,— 

Physician is that sage’s name, fiend-slayer, chaser of disease. 

81 Herbs rich in Soma, rich in steeds, in nourishment, in strength¬ 

ening power,— 

All these have I provided here, that this man may be whole 
again. 

82 The healiug virtues of the Plants stream forth like cattle 

from the stall,— 

Plants that shall win me store of wealth, and save thy vital 
breath, O man. 

83 Reliever is your mother’s name, and hence Restorers are ye 

called. 

Rivers are ye with wings that fly: keep far whatever brings 
disease. 

84 Over all fences have they passed, as steals a thief into the fold. 
The Plants have driven from the frame whatever malady was 

there. 

85 When, bringing back the vanished strength, I hold these herbs 

within my hand, 

The spirit of disease departs ere he can seize upon the life. 

86 He through whose frame, 0 Plants, ye creep member by 

member, joint by joint,— 

From him ye drive away disease like some strong arbiter of 
strife. • 

87 Fly, Spirit of Disease, begone, with the blue jay and king* 

fisher. 

Fly, with the wind’s impetuous speed, vanish together with 
the storm. 



WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


Ill 


THESE 98.] 


38 Help every one the otfler, lend assistance each of you to 
each, 

All of you be accordant, give furtherance to this speeoh of 
mine. 

69 Let fruitful Plants, and fruitless, those that blossom, and 
the blossomless, 

Urged onward by Bribaspati, release us from our pain and 
grief; 

90 Realese me from the curse’s plague and woe that comes from 

Varuna; 

Free me from Yama’s fetter, from sin and offence against the 
Gods. 

91 What time, descending from the sky, the Plants flew earth¬ 

ward, thus they spake : 

No evil shall befall the man whom while be liveth we 
pervade. 

92 Of all the many Plants whose King is Soma, Plants of hun¬ 

dred forms, 

Thou art the Plant most excellent, prompt to the wish, sweet 
to the heart. 

93 0 all ye various Herbs whose King is Soma, that o’erspread 

the earth, 

Urged onward by Bribaspati, combine your virtue in this 
Plant. 

94 All Plants that hear this speech, and those that have 

departed far away, 

Come all assembled and confer your healing power upon 
this Herb. 

95 Unharmed be he who digs you up, unh&rmed the man for 

whom I dig: 

And let no malady attack biped or quadruped of ours. 

96 With Soma as their Sovran Lord the Plauts hold colloquy 

and say: 

0 King, we save from death the man whose cure a Br&hman 
undertakes. 

97 Most excellent of all art thou, 0 Plant: thy vassals are the 

trees. 4 

Let him be subject to our power, the man who seeks to 
injure us. 

98 Banisher of catarrh art thou, of tumours aud of hemorr¬ 

hoids ; 

Thou banishest Pik&ru and Consumption in a hundred 
forms. 



112 THE TEXTS OF TBE [BOO'S Xrf. 

99 Thee did Gandharras dig from earth, thee Indn and 
Brihaspati. 

King Soma, knowing thee, 0 Plant, from his Consumption 
was made free. 

100 Conquer mine enemies, the men who challenge me do thou 

subdue. 

Conquer thou all unhappiness: victorious art thou, Q Plant. 

101 Long-lived be he who digs thee, Plant, and he for whom [ 

dig thee up. 

So mayst thou also, grown long-lived, rise upward with a 
hundred shoots. 

102 Most excellent of all art thou, 0 Plant; thy vassals are the 

trees. 

Let him be subject to our power, the man who seeks to 
injure us. 

103 May he not harm me who is earth’s begetter, nor he whose 

laws are faithful, sky’s pervader; 

Nor he who first begot the lucid waters. To Ka the God 
let us present oblation. 

104 Turn thyself hitherward, O Earth, to us with sacrifice and 

milk. 

, Thy covering skin Agni, urged forth, bath mounted. 

105 All, Agni, that in thee is bright, pure, cleansed, and meet 

for sacrifice. 

That do we bring unto the Gods. 

106 I from this place have fed on strength and vigour, the 

womb of holy Law, stream of the mighty. 

In cows let it possess me and in bodies, 1 quit decline aud 
lack of food, and sickness. 

107 Agni, life-power and fame are thine: thy fires blase mightily, 

thou rich in wealth of beams ! 

Sage, passing bright, thou givest to the worshipper,, with 
strength, the food that merits laud. 

108 With brilliant, purifying sheen, with perfect sheen thou 

liftest up thyself in light. 

Thou; visiting both thy Mothers, aidest them as Son : thou 
joiuest close the earth and heaven. 

103 With the wooden sword he takes from outside the fire altar four 
bricks, each made of a lump of clay, and lays them on the body of the altar 
site, reciting a text as he deposits each. The first is from the front. Barth'* 
begetter: Praj&pati, 

104 He lays down a brick from the south. Covering thin: the surface of 1 
the earth. 

105 He lays down a clay brick from behind. 

106 He lays down a clay- brick from the north. 

107 He throws sand on the High Altar with six verses from.R. V. X. 140. 




WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


113 


VERSE 118.] 

109 0 J&tavedaa, Son of Strength, rejoioe thyself, gracious, in 

our fair hymns and songs. 

In thee are treasured various forms of strengthening food, 
born nobly and of wondrous help. 

110 Agni, spread forth, as Ruler, over living things: give wealth 

to us, Immortal God. 

Thou shinest out from beauty fair to look upon: thou 
leadest us to conquering power. 

111 To him, the wise, who orders sacrifice, who hath great riches 

under his control, 

Thou givest blest award of good, and plenteous food, givest 
hioi wealth that conquers all. 

112 The men have set before them for their welfare Agni, strong, 

visible to all, the Holy. 

Thee, Godlike One, with ears to hear, most famous, men’s 
generations magnify with praise-sougs. 

113 Soma, wax great. From every side may vigorous powers 

unite in thee. 

Be in the gathering-place of strength. 

1H In thee be juicy nutriments united, and power and mighty 
foe-subduing vigour. 

Waxing to immortality, O Soma, win highest glory for 
thyself in heaven. 

115 Wax, 0 most gladdening Soma, great through all thy 
filaments, and be 

A friend of most illustrious fame to prosper us. 
m May Vatsa draw thy mind away, even from thy loftiest 
dwelling-place, 

Agni, with song that yearns for thee. 

117 Agni, best Angiras, to thee all people who have pleasant 

homes 

Apart have turned to gain their wish. 

118 In dear homes, Agni, the desire of all that is and is to be, 
Shines forth the One Imperial Lord. 


118 He touches the sand that has been spread on the body of the altar; 
reciting the texts taken from R. V. I. 91. 16, 18, 17. 

116 The following verses are addressed to the Fires as they are led for¬ 
ward. preceded by a horse, a white one by preference, representing Agni as 
ann- or if no horse is available, by a bullock (see Sacred Books of the 
Fast. XII 297). The first verse is taken from R. V. VIII. 11. 7. 

JU T.kwi frwn It v. m 48. 18. 


6 



BOOK THE THIRTEENTH. 


I take within me Agui first, for increase of my wealth, 
good offspring, manly strength: 

So may the Deities wait on me. 

2 Thou art the waters’ back, the womb of Agni, around the 

ocean as it swells and surges. 

Waxing to greatness, resting oh the lotus, spread forth in 
amplitude with heaven’s own measure. 

3 Eastward at first was Brahma generated. Vena o’erspread 

the bright Ones from the summit, 

Disclosed his deepest nearest revelations, womb of existent 
and of non-existent. 

4 In the beginning rose Hirapyagarbha, bom Only Lord of all 

created being. 

He fixed and holdeth up this earth and heaven. Worship 
we Ka the God with our oblation. 

5 The Drop leaped onward through the earth and heaven; 

along this place and that which was before it. 


This Book contains formulas for the laying down of the Lotus-leaf, the 
solemn setting of various bricks, the burial of the Tortoise, the disposal of 
the Victims* Heads, and other ceremonies connected with the construction 
of the Ahavaniya Fire altar. 

1 The Sacrificer standing on the farther side of the High Altar offers an 
oblation aud recites the text. I take Agni: in order that Agni, that is, the 
Fire-Altar, may be made out of Agni himself. 

2 Be lays down a lotus-leaf, representing the sky, on a tuft of Kusa grass, 
with the text which is repeated from XI. 2d. 

3 Upon the lotus-leaf he lays the piece of gold hung round his neck (see 
XII. 1), with the text from A. V. IV. 1. 1. Brahma t or the Prayer. Prayer 
originated in the eastern heaven : when Vena, the Loving One, the early 
Sun, first rose in his glory he poured forth the type of human prayer, his 
morning song of joy and praise. See. III. 8, note. According to Mahldhara, 
Brahma here is the Sun. O'erspread the Bright Once: or, disclosed bright 
flashes. According to Mahldhara, the Bright Ones are the worlds. Aon- 
existent: but possessing the potentiality of future existence^ 

4 On the piece of gold he lays a golden figure of a man, on his back, with 
his face eastward, a symbol of PrajApati, Agni. and the Sacrifioer, and re¬ 
cites the two texts taken respectively from R. V. X* 121.1, end, with vari¬ 
ations , from R. V. X. 17. 11. Hiranyagarbha: ‘the Gold Germ,* 'Source 
of Golden Light,’ the Sun-God identified with Prajftpati. Ka: Praj&pati. 
Or, What God (other than Praj&pati) shall we adore with our oblation t 
See I. 6, note. 

5, 6, 7 The Drop: meaning, say the Commentators, Aditya, the Sun. 
Oblations: hotrds, meaning, it is said, the regions of the sky. The Sacrifioer 
thus establishes the Sun in heaven. See Sacred Books of the East, TTJ r 
p. 868. The Sacrificer stands by the golden figure worshipping with the 
three following formulas. Serpents: see two hymns addressed to Serpents 
m powerful superhuman beings, A. V. III. 26. 27. Demobs' darts: sent by 
R&kshasas aud other evil beings to bite and'kill men. 




WHITE YAJURVBDA. 


YRRjfB 18.] 


115 


I offer up, throughout the jeven oblations, the Drop still 
moving to the common dwelling. 

6 Homage be paid to Serpents unto all of them that are on 

earth, 

To those that dwell in air, to those that dwell in sky be 
homage paid. 

7 To those that are the demons’ darts, to those that lire upon 

the trees, 

To all the Serpents that lie low in holes be adoration paid. 

8 Or those that are in heaven’s bright sphere, or those that 

dwell in the Suu’s beams: 

Serpents, whose home has been prepared in waters, homage 
unto them! 

9 Put forth like a wide spreading net thy vigour: go like a 

mighty King with his attendants. 

Thou, following thy swift net, shootest arrows: transfix the 
fiends with darts that burn moat fiercely. 

10 Forth go in rapid flight thy whirling weapons: follow them 

'closely glowing in thy fury. 

Spread with thy tongue the wingfed flames, O Agni: unfet¬ 
tered cast thy firebrands all around thee. 

11 Send thy spies forward, fleetest in thy motion: be, ne’er 

deceived, the guardian of this people 
From him who, near or far, is bent on evil, and let no 
trouble sent from thee overcome us. 

13 Rise up, 0 Agni, spread thee out before us, bum dov^nour 
foes, thou who hast sharpened arrows. 

Hun, biasing Agni! who hath worked us mischief, consume 
thou utterly like diried-up Btubblc. 

13 Rise, Agni, drive off those who fight against us: make 
manifest thine own celestial vigour. 

Slacken the strong bows of the demou-driveu: destroy our 
foemen whether kiu or stranger. 

I settle thee with Agni’s fiery ardour. 


9 He sits down and offers an oblation on the gold figure with batter taken 
in five iadlefuls, reciting fire texts, demon*sl»ying charms, taken from R. V. 
IV. 4.1-5. 

11 Spies: the first flames, sent forward as if to reconnoitre. 

13 Demon-driven: those whom evil spirits incite to attack os. I settle 
. thee: with this formula he lays down on the south side a ladle made of the 
wood of the Kfirshmarya tree{GmeUna Arborea filled with clarified butter. 




116 TEE TEXT8 OP TEE [BOOK XIII. 

14 Agni is head and height of heaven, the Master of the earth 

is he: 

He quickeneth the waters’ seed. 

I settle thee with the great strength of Indra. 

15 Thou art the leader of the rite and region to whioh with 

thine auspioious teams thou tendest. 

Thy light-bestowing head to heaven thou liftest, making 
thy tongue the oblation-bearer, Agni! 

16 Steady art thou, sustainer, laid by Vi§vakarman in thy 

place. 

"Let hot the ocean nor the bird harm thee: unshaking, steady 
earth. 

IT Thee let Prajapati settle on the waters’ back, in Ocean’s 
course, 

Thee the capacious, widely spread. Thou art the Wide 
One : spread thee wide ! 

18 Thou art the earth, the ground, thou art the all-sustaining 

Aditi, she who supporteth all the world. 

Control the earth, steady the earth, do thou the earth no 
injury. 

19 For all,breath, ont-breath, through-breath, upward-breath¬ 

ing, for high position, for prescribed observance, 

May Agni keep thee safe with great well-being, with the 
securest shelter. As aforetime with Angiras, with that 
Deity lie steady. 

20 Upspringing from thine every joint, upspringing from each 

knot of thine, 

14 He lays down on the north side a ladle of tTdumbara (Fiona Glome¬ 
rate) wood, filled with inspissated sour milk {dadki ; dakt in Hindi), and 
recites the text,, repeated from HI. 12, taken from R. V. VIII. 44. IS, and 
the additional formula, I settle thee, etc. 

15 He recites also the text from R. V. X. 8. 6. 

16 He lays oo the golden man a SvayamfttrinnA, a naturally perforated or 
porous brick; one with grit and gravel in its composition. The ocean: 
the gold disc- The bird : the golden man. Vitoakarman : the Omnific ) 
Fraj&pata, the Creator. Steady earth: keep the grouud on whioh the altar 
is to be built firm and unmoved. 

17 The voter*'back : the Earth. The Wide One: prithivt , feminine of 
prithuj wide ; the common name of the earth, aud Earth personified as a 
Goddess. Spread thee wide : prathasva. 

19 High potUion : * for a resting-place’: Eegeling. Pre*cribed observance: 
* for a moving-place*: Eggeling. At aforetime with Angiras: that is, as 
thou lay eat steady in the case of. or when laid down by, Angiras. 

20 On the porous brick he lays a Durvfi brick, that is DfirvS or DUb grass, 
with roots aud tops, to form a layer. This creeping grass spreads rapidly, 
throwing out perpetually new branchlets. He recites two texts. . Do thou 
stretch us out: or, Lengthen out our line (of descendants). 



VBSSS $«.] WHITS YAJURVBDA. Ilf 

Thus with a thousand, Durva! with a hundred do thou 
stretch us out. 

21 Thou spreading with a hundred, thou that branohest with 

a thousand shoots,— 

Thee, such, with our oblation will we worship, 0 celestial 
Brick. 

22 Thy lights, 0 Agni, in the Sun that with their beams o’er- 

spread the sky,— 

With ail of those assist thou us to-day to light and progeny. 

23 Lights of yours in the Sun, 0 Gods, or lights that are in 

kine and steeds, 

0 tndru-Agni, with all those vouchsafe us light, Bfibaspati! 

24 The Far«Refulgent held the light. The Self-Refulgent held 

the light. 

Thee, luminous, may Prajapati settle upon the back of Earth. 
Give, to all breathing, all the light, to out-breath, to diffu¬ 
sive breath. 

Thy Sovran Lord’Is Agni. With that Deity, as with Angiras, 
lie firmly settled in thy place. 

25 Madhu and M&dhava, the two Spring seasons—thou art 

the innermost cement of Agni. 

May Heaven and Earth, may Waters, Plants and Agnis 
help, separate, accordant, my precedence. 

May all the Fires ’twixt heaven and earth, one minded, 
well-fitted, gather rouud these two Spring seasons, 

As the Gods gathering encompass Iudra : firm with that 
Deity, Angiras-like, be seated. 

26 Thou art AshidhA, Conquering One. Conquer our foemen, 

conquer thou the men who fain would fight with us. 

A thousand manly powers hast thou: so do thou aid and 
quicken me. 

22 Close to the porous brick, on its eastern side, he lays a Dviyajus brick, 
•o called because it was originally seen and used by the two Gods, Indra 
and Agni, and recites the two texts. 

24 He lays down two Retabsich, or Seed -pouring^ bricky close to the 
Dviyajus, eastward, one on each side of the backbone of the altar,* and re¬ 
cites the first line of the text. Thee, luminous: be lays down a Tisvajyotis, 
or All-light, brick, and recites the rest of tbe^ext. 

25 He lays down two RitavyA, or Seasonal, bricks, in front of the All- 
light brick, one on each side of the backbone of the altar. 1 Madhu: honey, 
a name of Chaitra (Mid-March to Mid-April). Mddkava: honey-like ; Vai- 
aAkba (Mid-April to Mid-May). Thou ; the two regarded aa one Spring. Be 
mated: the seasonal bricks are addressed. Of Agni ; that is, of the Fire- 
altar. 

26 He lays down the brick AshAdhA, or Invincible, on the front of the 
altar, on its backbone. 




118 TEE TEXTS OP TEE [BOOS Hit. 

27 The winds waft sweets, the rivers pour sweets forth® man 

who keeps the Law : 

So may the plants be sweet for us. 

28 Sweet be the night and sweet the dawns, sweet the terres¬ 

trial atmosphere: 

Sweet be our Father Heaven to us. 

29 May the tall tree be full of sweets for ns and, and full of 

sweets the Sun : 

May our miloh-kine be sweet for ub. 

30 Seat thyself in the deepness of the waters, lest Surya, lest 

Vaisv&uara Agni scorch thee. 

With wing undipped, survey created beings: may rain 
that cometh down from heaven attend thee. 

31 He crept across the three heaven-reaching oceans, the Bull 

of Bricks, the Master of the Waters. 

Clad in the world with his, the Well-Made’s, vesture, go 
whither those before thee have departed. 

32 May Heaven and Earth, the Mighty Pair, besprinkle this onr 

sacrifice, 

And feed us full with nourishments. 

33 Look ye on Vishnu’s works whereby the Friend of Indra, 

dose allied, 

Hath let his holy ways be seen. 


27 He anoints a tortoise, said to represent the Sun or PrajApati, with 
mixed sear milk, honey, and batter, and recites the three teats taken from 
R V. I. 90. 0—8. 

30 He lays down the tortoise on a bed of AvakA plants (Blyxa Octfcncha, 
growing in marshy places) on the right side of the brick Invincible, looking 
towards the golden figure. The custom of building living animals, some¬ 
times human beings, into the foundations of a house to secure its stability, 
is of very great antiquity, and was formerly very widely spread. See S. 
Baring-Gould, Strange Survivals, pp. 1—35 The tortoise may have been 
chosen here with reference to the belief that the world rests upon a tortoise 
as an incarnation of Vishnu. See A. Weber, Indische Stroifen, p. fig. 
Waters: the heavenly waters in the orb of the 8nn. 

31 He keeps his hand on the tortoise and shakes it as he red tee the text* 
The Bull: the cfiief. The Wellmade: Agni whose vesture is said to*be 
cattle whose form the tortoise is supposed to assume. . Thou b$f<m thu: 
former tortoises employed in similar ceremonies. 

32 He puts the tortoise on the altar site with the text, repeated from' 
Vin. 82, taken fr rat R* V. L 22.13. 

33 On the north side of the chief, and representative porous briek he 
places a postle and mortar of Udumbara wood, redtingthe text, repeated 
from VL 4, taken from R. V. I. 22.19. 



WHITE YAJURVBDA. 


m 


VERSE 40.] 

34 Firm art tbon, a sustained Hence engendered, forth from 

these wombs at first came J&tavedas. 

By GAyatri, by Trishtup, by Anushtup, may he who knows 
bear to the Gods oblation. 

35 Take thou thine ease for food, for store of riches, for might 

in splendour, and for strength and offspring. 

Thou art all-ruling, independent Ruler: both fountains of 
Sarasvati protect thee l 

36 0 radiant Agni, harness thou thy steeds which are most ex¬ 

cellent J 

They bear thee as thy spirit wills. 

37 Yoke, Agni, as a charioteer, thy steeds who best invoke the 

Gods: 

As ancient Hotar take thy seat 

38 Like rivers our libations flow together, cleansing themselves 

in inmost heart and spirit 

I look upon the flowing streams of butter: the golden reed 
is in the midst of Agni. 

39 Thee for the praise-verse, thee for sheen, thee for bright 

splendour, thee for light. 

This hath beoome the energetic spirit of all the world and of 
Vaisv&nara Agni. 

40 Agni, all-luminous with light, splendid with splendour, golden 

One. 

Giver of thousands art thou: for a thousand thee. 


34 Having first silently placed the Fire-pan on the mortar he pounds the 
prepared elay and throws it on the ground before the Fire-pan which is then 
set upon it with the two following formulas. Firm art thou: see verse 16. 

36 Both fountains: Mind and Speech; according to Mahidhara, the 
Rigveda and the Sftmaveda. 

36 He offers two oblations on the Fire pan with two texts taken respec¬ 
tively from R. V. VI. 16. 43 and VIIL 64. 1. 

S3 The heads of the victim* slaughtered for the ceremony were set aside 
at an early stage of the proceedings, and he now thrusts a splinter of gold, 
the symbol of purity and immortality, into the mouth of each, with the text 
taken, with transposition and a variation, from R. V. IV. 68. 6, 5. The gol¬ 
den reed ; the golden figure of a man (see verse 4). Agni: here meaning 
the Fire-altar. 

39 Thee for the praise-verse: riels ; ‘ for praise Eggeling. He thrnsts a 
splinter of gold into each victim’s left nostril For sheen; into the right 
nostril. For bright splendour: into the right eye. For light: into the left eye. 
This hath bosoms: with this, a splinter of gold is trust into the left ear. 

40 With the first line he thrusts a splinter of gold into each victim’# 
right ear. Giver of thousands: he addresses the golden figure's head which 

; be takes up and deposits, with the other beads, in the Fire-pan. 




120 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XIII. 

41 Balm thou with milk the unborn babe Aditya, wearing all 

forms, creator of a thousand. 

Spare him with heat, nor plot against him: give him a 
/ hundre'ckyears of life while thou art building. 

42 The wiud’s impetuous rush, Vanina's navel! the horse that 

springs to life amid the waters! 

The rivers’ tawny child, based on the mountain, harm not, 
0 Agni, in the loftiest regiou. 

43 Unwasting Drop, red, eager, pressing forward, Agni I worship 

with repeated homage. 

Formiug thyself with joints in proper order, harm not the 
Cow, Aditi widely ruling 1 

44 Her who is Tvashtar’s guardian, Varuna’s navel, the Ewe 

brought forth from out the loftiest region, 

The Asura’s mighty thousandfold contrivance, injure not in 
the highest sphere, 0 Agni. 

45 The Agni who from Agni had his being, from heat of Earth 

or also heat of Heaven, 

Whereby the Omnific One engendered creatures, him may 
thy fierce displeasure spare, 0 Agni. 

46 The brilliant presence of the Gods hath risen, the eye of 

Mitra, Varupa, and Agni. 

The soul of all that moveth not or moveth, the Sun hath 
filled the air, and earth and heaven. 

47 Injure not, thousand-eyed, while thou art building forsacri- 

fiee, this animal, the biped. 

41 With milk: with reference to the milk, representing wealth in ^cattle, 
put into the Fire*pan with the sand mentioned iu XII. 61, note. Aditya : 
the Sun, that is, Agni of the Fire-altar. Wearing all forms: regarded ai 
the Sun. Him : the Sacrificer. 

,*42 He puts the horse's head on the north-east side, and recites the text. 

43 He puts the ox's head on the south-east side, and recites the text. 
The Drop is Soma represented by the ox. 

44 The ram’s head is similarly placed on the north-west side. Tvashtar *• 
guardian: as providing warm clothing for human beiugs created by him. 
Aiura's: the Divine Being's. But see S. B. E. XLI 406. Thousandfold.: 
infinitely precious, or fit for a thousand services. 

45 On the south-western side he puts the head of the he-goat The Agni: 
id the form of the goat. From Agni: that is Praj&pati. Whereby: by the 
goat (or, by the Birthless) representing V&k, Speech, the Word, by which 
the Omnific Praj&pati created all things. See Weber, Indische Studien, IX. 
473 sq , and Muir, Original Sanskrit Texts, V. 891. 

46 He offers an oblation on the human bend, or head of the figure^ recit¬ 
ing the text, repeated from Vll. 42, taken from R. V. I. 115. 1. 

47 After worshipping he removes the human head, reciting the tosh. 
Pith: or marrow, the essential part of sacrificial food. Man's cou nt erfeit: 
mayu is explained by kimpurusha, perhaps, monkey. Perhaps the head of 
ft puppet or doll, representing a man, is intended. See XL 16, note. 




W&lTti ?AJUttVBt>A. 


121 


YBRSE 62.] 

Acoept as pith man’s counterfeit the victim* Agni: therewith 
building thy forms, be settled. 

Let thy flame reach man’s counterfeit i let thy flame reach 
the man we hate. 

48 H&rm not this animal whose hooves are solid, the courser 

neighing in the midst of coursers. 

I dedicate to thee the forest Gaunt: building thy bodies up 
with him be settled. 

Let thy flame reach the Gaura, let thy flame reach him whom 
we detest 

49 Thousandfold, with a hundred streams, this fountain, ex¬ 

panded in the middle of the waters, 

Infiuite, yieldiug butter for the people, harm not, 0 Agni, 
in the highest region. 

. This wild bull of the foreBt I assign thee: building thy 
bodies up therewith be settled. 

Let thy flame reach the wild bull, etc. (as in 48). 

50 This creature olothed in wool, Varupa’s navel, the skin of 

animals quadruped and biped, 

The first that was produced of Tvashtar’s creatures, 0 Agni, 
harm not in the highest region. 

The forest buffalo do I assign thee: building, eto., as above 
mutato mutando. 

51 From Agni’s warmth the he-goat had his being : he looked 

at first upon his generator. 

Thereby the Gods at first attained to Godhead: those meet 
for worship to the height ascended. 

The forest Sarabha do 1 assign thee: building, eto. 

52 Do thou, Most Youthful God, protect the men who offer, 

hear their songs, 

Protect his offspring and himself. 


48 He removes the horse's head. Gaura: the Gaur or Gour (Bos Gaurus), 
a species of wild ox. 

49 He removes the head of the ox representing the cow. Wild bull: 
Gavaya ; the Gayal (Bos Gavaeus). 

60 He removes the head of the ram. Skin: provider of clothing. Qua¬ 
drupeds : horses, cows, mules, etc. 

. 61 He removes the head of the he-goat. Agni't warmth: meaning Pm* 
jftpati’s. Thereby: by the goat (or the Birth less). See v. 45, note. Sarabha: 
a mythical eight-legged animal, supposed to live on the Snowy Mountains 
and to equal or surpass the lion in strength, like our unicorn. 

52 He worships the half-finished Fire-altar with the text from R. V: 
VIIL 78. 8. The men who offer: or, the Sacrificer’s men. HU: The present 
Sacrificer’e. 




122 


BOOR XIII 


THE TEXTS QP THE 

53 I set thee in the passage of the waters. I set thee in the 

swelling of the waters. I set thee in the ashes of the 
fW&ters. I set thee in the lustre of the waters. I set 
thee in the way which waters travel. I set thee in the 
flood, the place to rest in. I set thee in the sea, the place 
to rest in. I set thee in the stream, the place to rest in. 

I set thee in the water’s habitation. I set thee in the 
resting-place of waters. I set thee in the statiou of the 
waters. I set thee in the meeting-place of waters. I set 
thee in the birthplace of the waters. I set thee in the 
refuse of the waters. I set thee in the residence of waters. 

I settle thee with the G&yat.ri metre. I settle thee with 
the Trishtup metre. I settle the? with the Jagati metre. 
1 settle thee with the Auush^up metre. I settle thee 
with the Paflkti metre. 

54 This, in front, is Bhuva. His offspring, Breath, is Bhauvfi- 

yana. Spring is Prao&yana. The Giyatri is the daughter 
of Spring. From the G&yatri comes the G&yatra tune. 
From the Gayatra the Up&ipsu. From the Up&tpsu the 
Trivyifc. From the Trivyit the Rathantara. The Rishi 
Vasuhtha. By thee, taken by Prajapati, I take vital 
l wreath for creatures. 

55 This on the right, the Omnific. His, the Omniflc’s offspring, 

Mind. Summer spraug from Mind. The Trishtup is the 
daughter of Summer. From the Trishtup came the Svara 
song. From the Svara the Antary^ma^ From the An- 
tary&ma the Pafichadasa. From the Paftchndaaa the 
Brihat. The Rishi Bharadvaja. By thee, taken by Pra» 
japati, I take Mind for creatures. 

53 Ho mount* on the alter behind the porous brick and Wye down the 
Apasyas, or Watery, bricks, five in each quarter, ^responding with the 
number of the sacrificial victims, and addresses a formula to each. Passage: 
explained as the wind. Swelling: the plants. Ashes: foam. Lustre: lightning. 
Way: the earth. Flood: the breath. Sea: the mind. Stream: speech, MisUr 
tation: the eye. Meeting-place: the ear. Station : the sky. Meetingplace: 
the air. Birthplace: the sea. Refute: sand. Residence: food. I settle: he 
then lays down four Chhandasy&s, or Metre, bricks, with a formula for each. 

54 He lays down the Prluabhritas, or Breath-supporting, bricas, two aft 
a time, with a formula for each set. Bhuva: a name of Agni; * the Exit- 
tent ': Eggeling. Bhauvdyana: sprung from the Existent ; or Mundane. 
PrAnAyana: sprung from breath. Updipsu : see VI. 30 sq. Triwrit: the 
nine-verse hymn. Vasishtha: meaning the vital breath, the word agnify* 
iug best, most precious. Taken: created, or established. 

55 He lays down the third set (after the ten of the following verse). The 
Omnijic: meaning Vfiyu the Wind-God. SvAra: a S4man that hae the’ 
svara, or first rising and then falling pitch of the final vowel, for its finale. 
AntaiyAma: a special Soma cup aud libation. See VII. 4, note. Pa&chpdafa t 
a hymn with fifteen verses. BharadvAja: another famous Vedio Itiaki, here 
meaning Mind. 



WBITB YAJURVEDA. 


its 


VERSE 58.] 

56 This on the western side, the All-Embracer. His, the All- 

Embracer's offspring, the Eye. The Rains sprang from 
the Eye. The Jagati is the daughter of the Rains. 
From the Jagati came the Riksama. From the Riksama 
the Sukra. From the Sukra the Saptadafu From the 
Saptadusa the Vair&pa. The $i*hi Jamadagni. By thee, 
taken by Pr^j&pati, 1 take the Eye for ereatures. 

57 This on the north side, heaven. This, heaven’s offspring, 

the Ear. Autumn, the daughter of the Ear. The Anush- 
tup sprang from Anturan. From the Anush^up came the 
Aida, From the Aida the Manthiu. From the Manthiu 
the Ekavixpfa. From the Ekaviipsa the Vair&ja. The 
Rishi Visv&mitra By thee, taken by Praj&pati, I take 
the Ear for Creatures. 

58 This above. Intellect Its, Intellect’s offspring, Speech. 

Winter the offspring of Speech. Pankti sprang from 
Winter. From Pa&kti the Nidhauavat. From the Ni- 
dhan&vat came the Agraya^a. From the Jlgraya^a the 
Tripura and the Trayastrimsa. From the Tripura and 
the Trayastriipsa the Sakvara and the Raivata. The 
Rishi Visvakartnan. By thee, taken by Yisvakarman, 
I take Speech for people. 

Fill up the room, etc. The dappled kine, etc. All sacred 
songs, etc* three texts repeated from XII. 54—56. 


56 He lay* down the second set of ten. A ll-Embracer: the Sun. Rikeana: 
similar to a Rich ; a certain kind of S&man. Sukra: a certain Soma cup 
and libation. See VII. 12. Saptadaea: a hymn of seventeen verses. 
Vairdpa : an important 8 Aman. Jamadagni : a famous Vedic Jiishi, here 
representing the Eye. 

57 He l»ys down the fourth set Aida: the name of SAmans which have 
the word idtf (refreshment; libation) fur their finale or chorus. Manikin: 
a Soma libation. See VII. 16. Ekmmmm: a hymn of twenty-one verses. 
Vairlja: an important S&man. Vifvdmitra: the name of a celebrated 
Vedic Rishi, here meaning the Ear, because one hears with it on all (vievu) 
aides, and because it has a friend (mitra) on all sides. 

58 He lays down the fifth set. Intellect: meaning the Moon. Nidhana* 
vat: mSAman with a special finale or chorus. Agrayana: a certain Soma 
eup and libation. See VII. 20. Trinava: a hymn consisting of thrice mu 9 
verses. Trayattrif^a: a hymn of thirty-three verses. Sdkvara...Raivata: 
two important Prisbtha*SAmans, $ Ik vara meaning Potent, and Raivata 
Wealthy. See Haug, Aitareya-Br&hmaiam, IV. 13. Vifvakarman: mean¬ 
ing, all-effecting Speech. 




BOOK THE FOURTEENTH. 


With stedfast site and birthplace thou art stedfast: settle 
thou duly iu thy stedfast birthplace, rejoicing in the 
Ukhya's first appearance. 

Here let the Asvins, the Adhvaryus, seat thee. 

2 Nesting, intelligent, dripping with butter , in the auspicious 

seat of earth be seated. 

Let Rudras, Vagus welcome thee with praises : fill full these 
prayers for our propitious fortuue. 

Here let the Asvins, the Adhvaryus, seat thee. 

3 Here, Guard of Strength, with thine own powers be seated 

for the Gods’ happiness and great enjoyment. 

Even as a father to his son, be friendly: with easy entrance 
enter with thy body. Here let the Asvins, the Adhvaryus 
seat thee: 

4 Thou art the filling-stuff of earth called Apsas. May all the 

Gods celebrate thee with praises. 

Enriched with songs of praise, Prishthas and butter, sit here 
and give us wealth with store of children. 

Here let the Asvins, etc. 

5 Upon the back of Aditi I lay thee the sky’s supporter, pillar 

of the Quarters, 

Queen over creatures. Wave and drop of waters art thou; 
and Visvakarman is thy Rishi. 

6 Sukra and Suchi, seasons, both, of summer—thou art the 

innermost cement of Agni. 

May Heaven and Earth, may Waters, Plants and Agnis help, 
separate, accordant, my precedence. 

He now sets the second layer of bricks, the first layer representing this 
terrestrial world. 

1 He lays down the first brick called Asviul, belonging to the AsvinSt 
because they as the divine Adhvaryus laid* down for the Goda the second, 
layer of the Celestial Altar of the Universe, representing what is between 
the earth and the middle-air. Ukhya's: Agni’a. 

2 He lays down the second Asvinl brick. Earth: meaning the flrat layer. 
' 3 He lays down the third Asvinl brick. 

4 He lays down the fourth A'svini brick. Filling-stuff: purtsha ; 'soil- 
cover Eggeliug. Apsas: according to Mahldhaia, the moisture that il 
the formal cause of water, ap. 

5 He lays down the fifth Asvinl brick. Aditi: Earth in the foi^n of tbs 
first layer. Thou: as constituting one season. Visvakarman : Prajftpati 
the Creator. 

6 He lays down two Ritavyft, or Seasonal, bricks on the two Seasonal 
bricks of the first layer. * See XIII. 25. Sukra and Suchi: May-Jans and 
JuneVuly. The formula is almost identical with XIIL 25. 



WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


125 


VERSE 9 ] 


Let all the Agnis ’twixt the earth and heaven gather together 
round these summer seasons, as the Gods gather in their 
hosts rouud Indra, 

Firm, with that Deity, Angiras-like, be seated. 

7 Associate with the Seasons; with the Modes with the Gods, 
with the health-establishing Gods—may the Alvins the 
Adhvaryus settle thee here for Agni Vaisv&nara. 


Associate.........with the Vasus, etc. 

Associate.with tbe Rudras, etc. 

Associate.... ..with the Adity&s, etc. 

Associate.with tbe Yisvedevas, etc. 


8 Guard thou my breath. Guard my out-breathing. Guard 

my through-breathing. Illume miue eye with far-reach¬ 
ing vision. Give power of hearing to mine ear. Pour 
forth waters. Quicken plants. Protect bipeds. Protect 
quadrupeds. Send rain from heaven. 

9 The head is vital vigour. Praj&pati became the metre. 

Royalty is vital vigour, health-giviug metre. The Supporter 
is vital vigour, the Sovrau Lord the metre. Visvakarman 
is vital vigour, Parameshthin the metre. The he-goat is 
vital vigour, excellent the metre. The bull is vital vigour, 
extensive the metre. Man is vital vigour, languid the 
metre. The tiger is vital vigour, invincible the metre. The 
lion is vital vigour, covering the metre. The four year 
bull is vital vigour, Bpihati the metre. The ox is vital 
vigour, Kakup the metre. The Bteer is vital vigour, Sato- 
byihati the metre. 


7 He iays down five Vaif vadevl bricks, so called as beloning to the ViBve- 
devas or All-Gods. Associate: or, in accord; the brick is addressed. Modes : 
meaning the waters by which everything was created and arranged. Health - 
establishing Gods: the vital breathings by which life is supported. The 
four following formulas differ only in substituting * Vasus,’ * Rudras,’ etc. 
for ‘ the Gods. 1 

8 He lays down the PrAnabhritas or Breath-supporting bricks (see XIII. 
54) with five formulas. Pour forth waters: here he l»ys down the Aposy&s 
or Watery bricks (XIII. 53) with five formulas, oue for each brie*. 

9 He lays down the nineteen Vaynsyrts or Vital-vigour bricks, called in 
the Satapatha-Brdhmana CbhandasyAs or Sacred-metre bricks, with a for¬ 
mula addressed to each. According to the legend, Praj&pati after he had 
performed the work of creation became disjointed, relaxed, or agitated, 
and the cattle, having assumed the forms of the sacred metres, went from 
him. Then Prajftpati in the form of the Giyatrt, wbich is connected with 
cattle, and the other metres followed and overtook them through the vital 
power of the G&yatrt. The head PrajApati. 








12$ THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK KIT. 

10 Tbe bullock is vital vigour, Pankti the metre. The milch- 

cow is vital vigour, Jagatt the metre. The eighteen- 
month calf is vital vigour, Trisshtnp the metre. The two 
year old steer is vital vigour, Viraj the metre. The thirty- 
month old ewe is vital vigour, G&yatri the metre. The 
three year old steer is vital vigour, Ushpih tbe metre. 
The four year old ox is vital vigour, Anushfup the metre. 
Fill up the room, etc. The dappled kine, eta All sacred 
songs, etc. are three texts repeated from XII. 54—56. 
See also XIII. 58. 

11 Indra and Agni, in its place securely set the unshaking brick. 
Thou with thy back sunderest heaven and the broad earth 

and firmament. 

12 On the air’s back let Yisvakarman set thee, thee the capa¬ 

cious, thee the far extended. 

Control the air, fix firm the air, do thou the air no injury. 
For all breath, out-breath, through-breath, upward breath¬ 
ing, for high position, for prescribed observance, 

May Y&vu keep thee safe with great well-being, with secur¬ 
est shelter. In the manner of Angiras, with that Deity 
lie steady. 

13 Queen art thou, Quarter of the East. Wide-ruler, Quarter 

of the South. West Quarter, thou art Sovran. Thou 
Autocrat, Quarter of the North. 

Queen Paramount art thou, the Lofty Point. 

14 On the air’s buck may Yisvakarman set thee luminous. 
Control all light for all breath, for out-breath, up-breath, 

through-breath. 

Thy Lord is Yayu, with that Deity, Angiras-like, He firm. 

15 Two Rainy Seasons, Nabhas and Nabhasya—thou art the 

iuneriuost cement of Agni, etc. (as in XIII. 25). 

11 He now seta the third layer of the Altar. Indra and Agm : as In the 
case of the first layer. Unshaking brick: the central porous brick which 
represents the layer. Thou: the brick is addressed. 

12 See XIII. 18,19. 

13 He lays down five Disy&s or Regional bricks on tbe spines above the 
Vaisradevt bricks of the second layer, with a formula addressed to each. 
Lofty Point .* the zenith. 

14 He lays down a Vtavajyotis or All-light brick just above the Visva- 
jyotia brick of the second layer. Air's back: the second layer representing 
mid-air as the first represents the earth. 

15 He lays down two Ritavyft, or Seasonal bricks, called Nabhas smd No- 
bhasya: Hist and Misty ; July-August, and August-September. The sari 
of the formula is repeated from XIII. 25. 



VERSE 22.] WHITE YAJURYEbA. 127 

16 Isha and ftija, two Autumnal Seasons—thou art the inner' 

most cement of Agui, eto. 

17 Preserve my life. Preserve my breath. Guard mine out' 

breath. Preserve mine eyes. Preserve mine ears. 
Strengthen my voice. Quicken my mind. Preserve my 
self. Vouchsafe me light. 

18 MA metre. PramA metre. PratimA metre. Asntayas metre. 

Pankti metre. Ushnih metre. Bfih&ti metre. Anushtup 
metre. Viraj metre, GAyatrl metre. Trishtup metre. 
Jagati metre. 

19 Earth metre. Sky metre. Heaven metre. Years metre.' 

Nakshatras metre. V&k metre. Mind metre. Husbandry 
metre. Gold metre. Cow metre. She-goat metre. Horse 
metre. 

20 The Deity Agni. The Deity VAta. The Deity Sdrya. The 

Deity Moon. The Deity V;isua. The Deity Rudras. The 
Deity Adilyas The Deity Maruts. The Deity Visvedevas. 
The Deity Brihaapati. The Deity Indra. The Deity 
Varuna. 

21 Chief art thou, bright, supporting, firm, thou art theigreat 

sustainer, Earth. 

Thee for life, thee for lustre, thee for tillage, thee for peace 
and rest. 

22 Controller, brilliant art thou, managing controller, firm sus- 

tainer. For strength, for energy thee, for riches thee, 
for prosperity thee. 

Fill up the room, etc. The dappled kine, etc. All saftred 
songs, etc. (as in 10). 

.16 He lays two more Seasonal brie m on the first two; called isha and 
Urja, Sap and Vigour, September-Ocfcober and October-November. The rest 
of the formula as in XIII 25. 

17 He lays down the Prftnabhritas or Breath-supporting bricks, ten in 
number with a formula for each. 

18 He lays down the Chhandasy&s or Metrebrioks, thirty-six in number, 
in sets of twelve, with a formula for each. The first four names of the 
bricks are fanciful. Md: measure; signifying the measured earth. 
Prami; forward measure; mid-air. PrtUimd : counter-measure; the 
heavenly world copied in mid-air. Atrlvayai: said to represent the three 
worlds of earth, air, and heaven. The following eight are real metres and 
names of the bricks. 

19 The next twelve bricks are laid down and addressed an the metres of 
the deified objects enumerated* 

26 The next twelve are named after the deities enumerated. 

21 He lays down the bricks called V&lakhilyds, representing the vital 
breathings, seven in front and seven behind. 

22 Tkee: that is, I lay thee down. Pill space, etc: these three formulas 
are repeated from XII. 54—56. 




128 THE TEXTS OP THE [BOOR XIV . 

23 Th9 Swift, the triple praise-song. The Shining, the Paficha- 
dasa hymn. Heaven, the Saptadasa. The Supporter, the 
Ekavimfa. Speed, the Ashtadasa. Ardour, the Navadasa. 
Triumphant Onset, Savinisa, Vigour, Dv&virpsa. Miin- 
tenance, Trayovixnsa. Womb, Chaturviipsa.’ ’ Embryos, 
Pafiohavimsa. Euergv, the Tripava. Intention, the Eka- 
trixnsa. The Basis, the Trayastrimsa. The Bright One's 
Station, the Chatustrirpsa. The Vault of Heaveu, the 
Shattriipfa. Tlie Revolving One, the Asht&ohatv&riipsa. 
The Support, the Four-divisioned praise-song. 


28 He begins the fourth layer, setting eighteen bricks that represent the 
Stomas or hymns of praise, with a formula addressed to each, 1 thou art * 
l>emg understood in each case. Triple praise-song: the Trivrit, or nine- 
verse hymn. The Shining: or the impatient, the Mo<m or the thunderbolt 
according to Msbtdhara. Paiichadasi: a form of recitation sacred to In- 
dra as wielder of the thunderbolt; or referring to the days of the waxing 
and waning of the Moon. Heaven: or the Year, according to Mahldhara ; 
in the former case meaning Praj&piti who is Saptadasa or Seventeen fold; 
the Year being also seventeenfold with twelve months and five seasons. 
Saptadasa is also the name of a Stoma or praise-song in seventeen verses. 
Supporter: the Sun; Ekuviipj'i: the Stoma of twenty-one verses; or the 
Sun, the twenty-onefold, with 12 months, 5 seasons, 3 worlds, and himself. 
Speed: the Year. Asht&daqa: eighteenfold, with 12 months, 5 seasons, 
and itself; or the hymn of 18 verses. Ardour ; or Heat, the Year. Nava- 
data: Nineteenfold, with 12 months, 6 seasons, and itself; or the hymn of 
19*verses. Triumphant Onset: the Year. Savimrn: Twentyfold, of 12 
months, 7 seasons, and itself; or the hymn of 20 verses. Vigour: the Year. 
Doivvtnm: twenty-twofold, with 12 months. 7 seasons, day and night, and 
itself ;* or the hymn of 22 verses. Maintenance: the Year. Trayoviw^pi 
Twenty-threefold ; consisting of 13 months (one intercalary), 7 seasons, day 
and uight, and itself, or the hymn of 23 verses. Womb: the Year. Chatur - 
vims*: Twenty-fourfold, of 24 half-months; or the hymn of 24 verses. 
Embryos: the Year. Paflchavim^a: Twenty-fivefold, of 24 half-months 
and itself; also the hymn of 25 verses. Energy: the Year. Trimm: 
Thrice-ninefold, with 24 half-months, day and night, and itself ; meaning 
also the hymn of thrice-nine verses. Intention: the Year Ekatrimsi: 
Thirty-onefold, of 24 half-months, 6 seasons, day and night and itself; 
also the hymn of 31 verses. The Basis: the Year. Trayastrtipj i: Thirty¬ 
threefold, of 24 half-months, 6 seasons, day and night, and itself; also the 
hymn of 33 verses. The Bright One's Station: the place of the Sun ; the 
Year. Chatustrimsa: Thirty-fourfold, consisting of 24 half-months, 7 
seasons, day and night, and itself ; also the hymu of 34 veraes,. The VohU 
of Heaven: the Year. Shattrm^a: Thirty-sixfold, consisting of 24 half¬ 
months, and 12 months; also tne hymn of 36 verses. The Revolving One: 
the intercalary Year. Ashtichatvdrirnja: Forty-eightfold, consisting of 26 
half-months, 16 months, 7 seasons, day and night; also the hymn of 48 
verses. The Support: Yiyu, the Wind. Four-divisioned: a hymn made 
up of four Stomas. Trivrit Pahchadasa, Saptadasa, and Ekaviipsa. This 
completes the setting of eighteen bricks with eighteen formulas, * 



YEMSE ML] WHITE TAJUEVEDA m 

24 Tkou art the portion of Agni, chief control of Consecration. 

The Priesthood is saved; the Trivrit Stoma. 

Thou art the portion of Iudra, the sovran ty of Vishnu. The 
Nobility is saved; the Pafichadasa Stoma. 

Thoa art the share of the Man-beholders'; the supremacy of 
the Creator; the birthplace is saved; the SaptadasaStoma. 
Thou art the share of Mitra, the sovranty of Vanina. Rain 
of heaven and wind are saved; the Ekavimfa Stoma. 

25 Thou art the share of the Vasus, the sovranty of the Rudras. 

Quadrupeds are saved ; the Cbaturvimsa Stoma. 

Thou art the share of the Adityas; the sovranty of the Ma- 
ruts. The Embryos are saved; the Panohavimsa Stoma. 
Thou art the share of Aditi; the sovranty of PAshan. 

Strength is saved ; the Trinava Stoma. 

Thou art the share of God Savitar; the sovranty of Bri- 
haspati. The universal Quarters are saved; the Chatush- 
toma Stoma. 

26 Thou art the share of the Yavas; the sovranty of the Aya- 

vas. Creatures are saved; the Chatuschatv&rimsa Stoma. 
Thou art the share of the Ribbus; the sovranty of the Vis- 
vedevas. The Being is saved; the Trayastrimsa Stoma. 

27 Sahas, Sahasya, the two Winter Seasons—thou art the inner¬ 

most cement of Agni, etc. (as in XIII. 25). 

28 With one they praised; creatures were produced. Praj&pati 

was over-lord. 

With three they praised; the Priesthood was created. Bri- 
haspati was over-lord. 

24 He lays down the bricks called Spritas or Deliverers, symbolical of 
Praj&pati’s deliverance, with the help of the Gods, of all beings from death 
and evil. Thou: the first brick. The portion...chief control: each God and 
deified entity that aided the work of deliverance received by agreement a 
portion and chief control or sovereignty* Consecration: here meaning V&k 
or Speech. The Trivrit Stoma: * was the means of deliverance/ being un¬ 
derstood. According* to Mahldh&ra the nominative case is used for the 
instrumental trivritd ttomena, by means of the T. S. Man-beholders : the 
Gods. The birthplace: janitram; the Vaisya caste, 'the peasantry*: 
Eggeling- The word is almost equivalent to our ‘ proletariate.’ 

26 Yavas: the first halves of the months when the Moon is waxing. 
A yavas : the last or dark halves. 

27 He lays down two Ritavyfts or Seasonal bricks (see XIII. 25). Sahas 
and Sahasya: Force and Forceful; mid-November to mid-January. The 
rest of the formula is repeated from XIII. 25. 

28 He lays down the bricks called Srishtis, or Creations, symbolical of 

Prajdpati’s creation of living beings by the sacrifice of himself. Qw . 
V ik, Speech. They: the deities of the Vital Airs. Thru: out-breathy 
upward breath, diffusive breath. Five: four vital breaths and mind. Seven $ 
vital airs of the head; ears, eyes, nostrils, voice. > J 

9 




m white yajubveda. [book xiv. 

■ With five they praised; beings were created. The Lord of 
Beings was over-lord. 

With seven they praised; the Seven Rkhis were created. 
Dhfitar was over-lord. 

29 With nine they praised; the Fathers were created. Aditi 

was Sovran Lady. 

With eleven they praised; the Seasons were created. The 
Season-Lords were over-lords. 

With thirteen they praised; the Months were created. The 
Year was over-lord. 

With fifteen they praised; the Nobilky was created. Indra 
was ©fter-lord. 

With seventeen they praised m r domestic, auimalswere created. 
Brihaspati was over-lord. 

30 With nineteen they praised; S&dra and Arya were created. 

Day and Night were Sovran Ladies. 

With twenty-one they praised; solid-hoofed animals were 
created. Varuna was over-lord. 

With twenty-three they praised; small animals were created. 
Push&n was over-lord. 

With twenty-five they praised; forest animals were created. 
Vayu was over-lord. 

With twenty-seven they praised; earth and heaven came 
apart. Vasus, Rudras, Adityas followed separately, so 
they were over-lords. 

31 With twenty-nine they praised; Trees Were created. Soma 

was over-lord. 

With thirty-one they praised ; creatures were created. The 
Yavas and the Ayavaa were over-lords. 

With thirty-three they praised; living beings were happy* 
Praj&pati, the Supreme in Place, was over-lord. 

Fill up the room, etc. The dappled kine, etc. AM sacred 
songs, etc. Repeated from XII. 14—16. 

29 Nine: seven vital airs of the head and two below. Eleven: tea vital 
airs and the body. Season-lords: or Sections of the year. Thirteen : tea 
vital airs, the feet, and the body. Fifteen: ten fingers, the fore-arm and 
upper arms, and the part above the navel. Seventeen: ten toes, the thighs 
and knees and the part below the navel. 

30 Nineteen: ten fingers and nine vital airs. Twenty-one: 20' fingers 
and toes'and the body. Twenty-three: the two feet added. Twenty-fee : 
fingers, toes, hands, feet, and body. Twenty-seven - fingers, toes, araa% 
thighs, feet, and body. 

31 Twenty-nine: fingers, toes, and nine vital airs. Thirty-one: fingers, 
toes, ten vital airs, and the body. Thirty-three : fingera, toes; tea organa 
of perception and action, the feet, and the body. Soma: an the moat ex¬ 
cellent of plants, and also as the moon which is believed to infiuenoe the 
growth of trees. 





BOOK THE FIFTEENTH. 

Dftnta our bom enemies away, O Agni; drive from us foes 
unborn* O J&tavedas. 

Graciously-minded, free from anger, bless us: may we enjoy 
thy firm thrice-guarding shelter. 

2 Drive off with might our foemen bora and living: keep off 

those yet unborn, 0 Jatavedas. 

Benevolent in thought and spirit bless us. May we remain 
alive : drive off our foemen. 

3 The Sixteenfold Stoma, strength and wealth. The Forty- 

fourth Stoma, splendour and wealth. 

Apsas art thou, the complement of Agni. As such may all 
the Gods greet thee with praises. 

Enriched with songs of praise, Pjishthas, and butter, sit here 
and give us wealth pith store of children. 

4 Course metre. Space metre. Happy metre. Encompass¬ 

ing metre. Coveriug metre. Mind metre. Expanse 
metre. River metre. Sea metre. Water metre. Kakup 
metre. Trikakup metre. K&vya metre. Aftkupa metre. 
Aksharapahkti metre. Padapahkti metre. Vishd^apankti 
metre. Kshurabhr&ja metre. 

5 Covering metre. Clothing metre. Collecting metre. Part¬ 

ing metre. Brihat metre. Bathantara metre. Group 
metre. Vivadbra metre. Swallower metre. Bright metre. 
Samstup metre. Anushtup metre. Course metre. Space 
metre. Vigour metre. Vigour-giving metre. Emulating 
metre. Spacious metre, Inaccessible metre. Slow metre. 
AAk&nka metre. 

He begins the fifth layer with the bricks called Asapatnfte, or Free from 
Enemies; reciting two texts addressed to Agni as he sets one brick in front 
and ohe behind. 

3 He lays a brick on the right, and addresses it with the formula, * Thou 
art * being understood. Then one on the left with The Forty-fourfald 
Stoma: etc.. Then one in the middle with * Thou art the implement, etc.* 
repeated with 'Agni * instead of ' Earth * from XIV. 4. 

4 He lays down the Virftj bricks, which are named after that metre, by 
sets of ten, corresponding to the ten regions of the sky, ' Thou art' being 
understood before each formula. Cou.ru: in which all living creatures 
move, that is. this world. Space: the middle air or firmament. Ba/ppy: 
the sky. Encompassing: the regions. Covering: food. Mind: Praj&pati. 
Expanse: the Sun. River: the breath. Sea: mind. Water: Speech* 
Kakup : btesth. Trikakup: upward breathing. Rdvya: the three Veda& 
Anhtpa: water. AksharapahkH: the heavenly world. Padapahkti: this 
World. Vishtdrapahkti: the region or regions. Ksharabhrdja ; .Bright 
Razor J the Sun. 

5 Covering: food. Clothing: food. Collecting: night. Parting: day. 
Brihat: yonder world. Rathantara: this world. Group : the wind. Viva- 
Aura: (Yoke): the air, SvxUloiver: food, Bright: fire, Sa&stup and 


132 


THE TEXTS OF THE 


[BOOK XV, 

fi With the ray for truth quicken thou truth, With advance 
by duty quicken duty. With following by heaven quicken 
heaven. With union by middle air quicken middle air. 
With Pratidhi by Earth quicken Earth. With support 
by rain quicken rain. With blowing away by day quicken 
day. With following by night quicken night. With 
clarified butter by the Vasus quicken the Vasus, With 
perception by the Adityas quicken the Adityas. 

7 With the thread by prosperity quicken, prosperity. With 

the creeper by revelation quicken revelation. With re¬ 
freshment by plants quicken plants. With the best by 
bodies quicken bodies. With the invigorating by religious 
study quicken religious study. With the victorious by 
brilliance quicken brilliance. 

8 Thou art Pratipad, for Pratipad thee. Thou art Apup&d, 

for Anupad thee. Thou art Sampad, for Sarapad thee. 
Thou art brilliance, for brilliance thee. 

9 Trivyit (triple) art thou, thee for Trivet. Pravrit art thou, 

thee for Pravyit. Vivjrit art thou, thee for Vivpjt. Savrit 
art thouj thee for Savpt. Thou art attack, thee for attack. 
Thou art concurrence, thee for concurrence. Thou art 
ascent, thee for asceut. Thou art upstriding, thee for 
upstriding, With Energy as overdord quicken food- 
essence., 

10 Thou art the Queen, the Eastern region. The bright Vasus 
are thine over-lords. Agni is thy warder-off of hostile 
weapons. May the Trivrit Stoma assist thee on earth. 
The Ajya Uktha 6* thee firmly against slipping. .The 
Rathantara S&man establish tbee in the sky for secure 
station. May the first-born Eishis extend thee among'the 

4nushtup: food. Course ..Expanse: see verse 4. Vigour: food. Vigour* 
giving': Agni. Emulating: yonder world. Spacious: this world. Cover: 
the air. Inaccessible: the Sun. Slow: the Pahkti. Ahkdhka: water. 

6 He lays down the bricks called Stoma-bbAscils or Laud-sharers, $9 in' 
numbejr, with a formula addressed to each. The ray: the Sun, which as 
the giver of light fa food, A dpance: meaning food. By duty .‘ according to 
Mahldhara, m this and the following formulas of this verse the instruments! 
eare is used for the dative ; for duty, etc, 

7 According tp Mahldhara, the thread: the creeper: the best: etc., meaq 
f food/ and he gives the same meaning to Pratipad, Anupad, etc., in the 
following verse. 

9 Trivrit: triple, threefold ; food, says Mahldhara, as produced front 
ploughing, seed, and rain. He gives similar explanations of the other ua-' 
translatable words in the verse. 

10 He lays down the NAkasadas or Sky-seated bricks. Thou: the brisk 
laid down in front. Ajya Uktha: a litany to Agni. Rishis: the Vital 4*** 
J)ispog$r: ’Speech. Over'lord: Mind. 



VRR8S 16 .] WAITS YAJURVEDA. ]33 

Gods by the measure and amplitude, of heaven. May 
this Disposer and the Over-Lord extend thee. May all, 
concordant, settle thee on the ridge of heaven iu the 
world of Svarga. 

11 Thou art Far-ruliug, the Southern region. The bright 

' Rudras are thine over-lords. Indra is thy warder-off of 
arrows. May the Pafichadasa Stoma support thee on 
earth. The Pfattga Uktha fix thee firmly agaiust slipping. 
The Brihat Slman establish thee in the sky, etc. (the rest 
as in 10). 

12 Thou art Universal Ruler* the Wertelm region. The Adity&s 

are thine over-lords. Vafuna is thy Warder-off of missiles. 
TheSpptadasa Stoma support thee ou earth. The Marut- 
vatiya Uktha fix thee firmly against slipping. The 
Vairupa Saman establish thee, etc. ( as above ). 

13 Thou art Independent Ruler, the Northern region. (The 

rest is identical with 12, with the substitution of Maruts 
...Som&....Vimsa Stoma ...Nishkevalya Uktha...*Vairaja 
Slmau for the corresponding names ). 

14 Thou art Lady-Paramount, the Lofty region. ( The rest as 

above, Visvedevas...Brihasp&fci ..Trinava and Trayastrimsa 
Stomas...Vaisvadeva and Maruta Ukthas...S&kvara and 
Raivata Sitnans being substituted for the corresponding 
names. 

15 This one in front, golden tressed, with sunbeams; the leader 

of his host and his chieftaiu are Rathagritsa and Rathau- 
jas, and Pufijlkasthal& and Kratusthalli his Apsarases. 
Biting animals are his weapon, homicide his missile wea¬ 
pon ; to them be homage: may they protect us, may 
they have mercy upon us. In their jaws we place the 
man whom we hate and who hates us. 


11 Ite lays a brick on the right side. Far-riding: VirSj. Prdiig Uktha: 
name of a hymn at the morning libation. 

12 He lays a brick behind. Universal Baler: Samr&j. Marutvattya 
Uktha: a litany to Indra Lord of the Maruts. 

18 Independent Ruler: SvarSj. Nishkevalya Uktha : a litany to Indra 
exclusively, beginning with Abhi tvS, Sira, nonuma (R. V. VII. 32. 22). 

14 He lays a brick in the middle. 

15 He lays the PaflchachQ<j4s or Five-crested bricks on the N&kasadas (10). 
This in front: the brick representing Agni. Rathagritsa and Rathaujas: 
Skilled with the Car, and Mighty with the Car ; meaning the two Spring 
months. PaHjikasthald and KraJtusthald: allegorical names of Celestial 
Nymphs representing the region and the sub-region. 




194 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XT;. 

16 This one on the right, the Omnific; the leader of his host 

and his chieftain are Rathasvana and Rathedhitra, and 
MenabA and Sahajanyfi his Apsarases. Y&tudhanas are 
his weapon, Kakshasas his missile weapon; to them be 
homage, etc. (as in 15). 

17 This one behind, the All-comprising; the leader of his 

host and his chieftain are Rathaprota and Asamaratha, 
and Pramlochanti and Anumochlantt are his Apsarases. 
Tigers are his weapon, Serpents his missile weapon; to 
them be homage, etc. 

18 This one on the left, Lord of uninterrupted riches; the 

leader of his host and his chieftain are Tirkshya and 
Arishtanemi, and Visvfichi and Ghrit&chi his Apsarases. 
Water is his weapon, wind his missile weapon; to theta 
be homage, etc. 

19 This one above, Wealth-giver; the leader of his host and his 

chieftain are Senajit and Sushena, and Urvasi and Pfirva- 
chitti his Apsarases. Thundering is his weapon and light¬ 
ning his missile weapon; to them be homage, etc. 

20 Agni is head and height of heaven, the Master of the earth 

is he. He quiokeneth the waters’ seed. 

21 This Agni is the Master of spoil thousandfold and hund¬ 

redfold, the sapient one, the head of wealth. 

22 Agni, Atharvan brought thee forth by rubbing from the 

lotus-leaf, the head of Viava, of the Priest. 


16 He sets a brick on the south or right aide. The Omnnfic: Vipvakar- 
man, meaning V4yu, the Wind. Rathasvana : Car-rattling. Rathechitra: 
Glittering on his Car. These two are the two Summer months. Menakd 
and Sahajanyd : Celestial Nymphs, representing portions of the sky, or 
heaven and earth. 

17 He sets a brick behind. All-comprising: the Sun. Rathaprota: 
Car-seated. Asamaratha: Peerless-carred: the two Rain months. 

18 He sets a brick on the left side. Lord of uninterrupted riches: the 
sacrifice. TdrJcshya and Arishtanemi (whose fellies are uninjured): both 
originally personifications of the Sun; meaning here the two Autumn, 
months. Visvdcht and Ghritdcht: representing the quarter and the mid- 
quarter of the sky. 

19 He sets a brick in the middle above. Wealth-offerer: Parjanya, God' 
of the Rain-oloud. Army-conqueror: or Senajit. WeU-mrmied: or Sushena. 
These are the two Winter months. Urvasi and Plh'vackitti: representing a* 
quarter and a mid-quarter of the sky. For Urvasi see R. V. X. 95. 

20 He la}** down the Cbhandasy4s or Metre bricks, and first three brioka 
representing the G4yatri with formulas in that metre. The first formula 
repeated from III. 12) is taken from R. V. VIII. 44. 16. 

21 The formula is taken from R. V. VIII. 64. 4. 

22 The formula (repeated from XI. 82 b.) is taken from R. V. VL14.19. 



WBiTS YAjm HWA 


VEJLSB KL] 


W 


23 Guide ef the rite art thou and of the region to which with 

thine auspicious teams thou tendest. 

Thy light-bestowing head to heaven thou liftest, making thy 
tongue oblation-bearer, Agni. 

24 Agni is wakened by the people’s fuel to meet the Dawn who; 

cometh like a milch-cow. 

Like young trees shooting up on high their branches his 
flames are rising to the vault of heaven. 

25 To him adorable, sage, strong aud mighty we have sung 

forth our song of praise and homage. 

Gavishthira hath raised with prayer to Agni this laud far- 
reaching as the gold m heaven. 

26 Here by ordainers was this God appointed first Invoker, best 

nt worship, to be praised at rites; 

Whom Apnavana and the Bbrigus caused to shine bright- 
coloured in the wood, spreading to every house. t . 

27 The watchful Guardian of the people hath been bora, Agni 

the very strong, for fresh prosperity. 

With oil upon his face, with high heaven-touching flame, he; 
ehmetfa splendidly, pure for the Bharatas. 

23 Agni, Angirases discovered thee what time thou layest hid¬ 
den, fleeing back from wood to wood. 

Thou by attrition art produced as conquering might, and 
men, O Angiras, call thee the Son of Strength. 

29 Offer to Agni, 0 my friends, your seemly food, your seemly 

praise; 

To him supremest o’er the folk, the Son of Strength, the 
Mighty Lord. 

30 Thou, mighty Agni, g&therest up all that is precious for thy 

friend. 

Bring us all treasure as thon art enkindled in libation’s place.' 


23 He lays down the three Trishtup bricks with formulas in that metre. 
The firatJormula (repeated from XHI. 15) is taken from R. V. X. 8. 6. 

24 Taken from R. V. V. 1. 1. 

25 Taken from R. V. V. 1. 12. Gavishthira: the Seer of the original 
hymn. The gold: the Sun. 

20 He lays down three Jagatt bricks with formulas in that metre, 48 
syllables iu a stanza. The first formula is taken from R. V. IV. 7. 1. It 
has occurred also in III. 15. 

27 Taken from R. V. V. 11. 1. Bharatas: warriors; or men of a tribe 
so named; or according to S&yana and Mahtdhara, the priests. 

28 Taken from R. V. V. 11. *8. Layest hid: alluding to the flight and) 
capture of Agni. See R. V. I. 65. 

29 He lays down three. Anusbtup bricks with formulas in that metre. 
The first formula is taken from R* V. V. 7. 1. 

30 The second from R. V. X. 191.1. 




TBS TSXTS OP TBS 


m 


[book xk 


31 0 Agni, loved of many, thou of fame most woadrons, in 
their homes 

Men call on thee whose hair is fame to be the beater of 
their gifts. 

.32 With this my reverent hymn I call Agtoi for yon, the Son 
of Strength, 

Dear, wisest envoy, served with noble sacrifice, immortal 
messenger of all. 

33 Immortal messenger of all, immortal messenger of afi, 

His two red steeds, all-cherishing, he harnesseth; let him, 

well-worshipped, urge them fast. 

34 Let him well-worshipped urge them fast, let him well-wor¬ 

shipped urge them fast. 

Then hath the sacrifice good prayer and happy end, and 
heavenly gift of wealth to meu. 

35 0 Agni, thou who art the Lord of wealth in kine, the Son 

of Strength, 

Vouchsafe to us, 0 J&tavedas, high renown. 

36 He, Agui, kindled, good and wise, must be exalted in our 

song: 

Shine, thou of many forms, shine radiantly on us. 

37 0 Agui, shining of thyself by night and when the morning 

breaks, 

Burn, thou whose teeth are sharp, against the R&kshasas. 

38 May Agui, worshipped, bring us bliss, may the gift, Bless&d 

One! and sacrifice bring bliss, 

Yea, may our praises briug us bliss. 

39 Yea, may our praises bring us bliss. Show forth the mind 

that brings success in war with fiends, wherewith thou 
conquerest in fights: 

40 Wherewith thou conquerest in fights. Briug down the many 

firm hopes of our enemies, and let us vanquish with thine 
aid. 

31 The third from R. V. I. 45. 6. 

32 He lays down three Brihatt bricks with formulas in Brihatt matte, 
8 + 8 + 12 + 8 syllables. The first formula is taken from R. V.* YIL 16. 1. 

33 The verses of the original hymn (R. V. VII. 16) being alternately 
Brihat! and Satobrihati, the second and third verses of this triplet are made 
up out of verse 2 with the aid of repetitions. 

35 He lays down three Ushnih bricks with a triplet in that metre 
(8 + 8 + 12 syllables) from R. V. I. 79. 4—6. 

38 He lays down the three Eakup bricks with a triplet in that metre 
(8 +12 + 8), verse 1 taken from R. V. VIII. 19.19, verses 2 and 8 pieced to¬ 
gether out of the Satobrihati verse 20 of the original hymn, with 
repeated as in 33 and 34. 




mrjttff 46*] WHITE YAJURVEDA . W 

41 I value Agni,thut good Lord, the home to which the kine 

return; 

Whom fleet-foot coursers seek as home, and strong enduring 
steeds as home. Bring food to those who sing thy praise. 

42 ’Tie Agni whom we laud as good, to whom the milch-kine 

come iu herds, 

To whom the coursers swift of foot, to whom our well-born 
princes come. Bring food to those who sing thy praise. 

43 Thou, brilliant God, withiu thy mouth warmest both ladles 

of the oil. 

So fill us also in our hymns abundantly, 0 Lord of Strength. 
Bring food to those who sing thy praise. 

44 Agni, with lauds this day may we briug thee that which 

thou lovest, 

Right judgment, like a horse, with our devotions. 

45 For thou hast ever been the car-driver, Agni, of noble 
Strength, lofty sacrifice, and rightful judgment. 

46 Through these our praises come thou to meet us, bright as 

the sunlight, 

O Agui, well disposed, with all thine aspects. 

47 Agni I hold as Herald, the munificent, the gracious Son of 

Streugth who knowetb all that live, as holy singer know¬ 
ing all; 

Lord of fair rites, a God with form erected, turning to the 
Gods, 

He, when the flame hath sprung forth from the sacred oil, 
the offered fatness, longeth for it with his glow. 

48 0 Agni, be our nearest Frieud, be thou a kiud deliverer and 

a gracious Friend. 

Come as good Agni, come as excellent and give us wealth 
most splendidly renowned. 

To thee then, 0 most bright, 0 radiant God, we come with 
prayer for happiness for our friends. 

41 He I Ays down the three Pankti bricks with formulas in the corres¬ 
ponding metre (8 x 5) taken from R. V. V. 6. 1, 2, 9. 

44 He lays down the three Padapahkti bricks with formulas in that 
metre (5x5). This ‘ consists of two lines, the first embracing three or four 
feet of five syllables each, having the ictus on the first and fourth syllables, 
and resembling the last line of a Sapphic verse. The second line is sim¬ 
ply a Trishtup.' M Miiller, S. B E>, XXXII. p. xcviii. The triplet of 
formulas is taken from R. V. IV. 10. 1—8. 

47 He lays down an Atichhandas or Hypermeter brick with a formula 
taken from R. V. I. 127. 1. 

48 He lavs down three DvipadA bricks with a formulary triplet from 
R. V. V. 24. 1. 2. 4. Cf. HI. 25. 20. 



13* TEE TEXTS OF TEE [BOOK XT. 

49 With wKat devotion, winning light, the Riahis came, kind¬ 

ling Agni, to the holy session, 

Even with that in heaveu I stablish Agni whom men call 
him whose sacred grass is scattered. 

50 Gods, let us follow him with wives beside ns, with sons, with' 

brothers, with our gold adornments, 

Grasping the sky up in the world of virtue, on the third 
height, the luminous realm of heaven. 

51 This Agni mounted up to Speech’s Centre, Lord of the 

Brave, observant, ever-active. 

Laid on the back of Earth, may he, resplendent, cast under 
foot those who would fight against us. 

52 May this most manly Agni, strangth-bestower, giver of thou¬ 

sands, shine with care that fails not. 

Resplendent in the middle of the water, make thine approach 
to the celestial mansions. 

53 Make him go forth from all sides: meet, approach ye. O 

Agui, make the paths for God ward travel. 

Making the Parents young with life’s renewal, the out-spun 
thread in thee have they extended. 

54 Wake up, 0 Agni, thou, and keep him watchful. Wish and. 

fruition, meet, aud he, together. 

In this and in the loftier habitation be seated, All-Gods! 
and the Sacrifices 

55 Convey our sacrifice to heaven that it may reach the Gods, 

with that 


49 He lays down the Punaschiti (Piliug up again), a second layer of eight 
bricks, on the top of the G&rhapatya or Householder's Hearth. See X(L 
45 sqq. The ceremony is performed with eight formulas, six in Trishtup 
'and two in Anushtup metre. 

51 He lays down the third brick. Speech's Centre : the part of the pile 
in which he is established. Ever-active: bkuranyu; the world's supporter, 
according to Mahidhara. 

52 He lays the fourth brick. 

53 He lays the fifth brick. Make him: he addresses the Rishis. Make 
the paths: according to Mahidhara the plural verb is used for the singular 
and refers to Agni. If, as grammar requires, the verb refers to the Rishis, 
Agneh , of Agni, must be read instead of Agne: * Make ye Agni's packs to 
lead to the Gods Eggeliug. Parents: pitard > meaning V&k and Manas, 
Speech and Mind. Outspaa thread: of sacrifice. They extended: the. 
RUhis according to Manlihara: but the verb is in the singular: * in thee 
hath he spun out this thread': Eggeling. 

54 He lavs the sixth bricV. Wish and fruition: the heavenly rewards 
of pious actions. He: the Sacrifices 

55 He lays the seventh brick. The formula is taken from A V. IX 5.17** 

With that: power, understood. . .. 




VERSE 65 .] WHITE YAJURVEDA. 139 

Whereby thou, Agni, bearcat wealth in thousands and all 
, precious things. 

56 This is thine ordered place of birth whence sprung to life 

thou 8honest forth. 

Knowing this, Agni, rise thou up and cause our riohes to 
increase. 

57 Tapa, Tapasya, pair of Dewy Seasons: thou art, etc. (as 

in XIIJ. 25). 

58 On the sky’s back may Parameshthin lay thee, etc. (as in 

XIV. 14). 

Thy Lord is SArya, etc. (as in XIV. 14), 

59 Repeated from XII. 54. 

60 Repeated from XII. 55. 

61 Repeated from XII. 56. 

62 Like a horse neighing, eager for the pasture, when he hath 

stepped forth from the great enclosure: 

Then the wind following blows upon his splendour, and, 
straight, the path is black which thou hast travelled. 

63 In Ayu’s seat I set thee, in the shadow of the protector in 

the heart of Ocean, 

Thee luminous, bright with eyes, thee who illumest the sky, 
the earth, and air’s broad realm between them. 

64 On the sky’s back may Parameshthin set thee, etc. (as in 

XIV. 12, substituting sky for air and Surya for VAyu). 

65 Thou art the measure of a thousand. Thou art the repre¬ 

sentative of a thousand. Thou art the equivalent of a 
thousand. Thou art worth a thousand. Thee for a thou¬ 
sand. 


56 He lays the eighth brick. The formula, taken from R. V. III. 29.1C, 
has occurred in III. 14 and XII. 51 

57 He lays two Rttavyto or Seasonal bricks. See XIII. 25. Tapa, 
Tapasya: January-February, and February-March. Thou art: the rest of 
the formulae as in XIII. 25. 

58 He lays down s Visvajyotis or All-light brick. Parameshthin: the 
Supreme. The rest is as in XIV. 14, with the substitution of S&rya for Vayu. 

59 He lays the Lokamprinta, Room-filling or Complementary brioks, with 
the three formulas employed in XII. 54—56. 

62 He scatters loose soil over the layar and sets the brick called Vikarnt 
and the porous or SvayamatrinnA. The Yikar l with the formula taken 
from R. V. VII. 8. 2. 

63 The Svayam&trinnft with the following formula. Ayu’s: of Vital 
Power, or of the Sun. 

65 He stands by the Altar and consecrates it by scattering over it a 
thousand bits of gold, two hundred at the recitation of each formula* 
Hea***eof a thousand: bricks. Thee: I sprinkle. F&r « thousand: for 
the attainment of countless benefits. 



BOOK THE SIXTEENTH. 

Homage be paid unto thy wrath, 0 Rudra, homage to tky 
shaft: to thy two arms be homage paid. 

2 With that auspicious form of thine, mild, Rudra! pleasant 

to behold, 

Even with that most blessdd form, look/ Mountain-haunter j 
here on us. 

3 The shaft which, Mountain-haunter, thou art holding in 

thy hand to shoot, 

Make that auspicious, Mountain-Lord ! Injure not man nor 
moving thing. 

4 0 Dweller on the Mountain, we salhtd thee with auspicious 

hymn; 

That all, yea, all our people may be healthy and well-satisfied^ 

5 The Advocate, the first divine Physician, hath defended us. 

Crushing all serpents, drive away all Y&tddh4iiis down below. 

6 That most auspicious One whose hue is coppery and red 

and brown, 

And those, the Rudras who maintain their station in the 
regions, who surround him in a thousand bands, of these 
we deprecate the wrath. 

7 May he who glides away, whose neck is azure, and whose 

hue is red, 

He whom the herdsmen, whom the girls who carry #afsr 
have beheld, may he wheu seen be kind to us. 

8 Homage to him the Azure-necked, the thousand-eyed, the 

bountiful, 

Yea, and his spirit ministers—to them I aSet reverence. 

This Book consists of the §.itaruclriya, a litany, accompatfyihg 425 obla¬ 
tions, addressed to the hundred Rudras, or the hundred forms and powers of 
Rudra representiug Kfe and nature in their more terrible phases. Agni, 
that is, the Fire-altar, has on completion beoonie Rudra, aud this ceremony 
is performed to avert his wrath and secure his favour. The Taittirtya recent 
sion of the text—which has been regarded as a special Upanishad, or treatise 
on esoterio religious doctrine—has been translated and annotated by Prof. 
A. Weber, Iudische Studien, II. pp 14ff„ and the White Yajurveda text 
has been transliterated and translated by J. Muir, Original Sanskrit Texts* 
IV. pp. 822—331. There is also a complete translation of the formulas in 
Sacred Books of the East, XLIII. pp. 150—155. 

2 Auspicious form: the God having two forms, one terrific and the other 
gentle and auspicious. 

5 Hath defended us: * May he plead for us’: Eggeling. YdtudhdnU: 
sorceresses, or female goblins. 

7 He who glides away: in the form of the Sun. Whose neck ta azure: 
from drinking up the world-destroying poison produced at the Churning «C 
the Ocean by the Gods. 




WRITS YAJVRVEDA. 


141 


TERSE 17 j 

9 Loosen thy bowstring, loosen it from thy bow’s two extre¬ 
mities, 

And cast away, 0 Lord Divine, the arrows that are in thy 
hand. 

IX) Now stringless be Kapardiu’s bow, his quiver hold no pointed 
shaft. 

The shafts he had have perished and the sheath that held 
his sword is bare. 

J1 Thy weapon, 0 Most Bountiful, the bow that r$steth in thy 
baud,— 

With that, deprived of power to harm, protect thou us on 
every side. 

12 So may the arrow of thy bow, in all directions, pass us by, 

And in a place remote from us lay thou the quiver that thou 

hast. 

13 Having uubept thy bow 0 thou hundred-eyed, hundred- 

quivered One! 

And dulled thy pointed arrows’ heads, be hind and gracious 
unto us. 

14 To thy fierce weapon, now unstrung, be reverent obeisance 

paid. 

Homage he paid to both thine arms, and to thy bow be 
reverence! 

J5 Do thou no injury to great or small of us, harm not the 
growing boy, harm not the full grown man. 

Slay not a sire among us, slay no mother here, and to our 
own dear bodies, Rudra! do no harm. 

16 Harm us not in our seed of in our progeny, harm ns not in 
our life or iu our cows or steeds. 

Slay not our heroes in the fury of their wrath. We with 
oblations ever call on only thee. 

IT Homage to the golden-armed leader of hosts, lord of the 
regions, to the trees with their green tresses, to the Lord 
of beasts be homage; homage to him whose sheen is like 
green grass, homage to the radiant Lord of paths, homage 
to the golden-haired wearer of the saorificial cord, homage 
to the Lord of the well-endowed. 

10 Kapardin: be whose hair is coiled and braided ; an epithet in the 

Bigveda of Pfighan as well as of Rudra. 

15, 10 are tak?n, with variations, from R. V. J. 114. 7, 8. 

17 Lord of beasti: either originally regarded as the protector of grazing 

cattle which are specially exposed to the fury of the Storm-God, or as the 

lord of sacrificial victims, as Prof. Weber thinks must be the explanation. 

Well-endowed : or, physically, * full fed’ (Muir); ‘ stropg-bodied *: Eggelipg, 



142 THE TEXTS OP THE [BOOR XVI 

18 Homage to the brown-hu^d piercer, to the Lord of food be 

homage. Homage to Bhava’s weapon, homage to the 
Lord of moving things 1 homage to Rudra whose bow is 
bent to slay, to the Lord of fields homage, homage to the 
charioteer who injures none, to the Lord of forests be 
homage. 

19 Homage to the red architect, to the Lord of trees homage \ 

Homage to him who stretched out the earth, to him who 
gives relief be homage. Homage to the Lord of Plants, 
homage to the prudent merchant! Homage to the Lord 
of bushes, to the shouting Lord of foot-soldiers who 
makes foes weep be homage. 

20 Homage to the runner at full stretch, to the Lord of min¬ 

istering spirits, homage ! Homage to the conquering, 
piercing Lord of assailing bands, homage to the towering 
sword-bearer, to the Lord of thieves homage! Homage to 
the gliding robber, to the roamer, to the Lord of forests 
homage! 

21 Homage to the cheat, to the arch-deceiver, to the Lord of 

stealers homage! Homage to the wearer of sword and 
quiver, to the Lord of robbers homage! Homage to the 
boltarmed homicides, to the Lord of pilferers homage I 
Homage to the sword-bearers, to those who roam at night, 
to the Lord of plunderers homage! 

22 To the turban-wearing haunter of mountains, Lord of 

land-grabbers homage! Homage to you who bear arrows 
and to you who carry bows. Homage to you with bent 
bows, and to you who adjust your arrows, to you who 
draw the bow and to you who shoot be homage ! 

23 Homage to you who let fly and to you who pierce, homage 

to you who sleep and to yoh who wake, homage to you 
who lie and to you who sit, homage to yon who stand 
and to you who run. 

24 Homage to assemblies and to you lords of assemblies, ho¬ 

mage to horses and to you masters of horses, homage to 
you hosts that wound and pierce, to you destructive 
armies with excellent bands be homage. 


18 Bhava: the Existent, or the Eternal; here a name of Kudra. 

20 Thieves...robber: assuming their forms in sport, says Mabldhar*. 

24 Armies: or, alternatively. Goddesses, according to Mahtdhava; tkf 
feminine participle standing without a noun. 


WHITE YAJURVBDA. 


143 


VBBSB 32J 


25 Borage to the troop* and to jou lords of troops be homage. 
Homage to the companies and to you lords of companies, 

homage. 

Homage to sharpers and to you lords of sharpers, homage. 
Homage to you the deformed, and to you who wear all forms, 
homsge! 

26 Homage to armies aud to you the leaders of armies, homage. 
Homage to you car-borne and to you who are earless, homage. 
Homage to the charioteers and to you drivers of horses, 

homage. 

Homage to you the great and to you the small, homage. 

27 Homage to you carpenters, and to you chariot-makers homage. 
Homage to you potters and to you blacksmiths, homage. 
Homage to you Nishadas and to you Pufijish$has, homage. 
Homage to you dog-leaders, and to you hunters, homage. 

28 Homage to dogs, and to you masters of dogs, homage. 
Homage to fihava, and to Rudra homage, homage to Sarva 
■ and to Pasupati, and to Nilagriva and Sitikantha, homage. 

29 Homage to him with braided hair and to him with abaveu 

hair, homage 1 homage to the thousand-eyed and to him 
with a hundred bows, homage ! 

To the mountain-haunter and to Sipivishta, homage! 

To the most bountiful, armed with arrows, homage! 

30 Homage to the short, and to the dwarf, homage, homage to 

the great and to the adult, homage! Homage to the full- 
grown and to the growing, to the foremost and to the first 
be homage. 

31 Homage to the swift, and to the active be homage, and to 

the hasty and to the rapid mover be homage! Homage to 
him who dwells in waves, and in still waters, to him who 
dwells in rivers and on islands. 

32 Homage to the eldest and to the youngest, to the first-born 

and to the last-born, homage 1 Homage to the middle¬ 
most and to the immature, to the lowest and to him who 
is in the depth, be homage ! 

27 Nithddas . men of certain wild aboriginal tribes. Puftjishlkas: fisher¬ 
men, or fowlers. 

28 Sai'va: a name or form of Rudra, of frequent occurrence in the A. V. 
Patupati: Lord of Beasts. Nilagriva: Blue-neck. See verse 7, Sitikantha : 
White- throated. 

29 Stpivishia: in the R. V. a name of Vishru. See VIII. 55. 



144 


THE TEXTS OP THE 


[BOOR XVI. 

33 Homage to Sobhya and to the dweller in the magic amulet, 
homage! Homage to him who is allied to Yama, to him 
who prospers be homage! Homage to the famous and to 
.the eudmost, to him of the sown corn-laud and to him of 
the threshing-floor be homage. 

.34 Homage to him in woods and to him in bushes, homage! 
Homage to him as sound and to him as echo, homage 1 
Homage to him with swift armies and to him with swift 
chariots, homage ! Homage to the hero, and to him who 
reuds asunder be homage. 

35 Homage to him who wears a helmet, and to him who wears 

a cuirass, homage i To him who wears mail aud defensive 
armour, homage ] To the renowned one and to him whose 
army is renowned be homage, to him who is in drums aud 
to him who makes himself known by beating them. 

36 Homage to the bold one and to the prudent, homage to him 

who carries sword and quiver, homage to him who hath 
keen arrows and is armed with weapons, homage to him 
who hath good weapons and a good bow. 

37 Homage to him who dwells on paths aud roads, homage to 

him who dwells in rugged spots and on the skirts of moun¬ 
tains, homage to him who dwells iu water courses aud 
lakes, homage to him who dw ells in rivers and meres. 

38 Homage to him who dwells in wells and pits, homage to him 

who dwells in bright sky and sunlight. Homage to him 
who dwells in cloud and lightning, homage to him who 
dwells in rain and to him who dwells in fair weather. 

39 Homage to him who dwells in wind and to him who dwells 

in tempest, homage to the dweller in houses and to the 
house-protector. Homage to Soma and to Rudra, homage 
to the copper-coloured and to the ruddy One. 

40 Homage to the giver of weal, and to Pasupati, homage to 

the fierce and to the terrific. Homage to him who slays 
in front ajad to him who slays at a distance, homage to 
the slayer and to the frequent slayer, homage to the green- 
tressed trees, homage to the deliverer. 

41 Homage to the source of happiness and to the source of de¬ 

light, homage to the causer of happiness aud to the causer 
of delight, homage to the auspicious, homage to the most 
auspicious. 


33 Sobhya : said to mean, dweller in Sobha the City of the GandharvM. 
Magic amulet: a string bound round the neck or arm with incantatiosfl* 
AUicd to Yuma: in Yaina’s (death’s) power : Eggeling. • 



VERSE 49.] WHITE YAJURVEDA . 149 

42 Homage to him who is beyond and to him who is on this 

side, homage to him who crosses over aud to him who 
crosses back. Homage to him who is in fords aud ou 
river banks, homage to him who is iu tender grass and in 
foam. 

43 Homage to him who is in sand and to him who is in running 

water, homage to him who is on pebbly ground and to 
him who is where still water stands. Homage to him 
who wears braided hair aud to him whose hair is smooth. 
Homage to him who is iu deserts and to him who is ou 
broad roads. 

44 Homage to him who is in herds of cattle and to him who 

is iu cow-pens, homage to him who is ou beds apd to 
him who is in houses. Homage to him who is iu hearts, 
and to him who is in whirlpools, homage to him who is in 
wells and to him who is in abysses. 

45 Homage to him who is in dry tilings and to him who is in 

greeu things. Homage to him who is in dust aud to him 
who is iu vapour. Homage to him who is in inaccessible 
places, homage to him who is in creeping plauts, homage 
to him who is in the earth and to him who is in good soil. 

46 Homage to him who is in leaves and to him who is in the 

falliug of leaves. Homage to him with the threatening 
voice and to him who slays, homage to him who troubles 
aud to him who afflicts. Homage to you arrow-makers 
and to you bow-makers, homage to you sprinklers, to the 
hearts of the Gods. Homage to the discerners, homage 
to the destroyers; homage to the indestructible. 

47 Pursuer, Lord of Soma juice, thou cleaver, coloured blue 

and red, 

Cleave not, destroy not one of these our children, nor of 
these our beasts, let nothing that is ours be sick. 

48 To the strong Rudra bring we these our songs of praise, to 

him the Lord of Heroes, with the braided hair, 

That it be well with all our cattle and our meu, that in this 
village all be healthy and well-fed. 

49 Rudra, with that auspicious form of thine which healeth 

every day, 

Auspicious, healer of disease, be kind to us that we may live. 

46 Sprinklers: senders of rain. Tke hearts of the Gods: meaning, accord¬ 
ing to Mahidhara, Agui, Vayu, and SUrya; ‘ the sparkling hearts of the 
gods * : Eggeliug. 

48 Taken from It. V. I. 111. 1. 

10 



U& THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XFA 

50 May Rudra’s missile turn aside and spare us, the great 

wrath of the impetuous One avoid us. 

Turn, Bounteous God, thy strong bow from our princes, and 
be thou gracious to our seed and offspring. 

51 Most bounteous, most auspicious, be auspicious, well inclined 

to us. 

On some remotest tree lay down thy weapon, and clad in 
robe of skin approach, bearing thy how come hitherward. 

52 O Wound averter, pnrple-hued, to thee he homage, holy Lord? 
May all those thousand darts of thine strike dead another 

one than us. 

53 Thousands of thousands are the shafts, the missiles ready 

jn thy hands : 

Thou holy Lord, who hast the power, turn thou their 
points away from us. 

54 Innumerable thousands are the Rudras on the face of earth : 
Of all these Rudras we unbend the bows a thousand leagues 

away. 

55 Bhavas there are above ns in this mighty billowy sea of air. 
Of all of these do we unbend, etc. 

56 Rudras are dwelling in the sky, whose necks are blue, whose 

throats are white: 

Of these do we unbend the bows a thousand leagues away 
from us. 

57 Sarvas haunt realms beneath the earth—their necks are blue, 

their throats are white : 

Of these, etc. 

53 Those, green like young grass, in the trees, with aaure necks 
and purple hue, 

Oi those, etc. 

59 Those, ministering spirits’ lords, with no hair-tufts, with 

braided locks, 

Of these, etc. 

60 Those, the protectors of the paths, bringers of food, who 

fight for life, Of these, etc. 

61 Those who with arrows in their hand, and armed with 

swords, frequent the fords, Of these, etc. 

62 Those who, inhabiting the food, vex men while drinking from 

their cups, etc. 


$0 Taken from R. V. II. 33. 14. 



VERSE 66.] 


WHITE YA JURY EDA. 


147 


63 Kudras so many and still more, lodged in the quarters of 

the sky, etc. 

64 Homage to Rudras, those whose home is sky, whose arrows 

floods of rain. 

To them ten eastward, southward ten, ten to the south, ten 
to the north, ten to the region uppermost! 

To them be homage! May they spare and guard us. Within 
their jaws we lay the man who hates us and whom we 
abhor. 

65 Homage to Rudras, those whose home is air, whose arrows 

is the rain. To them, etc. 

66 Homage to Rudras, those whose home is earth, whose ar¬ 

rows is men’s food. 

To them be homage, etc. 


<64 To them: ‘ I stretch out ’ understood. Tea: ‘fingers’ understood. 
That is, he extends both hands, with the finger tips placed together in sign 
of adoration to the omnipresent Rudras, towards the four quarters of the sky. 

Dr. Muir observes: ‘ Many of the epithets in this Satarudriya are not 
found in other books ; and it is difficult, and perhaps of little importance 
to discover their real sense. Others, as the reader will have observed, are 
of the most fantastic character.' 






BOOK THE SEVENTEENTH. 


The food and strength contained in stone and mountain, 
drink g tthered from the plants and trees and waters, 
That food and strength, Maruts ! free-givers, grant us. 
lu the stone is thy hunger. Iu me is thy food. Let thy 
pain reach the m m we hate 

2 0 Agni, may these bricks be mine own milch kine : one, and 

ten, and ten tens, a hundred, and ten hundreds, a thou¬ 
sand, and ten thousand a myriad, and a hundred thousand, 
and a million, and a hundred millions, and an oceau mid¬ 
dle and end, and a hundred thousand millions, and a bil¬ 
lion. 

May these bricks be mine own mileh-kine in yonder world 
and in this world. 

3 Ye are the Seasons, strengthening Law, fixed iu due season, 

strengthening Law, 

Galled Splendid, dropping butter down and honey, yielders 
of every wish, imperishable. 

4 With the lake’s mantling need we robe thee, Agni: to us 

be purifying and auspicious. 

5 With cold’s investing garb we gird thee, Agni: to U3 be puri¬ 

fying and auspicious. 


After the performance of the Satarudriya Oblation, propitiatory and pre¬ 
paratory ceremonies in connexion with Agni and the Fire-altar are continued 
in this Book. 

First he sprinkles the altar with water from a pitcher, beginning from a 
stone which he has placed at the junction of the right wing of the altar with 
the body. 

1 In the stone: he puts the pitcher on the stone which represents Agni. 
According to Mahldhara, asman (rock, stone) here means * eater,’ the devouring 
Fire. In me ; he takes up the pitcher. Thy pain: the fiery heat and at¬ 
tendant suffering. Here, having put the stone in the pitcher, he throws it 
southward. 

2 He takes possession of the bric'cs of the altar, stretching over it and 
touching as much of it as he can. An ocean: a fantastic uame for a thou¬ 
sand million. 

3 Ye : the bricks. 

4 He draws a frog, an Avak4 (Blyxa Octandra, a water-weed), and a 
shoot of bamboo, all emblems of coolness, eastward along the right part of 
the body of the altar. See E. Y. X. 16. 14. 

5 He draws them along from the south to the north hip of the altar. 



VERSE 12.] 


WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


140 


6 Descend upon the earth, the reed, the rivers : thou art the 

gall, 0 Agni, of the waters. 

With them come hither, female Frog, and render this sacri¬ 
fice of ours bright-hued, successful. 

7 This is the place where waters meet; here is the gathering 

of the flood. 

Let thy shaft burn others than us : be thou cleanser, pro¬ 
pitious unto us. 

8 0 Agni, purifier, God, with splendour and thy pleasant 

tongue 

Bring hither, and adore, the Gods. 

9 So, Agni, purifying, bright, bring hither to our sacrifice, 

To our oblation bring the Gods. 

10 He who with purifying, eye-attracting form hath shone up¬ 

on the earth as with the light of Dawn ; 

Who speeding on, as in the fleet steed’s race, in fight, cometh 
untouched by age, as one athirst in heat. 

11 Obeisance to thy wrath and glow! Obeisauce to thy fiery 

flame! 

Let thy shot missiles burn others than us: be thou cleanser, 
propitious unto us. 

12 To him who dwells in man, Hail! To him who dwells in 

waters, Hail! 

To him who dwells in sacred grass, Hail! To him who dwells 
in the wood, Hail! To him who finds the light, Hail! 

6 He draws them along from the north hip to the south shoulder of the 
altar. Gall: meauing heat, which is regarded as characteristic of the bili¬ 
ous humour. 

7 He draws then along from the north to the south shoulder. 

8 He draws them over the right wing of the altar. The formula is taken 
from R. V. V. 2t>. 1. 

9 He draws them over the tail of the bird-shaped altar, with the formula 
from R V. VI. 15. 5. 

10 Fleet steed's: or Etasa’s, one of the horses of the Sun. 

11 The Adhvaryu takes chips of gold and a mixture of clarified butter 
and honey, with a bunch of Kusa grass, aud mounts the altar reciting the 
formula addressed to Agui. 

12 Mounted on the altar he offers an oblation, on the chief Porous brick, 
of clarified butter taken in five ladlefuls, pronouncing five formulas. Who 
dwells in man : Agni. seated as vital breath in human beings. Hail /; vet, 
a sacrificial exclamation of unknown derivation, somewhat similar to vaskat. 
In waters: in the shape of submarine fire, according to Mahidhara. In 
saered grass : in the shape of the Ahavaniya fire. In the wood : in the trees 
which he penetrates and consumes. The light : or heaven, in the form of 
the Sun. 



15a THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XVII. 

13 Worshipful Gods of Gods who merit worship, those who sit 

down beside their yearly portiou, 

Let them who eat not sacrificial presents drink in ibis rite 
of honey and of butter. 

14 Those Gods who have attained to Godhead over Gods, they 

who have led the way in this our holy work, 

Without whose aid no body whatsoever moves, uot on heaven’s 
heights are they, nor on the face of earth. 

15 Giver of breath, of out-breatb, breath diffusive, giver of 

lustre, giving room and freedom, 

Let thy shot missiles burn others than us : be thou cleanser, 
propitious unto us. 

16 May Agni with his sharpened blaze cast down each fierce 

devouring fiend. 

May Agni win us wealth by war. 

IT He who sate down as Hotar priest, the Rishi, our Father 
offering up all thiugs existent— 

He, seeking with his wish a great possession, came among 
men on earth as archetypal. 

IS What was the place whereon he took his station 1 What was 
it that upheld him 1 What the mauner, 

Whence Visvakarman, seeing all, producing the earth, with 
mighty power disclosed the heavens 1 


13 He sprinkles the altar, the enclosing stones, and outside them, with 
sour curds, honey, clarified bulter, and Kusa grass, reciting two formulas. 
Worshipful Gods : in the shape of the Vital Airs, who are not eaters of 
oblations. 

14 Holy work: brahman ; according to Mahtdhara, Agni is intended* 
No body... moves: * no dwelling-place becometh pure’: Eggeling. Not on 
heaven $ height, etc.: that is, the Vital Airs, although deities, exist in. 
living creatures only. 

15 He descends from the altar, and recites the formula addressed to 
Agni. 

16 He goes to the sacrificial hall and offers clarified butter taken in fire 
ladlefuls in the Hall-Door Fire, with the formula taken from R. V. VI. 16. 28: 

17 He offers clarified butter in a ladle filled with sixteen spoonfuls, in two' 
oblations, with eight formulas for each, and the formula of verse 16. Thn 
verses 17-23 are taken from R. V. X. 81. He who sate down : Visvakarman, 
the Omnific, the universal Father and Generator, the Architect of the worlds*- 
and Cretor of all things, here identified with Praj&pati, Agni the Fire-altar* 
All things existent: regarded as contained in the offerings presented by 
Visvakarman. His wish: his desire to create. Arehetypal: the meaning: 
of prathamachhad is uncertain ; ‘ first investing ( Agni with the worlds )^. 
according to SAyana’s explanation; ‘ first appearing' : Ludwig; 4 first wor¬ 
shipper ’: Wallis. 



VERSE 26.] WHITE YAJVRVEDA. U1 

19 He who hath eyes on all sides round about him, a mouth ott 

all sides, arms and feet on all sides, 

He the sole God, producing earth and heaven, weldeth them 
with his arms as wings together. 

20 What was the tree, what wood in sooth produced it, from 

which they fashioned out the earth and heaven! 

Ye thoughtful men, inquire within your spirit whereon he 
stood when he established all things. 

21 Thine highest, lowest sacrificial natures, and tltese thy 

midmost here, 0 Visvakarman, 

Teach thou thy friends at sacrifice, O Blessed, aud come thy¬ 
self, exalted, to our worship. 

22 Bring those, thyself exalted with oblation, 0 Visvakarmau f 

Earth and Heaven to worship. 

Let enemies around us live in folly: here let us have a rich 
and liberal patron. 

23, 24-VIII. 45, 46. 

25 The Father of the eye, the Wise ill spirit, created both tliese 

worlds submerged iu fatness. 

Then when the eastern ends were firmly fastened, the heavens 
and the earth were for extended. 

26 Mighty in mind and power is Visvakarman, Maker, Disposer, 

and most lofty Presence, 


19 Weldeth them : Cf. R. V. IV. 2. 17; X. 72. 2. With hi* arm* a* wing*: 
fanning the flame in which the material is smelted. Prof. Ludwig thin « 
that whirlwinds, produced by the action of hands, feet, and wings, 
intended. 

20 They: the makers of the world, diiected by Parameevaca the Sup¬ 
reme God. 

21 Come thyself: ‘exhilarated, thyself offer up thyself’: Muir; * do 
thou sacrifice to thyself delighting thyself’ : Wallis. According to Ma-hi- 
dhara, the meaning is that man is incompetent to worship tke Creator, that 
is, in his forms, and that the worship must be performed by the Creator 
himself. 

22 Bring. Earth and, Heave* to worship: or, sacrifice to them. 

23, 24 = VIIL 45, 46. 

25 This and the following six verses aie taken from $L V. I 61. The 
father of tke eye: Visvakarmaii, mi*o made the light which enable* the e\e 
to see. Submerged in falwest: Siya a explains gkritdm here by * water — 
* engendered the water, (aud then ) these two { heaven and earth ) floating 
( on the waters V* — Wilson. 

26 Most lofty Presence: literally, the highest apparition; the highest 
image or object of spiritual contemplation. Tkeir offering* : the offerings, 
-or perhaps the wishes, of the Fathers, semi-personified. The Seven Rishin : 
the great Rishis Mari chi, Atri, Angiras, Pulastya, Pulaha, Kratn, and 
V.isishtha. The meaning is that the spirits of the blest enjoy the fulfilment 
of all their desires beyond the starry heavens where the One Being, the 
great Creator, dwells. 




152 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XVH. 

Their offerings joy in rich juice where they value One, only 
One beyond the Seven Bishis. 

27 Father who made ns, he who, as Disposer, knoweth all races 

and all things existing, 

Even he alone, the Deities’ name-giver,—him other beings 
seek for information. 

28 To him in sacri6ce they offered treasures,—Rishisof old, in 

numerous troops, as singers, 

Who, in the distant, near, and lower region, made ready all 
these things that have existence. 

29 That which is earlier than this earth and heaven, before the 

Asuras and Gods had being,— 

What was the germ primeval which the waters received where 
the first. Gods beheld each other 1 

30 Tlie waters, thev received that germ primeval wherein the 

Gods were gathered all together. 

It rested set upon the Unhorn’s navel, that One wherein abide 
all things existing. 

31 Ye will not find him who produced these creatures : another 

thing hath risen up among you. 

Enwrapt in misty cloud, with lips that stammer, hymu- 
chanters wander and are discontented. 

32 First wns the God engendered, Visvakarman : then the 

Gandharva sprang to life as second. 

Third in succession was the plants’ begetter: he laid the 
waters’ germ in many places. 

33 Swift, rapidly striking, like a bull who sharpens his horns, 

terrific, stirring up the people, 

With eyes that close not, bellowing, Sole Hero, Indrasubdued 
at once a hundred armies. 

27 For information: to learn who is the Supreme God ; or what their 
several functions are. 

28 Distant, near, and lower region: meaning, apparently, the heavenly, 
the earthly, unci the intermediate atmosphere. 

30 The Unborn , Aja, seems here to be identified with Yisvakarman. See 
Vedic India, pp. 423, 424 

31 Another thing: meaning, according to the Commentator, ‘Yisvakar¬ 
man is a different entity from y«*u who are sentient beings, who have indi* 
vidual consciousness, and so forth.’—See editor’s note in Wilson’s transla¬ 
tion. Enurrapt , etc. : You who are engaged in the enjoyment* of this world 
or the next, teing subject to false knowledge or ignorance, have no know¬ 
ledge of the Truth. See The Hymns of the R. V. and the authorities refer¬ 
red to in the note on the passage. 

32 The Gandharva: the Sun, that is, Agni. The plants* begetter: Par- 
janya, the God of the Rain cloud. 

38 This verse and the eleven that follow are taken from R. V. X. 10* 
which is a prayer to ludra for aid aud victory in battle. 



WHITE YAJURYED .4. 


VERSE 43.] 


153 


34 With him loud-roaring, ever watchful, Victor, bold, hard to 

overthrow, Rouser of battle, 

Indra the Strong, whose hand tears arrows, conquer, ye 
warriors, now, now vanquish in the combat. 

35 He rules with those who carry shafts and quivers, Indra who 

with his baud brings hosts together, 

Foi-cotiquering, strong of arm, the Soma-drinker, with mighty 
bow, shooting with well-laid arrows. 

36 Brihaspati, fly with thy chariot hither, slayer of demons, 

driving off our foemen. 

Be thou protector of our cars, destroyer, victor iu battle, 
breaker-up of armies. 

37 Conspicuous by thy strength, firm, foremost fighter, mighty 

and fierce, victorious, all-subduing, 

The Son of Conquest, passing men and heroes, kine-winner, 
mount thy conquering car, 0 Indra. 

38 Cleaver of stalls, kine-winner, armed with thunder, who quells 

air ■army and with might destroys it,— 

Follow him, brothers! quit yourselves like heroes, and like 
this Indra show your zeal and courage. 

39 Piercing the cow-stalls with surpassing vigour, Indra, the 

pitiless Hero, wild with anger, 

Victor in fight, unshaken and resistless,—may he protect our 
armies iu our battles. 

40 Indra guide these: Brihaspati precede them, the guerdon, 

and the sacrifice, and Soma; 

Aud let the banded Maruts march in forefront of heavenly 
hosts that conquer and demolish. 

41 Ours be the potent host of mighty Indra, King Varuna, and 

Maruts, and Adityas. 

Uplifted is the shout of Gods who conquer, high-minded Gods 
who cause the worlds to tremble. 

42 Bristle thou up, 0 Bounteous Lord, our weapons : excite the 

spirits of my warring heroes. 

Urge on the strong steeds’ might, 0 Vritra-slayer, and let the 
din of conquering car3 go upward. 

43 May India aid us when our flags are gathered : victorious be 

the arrows of our army. 

May our brave men of war prevail in battle. Ye Gods protect 
us in the shout of onset. 

40 Guide these: be the leader of our troops. The guerdon: the reward of 
the priests who perform the sacrifice offered before battle. 

43 When our fags are gathered: ‘ apparently comparable with the signis 
collatis of the Romans ’ : Ludwig. 



154 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XVI 

44 Bewildering the senses of our foemen, seize thou their bodies 1 

and depart, 0 Apva. 

Attack them, set their hearts on fire and burn them: so let 
oar foes abide in utter darkness. 

45 Loosed from the bowstriug fly away, 0 Arrow, sharpened by 

our prayer. 

Go to the foemen, strike them home, and let not one of 
them escape. 

46 Advance, 0 heroes, win the day. May Indra be your sure 

defence. 

Exceeding mighty be your arms, that none may wound or 
injure you. 

47 That army of our enemies, 0 Maruts, that comes against 

us with its might, centeuding, 

Meet ye and wrap it in unwelcome darkness so that not one 
of them may know another. 

48 There where the flights of arrows fall like boys whose locks 

are yet unshorn, 

May Indra, may Brihaspati, may Aditi protect us well, pro¬ 
tect us well through all our days. 

49 Thy vital parts I cover with thine armour: with immor¬ 

tality King Soma clothe thee. 

Yaruna give thee what is more than ample, and in thy 
triumph may the Gods be joyful. 

50 Worshipped with butter, Agni, lead this man to high pre¬ 

eminence. 

Vouchsafe him growth of riches and multiply him with 
progenny. 

44 Apvd: according to Sdyana, a female deity who presides over sin ; 
according to Mahidhara, sickness or fear. Apparently Apv& was a sort of 
colic, or dysentery, likely to attack soldiers in the field of battle. Awl d+ 
part: or, pass us by ; do not attack us. 

45 Taken from R. V. VI. 75. 16. 

46 Taken from R. V. X. 103. 13. 

47 Taken from A. V. Ill, 2. 6. 

48 This aud the following verse are taken from R. V. VI. 75.17, 18. 
Like boys , etc.: ‘ the point of the comparison is not very obvious, but it 
may mean that the arrows fall where they list, as boys before they are left 
with the lock of hair, before the religions tonsure, play about wherever 
they like.' : Wilson. Prof, von Roth separates visikhd from &unufrtf, and 
translates : ‘ where the arrows fiy, young and old ’: that is, feathered aud 
uii feathered. 

49 Thy vital parts: the varmau , or coat of mail, protected the shoulder^ 
back, chest, and lower parts of the body. If not made of metal, it was 
strengthened with metal of some kind. 

50 He putB three logs of Udumbara wood on the fire, with a formula tgf 
each. 



WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


VERSE 58 .] 


155 


51 Indra, lead him to eminence : controller of bis toes hi he. 
Vouchsafe him lustre : let him give their sacred portiois to 

the Gods. 

52 The man within whose house we pay oblation, Indra, prosper 

him. 

May the Gods bless and comfort him, they and this Brah- 
manaspati. 

53 May the All-Gods, 0 Agni, bear and lift thee upward with 

their thoughts. 

Fair to be looked on, rich in light, be tbou propitious uuto 
us. 

54 May the Five Regions guard, divine, our worship. Goddesses 

chasing lack of thought and hatred, 

Giviug the Sacrificer growth of riches. Let sacrifice be based 
on growth of riches. 

55 Inspirited above enkindled Agni, adorable, winged with 

hymns, was it accepted, 

When the Gods offered sacrifice with viands, circling the 
heated caldron, paying worship. 

56 Lord of a hundred draughts, benign, God-serving—to him 

divine, establishes protector, 

The Gods approached the sacrifice, encircling. Gods for the 
Gods stood fain for sacred service. 

57 When the fourth sacrifice reaches the oblation, accepted offer¬ 

ing which hath been made ready, tit for the Imnolator’s 
sacrificing, 

Thence bless us prayers and holy recitations ! 

58 Savitar, golden-hued, hath lifted eastward, bright with the 

sunbeams, his eternal lustre, 

He at whose furtherance wise Pushan marches surveying all 
existence like a herdsman. 


5*2 Thii Brahmanaspati: or Brihaspati, Lord of Prayer, wiio is specially 
present. 

53 The PratiprasthAtar lifts up a kindled log of fuel representing Agni. 
The text has occurred in XII. 31. 

54 He goes forward to the altar. 

55 Inspirited: 1 glorifying’ : Eggeling. The meaning of the verse ia 
obscure. 

56 Lord of a hundred draughts: Agni, worshipped with countless libations. 

57 Fourth sacrifice: comiug after the muttering of formulas, the recita¬ 
tion of sacred praise-verses, and the Apratiratba or Irresistible hymn (ver¬ 
ses 33—44. Prof. Eggeling remarks with reason that * these verses are 
rather enigmatical.’ 

58 Taken from R. V. X. 139. 1. Savitar, the Impeller, the Sun as a 
form of>Agni. 



156 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XVH. 

59 He sits, the measurer, in the midst of heaven, filling the two 

world-halves and air’s mid-region. 

He looks upon the rich far-spreading pastures between the 
eastern and the western limit. 

60 Steer, Sea, Red Bird with strong winss, he hath entered the 

dwelling-place of the Primeval Father. 

A gay-hued Stone set in the midst of heaven, he hath gone 
forth and guards the air’s two limits. 

61 All sacred songs have glorified Indra expansive as the sea, 
The best of warriors borne on cars, the Lord, the Very Lord 

of strength. 

62 May God-invoking sacrifice bring the Gods hitherward to us. 
May bless-invoking sacrifice bring the Gods hitherward to us. 
May Agui, God, make offering and hither briug the Gods to 

us. 

63 May the abundant growth of wealth with elevation lift me 

up, 

Aud with his subjugating power may Indra keep my foemea 
down. 

64 Upraising and depression and devotion may the Gods increase. 
May Indra, too, and Agni drive my foes away to every side. 

65 Go ye by Agui to the sky bearing the Ukhya in your hands. 
Reaching the heights of sky aud heaven stay intermingled 

with the Gods. 

66 Agni, go forward to the eastern region, well-skilled, be here 

the fire in front of Agni. 

Illuming all the quarters, shine with splendour : supply with 
food our quadrupeds and bipeds. 


59 He sets up a stone of various bright colours, representing the Sun, 
and recites the text from R V. X. 139. 2. The measurer: reaching both 
ends of the firmament. The original text has ‘ man-viewing.’ P a s tm m: 
there is uo substantive in the text. Slyana supplies 4 quarters of *paoe'; 
Mahldhara ‘ altars ’ ; Prof. Ludwig ‘ ladles ’ ; Prof. Graasmann * pasture*.' 
4 He scans the all-reaching, the butter-reaching,' meaning the offering- ladle* 
aud the offering-grounds : Eggeling. 

60 Taken from R. V. V. 47. 3. Steer : mighty. Sea: a* the attractor and 
receptacle of waters. Primval Father : Dyaus or Heaven. 

61 They all go to the altar, with the text (repeated from XU. 56) takes 
from R. V. I. 11. 1. 

63 May. . . lift : so Mahidhara. ‘ Hath upheaved' : Eggeling. 

64 Upraising : of us. Depression : of our foes. Devotion : expressed k 
sacrifice. 

65 They mount the altar. Ukhya : the fire contained in the pan. 



WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


VERSE 74 .] 


157 


67 From earth to air’s mid-region have I mounted, and from 

mid air ascended up to heaven. 

From the high pitch of heaven’s cope I came into the world 
of light. 

68 Mounting the sky they look not round: they rise to heaven 

through both the worlds— 

Sages who span the sacrifice that pours its stream on every side. 

69 Foremost of those who seek the Gods come forward, thou 

who art eye of Gods and men, 0 Agni. 

Accordaut with the Bhrigus, faiu to worship, to heaveu in 
safety go the Sacrificers. 

70 Night and Dawn, different in hue, accordant, etc., as in XII. 2. 

71 0 Agui, thousand eyed and hundred-headed, thy breaths are 
hundred, thy through-breaths a thousand. 

Thou art the Lord of thousandfold possessions. To thee, 
for strength, may we present oblation. 

72 Thou art the Bird of goodly wing : be seated on the ridge 

of earth. 

Fill air’s mid-region with thy glow, supporting with thy 
light the sky, confirm the quarters with thy sheen. 

73 Receiving offerings, fair of aspect, eastward be duly seated 

in thy place, 0 Agui. 

In this the more exalted habitation be seated All Gods and 
the Sacrificer. 

74 That wondrous all-maukiud-embracing favour of Savitar, 

choice-worthy, I solicit, 

Even his which Kanva wont to milk, the mighty, the teeming 
Cow who yields a thousand milk-streams. 


67 The Sacrificer speaks, reciting three verses from A. V. IV. 14 3—5. 
AW t mid-regiver: the firmament. Heaven: above the sky. Heaven's cope: 
a still higher region. World of light: the abode of the Sun, the empyrean. 
See M. Muller, Yedic Hymns, Part I. p. 9 ; and Zimmer, Altindisches 
Leben, p. 358. 

68 Look not round: do not regard their sons, cattle, etc. 

69 Bhrigus: see I. 18 ; III, 15. 

70 He offers an oblation of milk drawn from a black cow with a white 
calf (representing Night and the Sun), with the text taken, with variations, 
from R. V. I. 96. 5. 

71 Thousand-eyed ; his eyes are the chips of gold ; see XVII. 11. Hundred¬ 
headed : identified with the hundred-headed Rudra. See Satapatha-BiAh- 
ma^a, IX. 1. 16. 

72 He lays down the fire and recites two formulas addressed to Agni. 

73 Thy place : the fire-altar. More exalted habitation: heaven. 

74 He puts on the fire three pieceB of fuel, of Sand, Vaikankata, and 
Udumbara wood respectively, with a formula for each. Kanva : a famous 
Vedic llishi. 



158 .THE TEXTS OP THE [BOOK XVII. 

75 May we adore thee in thy loftiest birth place, Agni! with 
praise-songs in thy lower station. 

The place whence those hast issued forth I worship. In thee, 
well kindled, have they paid oblations 
74> Shine thou before us, Agni. well enkindled, with flame, most 
youthful God, that never fadeth. 

Unceasing unto thee come sacred viands. 

77 Agni, this day with lauds, etc., as in XV. 44. 

78 I dedicate the thought with mind and butter so that the 

Gods may come who love oblation, strengthing Law, 

To Visvakarman, Lord of all the earth, I offer up day after 
day the inviolable sacrifice. 

79 Seven fuel logs hast thou, seven tongues, 0 Agni, seven Kishis 

hast thou, seven beloved mansions. 

Seven-priests in sevenfold manner pay thee worship. Fill 
full—All-hail to thee !—seven wombs with butter. 

80 Purely-Bright, Wouderfully-Bright, Really-Bright, All-Lu¬ 

minous, 

Bright, Law VP ro tec tor, Safe-from-Ill; 

81 Such, Other-Looking, Equal, Similar, Measured, Commen¬ 

surate, Jointly-Bearing-np. 

82 Bight, Real, Firm, Strong-to-Support, Bearer, Disposer, 

Manager. 

83 Wiuner-of-Right, Winner-of-Truth, Host-Conquering, Lord- 

of-Goodly-Host, 

Whose-Friends-are- Near-at-Hand, Whose-Banded-Enemies- 
are-Far-Away: 

75 The formula is taken from R. V. II 9. 3. Loftiest birthplace: heaven, 
the birthplace of Agin as the Sun. Lower station : the firmament, where 
he is produced as lightning. The place whence thou hast issued : the fire- 
altar. 

76 Taken from R. V. VII. 1. 3. 

77 He offers with the sruva or dipping spoon. The formula is taken from 
R. V. IV. 10. 1. 

78 He offers again to Visvakarman, the Omnific Agni. I dedicate: at, 
offer up. The thought: of the priests and the sacrificer. The metre is 
Atijagati, four divisions of thirteen syllables each. 

79 He offers a full oblatiou with the sruk or offering-spoon. Fuel logs: 
said to be the vital breathings. Seven tongues: called KAll Kar4ll, etc. Rishii: 
Mari chi and the rest. See XVII. 26. Mansions: G&yatrt and other sae* 
red metres, or the Ahavaniya, G&rhapatya and other fire-hearths. Seven¬ 
fold fashion: with the Agnishtoma (Praise of Agni) and other services 
Wombs: layers of the altar. 

80 After offering the Vaisv4nara rice-cake to Agni the God of All Me% 
he offers seven rice cakes to the Maruts ( consisting of three or niue troops* 
of seven each ) with a formula at each offering containing names or titles of' 
these deities. 



WHITE YAJURY EDA. 


159 


VERSE 90 .) 

84 To day in this our sacrifice be present, Such, Looking>Thus, 

Same, Similar-in-Appearance, 

Measured, Commensurate, Joint-Bearers, Maruts! 

85 Self-Powerful, Voracious-One, Kiu-to-the-Sun, The House¬ 

holder, 

Play-Lover, Mighty, Conqueror. 

Fierce, Terrible, The Resonant, The Roaring, Victorious, 
Assailant, and Dispeller, All-Hail! 

86 The Maruts, clans divine, became the followers of Indra; as 
The Maruts, clans divine, became the followers of Indra, so 
May claus divine and human be the Sacrificer’s followers. 

87 Drink in the middle of the flood, 0 Agui, this breast stored 

full of sap, teeming with water. 

Welcome this fountain redolent of sweetness. 0 Courser, 
enter those thy watery dwelling. 

88 Oil hath been mixed : oil is his habitation. In oil he rests : 

oil is his proper province. 

Come as thy wont is. 0 thou Steer, rejoice thee. Bear off 
the oblation duly cousecrated. 

89 Forth from the ocean sprang the wave of sweetness: together 

with the stalk it turned to Amrit, 

That which is holy oil’s mysterious title: but the Gods’ 
tongue is truly Amrit’s centre. 

90 Let us Declare aloud the name of Ghrita, and at this sacrifice 

held it up with homage. 

So let the Brahman hear the praise we utter. This hath the 
four-horned Buffalo emitted. 


8t5 This is muttered by the Adhvaryu at the end of the offerings to the 
Maruts. 

87 Verses 87 —99 in praise of Agni are muttered by the Sacrificer at the 
dictation of the Adhvaryu, or by the Adhvaryu himself. Flood: said to 
mean the world. Breast: the ladle. Water: flowing butter. 

83 Taken from R. V. II. 3. 11. 

89 —99 Taken from R. V. IV. 58. a hymn in praise of Ghrita or Clarified 

Butter. It would be fruitless, as Prof. Ludwig remarks, to repeat all the 
various explanations which Silyana gives of the first line of this stanza : they 
only show the utter uncert linty of tradition in reference to the passage. 
For instance, samndra, ocean, is said to mean sacrificial fire; or celestial 
fire; or the firmament: or the udder of the Cow ; and drmi, wave, may 
accordingly mean reward ; or rain ; or butter. Prof. Ludwig thinks that 
the sense of the st mza may be : the life-giving essence which develops itself 
out of the wot ld-oceau turns into Soma in the Moon ; but it is neither of 
these two, but the tongue of the Gods ( Agni ?) from which the Amrit pro¬ 
ceeds and to which it returns. But Bee A. Hillebrandt, Vedische Mythologic, 
1 321, 322. ~ 

90 The Brahman: according to Mahldhara, the ritvij or priest. Probably 
Agni is meant. The last half-line of the stanza is translated, after S&yana, 



160 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XVII. 

91 Four are his horns, three are the feet that bear biru : his 

heads are two, his hands are seven in number. 

Bound with a triple bond the Bull roars loudly: the mighty 
God hath entered into mortals. 

92 That oil in triple shape the Gods discovered laid down with¬ 

in the Cow, concealed by Fanis. 

Indra produced one shape, Sfirya another : by their own 
power they formed the third from Vena. 

93 From inmost reservoir in countless channels flow down these 

rivers which the foe beholds not. 

I look upon the streams of oil descending, and lo! the 
Golden Reed is there among them. 

94 Like rivers our libations flow together, cleansing themselves 

in inmost heart and spirit. 

The streams of holy oil pour swiftly downward like the wild 
beasts that fly before the bowman. 

95 As rushing down the rapids of a river, flow swifter than the 

wind the vigorous currents, 

The streams of oil in swelling fluctuation like a red courser 
bursting through the fences. 


by Professor Wilson : 1 the fair-complexioned deity perfects this rite,’ the 
epithet ‘ four-korned ’ being transferred to ‘ Brahman.’ The God may be 
called & buffalo (gaura) Bos Gaurus, as a type of extraordinary strength. 
Mahtdhara explains gaura by gajna, sacrifice, having four horns, that is, four 
officiating prieats. 

91 Four are his horns: the four horns of Agni as identified with sacrifice 
are said by S^yana to be the four Vedas, and, if identified with Aditya. the 
four cardinal points. The three feet are, in the former case, the three daily 
sacrifices, in the latter, morning, noon, and evening. The two heads are, iu 
the former case, the Brdhmaudana and the Pravargya ceremonies, in tbs 
latter, day and night. Similarly, the seven hands are explained, alternatively, 
as the seven metres of the Veda or the seven rays of the Sun ; and the triple 
bond as the Mantra, Kalpa , and Brdhmana, prayer, ceremonial, and rationale 
of the Veda, or the three regions, heaven, firmament, and earth. The Steer 
is, either as sacrifice or Aditya, the pourer down of rewards, and the loud 
roaring is the sound of the repetition of the texts of the Veda. Mahldhara's 
explanation differs from that of Sayana. The four horns are priests; or 

( nouns, verbs, prepositions, and particles; the three feet are the Vedas, or 
the first, secoud, and third persons, or the past, present, and future tenses; 
the two heads are two sacrifices, or the ageut and object; the seven hands 
are the metres or the cases of the noun ; and the three bonds are the three, 
daily sacrifices, or the singular, dual, and plural numbers. 

92 In triple shape: as milk, curds, and butter, according to S&yana. The 
meaning seems to be that Indra. Surya, and Vena ( who is probably Agni), 
restored the power of the elements of sacrifice respectively in heaveu, the 
firmament, and the earth, after they had been rendered ineffectual for t 
time by the malignant Panis 

93 The Golden Reed: Celestial Agni. 




WHITE TAJURVEDA. 


161 


VERSE 99.] 

96 Like women at a gathering fair to look on and gently smiling, 

they incline to Agni. 

The streams of holy oil attain the fuel, and Jatavedas joyfully 
receives them. 

97 As maidens deck themselves with gay adornment to join the 

bridal feast, I now behold them. 

Where Soma flows and sacrifice is ready, thither the streams 
of holy oil are running. 

9ft Send to our eulogy a herd of cattle: bestow upon us excellent 
possessions. 

Bear to the Gods the sacrifice we offer: the streams of oil flow 
pure and full of sweetness. 

99 The universe depends upon thy power and might within the 
sea, within the heart, within all life. 

May we attain that sweetly-flavoured wave of thine, brought, 
at this gathering, o'er the surface of the floods. 

9S Send to our adogy a herd of cattle : this is Sftyana's explanation. The 
41od* are addressed and prayed to reward the singers. 

99 fky power : Agai’s. Within the aeo : in the aerial ocean, the firma¬ 
ment, in which Agni is present as lightning. Within the heart: as Vaisv&- 
n&ra, belonging to all men. Within oil life : as the vital principle, or heat. 
The ww is the flowing butter of the oblation. 




11 




BOOK THE EIGHTEENTH. 


May my strength and my gain, and my inclination and my 
influence, and my thought and my mental power, and 
my praise and my fame, and my renown and my light, 
and my heaven prosper by sacrifice. 

2 May my breathing and my out-breathing, and my through* 

breathing and my vital spirit, and my thought and my 
reflection, and my voice and my mind, and my eye aud 
my ear, and my ability and my strength prosper by 
sacrifice. 

3 May my energy and my force, and my self and my body, 

and my shelter and my shield, and my limbs and my 
boues, and my joints and my members, and toy life and 
my old age prosper by sacrifice. 

4 May my preeminence and my overlordship, and my wrath 

and my angry passion, and my violence and my impetu¬ 
osity, and my victorious power and my greatness, and my 
breadth and my width, and my height and my length, 
and my iucrease and my improvement prosper by sacrifice. 

5 May my truth and my faith, and my cattle and my wealth, 

and my goods and my pleasure, and my play and my 
enjoyment, and my children and my future children, and 
my hymn and my pious act prosper by sacrifice. 

6 May my religious rite and my immortality, and my freedom 

from consumption and my freedom from disease, and my 
life and my longevity, and my freedom from enemies 
and my freedom from danger, and my happiness and my 
lying down, aud my fair dawn and my fair day prosper 
by sacrifice. 

7 May my controller and my supporter, and my security and 

my firmness, and my goods and my pleasure, and my 
knowledge and my understanding, and my begetting aud 
my propagation, and my plough and my harrow prosper 
by sacrifice. 

This Book contains the formulas for the performance of the ceremony 
called Vasordhdrd, the Stream or Shower of Riches, a sort of Consecration 
Service for Agni as King on the completion of the Fire-altar which is iden¬ 
tified with him. The Sacrificer offers an uninterrupted series of four hun¬ 
dred aud one oblations of clarified butter poured from a large ladle of 
Udumbara wood, while the Adhvaryu recites the formulas which are tt 
gain for the Sacrificer all the temporal and spiritual blessings therein in& 
cated. 




VBRSB 16.] WRITS YAJURVBDA, 16S 

8 May my welfare and my comfort, and what I hold dear and 

what I desire, and ray love and my gratification, and my 
enjoyment and my substance, and my happiness and my 
felicity, and my higher bliss and my fame prosper by 
sacrifice. 

9 May my vigour and my pleasantness, and my milk and my 

sap, and my butter and my honey, and my meal in com¬ 
pany and my drinking in company, and my ploughing 
and my husbandry, and my superiority and my preemi¬ 
nence prosper by sacrifice. 

10 May my wealth and my property, and my prosperity and 

my growth, and my pervading power and my lordship, 
and my abundance and my greater abundance, and my 
bad harvest and my unwasted crop, and my food and 
my satiety prosper by sacrifice. 

11 May my gain and my future gain, and what I have and 

what 1 shall have, and my good road and my good path, 
and my success and my succeeding, and my achievement 
and my contrivance, and my thought and my good counsel 
prosper by sacrifice. 

12 May my rice-plants aud my barley, and my beans and my 

sesamum, and my kidney-beans and my vetches, and my 
millet and my Panicum Milliaceum, and my Panicum 
Fruraentaceum and my wild rice, aud my wheat and my 
lentils prosper by sacrifice. 

13 May my stone and my clay, and my hills and my mountains, 

and my pebbles and my trees, and my gold and my bronze, 
and my copper and my iron, and my lead and my tin 
prosper by sacrifice. 

14 May my fire and my water, and my creepers and my plants, 

atid my plants with culture-ripened fruit and my plants 
with fruit ripeued without culture, and my domestic 
animals and my wild animals, and my substance and my 
future substance, and my belongings and my power be 
produced by sacrifice. 

15 May my treasure aud my dwelling, and my religious service 

aud my ability to perform it, aud my object and my 
course, and my way and my going prosper by sacrifice. 

16 May my Agni and my Indra, and my Soma and my Indra, 

and my Savitar aud my Indra, aud my Sarasvati aud my 
Indra, and my Pfishan and my Indra prosper by sacrifice. 

12 Panicum: there are no English names for the two cereals thus de¬ 
signated. Roxburgh describes sixty-tw) species of the genus. 

16 He offers with this and the two following formulas the Ardhendra or 
Half-Indra oblations to twelve deities, each of whom is coupled with Indra. 



164 


THE TEXTS OF THE 


[BOOK XVII& 


17 May my Mitra and my Indra, and my Varuna and my Indra, 

and my Dhfitar and my Indra, and my Maruts and my 
Indra, and my AlLGods and my Indra prosper by saorifice, 

18 May my earth and my Indra, and my Air and my Indra, 

and my Sky and my Indra, and my Half-months and my 
Indra, and my Lunar Mansions and my Indra, and my 
Sky-regions and my Indra prosper by sacrifice. 

19 May my Amsu and my Rasmi, and my Adhipati and my 

Up&msu, and my Antaryama and my Aiudra*VAyaya, and 
my Maitra-Varupa, and my Asvina and my PratiprasthSni^ 
and my Sukra and my Manthin proper by sacrifice, 

20 May my Agrayana and my Vaisvadeva, and my Dhruva and 

my Vaisv&nara, and my Aindiagna and my Mahivaiavadeva, 
and my Marutvatiya aud my Nishkevalya, and my S&vitra 
and my Sarasvata, and my Ratnivata aud my Uariyojana 
prosper by sacrifice. 

21 May my ladles and my cups, and my VAyu vessels and my 

Soma reservoirs, and my pressing-stones and my two press? 
boards, and my Pfitabhrit and my Adhavaniya, and my 
altar and altar-grass, and mV Avabfiritha and my cries of 
Good-speed prosper by sacrifice. 

22 May my Agni and my Gbarma, and my Arka and my Sfirya, 

and my Prana and my Aisvamedha, and my Pritfiivi and 
my Aditi, and my Diti and my Sky, and my fingerp, powers 
and sky-regions prosper by sacrifice, 

19 Three sets of oblations called Grahas follow with their respective 
formulas enumerating pairs of Soma qi*ps and sets of sacrificial implements. 
Most of the Soma oups or libations have been mentioned in YI1. 1—89, 
notes. The names of the sacrificial implements also have occurred in pro¬ 
ceeding Boohs. 

21 Pries of Qood,spee$: exclamations of SvagA a benedictory sacrificial 
formula. 

22 He offers two sets of oblations called Yajfiakratus or Sacrificial Rites 

with formulas enumerating objects connected with certain special cereme? 
nies. Agni: the Agnichayana or construction of the Rire.-altar, or the 
Aguishtoma (Praise of Agni. See VI. 29, note). Oharma : the Caldron, re? 
presenting the Pravargya ceremony. See 1. 22. Arka / the offering of a 
cake to Indra with Arka the Sun. S&rya: an oblation to that God. Pi'diyst 
the Gavlnmyana or Procession of the Cows (see VIII. 41), a solemn sacrificial 
sessien usually of twelve months' duration. Asmmedha: the Horse-Sacri¬ 
fice. See XXII— X£V. Pfithivt , Aditi, Diti t Sky; offerings to these deities$ 
Diti being a mere abstraction, the antithesis to Aditi, representing limitation 
as Aditi represents infinity. See X. 16, note. Fingers: explained by MaKd- 
dhara as virdtpurushdvayavdh, members of Purusha, Embodied Spirit, of 
Co i Man. See R. V. X. 90. Powers: sakvariyah = saktayah, according 
to ajdhwa, ' * ^ 



YbMsM -A] Wfftfg tAffftWBA. 165 

S3 May my vow and my seasons, and my austere devotion, and 
my day and night, thighs and knees, and two Great 
Rathantaras prosper by sacrifice. 

24 May my One and my Three, and my Three and my Five, 

and my Five and my Seven (and similarly up to thirty- 
three) prosper by sacrifice* 

25 May my Four and my Eight and my Twelve (and similarly 

up to forty-eight) prosper by sacrifice 

26 May my eighteen-months steer and my eighteen-months 

heifer, and my two-year bull and oow (and similarly up 
to four-year) prosper by sacrifice. 

2? May my six-year bull and my sixy ear cow, and my bull and 
my barren cow, and my young bull and my calf-slipping 
cow, and my ox and my milch-cow prosper by sacrifice. 

28 To strength, Hail! To Gain, Hail! To After-born, Hail 1 To 

Power, Hail I To Vasu, Hail 1 To the Lord of Days, Hail 1 
To the' Failing Day, Hail! To the Failing Sprung from 
the Transitory, Hail 1 To the Transitory sprung from the 
Final, Hail! To the Final Mundane, Hail 1 To the Lord 
of the World, Hail 1 To the Sovrau Lord, Hail 1 To Praja- 
pati, Hail 1 This is thy kingdom* Thou art a guiding 
controller for the friend* Thee for vigour, thee for rain, 
thee for the sovran lordship of creatures. 

29 May life succeed through sacrifice. May life-breath thrive 

by sacrifice. May the eye thrive by sacrifice. May the 
ear thrive by sacrifice. May the voice thrive by sacrifice. 
May the mind thrive by sacrifice. May the self thrive by 
sacrifice. May Brahma thrive by sacrifice. May light 
succeed by sacrifice. May heaven succeed by sacrifice. 
May the hymn thrive by sacrifice. May sacrifice thrive 
by sacrifice ; And laud and sacrificial text, and Verse of 
praise and S&ma chant, The Bfihat and R ithantara. 

24 This formula enumerates the Stomas, or Hymns of Praise consisting of 
Uneven numbers of verses. 

25 Enumerates the even*versed Stomas, each number after the first increas¬ 
ing by four. 

26, 27 Formulas for two sets of Age Libations, enumerating cattle in 
advancing stages of their lives. 

28 Formulas for the Name Libation ceremony, fanciful names of the 
months, etc. being applied to Agni of whom the months are manifestations. 
Cf. IX. 20. Strength: meaning March-April. Gain: April-May. After-born: 
Msy-June, and so on. Cp. IX. 20. Praj&pati: as Genius of the Tear. The 
fi'iend: the Sacrifices Thee: I besprinkle and consecrate. 

29 He offers the Kalpa or Success Libation with formulas, containing 
the verb klfip, to succeed, prosper, thrive, repeated from IX. 21. 




16* THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XT///. 

Gods, we have gone to light. We have become the children 
of Pmj&pati. We have become immortal. 

30 In gain of wealth we celebrate, etc. = IX. 5. 

31 This day come all the Maruts, all to aid us ! Let all the fires 

be thoroughly enkindled. 

May the All-Gods come hither with protection. May we 
possess all property and riches. 

32 May our strength fill the regions seven, fill the four distant 

places full. 

Here may our riches guard us with the All-Gods in the gain 
of wealth. 

33 May strength to-day procure for us donation: strength 

range the Gods together with the Seasons. 

Yea, strength hath made me rich iu store of heroes. As 
lord of strength may I gain all the regions. 

34 Strength be before us, in the midst among us. May strength 

exalt the Gods with our oblation. 

Yea, strength hath made me rich in store of heroes. As 
lord of strength may I gain all the regious. 

35 With milk of Prithivl do I unite me, unite myself with 

waters and with plants. 

As such may I gain strength, 0 Agni. 

36 Store milk iu earth and milk iu plants, milk in the sky aitf 

milk in air. 

Teeming with milk for me be all the regions. 

37 Thee by the radiant Savitar’s impulsion, with arms of Asvins, 

with the hands of Pushan, 

Controlled by Vak Sarasvati’s Controller, with Agni’s sole 
dominion I besprinkle. 

38 Maintainer of Law, true by nature, Agni is the Gandharva. 

The plants are his Apsarases, namely Delights. May he 
protect this our Priesthood and Nobility. To him All¬ 
hail ! Ave ! To those All-hail! 


30 He offers the fourteen VAjaprasavlya or Strength-quickening Libations, 
the first seven of the formulas being repeated from IX. 23-29. Of the 
second set of seven, one is repeated from IX. 5. 

35 Milk of Prithivt: waters and plants used in sacrifice. 

87 He anoints the Sacrificer with the remains of the sacrificial material. 
Vdk Saraevatfe Controller : meaning Praj&pati, according to Mahtdhara; 
‘ by the support of Sarasvatl V&k, the Supporter': Bggeling. 

38 He offers the twelve lUshtrabhritas or Kingdom-supporting Libations 
with sacrificial butter taken in twelve ladling*. The offerings are made if 
pairs, first to a male deity and then to females. 




WHITS YAJURVEDA. 


TER8E 47.] 


W7 


39 The Conjoined, Visvasiman, Sflrya is the Gandharva. His 

motes are his Apsarases, Swift-moving. Mfly he protect, 
etc., as in 38. 

40 The Highly-Blessed, the Moon whose rays are like the Sun’s, 

is the Gandharva. The Asterisms are his Apsarases, Lum¬ 
inous. May he protect, etc. 

41 The Quick, All-reaching, Wind is the Gandharva. The 

Waters are his Apsarases, named £uergies. May he pro¬ 
tect, etc. 

42 The Protecting, Strong-winged, Sacrifice is the Gandharva. 

Guerdons are his Apsarasea, called Praisere. May he pro¬ 
tect, etc. 

43 The Lord of Creatures, Omnific, Mind is the Gandharva. 

Kichas and Salmans are his Apsarases, called Wishings, 
May he protect, etc. 

44 Lord of the World, Prajapati, whose are the homes above 

and here, 

Give great protection unto these, the Friesthood and Nobility. 

45 Thou art the vapoury sea that givath moisture, Blow on 

me, thou, healthful and blessiug-laden. 

Thou art the Maruts’ own, the 5and of Marqts. B]ow on 
me, etc. 

Seeker of aid art thou, receiving worship. Blow on me, etc. 

46 Thy lights, 0 Agui, in the Sun, etc., as in XIII. 22. 

47 Lights of yours in the Sun, 0 Gods, etc., as in XIII. 23. 


39 Conjoined: samhitah ; as join«r of night and day. Visvasiman : wear¬ 
ing the form of all SAmans. 

40 Luruinous: or Light-givers ; this is Mabtdhara’s explanation of the 
doubtful word bhekuriyah: bhAm hi nakshatrdni kvrvanti ; for the consteh 
latious make light. 

41 Energies: or, Viands : Eggeling. 

42 Strong winged: as soaring to heaven. Guerdons: sacrificial fees; priestly 

honoraria. * 

43 Mind .* PrajApati is so called as Lord of Speech and Thought. 

44 He offers oblation with butter taken in five ladlings on the Head, or 
fore-part, of the War-chariot as it is held over the Ahavaniya fire. Prajdr 
pati: identified with Agni. 

45 He offers three Wind Libations, having caught the wind in his hol¬ 
lowed hands from outside the altar. Sea: meaning the sky. The Mamts’ 
own: the stormy region of mid-air. Seeker of aid: * affording protection ’: 
Eggeling ; this terrestrial world. 

46 He offers nine Lustrous oblations with formulas containing the word 
signifying light or lustre. Verses 46, 47 are repeated from XIII. 22, 23. 


168 TBS TEXTS QP TBS [BOOK XV1IL 

48 Give lustre to our holy priests, set lustre in our ruling chiefs: 
Lustre to Vaisyas, Sftdras : give, through lustre; lustre unto 

me. 

49 I ask this of thee with my prayer* adoring i thy worshipper 

asks this with his oblations. 

Varuna, stay thou here and be not augry : steal not our life 
from us, 0 thou Wide-Kuler. 

50 Heavendike is Warmth* Hail! Heaven-like is Arka, Hail! 

HeaVen-like is the Bright One, Hail! Heaven-like is Light, 
Hail! Heaven-like is Surya* Hail! 

51 I yoke with power and flowing butter Agni* divine, strong- 

pinioned, great with vital vigour. 

Through him may we approach the Bright One’s station, 
ascending to the loftiest sky, to heaven. 

52 With these thy two ne'er-wastiug feathered pinions where¬ 

with thou drivest fiends away, 0 Agni, 

Let us fly to the regions of the pious whither have gone the 
first-born ancieit Rishis. 

53 The Drop, the poverful, the falcon, righteous, impetuous 

bird borne on his golden pinions, 

Great, stedfast, settled in the habitation-“to thee be rever¬ 
ence ! Forbear to harm me ! 

54 Centre of earth, heaven's head art thou, essence of waters 

and of plants. 

Eternal, far-spread refuge. Hotnage to the Path 1 

55 Attached thou standest at \he head of all the world. Thy 

heart is in the sea, thy life is in the floods. Give water : 
cleave the reservoir. 

48 Through lustre : of thine own. 

49 He offers again with a formula addressed to Varuna, With whom Agni 
is now identified, taken from R. V. I. 24. 11. 

50 He offers the five Ark&svamedha-santati oblations, combining the wor¬ 
ship of Arka (Agni) and the Sun the deity of the Horse-sacrifice. 

51 The three following formulas are for the Agniyojana ceremony, the 
Yoking or Equipment of Agni, causing the sacrificial fire to blase up. Be¬ 
fore the recitation of the Pr&taranuv&ka or Morning Prayer, (see S. B. K 
XXVI. p. 229) he begins the ceremony by handling the midmost of the 
three enclosing-sticks and reciting the first formula. Bright One's; bradk* 
nasya ; the Suu's .* * the region of the bay' : Eggeling. 

52 He touches the right-hand stick. 

53 He touohea the left-hand stick. The Drop: or Indu, here meaning 
Agni. 

54 He now unyokes or frees the altar at the points where the sides of 
the triangle of enclosing-sticks touch the base, and recites two formulas* 
The Path : the Way that leads to heaven, that is, Agni. 

55 The reservoir : the receptacle of the waters of heaven. Paiyanga; the 

God of the Rain-oloud; here the water-laden cloud. •*'\ A . 



VMR8E 64.] WHITE YAJURVEDA. 169 

Help tt* with rain sent from the sky* Paijanya, firmament, 
or earth* 

56 By Bhrigtts and by Vasus hath prayer-granting sacrifice 
been paid. 

Come, Wealth* into the house of him our dear, our well- 
beloved one. 

67 May Agni, served with sacrifice and gifts* protect our offered 

food: 

This homage be Good-speed to Gods ! 

68 That which hath flowed from purpose or from judgment, or 

gathered from the wind or from the vision, 

Follow ye to the regiou of the pious whither have gone the 
first-botn ancient Rishis* 

69 To thee I trust this man, Celestial Dwelling! treasure which 

jatavedas shall bring hither. 

After you will the Sacrificer follow. Here recognize him in 
the highest heaven. 

60 Acknowledge him* ye Gods, in highest heaven. Ye who are 

present, know the shape he Weateth. 

When he approacheth by the God-ward pathways* reveal to 
him the meed of pious actions* 

61 Wake up, 0 Agni, etc.* as in XV. 54. 

62 Convey our sacrifice to heaven, etc., as iti XV. 55. 

63 With Darhha-bunch* with fencing-wood* with spoon* with 

altar, holy grass, 

With laud, lead this our sacrifice to go to heaVen amoug 
the Gods. 

64 Our gifts, our charitable grants* our pioUs works, our fees to 

priests, 

May the Omuific’s Agni set all this among the Gods in heaven. 

56 He make* two offerings called Samishtayajuses or Final Sacrificial 
Oblations and formulas* See VIII. 15, note. 

57 Good-speed : Stiagt ; see note on verse 21. 

58 He offers eight oblations with the dipningepooti, With a formula for 
each. Ancient Rishis: identified with the Vital Airs. The priests are ad¬ 
dressed and told to follow sacrifice, from whatever aoilrce It may have origin¬ 
ated. to the heaven, where the first-born Rishis, the earliest existences, 
are dwelling. 

59, 60 Taken with variations form A. V. VI. 123. 1, 2. 

60 Meed of pious actions: or full fruition of his wishes ; the recompense 
of sacrifices and good works on earth. 

61, 62 Repeated from XV. 54, 55. 

63 Darbka-bunch: the Prastara (see II. 2) which is placed on the Darhha 
grass covering the High Altar. 

64 The Omnijic's : that is Agni, or the Fire-altar, that belongs to Visva- 
karm&n or Praj&p&ti. 




170 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XVIII 

65 There where all never-failiug streams of honey and of butter 

flow, 

May Agni, Visvakarman’s own, place us in heaven among 
the Gods. 

66 Agni am I who know by birth all creatures. Mine eye is 

butter, in my mouth is nectar. 

I am the triple light, the region's meter: exhaustless heat 
am I, named burnt oblation. 

67 Praise-verses, sacrificial texts, and chanted hymns am I in name. 
Thou art the best of all the Fires among the fivefold race 

of man 

That burn upon this earth of ours. Speed thou us on to 
lengthened life. 

68 0 Iudra, for the strength that slays Vritra and conquers in 

the fight 

We turn thee hitherward to us. 

69 Thou, Indra, much-invoked, didst crush to pieces, KunAru f 

haudless fiend who dwelt with Dauus. 

Thou with might, Iudra, smotest dead the scorner, the foot¬ 
less Vritra as he waxed in vigour. 

70 0 Indra, beat our foes away, etc, as in VIII. 44. 

71 Like some dread wild beast roamiug on the mountain thou 

hast approached us from the farthest distance. 

Whetting thy bolt and thy sharp blade, 0 Indra, crush thou 
the foes and scatter those who hate us. 

72 To aid us let Vaisvanara come from the distance far away : 
Come Ag)ii, to our eulogies ! 

73 Sought in the sky, sought on the earth, sought after, all 

plants that grow on ground hath Agni entered. 

May Agni, may Vaisvanara with vigour, sought for, by day 
and uight from harm preserve us. 

66 The Sacrifices identifying himself with Agni, recites the text token 
from R. V. III. 26. 7. 

67 He regards himself as an incarnation of the three Vedas. Praisc-versea: 
of the Rigveda. Sacrificial texts: formulas of the Yajurveda. Chanted 
hymns: of the S&maveda- Thou: Agni, the fire of the completed fire-altar. 

68 He reverently approaches the completed fire-altar and recites the 
followiug formulary texts the first of which is taken from R. V. III. 37. 1. 

69 Taken from R. Y. II. 30. 8. Didst crush: ‘crush thou' : Eggeling. 
Kundru: the name of a demon of drought. Ddnus: a class of fiends. 
Scorner: of the Qods, Vritra. 

70 Repeated from VIII 44, taken from R. V. X. 152,4. 

71 Taken from R. V. X. 180. 2. 




VERSE 77.] WHITE YAJURVEDA. 171 

74 Help ns thut we may gain this wish, 0 Agni, gain riches, 

Wealthy One ! with store of heroes. 

Desiring strength from thee may we be strengthened, and 
win, Eternal! thine eternal glory. 

75 Approaching with raised hands and adoration, we have this 

day fulfilled for thee thy longing. 

Worship the Gods with most devoted spirit as Priest with 
no unfriendly thought, 0 Agni. 

76 Horne-hider Agni, India, and BrahmA, and bright Brihas- 

pati— 

May the All-Gods, one-minded, guard.our sacrifice iu happy 
place. 

77 Guard thou the Sacrificer’s men, 0 Youthfullest, etc., as in 

XIII. 52. 


74 Taken from R. V. YI. 5. 7. Help us: literally, With thy help may 
we gain, etc. 

7* Taken from R. V. III. 14. 5. 

76 Home-kider: that is, who frequently changes his dwelling-place. 

For the symbolical meaning of the Agnichayana or Construction of the 
Fire-Altar representing the restoration of the dismembered Agm-Praj&pati 
(who takes the place of Purusha, the Cosmic Man, R. V. X. 90), the 
author, by his great self-Sacrifice. of all creation, so as to enable him to 
repeat continually the sacrifice of himself and thus maintain or re-create 
the universe, see Eggeling, 3. B. E. XLUI. pp xiii.—xx. 



BOOK THE NINETEENTH. 


SwBBf with the sweet, I sprinkle thee with Soma, strong! 

With the strong, the nectar With the nectar, 

The honey-sweet with what is sweet as hodey* 

Soma att thou. Get dressed for the Affvius. Gfet dressed 
for Sarasrati. Get dressed for Indra the Good Deliverer.. 

2 Hence pour ye forth the flowing juice, Soma, best Sacrificial 

food. 

He who, man's friend, hath run Within the Waters hath with 
the pressiug-stones poured out tbe Soma. 

3 Purified by Vavu's strainer, Soma that has pasted away for¬ 

ward is Indra’s proper friend. 

Purified by Vayu's strainer, Soma that has passed awa/ 
backward is Indra's proper friend* 

4 By means of this eternal sieve may Sftrya't Daughter purify 
The Soma that flows forth from thee. 

5 Soma with W*ine, pressed, filtered for the banquet, cleanses 

priest, noble, brilliancy and Vigour. 

God, With the Bright give Deities enjoyment ; give food with 
flavour to the Sacrificer. 

Boohs XlX—X£[ Contain the formulas of the 9autr4nlaui, a sacrifice 
originally instituted to expiate and counteract the evil effects of excessive 
indulgence in Soma drinking. See X. 01. The ceremony is prescribed as 
a means of obtaining general eminence *, for a dethroned king to procure 
his restoration, for a Xshatriya to assure victory, for a VaiSya to acquire 
cattle and Wealth. It consists mainly in the offering, to the Astins, Saras' 
Vati and Indra, of Surft a spirituous liquor concocted of faskpa (husked 
rtce or young grass), tokmdn (green barley), and Idja (parched grain) ground 
up With some roots to serve as yeast, and the liquor of two Odauas or 
messes of rice, and Sy&m&ka or millet boiled in water, the mixture being 
called M&sara* The prototype of the sacrifice is the cure of Indra, by 
Sar&svatl and the Astins, when he Was suffering from oVer-iudulgence in 
his favourite beverage* The name is derived from Sutr&man, the Good 
Deliverer or Protector, Indra. See HUlebrandt, KitUal'Litteratur, pp. 
169-161. 

1 'thee: 0 Sur4* Soviet art thou: he addresses the Surfi Which by com¬ 
mixture and transubstantiation has sacrificially become Soma. 

2 He: Soma. Water*: with which the stalks are washed and made to 
swell. Mahtdhara supplies odhvatyuh (the Adhvaryu) as the understood 
nominative of * poured out ’. 

3 Cf. X. 31. Vdyu'i strainer : or cleansing power. Forviard: rejected 
through the mouth from the over-loaded stomach. 

4 Taken from U. V. IX. S&rya'e Daughter: ^raddhft or Faith. 

5 Wine: Suri. The Bright: Soma juice } ‘pure Vigouraccording ta 
Uahidhara. Flavour: clarified butter, etc. 



VERSE 11.] WHITE YAJURVEDA. 173 

6 What then f As men whose fields are fall of barley, etc., as 

in X. 32. 

Taken upon abase art thou. I take thee for the Aevin Pair. 

Thee for Sarasv&ti. Thee for Indra the Good Deliverer. 
This is thy home. For splendour thee. Thee for man’s 
vigour. Theo for strength. 

7 For each of you is made a God-appointed placeso grant to 

me a portion in the highest sphere. 

Sur& the strong art thou. This here is Soma, Entering 
thine own place do me no mischief. 

8 Taken upon a base art thop. Splendour of Asvins, Saras? 

vati’s manly vigour, might of fndra> 

This is thy home, f take thee for enjoyment* I take thee 
for delight, take thee for greatness. 

9 Thon art lustre: give me lustre* Thou art manly vigour : 

give me manly yigouF, 

Thou art strength: give me strength* Thou art energy f 
give me energy. 

Thou art passion ; Give me passion, Tbou art conquering 
might: give me conquering might, 

JO ^ay she, Vjshuchika, who guards these two, the tiger and 
the wolf, 

The lion and the winged hawk, may she guard this man 
from distress, 

11 When, a delighted boy, I bruised my mother as l sucked 
her breast, 

6 He takes three cups of njilk for ttye Aavfns, Sar&syati, and Indra. The 
first formula is taken fropa R. V. X. 131. 2, and repeated from X. 32 of this 
Veda. For splendour thee: the Agios' cup, * I take’ being understood. 
Thee for man's vigour: Sara 8 vail’8 cup. Thee for length; Indra’s cup. 

7 For eq,ch of you: Soma and Sura. God-appointed place: an altar 
Where the libations fre prepared, approved by the Deities to whom the 
offerings are made* 

8 He deposes the cups, one by one, with a formula for each, 

9 After the libation to the Alvins he throws wheat apd pounded fruit 
of the Jujube tree (Zijsipbus Jujujba) ipto the milk apd lays two blades of 
Darbha grass op the vessel that contains it. Thou : the milk libation, 
iStrength . . . energy .,. passion : represented respectively by wolfs, tiger's^ 
and lion’s hair miked with the Spri. 

10 He purifies the Sacrificer by stroking him with the tail-feathers of an 
<eagle or hawk once above and opce below the Waist. Vishflchikd: the 
deity pf cholera or diarrhoea, Guards: that is, does not attack. Thif 
man: the Sacrificer. 

11 ffe makes the Sacrificer look pt the fire and recite the text. Bruised: 
with my feet. Thereby: by looking at the fire which represents Agni. 
United: this part of the formula is repeated from IX. 4, the plural being 

aubstituted for the dual a* three cups instead of two are addressed. 



174 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK X/i 

Eree frotn my debt, 0 Agni, I become thereby. My parents 
are by me unharmed. 

United are ye all: with bliss unite me. Parted are ye, keep 
me apart from evil. 

12 The Asvins, the Physioians, Gods, stretched out the healing 

sacrifice, 

Sarasvatl with speech was a Physician, all with heroic powers 
investing India. 

13 Symbols of Diksha are grass buds, of Prayaniya sprouts of 

corn, 

Of Soma-purchasing fried grains are symbols, Soma-shoots 
a and meath. 

14 Atithya’s sign is M&sara, the Gharma’s symbol Nagnahu. 
Three nights with SutA poured, this is the symbol of the 

Upasads. 

15 Emblem of purchased Soma isParisrut, foaming drink effused: 
Iudra’s balm milked for Indra by the Asvius and Sarasvatt. 

16 The Sacrifice's seat is the throne’s symbol, the jar contain¬ 

ing Sura of the Altar. 

The mid-space is the northern Altar’s symbol: the cloth for 
filtering is the physician. 

17 Altar by Altar is produced, power, holy grass by holy grass* 
The stake is by the stake obtained, by Agni Agui carried 

forth. 

18 The Asvins are the Soma store, Sarasvatl the sacred hearth. 
For Indra formed is Iudra’s seat, the Matrons’ Hall, the 

house-lord’s fire. 


12 See X. 33, 34; XIX. first note ; R. V. X. 131. 4 ; Muir's Original 
Sanskrit Texts, V. 94. Healing sacrifice: the prototype of the Sautrfi- 
maul. Many miracles of healing are attributed to the Asvins, the divine 
Physicians, the heralds of light, who recreate the world of life after the 
darkness of night. See The Hymns of the Rigveda, Index. 

13 The purport of this and the eighteen following stanzas is to allow the 
dose interconnexion of the Sautr&manl with Soma sacrifice, the sacrificial 
elements, vessels, implements, lauds and hymns that are used in the for¬ 
mer being regarded as forms, types, symbols or reproductions of thoet 
employed in the latter. Dtkshl: Conseor&rion. Grass-buds: or young 
grass. See introductory note. Prdyantya: the name of an introductory 
libation at a Soma sacrifice. Meath: or honey. 

14 Atithya: the ceremonial reception of Soma when brought to the 
place of sacrifice. See V. 1—4 Mdsara: see introductory note. Gkurma: 
the caldron for hot libations. Nagnahu: a root used as yeast. Upasads : 
see V. 8. Parisrut : a kind of beer, prepared from concocted herbs and 
fermented. 

16 The mid-space: between the two altars, one for Soma and one for 
Surfi, used at the Sautr&m&ui sacrifice. The physician: who is to cure Indra. 

18 Sacred hearth: Agntdlira, where the sacrificial fire is kindled. Afo£ 
rows’ Hall: see IV. 34. House-lord's fire: the Gfirh&p.itya. 



VERSE 25.] WHITE YAJURVEDA. 175 

19 Orders he gains bj orders, by Apris Aprts of sacrifiee, 
Post-offerings by fore-offerings, and by calls of Vash&t Akutis. 

20 By victims he gains victims, by ground rice-cakes sacrifi¬ 

cial food, 

By metres kindling-verses, and Vashat-ealls by Inviting- 
prayers. 

21 Grain roasted, gruel, barley-meal, grains of rice roasted, milk 

and curd 

Are types of Soma: mingled milk, sweet whey, of sacrificial 
food. 

22 Type of parched corn is jujnbe-fruit; wheat of the roasted 

grains of rice ; Jujube the type of barley-meal, and Iudra- 
grains of gruel-groats. 

23 Symbol of milk are barley-graius, symbol of curd are jujube- 

fruits. 

Whey is the type of Soma, and milk-mixture type of 
Soma's pap. 

21 The Strophe is the cry, Bid hear! the answer is the antis¬ 
trophe. 

Sacrifice 1 is the Dhayya’s form, Prag&thas’ the Yaj&mahas. 
25 By verse-halves comes the Ukthas 9 type, Nivids by I’adas be 
obtains. 

The type of Sastras is obtained by Pranavas, Soma by milk. 

19 Orders: pfaiskas; liturgical directions given by a superior priest to 
his assistant. Aprts: a class of propitiatory hymns addressed to Agni 
under various forms and titles. See Rigveda, Index. Post-offerings; 
Anuydjas; oblations of clarified butter offered after the chief sacrifice. 
Fove-offerinys: praydjas; similar offering* preceding the chief sacrifice. 
AhtUis: oblations with fire. 

20 Kindling-verses: mmidkents ; recited on lighting, or adding fuel to 
the sacrificial fire. Inviting-prayer's: ydjyds; pronounced by the Hotar 
when oblations are poured into the fire. 

21 Mingled milk: a mixture of boiled and coagulated milk. 

22 Indra-grains: upavdkas , or Indra-yavas; seeds of the Wrightia 
Antidysenterica. 

23 Pap : chain ; an oblation of rice, barley, and pulse boiled with butter 
and milk. 

24 Strophe: stotriyd; a verse of eighty syllables used in certain cere¬ 
monies. Bid hear: the Adhvaryus call AstAvaya ! to the Agnidhra or 
Fire-kindler. The ansioei': of the Agnidhra, Astu sraushat, Yea, let him 
hear. Sacrifice l yaja , the imperative of the verb, addressed to Agni. 
Dhdyyi: the name of an additional verse inserted in a litany. Pragathas: 
certain combinations of two verses in different metres. Yajdmahas : recit¬ 
ations of R. V. X. 23. 1, beginning with Yaj iinaha indram, We worship 
Indra. 

25 L Hhas: recitations ; songs of praise. Nivids: short detached for¬ 
mulas of invocation. Padat: verse divisions; quarters of a stanza. Sas¬ 
tras: recitations ; hymns of praise. Pranavas: exclamations of the sacred 
mystic syllable OM. 



176 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK X/X 

26 Gained by the Asvins is the mom’s libation, Indra’s liba¬ 

tion of mid-day by Indra. 

Sarasvati obtains the third outpouring, the offering sacred 
to the Vi§ve Devas. 

27 By Vfiyu cups he gains the cups of Yayu, and by the basket 

gains the vat for Soma. 

By the two jars he gains two cleansing-vessels, and by the 
cooking-pot the pot for cooking. 

2$ By sacrificial texts are gained the Grahas, and by the Gra- 
has lauds and laud arrangements. 

By metres are obtained Ukt has and praise-songs, and by the 
S&ma-ehant the Ay&bhritba. 

29 Draughts he obtains by pouring out libations, and wishes 

by the ntterau.ee .of praises. 

By Sarnyu he obtains Patpisamyajas, and Consummation by 
Samishtayajus. 

30 He gains by vow of fasting Consecration, by Consecration 

gains the priestly guerdon. 

fie gains by priestly guerdon faith ; by faith comes know¬ 
ledge of the truth. 

31 So far the type of sacrifice was formed by Brahma and the 

Gods. 

All this he gains, when juice is shed, in the Santr&m&ni 
sacrifice. 

32 The rite with sacred grass, wine, store of heroes, the mighty 

ones speed on with adorations. 

May we, sweet-singing sacrifices, setting Soma mid Gods in 
heaven, giye joy to Indra. 


27 V$yu cup*: wooden Soma cups sacred to Vdyu the Wind^-God. Basket: 
sata; a sacrificial vessel made of reeds or cane. Trough for Soma: dro- 
nakalusa , a large wooden vessel jBeiving as a reservoir. Two jars: of Surl 
Two cleansing vmdjt: the Putabhfit apd the Adhav&niya; in the latter the 
Soma is shaken apd cleaned, and the former receives the purified juioe. 

28 Avqhhrith*: tfie expiatory bath of purification after sacrifice, to atOM 
for any defects in its performance. See IJI. 48. 

29 Droughts: grahas ; see VII, first note. IBafpyu; an oblation so called, 
meaning Fortunate. Patnisatpydjas: oblations of clarified butter offered 
to the Patnis (Consorts of the Gods), and to Soma* Trash tar, and Agal* 
Consummation f sumsthd; concluding form of the Soma sacrifice. Sea 
S. B E. XXVI. p. 393, note. Samishtayajus ; see XVIII. 56, note. Maht- 
dhara explains the second line differently by amplification of the text : By 
Samyu he obtains S imyu, by Patnt3amy&jas fie obtains PatntssmyAjaa, bf 
Consummation he obtains Consummation, by Samishtayajus fie obtains 
Samishtayajus. 

30 Vow of fasting: see I. 5, 

31 Brahmd: or Prajilpati, fiord of Creatures. He: the Saorifioer. Juktf 
Snr£ representing Soma. That is, the Sautrftman! becomes a Soma-sacrifist. 

32 Here the Adhvaryu offers three milk libations. Mighty ones: priests. 




WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


17T 


VERSE 38.] 

33 All essence o! thine own in plants collected, all strength of 

Soma when poured out with SuiA— 

Therewith impel with joy the sacrifice, Sarasvati, the Asvins, 
Indra, Agni. 

34 That which Sarfcsvati poured out for Indra, by Asvins 

brought from Namuchi the demon, 

This flowing drop, brilliant and full of sweetness, I drink 
and feed on here, the King, the Soma v 

35 Whatever portion of the savoury fluid is dinging here, 

what Indra drank with powers, 

That drop thereof with pure aud holy spirit I drink aud 
feed upon, the King, the Soma. 

36 To Fathers who claim Svadhi be Svadhfi, and homage ! 

To Grandfathers who claim Svadh& be Svadha and homage ! 
To Great grandfathers who claim Svadh& be Svadha and 
homage! 

The Fathers have eaten. The Fathers have rejoiced. The 
Fathers have been satisfied. Fathers, be yd purified. 

87 Cleanse me the Fathers who enjoy Soma ! Grandfathers 
make me elean ! 

May Great-grandfathers cleanse me with a sieve that brings 
a century. 

May my Grandfathers cleanse me, may my Great-grand¬ 
fathers make me clean. 

With sieve that brings a century may I obtain full length 
of life. 

38 Agni, thou pourest life: send down upon us food aud vigor¬ 
ous strength. 

Drive thou misfortune far away. 

33 With mortars (mortar-shaped cups) of Palasa wood the Pratiprasthttar 
offers libations of Snrft in the Southern fire and recites the formula address¬ 
ed to the liquor. Joy: the exhilaration produced by the spirituous draught. 

34 Namuehi: who had stolen it from Indra. See X. S3, and Muir, 0. S. 
Texts, V. p. 94, note, 

35 Here: in the cup whose contents have been offered to Indra. 

36 Here follow formulas for oblation and prayer to the Fathers or Manes 
of departed ancestors. Svadhi: food ; oblatiou ; also a sacrificial exclama¬ 
tion. The residue of the three SurA libations to the Asvins, Saras vat t, 
and Indra is now offered outside the enclosing-sticks, ou the coals of the 
Abavanlya fire, to Auoestral Spirits of three grades. 

37 A jar of SurA pierced with a hundred holes is hung over the Southern 
fire-place, and a sieve or strainer made of hair of horse, cow, goat, and 
wool, with gold, is placed beneath. As the liquor drops thereon the 
Sacrificer recites texts for his purification. 

38 Taken from R. V. IX. 66. 19. 

12 



17$ THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XIX 

39 Clause me the companies of Gods! May thoughts with 

spirit make me clean. 

Cleanse me ail thiugs that be 1 Do thou, 0 Jatavedas, nolake 
me clean. 

40 Purify me, 0 Agni, God, refulgent with thy pure bright 

sieve, 

With powers according to thine own. 

41 0 Agni, may the cleansing sieve, diffused through all thy 

fiery glow, 

Holy devotion, make me clean. 

42 May Pavamana with his sieve, Guest of all tribes, cleanse 

us to-day, 

He who is Cleanser make us clean. 

43 Savitar, God, by both of these, libation, purifying power, 
Purify me on every side. 

44 Dear to all Gods hath come the cleansing Goddess, she who 

contains these many smooth-backed figures. 

Through her may we in sacrificial banquets taking our plea- 
sure be the lords of riches. 

45 The Fathers who in Yuma’s realm are equal and unanim¬ 

ous— 

Their world is Svadha, reverence. To Gods let sacrifice be 
paid. 

46 Equals, unanimous, my folk yet living among those who 

live— 

On me be set their glory trough a hundred years in this 
our world, 


39 Cf. R. V. IX. 67. 27. 

40 Sieve: the purifying power of fire. . . 

41 Taken, with the exception of the last Pftda, from R. V. IX. 87. 23. 

42 Taken from R. V. IX. 67. 22. Pavamina: Soiru undergoing purifl* 
cation. Clec^nsei': Potar, Cleaning-Pi jest. 

43 Taken from R. V. IX. 67. 25. 

44 A Pravahlik'l or Enigmatical Verse, Cleansing Goddess: what God¬ 
dess is intended is uncertain. Mahtdhara sugests the Surd*Jar, or thtf 
Sautr4m»nt, or V;Vv, Speeoh, or the Ukli* (XI. 16). If the Sur'.J&r is i*' 
tended, tile smooth-backed figures , or bodies, may be the drops which fall 
from its hundred holes. Cf. A. V. VI. 62. 2, from which, with a variation 
the seoond half of the verse is taken. 

45 He offers oblation, Their world: meaning, aooording to Mahldhan£ 

in their world. -v 

46 He offers an oblation of clarified butter. 


i 



WHITE YAJURVEDA . 


VERSE W ] 


m 


47 I have heard mention of two several pathways, way of the 

Fathers, way of Gods and mortals. 

On these two roads eaoh moving creature travels, each 
thing between the Father and the Mother. 

48 May this my sacrifice bring store of children, with ten 

brave sons, full-couipanied, for welfare— 

Life-winuing, winning oifspriug, winning cattle, winuing this 
world of ours and peace and safety. 

. May Agni make my progeny abundant. Do ye confer food, 
milk, and niauly vigour. 

49 May they ascend, the lowest, highest, midmost, the Fathers 

who deserve a share of Soma. 

May Fathers win) have gained the world of spirits, gentle 
and righteous, aid us when we call them. 

AO Oar Fathers are Angirascs, Navagvas, Atharvans, Bhfigus, 
who deserve the Soma. 

May these the holy look on us with favour: may we enjoy 
their gracious loving kindness. 

51 Gur ancient Fathers who deserve the Soma, who came, most 

noble, to our Soma bauquet— 

With these let Yama, yearning with the yearning, rejoicing 
eat our offerings at his pleasure. 

52 Thou, Soma, art preeminent fair wisdom; along the straight- 

est path thou art our leader. 

Our prudent Fathers by thy wisdom, Soma, dealt out 
among the Gods their share of treasure. 

53 For our sage Fathers, Soma Pavamaua, of old performed by 

thee their sacred duties. 

Fighting unvanquished, open the* enclosures i enrich us 
with large gifts of steeds and heroes. 


4 T He offers an obi at ion of milk. The formula is taken from R. V. X. 
S8v 15. Two several pathways: the way to- the other world and the way 
back, regarded as distinct. The Father and tloe Mother : heaven and earth. 

48 The sacrificer djinks the remains of the milk oblation. Sacrifice : 
sacrificial food. Do ye: he adilressee the officiating' priests, 

49> The formula is taken from, R Y. X. 15. 1. Ascend : rise to higher* 
rank and obtain the best oblation, according to Silyaua. Lowest , highest , 
midmost: dwellers on< earth, in heaven, in sky ; Barhishads, So mu vats, 
Agnishvlttas. Verses 49-54 are addressed to-the highest class. 

50 Angiruses , etc: semi-divine members of half-mythical priestly families 
of the most ancient times. The formula is taken from* R: V. X. 14. 

51 Taken from R. V. X. 15; 8. 

52. Taken from R. V. L 91. 1. Prudent: ‘skilled in sacrificing’ :: 
Mahidhara. 

53 Tak^n from R. V. IX. 96. 11. The enclosures the obstructions whichi 
keep the seasonable rain from falling. 



180 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XIX. 

54 Associate with the Fathers thou, 0 Soma, hast spread thy¬ 

self abroad through earth and heaven. 

So with oblation let us serve thee, Indu, and so let us be¬ 
come the lords of riches. 

55 Fathers who sit on Bacred grass, come help us : these offer¬ 

ings we have made for you; accept them. 

So come to us with most auspicious favour, and give us 
health and strength without a trouble. 

56 I have attained the gracious-minded Fathers, have gained 

a son and progeny from Vishnu. 

They who enjoy pressed juices with oblation, seated on 
sacred grass, come oftenest hither. 

57 May they, the Fathers, worthy of the Soma, invited to their 

favourite oblations 

Laid on the sacred grass, come nigh and listen i may they 
be gracious unto us and bless us. 

58 May they oitr Fathers whom the flames have tasted, worthy 

of Soma, come on God-ward pathways. 

Enjoying at this sacrifice their portion, may they be gracious 
unto us and bless us. 

59 Fathers whom Agui’s flames have tasted, come ye nigh: 

ye kindly leaders, take ye each your proper place. 

Eat sacrificial food presented on the grass: grant riches 
with a multitude of hero sons. 


54 Taken from R. V. VIII. 48. 18, Jndu: Soma. 

55 Three formulas are now addressed to the Barhishads, the Manes who 
sit on the sacred grass that covers the altar and the floor of the sacrificial 
hall. The first formula is taken from R. V. X. 15. 4. 

56 Taken from R. V. X. 15 . 3 . Attained : won the presence of. Son tad 
progeny: the meaning appears to be, as suggested by Prof. Ludwig in hil 
commentary on the original hymn, that the sacrificer has discharged hh 
obligation to the Fathers by begetting a son through the favour of Yiahdl 
(R. V. X. 184 . 11 ). Still vikramanam: is an unintelligible expression M 
this connexion. Another explanation, says Prof. Lodwig, would be to tab 
napdtam: a* fire, and vikramanam vishnoh: [Vishnu’s striding forth ] * 
the sun. Prof. Grassmann translates: ‘ die Kinder und den hocbstfli 
Schritt des Vischnu ’ ; the children and the highest stride of VishnA 
Mahidhara takes vishnoh to mean ‘of the sacrifice,* and napdtam aaS 
vikramanam as the two paths leading to the Gods and to the Fathers. 

57 Taken from R. V. X. 15. 11. 

58 Four formulas follow addressed to the Agnishvftttas, those whoss 
bodies have beeu tasted or consumed by Agni or the Are of the funanl 
pile. 

59 Taken from R. V. X. 15. 11. „ 



VgSSX 06/J • WHITE YAJURVKDA. 181 

60 For those who, burnt with fire or not cremated, joy in their 

portion in the midst of heaven, 

May the Self-Ruler form the world of spirits and this their 
body as his pleasure wills it. 

61 We call the Agnishvat.tas, true to seasous, those who drank 

Soma in the N&ra&iipsa. 

Prompt to give ear to us be they, the sages, and then let 
us be lords of wealth and treasure. 

62 Bowing the bended knee and seated southward, accept ye, 

all, this sacrifice with favour. 

Injure us not for any Bin, 0 Fathers, which we through 
human frailty have committed. 

63 Lapped in the bosom of the purple Mornings give riches 

to the man who brings oblation. 

Grant to his sons a portion of your treasure, and, present, 
give us energy, ye Fathers. 

61 0 Agni Kavyavahana, cause us to praise before the Godft^ 
As our associate meet for lauds, wealth which e’eu thou re- 
putest wealth. 

65 May Agni, Kavya bearer, who hath worshipped Fathers 

true to Law, 

Announce to Gods and Fathers these our sacrificial offerings. 

66 Thou. Airni Kavya-bearer, when entreated, didst bear the 

offerings which thou madest fragraut, 

And gavest to the Fathers who did eat them with Sv&dha. 
Eat, thou God, the gifts we bring thee. 


60 Taken, with variations, from R V. X. 15. 14. SelfRuler: King of 
the Departed; Yatna. World of spirits: as unit ini; a difficult word of 
somewhat uncertain meaning S&yana joins it with tanrani aud explains 
the two words by ‘ the boJy that leads t<> life’, * that body that is eudowed 
with breath ’: Wilson. * Grant thou, 0 King, that their body may take 
that life which they wish for’, is Prof. Max Mill lei’s translation of the 
corresponding portiou of the original verse in which Yaina is addressed. 
See India, What can it Teach us! p. 227. 

61 True to seasons: coining at the appointed times for their libations. 
Wdrdfaqisa: a cup containing Soma juice dedicated to Nar&samsa, Agni 
the Praise of Men, or Soma, or, as here, the Fathers. Cf. VIII. 58. 

62 Taken from R. V. X. 15. 6. This and the following formula from 
R. V. X. 15. 7 are addressed to all three classes of Mauee. 

64 Taken, with a variation, from R. V. V. 20. 1. Kavya-vdkana: bearer 
of oblations called Kavya to a class of Manes known also by that title. 

65 Taken, with variations, from R. V. X. 16. 11. 

66 Taken from R. V. X. 15. 12. Svadhd: the sacrificial exclamation, 
or, their own allotted portion. 


.1 



WHITE YAJURYEDA . 


183 


VERSE 82.] 

74 The Hamsa throned in light drank up by metre Soma from 

the floods. 

By Law, etc. 

75 Prajapati by Brahma drank the essence from the foaming 

food, the princely power, milk, Soma juice. By Law, etc. 

76 The generative part enters the yoni: it leaves aside the 

retas and the mtitra . 

The caul-invested embryo leaves by its birth the covering 
fold*. By Law, etc. 

77 Viewing both forms Prajapati gave truth and falsehood 

different shapes. 

Praj&pati assigned the lack of faith to falsehood, faith to 
truth. By Law, etc. 

78 By holy lore Prajapati drank up both forms, pressed and un¬ 

pressed. 

By Law, etc. 

79 Seeing the foaming liquor’s sap, Prajapati with the bright 

drank out the bright, the milk, the Soma juice. By Law, 
etc. 

80 Wise, with mind, lead, and thread of wool the sages twine 

an amulet. 

Sarasvatt, Savitar, Varuna, the Asvins span sacrifice and 
healed his form for lndra. 

81 This his immortal shape with mighty powers three Deities 

bestowing gifts compounded. 

His hair they made with sprouts of grass and barley, and 
roasted graiu with skin and flesh supplied him. 

82 His inner shape Sarasvati arranges aud, borne on bright 

paths, the Physician Asvins: 

With M\vsara8 and sieve his bone aud marrow, as on the 
Oxen’8 hide they lay the liquor. 


74 The Hum*a : the Swan, the Sun who floats through the sky. Cf. R. 
V. IV. 40. 1. By metre: with his rays in the shape of the metres of tlie 
Veda. 

75 Brahma: sacred lore in the shape of the GAyatri. 

78 Prested and impressed: According to Mahidhara, Soma and milk or the 
foaming liquor parisrut. 

80 With bulls’ hoofs— or vessels in their shape—he offers thirty-two obla¬ 
tions of fat or marrow. The sages: as skilful men make an amulet as a 
protective power, so the Deities mentioned span or spread out a remedial 
sacrifice to cure lndra of his sickness (see introductory note), and recreat¬ 
ed his body as described iu the verses that follow. Lead: employed as a 
charm against demons and sorcery. See A. V. I 16. 2; XII. 2.1,19, 20,53. 

' 81 Three Deities : the Asvins and Sarasvatt. 

82 Mdsaras : see introductory note. Liquor: SurA. 


i 



184 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XIX. 

83 By thought Saras vat! with both Nasatyas forms lovely trea¬ 

sure and a be uiteous body. 

Like shuttle through the loom the steady ferment mixes 
the red juice with the foaming spirit. 

84 By milk they generated bright immortal, productive seed, 

by Sura seed from urine, 

Chasing afar folly and ill intention, crude food and wiud 
and meat that loads the stomach. 

85 Heart with his heart Indra Good Guardian gendered : with 

rice-cake Savitar gave truth its being. 

Varani, doctoring the lungs and liver, forms, as with V&yu 
cups, the gall an 1 kidneys. 

86 Cooking-pots pouring honey were the entrails: like a well- 

milking cow the p ins were bowels. 

A hawk’s wing was the spleen: through mighty powers the 
stool as mother was navel and belly. 

87 The pitcher was the father of the rectum by powers, the 

womb which first contained the infant. 

Plain was the hundred-streaming fouut as penis: the jar 
poured forth libations to the Father. 

88 His face the basket, thence his head; the strainer his 

tongue, bis mouth Sarasvati and Asvins. 

The Oh ipya was his rump, his leech the filter, the bladder 
was his penis keen with ardour. 

89 Asvins with both cups made his eye immortal, the goat and 

cooked oblation gave it keenness. 

With wheat eyelashes and with jujube eyebrows they clothe 
as ’twere a black and brilliant figure. 

90 The sheep, the ram to give his nostril vigour, the immortal 

path of breath by both libations. 

By Indra-grains and sacrificial jujubes Sarasvati produced 
through-breath and nose hairs. 

83 NUatyas: a title of the Asvins, explained by Indian Commentator* 
a* ‘not untrue na-asatya. See Mtcdouell, Vedio Mythology, p. 49. For* 
merit: Nagnahu, the root used ah yeast. See verse 14. 

85 Truth: Indra’s quality of truth fulness. Vdyucups: See verse 27. 

87 The pitcher: or jar, for holding Sort. The infant: in the shape of 
the Sur4 contained in it. Fount: the pitcher. See verse 37. 

88 The basket: see verse 27. Chupya: a kiud of saorifioial vessel, the 
use of which is not explained. 

89 Both cups: libations offered to the Pair. The goat: offered in saori- , 
fice. They: the Asvins. Black and brilliant figure: the eye of Indra. 

90 The ram : sacred to Sarasvatt. now offered in sacrifice. By both libo* 
tions: ‘ was made ’ understood. Cf. XXI. 49. 




VERSE 95.] WHITE YAJURVEDA . 185 

91 The bull fur strength made Indra’s form : the immortal 

hearing for both his ears by two libations. 

Barley and sacred grass composed his eyebrows: from his 
mouth came the jujube aud sweet honey. 

92 Hair of the wolf was on his waist aud body : the beard upon 

his face was hair of tigers. 

Lion’s hair were his locks, for fame and beauty, worn on 
his head, his crest and sheen and rigour. 

93 The A twins, Leeches, joined his limbs and body, Sarasvati 

put limbs and frame together, 

Giving the form and vital power of Indra, hundredfold, 
deathless and delightful lustre. 

94 Sarasvati, as Consort of the Asvins, bears in her womb the 

nobly-fashioned Infant. 

King Vanina with waters* wealthy essence begetting Indra 
iu the floods for glory. 

95 Splendour of victims, powerful oblation, honey and meath 

with milk and foaming liquor, 

Healing Sarasvati effused, and Asvins; from pressed and 
unpressed Soma, deathless Indu. 

91 Jujube and sweet honey: his saliva and rheom : Mahldhara. 

94 Infant: Indra whom she has helped to recreate. 

95 Pressed and unpiessed : parisrut and milk. Soma: *was produced’ 
understood. 




BOOK THE TWENTIETH. 


Birth place of princely power art thou: centre art thou 
of princely power. 

Harm not thyself: do me no harm. 

2 Varuna, Law’s maintainer, hath sat down, etc^ as in X. 27. 

Save me from death. Save me from lightuiug. 

3 Thee, by the radiant Savitar’s impulsion, with arms of 

Asvius, with the bands of P&shau, 

With leech-craft of the Asvina, I besprinkle for splendour, 
for the lustre of a Brahman ; 

With leech-craft of Sarasv&ti, besprinkle for manly vigour 
and for food to feed thee; 

Besprinkle thee, by special power of Indra, for strength of 
body and for fame and glory. 

4 Thou art Ka. Noblest Ka art thou. Thee for the state and 

rank of Ka. 

Sumangala l Susloka! Satyarajan ! 

5 My head be grace, my mouth be fame, my hair and beard 

be brilliant *heen 1 

My breath be King and deathlessness, mine eye Sole Lord, 
mine ear the Prince ! 

6 My tongue be bliss, my voice be might, my mind be wrath, 

my rage self-lord! 

Joys be my fingers, and delight my members, conquering 
streugt h my friend ! 

The SautrAmant is continued. An Asandt or Sacrificer’s seat or stool 
(see XIX. 16, 86) representing a throue, is placed between the two altars, 
two of its legs being on the southern and two ou the northern ground A 
black-antelope’s skin is spread over it on which the Sacrificer sits and re¬ 
cites the formulas. Thou : 0 Asandt. 

2 Varuna: the moral Governor of the world, typifying a King. The 
formula, taken from R. V. I. 26 10, is repeated from X. 27. Preserve me : 
he puts a silver disc under his left foot as a charm agaiust death, and a 
golden one under the right to protect him from lightning. 

3 The Adhvaryu besprinkles the Sacrificer with the remains of the liba¬ 
tions of fat which are made to ruu dowu to his mouth. 

4 Ka: or Who?; Prajfipati. See VII 29. Snmahga!^ etc .: meaning. 
Auspicious. Fairf&med, Having-areal-King; ritual names of the attendants 
whom the Sacrificer is made to summon. 

5 The Sacrificer touches all his members and bodily parts one after aa* 
other, and reciteB the benedictory formulas. 




TERSE 15.] WHITE YAJVRTEDJL 1ST 

7 Let vny two arms be Indra’s power, mj bands be deed of 
manly might, my soul and breast be princely rule 1 

<8 My ribs be royal government, my belly, shoulders, neck, 
w»d hips, 

Thighs, elbows, knees, the people, yea, my members univer¬ 
sally • 

9 My navel intellect, etc., etc. ... 

Duty aiu i in legs and feet, established King among the 
folk. 

10 I take ray stand on princely power and Kingship, on cows 

am I dependent, and on horses. 

On memI)er8 I depend, and on the body, on vital breath 
dependent and on welfare, on heaven and earth aud 
sacrifice dependent. 

11 May Deities, eleven threes, the three and thirty bounteous 

Ones 

Whose House-Priest is Brihaspati, by impulse of bright 
Savitar, the Gods protect me with the Gods. 

12 May the first Gods with the second, the second with the 

third, the third with Truth, Truth with Sacrifice, Sacri¬ 
fice with sacrificial texts, sacrificial texts with Samans, 
Samans with praise-verses, praise-verses with fore and 
after-sentences, fore sentences with inviting-texts, invit¬ 
ing-texts with Vas hat-calls, Vashnfc calls with oblations, 
and oblations, fulfil my desires, Earth ! All-hail! 

13 Mv hair is effort and attempt, my skiu is reverence and 

approach. 

My flesh is inclination, wealth my bone, my marrow rever¬ 
ence. 

14 Gods. Deities, whatever fault of onrs have stirred the wrath 

of Gods, 

May Agni set me free from that iniquity and all distress. 

15 If in the day-time or at night we have committed acts of sin, 
May Vayu set uie free from that iniquity and all distress. 

10 He steps down on a black-antelope’s skin. 

12 Earth!: Bhfth ; a mystical exclamation used in sacrifice. Cf. III. 5. 

13 The Sacrificer drinks the remainder of the Grabs or libation, and 
recites the formula attributing all controlling powers and influences to the 
constituent elements of his body. Reverence and approach: that is, ap¬ 
proached with reverential intentions. Reverence ; paid to me by others. 

14 The Avabbritha or Purificatory Ceremony is begun, by floating a jar 

of.M4.sara (see XIX., introductory note) in water, and reciting the pres¬ 
cribed formulas. ■ 



m TffE TEXTS OP THE [BOOK XX. 

16 If when awake or in our sleep we have committed aots of 

sin, 

May Surya set me free from that iniquity aud all distress. 

17 Each fault in village or in wild, company or corporeal sense, 
Each sinful act that we have done to Sudra or Arya, or to 

either s disadvantage, e’en of that siu thou art the expi¬ 
ation. 

18 Waters, Inviolable ones, etc. Said to be repeated from 

VI. 22. 

0 ever-moving Cleansing Bath, eto. Repeated from III. 48. 

19 Thy heart is in the flood, etc. Repeated from VIII. 25. 

To us let Waters, etc. Repeated from VI. 22. 

20 As one unfastened from a stake, or cleansed by bathing 

after toil, 

As butter which the sieve hath purged, let water clean me 
from my sin. 

21 Looking upon the loftier light above the darkness we have 

come 

To Surya, God among the God$ the light that is moat ex¬ 
cellent. 

22 The waters l this day have sought, and to their essence 

have we come. 

Agni, come hither rich in milk, splendour and brilliancy 
bestow on me, aud progeny and wealth. 

23 A brand art thou : fain would we thrive. Fuel art thou 

and splendour : give me splendour. 

Earth comes again, the Dawn, the Sun. This Universe all 
comes again. 

May l possess Vaisvanara’s light, may I attain my vast desires. 
Earth 1 All-hail 1 


17 Tn village or in wild, etc.: cf. III. 45. Ary a : one of the third c*ste; 
a Vaisya. To either's disadvantage : against the interest or wishes of tha 
Sacrifioer or his wife, according to Aiahidhara. Thou: the jar of M&sara. 

18 This beginning of a verse is the reading of the Taittirtya recension, 
the Black Yajurveda, differing slightly from the passage referred to. See 
S. B. E. XXVI. p. 206, note. 

20 Taken, with a variation (*water’ for ‘all’) from A. V. VI. 115. 3. 

21 Taken from R. V. I. 50. 10. 

22 Varied from R. V. I. 23. 24. 

23 He takes np a piece of wood and lays it on the Ahavantya fire. BariJk 
here the Sacrificer offers an oblation of clarified butter. Cone* ogam: 
samivartti; according to Mahldharasniafyalt, is lost, perishes. Earthf 3- 
see verse 12. 



WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


169 


VERSE SI] 

24 0 Agni, Master of the Vow, on thee I lay the kindling* 

stick. 

To the fast-vow and faith I come. I, consecrated, kindle 
thee. 

25 Fain would I know that holy world where Deities with 

Agui dwell, 

Where priestly rauk and princely power together in accord* 
auce move. 

26 Fain would I know that holy world where want and languor 

are uukuowu, 

Where in complete accordance move Indra and V&yu side 
by side. 

27 Let thy shoot be unite 1 with his tendril, joint combine 

with joint. 

Imperishable sap for joy, thine odour be the Soma's guard ! 

28 They pour it out, they sprinkle it, they scatter it, they 

make it pure. 

In the brown SutA’s ecstasy he says What art thou ? What 
art thou ? 

29 Indra, at morn accept our cake accompanied with grain and 

groats, with wheaten bread and hymns of praise. 

30 To Indra sing the lofty hymn, Maruts 1 that slayeth Vfitra 

best, 

Whereby the Holy Ones created for the God the radiant 
light that never dies. 

31 Adhvaryu, on the straining-cloth pour thou the Soma press* 

ed with stones : 

Purify it for ludr&'s drink. 

32 The Sovran Lord of living things, he upon whom the worlds 

depend, 

Mighty, the mighty's King—by him I take thee, take thee 
on myself. 

24 He lays three kindling-sticks on the Ahavantya fire, and recites three 
formulas. Master of the Vow : see I. 5. 

27 The Sur4 is addressed and mingled with the Soma. Thy shoot: the 
part thou hast iu the mixture. His : the Soma's part. 

28 He: Indra, when he tastes Sura instead of his accustomed S^ma. 

29 A rice-cake is offered to Indra with a formula taken from K. V. VIIL 
78. l * 

30 Maruts: chanters of their thunder-psalm ; here meaning the loud- 
voiced sin tiers of the hymn. The light divine : the Sun, which the Vfeve 
Devas or All-Gods generated or created for Indra. 

32 Thee: the thirty-third fat or marrow libation, completing the pres¬ 
cribed offerings to the thirty-three Gods, which he takes up iB a bull's hoof 
vessel. 




TOT T2TE TEXTS OF THE [BOOX XT. 

33 'Taken upon* a base art thou. Thee for the Asviua. This- is 

thy home, etc. 

34 Guard of my breath and outward breath, the guardian of 

mine eye and ear, 

AHt-healer of my voice* tboi® art the moliifier of my mindU 

35 Invited I feed upon thee invited, 

Whom Asvirrs, whom Saiasvaii, whom Indira^ Good Protec¬ 
tor, made. 

Sd Kindled in forefront of the Mornings, Indira with, forward, 
light, long-active, waxing mighty, 

With three and'thirty Godls* the Thunderwreldier, emote 
Yritra dead and threw the portals open. 

3 T Son of Himself, the Plraise of Men, the Hero* measuring out 
the sacrificial stations, 

Rich in bull's' fat,, anointing with sweet butter*. wise* bright 
with gauds of gold, he sacrificethi 
38 Lauded by Gods,. Lord of Bay Steeds,. the Helper* showing: 
his greatness, worshipped with oblations; 

Port-render, Cowpeu-cleaver, Thunderwielder,. may he ap^ 
proach our sacrifice rejoicing. 

39- May ludra, Lord ofBays, sit by direction eastward on earth 
accepting our oblntioH,. 

And sacred grass, fair, far-spread, widely-stretchings.anoint¬ 
ed by Adityas and by Vasus. 

4-)' To the strong Indra go the sounding Portals* datnes with at 
goodiy huebrtnd*, swiftly moving !: 

Well-manned, divine, wide be the Doors thrown open* ex¬ 
panding in their greatness for the Hero t 

33 Repeated from X. 32. 

34 The officiating priests inhale the odour of. the remains of the oblation* 
33 The Asdh vary if a part of the ceremony is fiuished, and the Ho tar now 

begins to officiate. The portals of the rainrdoud, which, the demon, of* 
drought had< obstructed; 

37 This and' the seven following verses form- an Apili or propitiatory 
hymn constituting the Inviting.-prayers at the- praytijtis :■ or fore-offering* 
of an animal'sacrifice They are addressed-to a series of Deities or-deified. 
objects, all. of which are regarded by Sly ana as manifestations of Agni. See 
The Hymns of the Rigveda, Ihdbx. Son of Himself : or, Tanuna(>4t, Fire# 
lighted from Fire* a title of Agni. The PYnise of Mtn :■ or Desire of Men,. 
Narlsams* ; Agni. Some families must invoke Tan..nap it, and.others Narft- 
samsa as their tutelary Deity. 

38 Indra i3 invited to- the sacrifice. Fort-rendbr: splitting the cloud- 
castles of the demons of drought. Cowpen oleaven-: o|wner. of the stores o£ 
fertilizing rain. 

39 On earth: on the sacrificial ground; 

40 PortvUs ; of the sacrificial hall. See R.. V,. IL 3. 5i 




VERSE 4&1 WHITE YAJURVEHA. 191 

41 Dawn and Night, lofty, sapfnl, richly-yielding, fair showing, 

as they weave with varied colour 
The long-extent!ed thread in concert, worship the God of 
Gods, the lofty Hero Indra. 

42 The two first pleasant-voiced celestial Hotars, arranging 

rites for man in sundry places, 

At head of sacrifice sfablishing Indra, increase the eastern 
light with sweet oblation. 

4$ Thriving by sacrifice may the three Bright Ones, taking de¬ 
light like wedded dames in Indra, 

SUra&vati,. Id\, BM&ratt all-surpassiug, with milk preserve 
our sacred thread unhroketi. 

44 M iy Tvashtar coming from afar, the active, give, strength 

and plenty to strong glorious Indra, 

And strong, prolific, worshipping, the Mighty at sacrifice’s 
head give the Gods honour. 

45 Let the divine Stake, like an Immolator^ bind, as one 

ordered, to himself the victim, 

And, filling Indra’s belly with oblations, season ti>e sacrifice 
with sweets and butter. 

4fi Indra the Bull, swift conqueror, wildly rushing bull-like to 
meet the Indu of the droppings— 

Delighting in a mind that scatters, fatness, let the immortal 
Gods rejoice in Svaha. 

47 May India come to- us for our protection, here, lauded 

Hero, he our feast-companion. 

May he whose powers are many, waxen mighty, cherish, 
like Dyaus, the sovran sway of princes. 

48 From near or far away may mighty Indra, giver of 

succour, come for our protection, 

Lord of men, armed with thunder, with the Strongest, 
slaying his foes iu conflict, in the battles. 


41 Cf. R. V. II. 3. & Long extended thread r their perpetual course of 
succession to each other. 

42 Two .... Hatctn'S: Agni and Vftyw, according to Mabidhara. Accord¬ 
ing to Slyana, two Agiiis, terrestrial and firmament*]. 

43 Tin\e Bright Ones: or, Goddesses, connected with sacrifice. See 
R V. II. 3. 8. 

45 Stake : Vanaspati, the Tree; the Sacrificial Stake regarded as a form 
of Agni. 

Immolator : the priest who slaughters the victim. 

46 Indu of the droppings Soma counected with the dripping fat or 
marrow. 

47 Taken from R. V. IV. 21 1. 

48 Taken from R. V. IV. 20. 1. The Strongest: the Maruts. 



M THE TEXTS OP THE [BOOR XX. 

49 May Indra come to us with Tawny Coursers, inclined to ua, 
to favour and enrich ub. 

May Maghavan, loud-voiced and wielding thunder, stand by 
us at this sacrifice, in combat. 

00 Indra the Rescuer, Indra the Helper, Hero who listens at 
each invocation, 

Sakra I call, Iudra invoked of many. May Indra, Bounte¬ 
ous Lord, prosper and bless us. 

51 May helpful Indra as our Good Protector, Lord of all trea¬ 

sures, favour us with succour, 

Baffle our foes and give us rest and safety, and may we be 
the lords of hero vigour. 

52 May we enjoy the grace of him the Holy, yea, may we dwell 

in his auspicious favour. 

May helpful Indra as our Good Preserver drive from us even 
from afar, our foemen. 

53 Come hither, Indra, with Bay Steeds, joyous, with tails like 

peacock plumes. 

Let no men check tby course as fowlers stay the bird : pass 
o'er them as o'er desert lands. 

54 Verily the Vasishfhas hymn with praises Indra the mighty 

One whose arm wields thunder. 

Praised, may he guard our wealth in men and cattle. Ye 
Gods, preserve us evermore with blessings. 

55 Fire hath been kindled, Alvins Twain ! the Gharma warmed, 

the Radiant pressed, 

Here the Milch-Cow Sarasvati hath poured bright Soma, 
Indra's own. 

56 When Soma flows Sarasvati and both the Asvins, Leeches 

and 

Body-guards, bear to Indra strength by passage through 
the realms of air. 


49 Taken from R. V. IV. 20. 2. Maghavan: the Bounteous Lord, Indra. 

50—52 Taken from R. V. VI. 47. 11—13. 

53 R. V. III. 45 1. 

54 R. V. VII. 23. 6. 

55 The Radiant: or the Ruler, the Prince ; Soma. Twelve propitiatory 
verses follow in praise of the Asvins and Sarnsvatt. The Asvins, as the 
divine Physicians, attend Iudra as a matter of course, but Sarasvatfs pert 
in his cure is not so easily accounted for. According to the Satapathe- 
Br&hmana, V. 5. 4. 16, Sarasvati here is Vftk, Speech, the healing Word. 
Prof. Weber suggests the rationalistic explanation that Sarasvati the river, 
that- is, cold water (Amrit is in the waters, in the waters healiug medicine. 
R. V. I. 23. is referred to. 




VERSE 66.] WHITE YAJURVEDA. 193 

57 When Soma flowed the Asvins Twain, the Leeches, brought 

sweet medicine, 

With Men’s Desire Sarasvat! for Indra, Soma, Nagnahu. 

58 Worshipped, Sarasvati bestowed on Indra, senses, manly 

power. 

The Asvins, through oblations paid, combined food, energy, 
and wealth. 

59 The Asvins brought from Namuchi pressed Soma bright 

with foaming juice. 

Sarasvati with sacred grass brought that to Indra for his 
drink. 

60 Sarasvati and Indra with the Asvins Twain milked out 

desires 

From heaven and earth, the regions, the resounding and 
expansive doors. 

61 Ye Asvins, Dawn and Night, by day and in the evening, fair 

of hue, 

Acco-dant, with Sarasvati, deck Indra with surpassing 
powers. 

62 Guard us, 0 Asvins, through the day, guards us by night, 

Sarasvati. 

Celestial Hotars, Leeches! both guard Indra when the juice 
is pressed. 

63 The Asvins, and the Three, apart, Sarasvati, Idl, Bharat?, 
As drink to gladden Iudra, poured strong Sonia with the 

foaming juice. 

64 The Asvins, our Sarasvati, and Tvashtar, when the juice 

was shed, 

Gave Indra balm, yea, mead as balm, glory and fame and 
many a shape. 

65 Praising with foaming liquor at due times, Indra, Yanaspati, 
Sarasvatias cow gave forth sweet beverage with the Asvins 

Twain. 

66 Asvins. to Indra ye with cows, with Masara aud foaming 

drink 

Gave, with Sarasvati—All hail!—the pressed-out Soma juice 
and mead. 


57 Men's Desire : or the Praise of Men, l>arjsam6a, Agni. Sacrifice, ac¬ 
cording to Mahtdhara. Nagnahu: the drug used for fermenting the Suri. 
See XIX. 14, 83. 

59 Namuchi: see X. 33. 

63 Foaming juice: Sur4. 

65 Sweet beverage: ktldla . See II. 34 ; III. 43. 

13 


194 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOS XX 

67 The Asvins and Sarasvati by wit from fiendish N&muchi 
Brought unto Indra sacred food, strength, brilliant treasure, 

ample wealth. 

68 That Indra, strong through sacrifice by Asvins and Sarasvat ? , 
Cleft Vala through to win him wealth, with Namuchi of 

Asura birth. 

69 Supporting him in sacrifice with sacred food and mighty 

powers, 

Sarasvati, both Asvins and the cattle hymned that Indra’s 
praise. 

70 Indra whom Bhaga, Savitar, and Varuna supplied with power. 
Lord of the sacrifice, may he, Good Guardian, love the wor¬ 
shipper, 

71 Savitar, Varuna bestow gifts on the liberal offerer, 

Strength, power and treasure which the Good Protector took 

from Namuchi 1 

72 Varuna giving sway and power, Savitar grace with happiness, 
The Good Protector giving strength with fame, obtained 

the sacrifice. 

73 With cows the Asvins, mighty power, with horses maniy 

vigour, strength, 

With sacred food Sarasvati, made Indra, Sacrificer, strong, 

74 May those N&satyas, fair of form, the Men who ride on paths 

of gold, 

Oblation rich Sarasvati, thou, Indra 1 help us in our rites* 

75 Those Leeches righteous in their deeds, She, rich in milk, 

Sarasvati, 

That Viitra-slayer hundred-powered, invested Indra with his 
might. 

76 Ye Asvins and Sarasvati, joint drinkers of the Sur& draught. 
In Namuchi of Asura birth, give aid to Indra in his deeds. 

77 As parents aid a son, etc., as in X. 34. 

78 He in whom horses, bulls, oxen, and barren cows, and rams, 

when duly set apart, are offered up,— f 

To Agni, Soma-sprinkled, drinker of sweet juice. Disposer, 
with thy heart bring forth a pleasant hymn. 


6S Vala: the rain-with-holding cloud, personified as a demon of drought 
who stole, like Cacus, the cows of the Gods and concealed them in & 

See R. V. X t 68. 5-10. * 

74 Ndsatyas: the Asvins. 

78 Taken, with variations, from R. V. X. 91. 14. Disposer: Arranger of 
the sacrifice ; priest. The Adhvaryu is addressed. Bring forth: or, beget. 



WHITE YAJURVBDA. 


195 


VERSE 90 ] 

79 Within thy mouth is poured the offering, Agni, as Soma in¬ 

to cup, oil into ladle. 

Vouchsafe us wealth, strength-winning, blest with heroes, 
wealth lofty, praised by men, and full of splendour. 

80 The Asvins gave, with lustre, sight, Sarasvati manly strength 

with breath. 

Indra with voice and might gave Indra vigorous power. 

81 With kine, Nasatyas! and with steeds, come, Asvins, Rud- 

ras! to the house, the sure protector of its men; 

82 Such, wealthy Gods! as none afar or standing near to us 

may harm, yea, no malicious mortal foe. 

83 Do ye, 0 longed-for Asvins, lead us on to wealth of varied 

form, wealth that shall bring us room and rest. 

84 Wealthy in spoil, enriched with hymns, may pure Sarasvati 

desire with eager love our sacrifice. 

85 She who awakens sounds of joy, inspires our hymns, Saras¬ 

vati, she hath allowed our sacrifice. 

8o Sarasvat ? , the mighty flood, she with her light illuminates, 
she brightens every pious thought. 

87 0 Indra, marvellously bright, come, these libations long for 

thee, thus by fine fingers purified. 

88 Urged by the holy singer, sped by song, come, Indra, to the 

prayers of the libation-pouring priest. 

89 Approach, 0 Indra, hasting thee. Lord of Bay Horses, to the 

prayer: in our libations take delight. 

90 Accordant with Sarasvati let the two Asvins drink the meath. 
May Indra, Vritra-slayer, Good Guardian, accept the Soma 

meath. 

79 Taken from R. V. X 91. 15. 

81-83 Taken from R. V. II. 41. 7-9. 

Rudraa: here a title of the Asvins, the Bright Pair. 

84—89 Taken from R. V. I. 3. 10—12, 4—6. 

90 Soma meath: the sweet libation of Soma juice. 



BOOK THE TWENTY-FIRST. 


Varuna, hear this call of mine: be gracious unto us this 
day. 

Longing for help I yearn for thee. 

2 I ask this of thee with my prayer, etc., as in XVIII. 49. 

3 Do thou who knowest Varuna, 0 Agni, put far away from 

us the God’s displeasure. 

Best Sacrificer, brightest One, refulgent, remove thou far 
from us all those who hate us. 

4 Be thou the nearest unto us, 0 Agni, our closest Friend 

while now this Morn is breaking. 

Reconcile Varuna to us, be bounteous: show thy compas¬ 
sion and be swift to hear us. 

5 We call to succonr us the mighty Mother of those whose 

sway is just, the Queen of Order, 

Strong-ruler, far-expanding, ne’er decaying, Aditi gracious 
guide and good protectress. 

6 Sinless may we ascend, for weal, this vessel rowed with 

good oars, divine, that never leaketh, 

Earth our strong guard, incomparable Heaven. Aditi gra¬ 
cious guide and good protectress. 

7 May I ascend the goodly ship, free from defect, that leaketh 

not, 

Moved by a hundred oars, for weal. 

8 0 Mitra-Varuna, gracious Pair, with fatness dew our pas¬ 

turage, 

With mead the regions of the air. 


The formulas of the Sautrftmanl are continued. 

1, 2 A rice-cake is offered to Varuna with an Inviting Prayer (1) taken 
from R. V. I. 25. 19, and an Offering Prayer (2) from R. V. 1. 24. 11, re¬ 
peated from XVIII. 49. 

3, 4 Similar prayers, taken from R. V. IV. 1. 4, 5, addressed to Agni aa 
the Mediator or Intercessor. 

5 An Inviting Prayer, taken with a slight variation from A. V. VII. 6. % 
addressed to Aditi to whom a charu, or oblation of rice, barley, and pulse 
boiled with butter and milk, is to be offered. 

6 Taken from A. V. VII. 6. 3, varied from R. V. X. 63. 10. 

7 The goodly ship: sacrifice, whioh bears us beyond this world to heaven. 
Hundred oars: verses of praise and chanted hymns. 

8 Oblations of milk and curds are offered to Mitra and Varuna regarded 
as Rain Gods (II. 16). The verse is taken from R. V. III. 62. 16. Fatnttp 
fertilizing rain. 




VERSE 19.] WHITE YAJURVEDA. 197 

9 Stretch forth your arms and let our lives be lengthened: 
with fatness dew the pastures of our cattle. 

Te Youthful, make ns famed among the people : hdar, 
Mi tea-Vanina, these mine invocations. 

10 Bless us the Coursers when we call, etc., as in IX. 16. 

11 Deep-skilled in Law, etc., as in IX. 18. 

12 Kindled is Agni with the brand, yea, kindled well, the 

excellent. 

The metre Gatyatri, the steer of eighteen months, give power 
and life! 

13 Tauunapat whose acts are pure, our bodies’ guard Saras vat?, 
UshntM metre and the steer of two years’ age give power 

and life ! 

14 Agni with offerings, meet for praise, and Soma the immortal 

God, 

Anushtup metre and the steer of thirty months give power 
and life ! 

15 Agni with goodly grass spread out, deathless with Pushan 

at his side, 

Brihati metre and a steer of three years’ age give power 
and life ! 

16 The Doors divine, the mighty Regions, Brahma, God Bri- 

haspati, 

The metre Paukti, here a bull in his fourth year, give 
power and life ! 

17 The two youug Dawns of lovely form, the deathless Univer¬ 

sal Gods, 

The Trishtup metre, here, a bull in his sixth year, give 
power and life! 

18 The two eelestial Hotars, both Physicians,* Indra’s close- 

knit friends, 

The metre Jagati, an ox who draws the wain, give power and 
life ! 

19 The Three, Ida, Sarasvati, and Bharati, the Marut folk, 

Viraj the metre, here, a cow in milk, a bull, give power and 

life ! 


9 Trfken from R. V. VII. 62. 5. 

12 This and the ten following verses form an Apr! or Propitiatory Hymn 
in honour of In Ira. The nteer : to he sacrificed. Give: to Indra. 

18 TanUnapdt: Son of Himself. Agni. See V. 5. U*hnihd: = Ushnih. 

17 Tun young Daw at: Morning and Night, inseparably connected and 
ever born anew. Here: in this and other verses meaning ‘ to Indra.’ 

18 Hotart: Agni and VAyu, or terrestrial and firm&mental Agni. 

19 Folk: or clans. 



THE TEXTS OF THE 


198 


[BOOK XXL 


20 Tvashtar the wondrous, full of seed, Indragui furtherers of 
weal, 

Dvipadfi metre, and a cow and vigorous bull give power and 
life ! 


21 Our slaughterer Vanaspatl, Savitar who promoteth wealth, 
The metre Kakup, here, a cow who casts her calf, give power 
and life ! 


22 With Svfihfi mighty Varuna give healing power to Sacrifice l 
The Atichhandas, Brihat, and a steer and bull give power 

and life ! 

23 With the Spring Season may the Gods the Vasus praised 

with triple hymn 

And with Rathantara, give life to Indra, splendour, sacrifice, 

24 With Summer may the Rudras, Gods, praised in the Paficha- 

dasa hymn 

With Brihat, give to Indra strength; with fame, and sacri¬ 
fice and life. 

25 May the Adityas with the Rains, lauded in Saptadasa 

hymn 

And with Vairupa, with folk, strength, give Indra sacrifice 
and life. 

26 With Autumn may the Ribhus, Gods, praised in the Eka- 

vimsa hymn 

And with Vir'ija, give with grace to Indra grace, life, 
sacrifice. 

27 With Winter may the Maruts, Gods, praised in the laud of 

thrice nine parts, 

The Sakvaris, with strength give might to Indra, sacrifice 
and life. 


20 Indrdgnt: Indra and Agni as a dual Deity. Dvipadd: two-footed ; 
comprising two P&das or verse-divisions. 

21 Slaughterer: Imoolator of the victim* tied to the Stake. Kakup: a 
metre of 8 + 12 + 8 syllables. 

22 Atichhandas: hypermeter; redundant metre, containing more than 
forty-eight syllables. 

23 Triple hymn: the Trivrit. See IX. 83 ; X. 10. 

24 Pahchadasa: Fifteenfold ; see XII. 4 ; XIV. 22. 

25 Saptadasa: Seventeenfold. See XIII. 56. Vairipa: a S4man. See 
X. 12. 

26 Ribhus: three artificers of ancient time whose wondrous skill and 
workmanship obtaiued for them immortality and a place among the Gods. 
They are usually invoked with Indra. Ekavirpsa : having tweuty-one verse* 
or parts. See XIII. 57 ; XIV. 23. Vairdja: See XIII. 57. 

27 SakvarU: metres consisting of seven feet. 



VERSE 33.] WffITE YAJURVEDA. 193 

28 With Dew-time may the deathless Gods praised ia the 

Thirty-three-part laud, 

The Revatts, with truth give sway to Indra, sacrifice and 
life. 

29 Let the Hotar sacrifice with fuel to Agui in the place of 

libation, to the Asvins, Indra, Sarasvati. A grey-colour¬ 
ed he-goat with wheat, jujube-fruit and sprouts of rice 
becomes a sweet salutary remedy, splendour, might, milk, 
Soma. Let them enjoy sweet butter with foaming liquor. 
Hotar, present offeriugs of butter. 

30 Let the Hotar, Tanunapit, worship Sarasvati. A sheep, 

a ram, a salutary remedy on the honey-sweet path, bear¬ 
ing to the Asvins and Iudra heroic strength, with jujube- 
fruit, Indr.t-grains, sprouts of rice, becomes a salutary 
remedy, milk, Soma. Let them enjoy, etc., as iu verse 29. 

31 Let the Hotar worship Naras imsa and the Lord Nagnahu. 

A ram with Sudl a salutary remedy, Sarasvati the Physi¬ 
cian, the golden car of the Asvins, the victim's omentum, 
with jujube-fruit, Indra-grains, and rice-sprouts, become 
a salutary remedy, the manly strength of Indra, milk, 
Soma. Let them, etc. 

32 Let the Hotar, magnified with oblations, offering sacrifice, 

worship Sarasvati and Indra, increasing them with 
strength, with a bull and a cow. Strength and medicine 
to the Asvins and Indra are meath with jujube-fruit, 
Masara with parched grain, milk, Soma. Let them, etc. 

33 Let the Hotar worship the wool-soft Altar-grass, the Physi¬ 

cians Nasatyas, the Physiciaus Abvius. A mare with a 
foal, a milch-cow is a physician. Sarasvati the Physician 
yields medicine to Indra, milk, Soma. Let them enjoy, etc. 


28 Dew-time : see II. 32 ; X. 14. Revatis: the name of a verse (R. V I. 
30. 13) beginning with this word, which is called the womb or origin of the 
Raivata SSman. 

29 Let the Hotar : the divine Hotar, the exemplar to be followed l>y his 
counterpart on earth Hotar , present offerings: the human priest is ad¬ 
dressed. 

30 Tantinapdt: According to Mahtdhara, the nom’native case is used in 
the sense of the accusative : worship, or sacrifice or say the offering-prayer 
to, TanuuapH. Milk, Soma: Mahidhara takes these nominatives as accusa¬ 
tives, supplying ‘ let them drink,’ or ‘ let them enjoy.’ 

31 Nagnahu : the drug used to ferment the Sur.i. Mahidhara turns. 
Sarasvati and rathah , car, both nominatives, into accusatives. 

33 A mire , etc.: with reference to the horses given as fees to the priests. 




200 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XXL 

34 Let the Hotar worship the Doors, the Regions, the resound* 

mg, expansive Doors, the Regions, with the Asvins. Indra 
milks the two milky worlds. The Milch-cow Sarasvati 
yields medicine for the Asvins and Indra, pure light and 
strength. Milk, Soma. Let them, etc. 

35 Let the Hotar worship the two fair-formed Dawns. At 

night and by day the Asvins with Sarasvati compose im¬ 
petuous power, like healing balm, in Indra, like a falcon, 
MAsara with light, thought, and grace. Milk, Soma. Let 
them enjoy, etc. 

36 Let the Hotar worship the two divine Hotars, the Physician 

Asvins, and Indra. Watchfully by day and night Saras¬ 
vati as Physician, with balms, with lead, yields strength 
and power. Milk, Soma. Let them enjoy, etc. 

37 Let the Hotar worship the three Goddesses. The three active 

ones, with three sacrificial elements, lay balm and golden 
hue on Indra. The Asvins, IdA, BhArati—Sarasvati with 
Speech yields might aud power to Indra. Mil*, Soma. 
Let them enjoy, etc. 

38 Let the Hotar worship Tvash^ar full of good seed, the Bull 

active for men, Indra, the Asvins, Sarasvati the Physi¬ 
cian. Vigour, speed, power, a fierce wolf as physician, 
fame with Sura is a medicine, Masara with grace. Milk, 
Soma. Let them enjoy, etc. 

39 Let the Hotar worship Vanaspati the Immolator, the Lord 

of Hundred Powers, and awful Passion, the Kim*, the 
Tiger, and the Asvins, with reverence. Sansvati the 
Physician yields wrath and power to Indra. Milk, Soma. 
Let them enjoy, etc. 


34 The Regions : that is, the Doors of the sacrificial hall which are aa 
expansive as the Quarters of the sky. 

35 Dawns: Morning and Night. 

36 With lead: supernatural virtues are ascribed to this metal. See A. V. 
I. 16. 2, 4 ; XII 2. 1, 19, 2'), 53. 

37 Three G>d leases: of sacrifice and prayer, Sarasvati Id\, Bh&rati. 
Three active ones: th-* g»it. the ram, and the null which are offered respec¬ 
tively to the Asvin*, Sarasvati, and Indra. Three sacrificial dements: con¬ 
stituting chief offerings, secondary offerings, and by-offerings with different 
parts of their bodies. 

33 Full of go 1 } l s p ed: as the prolific creator of all forms of living beings. 
Wolf: with reference to the wolfs hair mixed with the Snri. See XIX. 
9, note. 

39 Lord of Hundred Powers: Indra. Tiga': the exemplar of royalty, 
India. 



VERSE 43.] WRITE YAJVRVEDA . 201 

40 Let the Hot&r worship Agni. Of the drops of clarified butter, 

Svahi! Of the fat, omentum, etc., severally, Svaha ! 
SvAha ! the goat for the Asvins. SvahA ! the ram forSaras- 
vati. SvAhi ! the bull for Indra. To the Lion, to his might, 
power. SvAhA ! Agni the salutary remedy. SvAbA ! Soma, 
the power. SvAha ! Indra the Good Deliverer. Savitar, 
Varuna Lord of Physicians. SvAba! Yanaspatl, beloved, 
food and medicine. Sv&hA ! Gods who drink clarified 
butter. Agni accepting the medicine. Milk, Soma. 
Let them enjoy, etc. 

41 Let the Hotar worship the Asvin9 with the omentum of a 

he-goat. Let them enjoy the fat. Hotar, offer the sacri¬ 
ficial oblation. 

Let the Hotar worship Sarasvatl with the omentum of a 
ram. Let her enjoy the fat. Hotar offer the sacrificial 
oblation. 

Let the Hotar worship Indra with the omentum of a bull. 
Let him, etc. 

42 Let the Hotar worship the Asvins, Sarasvatl, Indra the 

Good Deliverer. These your Soma*, pressed, rejoicing 
with goats, rams, bulls, giving pleasure with rice-shoots, 
young blades of corn, parched grain, joy-givers adorsed 
with Masara, bright, milky, immortal, presented, drop¬ 
ping honey, these let the Asvins, Sarasvatl, Indra the 
Good Deliverer, Vritra-slayer, accept. Let them drink, 
rejoice in, enjoy the Soma meath. Hotar, sacrifice. 

43 Let the Hotar worship the Asvins. Let them eat of the he- 

goat, the sacrifice. Let them to-day eat the fat, taken 
from the middle, before those who hate ns, before human 
handling. Yea, let them eat amid the fodder of fields 
f.-esh with moisture, with their expanse of barley, limbs 
of those tasted by Agni, belonging to the Hundred Rudra*, 
portions covered with fat, from the sides, from the thighs, 
from the fore-feet from the chine. From every member 
of the divided victims these two make their repast. Thus 
let the Asvins accept. Hotar, offer the sacrificial oblation. 


40 The Lion : Indra. 

43 Before those who hate us: before the Asuras and malicious RAkshasa* 
carry off the sacrificial offerings. Fields: metaphorically, for the well-nou¬ 
rished limbs of the victims. Tasted by Agni: wheu roasting for sacrifioe. 
Belonging to the Hundred Rudras: that is, to Rudra, Lord of Cattle, in his 
manifold manifestations (XVI., introductory note) ; according to Mahtdha- 
ra. * lauded with many texts; rudra meaning ' p raiser ' according to Yaska, 
Vigh&nius, 3. 16. 



202 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XXL 

44 Let the Hotar worship Sarasvati. Let her approach the ram, 

the sacrifice. 

To-day let her eat, etc., the rest of verse 43 repeated mutatis 
mutandis . 

45 Let the Hotar worship Indra, etc., as in 44 mutatis mutandis, 

46 Let the Hotar worship Vanaspati. He has held with a very 

weli formed aud very strong rope. There where the favou¬ 
rite stations of the Asvinsare, of the he-goat the sacrifice; 
of Saras vati, of the ram the sacrifice; of Indra, of the 
bull the sacrifice; there where the favourite stations of 
Agni are, of Soma, of Indra the Good Deliverer, of Savi- 
tar, of Varuna, the favourite places of Vanaspati, the 
favourite stations of Gods who drink clarified butter, and 
of Agni the Hotar, there let him arrange these victims 
when he has praised and lauded them, and perform wheu # 
he has made them very strong. Let divine Vauaspati 
accept. Hotar, offer oblation. 

47 Let the Hotar worship Agni Svishtakrit. Let Agni worship 

the favourite stations of the Asvins, of the he-goat the 
sacrifice ; of Sarasvati, of the ram the sacrifice ; of Indra, 
of the bull the sacrifice; there, etc., to ‘ butter * as in 46. 
Let him worship the favourite stations of Agni the Hotar. 
Let him worship his own majesty. Let him win for himself 
by sacrifice food worthy of sacrifice. Let him, Knower of 
Beings, perform the sacred rites. Let him accept the 
sacrificial food. Hotar, offer oblation. 

48 The Grass divine, for the right Gods, Sarasvati, the Asvins- 

Twain, 

Give Indra splendour, with the Grass, sight of his eyes and 
mighty strength ! For g tin of .wealth let them enjoy. 
Thou, Hotar, offer sacrifice. 

49 The DDors, the Doors divine, the Two Asvins, Leeches, 

Sarasvati— 

May they give breath to Indra in his nostrils, and heroit 
strength. 

For gain of wealth, etc., as in verse 48. 


4S He has held: the victims. This is Mahidhara’s explanation of adhite. 

Stations: dainties : Eggeliug. 

47 Svishtakrit: Maker of Good Sacrifice. Worship hisoicn majesty: that 
is, bring it to the sacrifice. In several of the preceding Apr! verses (30—H) 
there are difficulties aud obscurities, aud Mahidhara’s attempted expbflfr* 
tions by turning nominatives into accusatives, etc. are futile. . 




WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


203 


PERSE 57.] 

>0 May Dawn and Night, the Goddesses, both Asvins, and 
Sarasvati 

Lay, with both Dawns, strength, voice within Indra the 
Good Deliverer’s mouth. 

For gain of wealth, etc. 

1 B >th nursing G )ddesses, the Pair of Asvins, and Sarasvati 
Have with both nurses given strength to Indra, fame, and 

power to hear. 

For gain of wealth, etc. 

2 Bringers of strengthening sacrifice, both Goddesses, well- 

yielding cows, 

Sarasvati, both Asvins, the Physicians, these are Indra’s 
guards. 

Forth from their breasts by sacrifice they give him brilliant 
light and power. 

For gain of wealth, etc. 

3 Both Gods, the Ho tars of the Gods, the Asvins the Phy¬ 

sicians and 

Sarasvati with Vashat-calls, with the two Hotars have bes¬ 
towed on Indra brilliant light aud power, and planted 
wisdom in his heart. 

For gain of weath, etc. 

4 Goddesses three, three Goddesses—Asvins, Id\, Sarasvati 
Iu ludra’s midmost navel have laid store of energy and 

power. 

For gain of wealth, etc. 

5 God Nar&samsa, Indra thrice-protecting, whose car moves 

by Sarasvati and Asvins — 

Miy Tvashtar lay seed, deathless form in Indra, a fitting 
place of birth and mighty powers. 

For gain of wealth, etc. 

6 God with the Gods, Vanaspati of golden leaves and goodly 

fruit 

Ripens till Indra finds it sweet, with Asvins and Sarasvati. 

7 Strewn, soft as wool, in sacrifice, with Asvins and Sarasvati, 
The sacred robe of water-plants be, Indra, a fair seat for thee ! 
Together with the sacred grass may they, for sovrauty, bes¬ 
tow King Passion and great power on thee. 

For gain of wealth, etc. 

51 Both nursing Goddesses: Heaven and Earth, or D.iy aud Night. 

54 Sarasvati: and Bh&ratl, understood. 

57 Robe of water-plants: mixed with the barhis or altar-covering of grasa. 
'ing Passion : see verse 39. Mahidhara explains rdjdnam by dtpyamdnam, 
lowing. 



204 WHITE YAJURVEDA. [BOOK XXL 

58 Let the God Agni Svishtakrit worship the Gods as is meet 

and right for each, the two Hotars, India, the Asvins, 
VAk with speech, Saras vati, Ayrni, Soma. Svishtakrit 
has been well worshipped, Indra Good Deliverer, Savit&r, 
Varuna the Physician have been worshipped. The God 
Vanaspati, the Gods who drink clarified butter have been 
well worshipped, Agni by Agni. Let the Hotar Svishta¬ 
krit give the Hotar fame, great power, energy, honour, 
Ancestral libation. 

59 To-day this Sacrificer cooking viands, cooking sacrificial 

rice-cakes, binding a goat for the Asvins, a ram for Saras- 
vati, a bull for Indra, pressing SurA and Soma juices for 
the Asvins, Sarasvati, and Indra the Good Deliverer, has 
chosen Agni as Hotar. 

£0 To day the divine Vanaspati has done good service to the 
Asvins with a goat, to Sarasvati with a ram, to Indra 
with a bull. They have eaten these from the marrow 
onwards, they have accepted the cooked viands, they havi 
waxed strong with the rice-cakes. The Agnis, Sarasvati, 
and Indra have drunk the SurA and Soma draughts. 

61 Thee, to-day, ORishi, Rishi’s son, descendant of Rishis, haft 
this Sacrificer chosen for many collected, saying: Thk 
(Agni) shall win bv sacrifice for me choice-worthy tre* 
sures among the Gods. 0 God, what gifts the Gods hart 
given, these do thou desire and approve. And thou «t 
a commissioned Hotar, a human H »tar sent forward for 
benediction, for good speech. Speak thou good words. 


81 0 Rithi: the Hotar, representative of Agni the divine Hater, is air 
dressed. For many: assembled Gods. 0 Cfod: Agni. 



BOOK THE TWENTY-SECOND. 


Splendour art thou, bright, deathless, life-protector. Pro¬ 
tector of my life be thou. 

By impulse of God Savit&r 1 take thee with arms of Asvins, 
with the hands of Push&n. 

2 This girdle, which in their religious meetings sages assum¬ 

ed in earlier time of worship, 

Is present with us here at this libation, in the Law’s hymn, 
proclaiming rich abundance. 

3 Famous art thou, thou art the world, controller and up¬ 

holder thou. 

Go, consecrate by Sv&hA to Agni Vaisv&nara widely-famed. 

4 For Gods and for Praj&pati I fit thee. For Gods and for 

Praj&pati, 0 Brahman, 

Will I tie up the horse. Thence may I prosper! Binding 
him for Praj&pati and Gods be thou successful. 

5 Thee welcome to Prajapati I sprinkle. I sprinkle thee wel¬ 

come to Indra-Agni. I sprinkle thee acceptable to V&yu. 
Thee welcome to the All-Gods I besprinkle. Thee wel¬ 
come to all Deities I sprinkle. 

AVith fury Varuna attacks the man who fain would slay the 
8 teed. 

Avaunt the man ! Avaunt the dog ! 

Books XXII—XXV. contain the formulas of the Asvamedha or Horse- 
•acrifice, a very ancient and moat important ceremony which only a King 
can perform. Its object is the acquisition of power and glorj, acknowledged 
preeminence over neighbouring princes, and the general prosperity of the 
kingdom by the fulfilment of the wishes expressed in verse 22 of this Book. 

1 The Adhvaryu ties an ornament of gold, perhaps a chain, round the neck 
of the Sacrificer, and makes him recite the formula. Thou: he addresses 
the ornament. Deathless : as a symbol of the Sun, and identified with light 
(IV. 17), or, according to Mahldhara, because gold confers immortality by 
being presented to the priests. By impulse , etc.: repeated from I. 10. Thee: 
a rasand , girdle, or girth of Darbha grass, thirteen ells in length, with which 
the sacrificial horse is to be girded. 

2 In the Law's hymn : when the Saman of sacrifice is chanted. 

3 He girds and addresses tiie horse. 

4 I fit: svagd , an indeclinable sacrificial word, Good-speed ! and Icaromi , 
I make or prepare, understood. 

5 He sprinkles the horse in standing water. With fury etc.: he threatens 
iny man who kilis the horse, and so prevents the sacrifice, with the vengeance 
of the royal Varuna, and a dog is killed (to indicate the punishment of the 
linuer) by a low-caste man, the son of a Sfidra by a VaisyA woman. 


206 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XXIL 

6 To Agni Hail! To Soma Hail! Hail to the Waters' Joy! Hail 

to Savitar! Hail to Vayu ! Hail to Vishnu! Hail to Iudra! 
Hail to Biih&spati ! Hail to Mitra! Hail to Varuna ! 

7 Hail to the sound kin ! Hail to the uttered kin ! Hail to 

the neigh ! Hail to the down-neigh! Hail to the snort 1 
Hail to the roar! Hail to his smell! Hail to him smelt 
at! Hail to him seated ! Hail to him seated down ! Hail 
to him weary ! Hail to him going ! Hail to him sitting 1 
Hail to him lying ! Hail to him sleeping! Hail to him 
waking ! Hail to him whinnying ! Hail to him wakened 1 
Hail to him yawning ! Hail to him outstretched ! Hail to 
him drawn together! Hail to him risen! Hail to his 
going ! Hail to his good going ! Hail! 

8 Hail to him as he goes ! Hail to him running! Hail to him 

running away ! Hail to him when he has run away! 
Hail to the cry Shoo! Hail to him scared with Shoo l . 
Hail to him seated ! Hail to him risen ! Hail to his 
speed ! Hail to his strength ! Hail to him rolling l Hail 
to him when he has rolled ! Hail to him tossing about! 
Hail to him when he has tossed about! Hail to him 
listening! Hail to him hearing. Hail to him looking! 
Hail to him looked at! Hail to him closely looked at! 
Hail to his closing his eye ! Hail to his food! Hail to 
his drink! Hail to his stale! Hail to him in action! 
Hail to what he has done ! 

9 May we attain that excellent glory of Savitar the God : 

So may he stimulate our prayers. 

10 For our protection I invoke the golden-handed Savitar : 

He knoweth, as a God, the place. 

11 We specially invoke the grace of Savitar, observant God, 

The great good-will that gives true boons. 

12 We seek the eulogy and gift of Savitar who strengthens graces 
Yea, of the God who knows our thoughts. 

13 1 invocate the heroes' Lord, free-giving Savitar, and call 
The Cheerer to the feast of Gods. 


6 The horse is led back to the sacrificial fire, and ten oblations of clarified 
butter are offered, with their respective formulas to the deities mentioned. 
The Waters' Joy: Soma who delights the waters with which he is sprinkled. 

7 He offers an oblation in the Southern fire. Hih: onomatopoetic; the 
horse’s low neigh or whinny : originally, the syllable to be uttered, or the 
sound to be made in reciting S&ma hymns. 

9 Six verses follow constituting the Inviting and Offering Prayers of ob¬ 
lations presented to Savitar. The first verse is the famous Sftvitri. tbe 
Gdyatrt par excellence , repeated from III. 35, and taken from R. V. III. 62 W. 

10 Taken from R. V. I. 22. 5. 



VERSE 20.] WHITE YAJURVEDA. 207 

14 The judgment of bright Savitar, that cheers the All-Gods' 

company, 

With prayer we estimate as bliss. 

15 Wake Agui with thy laud and set the Immortal One aflame, 

let him 

Bestow our offerings on the Gods. 

16 Oblatiou-bearer, well-inclined, immortal, eager Messenger, 
Agui comes near us with the thought. 

17 Agui, Envoy, I place iu front, the oblation-bearer I address: 
Here let him seat the Deities. 

18 Yea, Pavam&ua, thou didst generate the Sun and spread 

the moisture out with power, 

Hasting to us with plenty vivified with milk. 

19 Mighty through thy dam, eminent through thy sire, thou 

art a horse, thou art a steed, thou art a courser, thou 
art a comfort, thou art a racer, thou art a yoke-horse, 
thou art a strong steed, thou art a stallion, thou art 
manly-minded. Thou art called Yayu, thou art called 
Sisu. Follow thou the flight of the Adityas. 

Gods, Warders of the Regions, protect for the Gods this 
horse besprinkled for sacrifice. 

Here is delight. Here take thy pleasure. Here is content. 
Here is self content. 

20 Hail to Ka! Hail to Who!! Hail to Which!! Hail to 

him who has experienced paiu! Hail to Prajapati who 
knows the mind! Hail to him who discerns the thought ! 

15 Three Inviting Verses to Agni follow. 

16 Taken from R. V. III. 11. 2. With, the thought: when we think of, 
or pray to, him. 

17 Taken from R. V. VIII. 44 3. Place in front: for adoration. 

18 Taken from R. V. IX. 110. 3. Praise and prayer addrensed to Soma. 

19 The Adhvaryu and the Sacrificer whisper the formula in the horse’s 
right ear. Then the horse (who must be more than twenty four, and less 
than a hundred years old ) is loosed towards the North east to wander free 
for a year ( or for half a year or a still shorter time according to some autho¬ 
rities ), as a sign that his master’s paramount sovereignty is acknowledged 
by all neighbouring princes. The wandering horse is attended by a hundred 
young men, sons of princes or high Court officials, armed with all sorts of 
warli ve weapons, who are to watch and guard him from all dangers and in¬ 
convenience. During the absence of the horse an uninterrupted series of 
prescribed ceremonies is performed at the Sacrificer’s home. 

Yayu: meauing Goer or Sacrificial. Sisu: or Colt; a euphemism for a 
horse of somewhat mature ag*. 

20 Oblations are offered and homage is paid to various Deities. Ka ... 
Who ? Which t: Prajapati. See I. 6, note. Of the highways: Pfishan as a 
Sun-God is guardian of roads and guide of travellers. Many forms: of living 
beings created by him. NibhUyapa: the origin and meaning of the word 
are unknown. According to Mahldhara the title means Preserver by means 
of his repeated incarnations of the Fish, the Tortoise, etc. Sipivishtu: 
another title of uncertaiu me niug. See XVI. 29, note. 



208 


THE TEXTS OF THE 


[BOOK XXII. 

Hail to Aditi! Hail to good Aditi! Hail to gracious 
Aditi! Hail to Sarasvat!! Hail to purifying Sarasvati! 
Hail to great Sarasvati! Hail to Pdshan! Hail to 
Pftshan of the highways ! Hail to Piishan observer of 
men ! Hail to Tvashtar! Hail to swift Tvash^ar ! Hail 
to Tvashtar of many forms ! Hail to Vishnu ! Hail to 
Vishnu Nibhflyapa ! Hail to Vishnu Sipivishta ! 

31 Let every mortal man elect, etc., repeated from IV. 8. 

22 0 Brahman, let there be born in the kingdom the Brahman 

illustrious for religious knowledge; let there be born the 
Rajanya, heroic, skilled archer, piercing with shafts, 
mighty warrior; the cow giving abundant milk; the ox 
good at carrying; the swift courser; the industrious 
woman. May Parjanya send rain according to our desire; 
may our fruit-bearing plants ripen ; may acquisition and 
preservation of property be secured to us. 

23 Hail to vital breath ! Hail to out-breathing! Hail to dif¬ 

fusive breath ! Hail to the eye! Hail to the ear ! Hail 
to Speech ! Hail to Mind ! 

24 Hail to the Eastern Region! Hail to the hitherward Region! 

Hail to the Southern Region ! Hail to the hitherward 
Region! Hail to the Western Region! Hail to the 
hitherward Region ! Hail to the Northern Region ! Hail 
to the hitherward Region ! Hail to the Upward Region! 
Hail to the hitherward Region 1 Hail to the Downward 
Region ! Hail to the hitherward Region ! 

25 Hail to waters ! Hail to floods ! Hail to water! Hail to 

standing waters! Hail to flowing waters! Hail to trickling 
waters! Hail to well waters! Hail to spring waters! Hail 
to the foaming sea! Hail to the ocean! Hail to the deep! 

26 Hail to wind ! Hail to mist! Hail to vapour ! Hail to 

cloud ! Hail to cloud lightening ! H*il to cloud thunder¬ 
ing ! Hail to it bursting ! Hail to it raining! Hail to it 
pouring ! Hail to it violently raining ! Hail to it swiftly 
raining ! Hail to it holding up ! Hail to it when it has 
held up ! Hail to it sprinkling ! Hail to it drizzling ! Hail 
to its drops! Hail to thunderbolts ! Hail to hoar frosts! 

27 Hail to Agni ! Hail to Soma ! Hail to Iudra ! Hail to Earth! 

Hail to Firmament! Hail to Sky! Hail to Regions! Hail 
to Quarters ! Hail to the Upward Region ! Hail to the 
Downward Region ! 

22 The Adhvaryu whispers to the Brahman priest the blessings whhfc 
the King hopes the sacrifice will secure to his kingdom. 

23 The remaining verses of this Book contain formulas af homage to 
various Gods aud natural and terrestrial objects, accompanying the preMO- 
tation of oblations made of various materials. 



WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


209 


TERSE 34.] 


28 Hail to .the lunar asterisms I Hail to those connected with 
the lunar asterisks ! Hail to Day and Night! Hail to 
the half-months] Hail to the mouths 1 Hail to the Sea¬ 
sons .! Hail to the Season-groups! Hail to the Year! 
Hail to Heaven and Earth ! Hail to the Moon ! Hail to 

the San ! Hail to his rays! Hail to the Yasus! Hail to 

the Kudras 1 Hail to the Adityas! Hail to the Maruts ! 
Hail to the All-Gods ! Hail to roots ! Hail to branches ! 

Hail to forest trees i Hail to flowers! Hail to fruits! 

Hail to herbs ! 

39 Hail to Earth ! Hail to Firmament! Hail to Sky ! Hail to 
Sun! Hail to Moon ! Hail to luuar asterisks! Hail to 
waters* Hail to herbs! Hail to forest trees! Hail to crea¬ 
tures that swim ! Hail to things moving and stationary ! 
Hail to things that creep aud crawl! 

JO Hail to breath ! Hail to the Yasn j Hail to the Mighty! 
Hail to VivasvAui Hail to the trooping one! Hail to 
the Troop’s Lord ! Hail to the Superior! Hail to the 
Overlord ! Hail to Strength j Hail to Samsarpa ! Hail 
to the Moon! Hail to light j Hail to Malimlucha 1 Hail 
to him who flies by day J 

31 Hail to Madhu ! Hail to Mftdhava! Hail to Sukra ! Hail to 

Suchi! Hail to NabhasJ Hail to Nahhasya! Hail to lsha! 
Hail to ftrja ! Hail to Sahas ! Hail to Sahasya ! Hail to 
Tapas! Hail to Tapasya ! Hail to Amhasaspati ! 

32 Hail to Strength ! Hail to impulse! Hail to After-born ! 

Hail to will! Heaveu, Hail 1 Hail to the head! Hail to 
Yyasnuvinl To the Anal, Hail! Hail to the mundane 
final! Hail to the Lord of the world ! Hail to the Over- 
lord ! Hail to the Lord of Creatures ! 

33 May life succeed by sacrifice, Hail ! May breath succeed 

by sacrifice, Hail! May downward breath, diffusive 
breath, upward breath, digestive breath, vision, hearing, 
speech, mind, self, devotion, light, heaven, hymn-arrange¬ 
ment, sacrifice succeed by sacrifice. All-hail! 

34 Hail to One ! Hail to Two! Hail to Hundred! Hail to 

Huudred-and-One ! Hail to Daybreak ! Hail to Heaven ! 


30 Vivasvdn : the Bright One ; the Sun. The trooping one: the company 
of Maruts. The Troop's Lord: Indra. Samsarpa: an intercalary month. 
Malimlucha: another name of the intercalary month. 

31 This verse contains names of the months; all of which have occurred 
in earlier Books. See VII. 30, note. Amhasaspati: Lord of Trouble ; the 
Genius of the intercalary month. See VII. 30. 

32 After-horn : the intercalary month. Cp. R. V. I. 25. 8. Vyasnuvtn : a 
Genius of food, according to Mahidhara. For the rest of the verse, cp. IX. 20. 

33 Cf. IX. 21. 

34 He salutes the Genii of Numbers. 

14 



BOOK THE TW ENTY-THIRDk 


In the beginning rose, Hiranyagarbha,. etc* 

2 Taken upou a base art thou. I take thee welcome, to Pr&j&patii. 
This, is thy place Sihya thy majesty. 

The- majesty that has, accrued, to thee in> the day, in a year, 
that majesty which has accrued in the wind, in the firma¬ 
ment, to, that majesty of. thine, to, Praj&pati,. to> the Gods,, 
Al}-hail! 

3 Who by his grandeur hath become sole Ruler of all the* 

moving world that breathes and slumbers*; 

He who is Sovran, of these men and. cattle—*what Godt shall 
we- adore with our oblation 1 

4 Taken upon a base art thou. I take thee welcome toPraj&patiL 
This is thy place: the Moon thy majpsty. 

Thy majesty that has accrued to thee by ni^ht, in. a y.ear„ 
thy majesty that has accrued in the earth, in Agni, in,the* 
stars and in the Moon, to that majesty oPthine, to Praj&r 
pati. and, to the Gods, All-hail:! 

5 They who stand round him, as he moves harness the bright, 

the ruddy Steed,: 

The lights are shining in the sky. 

6 On both sides to,the car they yoke the- two Bay Coursers 

dear to him, 

Bold, tawny, bearers of the Chief. 

7 When, swift as wind, the Hprse has. reached: the form, thafc 

Inara loves, the flood, 

Again, 0 singer,, by this path bring thounur Courser hither- 
ward.. 

Thescerempnies subsequent* to the* return ofcthe Horse from; hid wander* 
inga are continued. 

1 The S«$rificer offers two Mahiman or Grandeur libations, so called.from 
the name of the .golden vessels .in which they are presented, and recites.the- 
text, repeated from XIII. 4, taken from* R. Y'- X, 121. 1. Jiir any agarbka t 
the Gold-Germ, or Golden Child ; Praj&pati, with whom the Sacrificed 
Horse.is identified, 

2 Thou: the Cup. Majesty: or grandeur ; mahimd: thy grandeur is'like 
the Sun’s. 

3 Taken from R. V. X. 121. 3. What Goch?: other thap,PrajapaU. Or, 
according to Mahidhara : Worship, we Ka the God. See I. 6; note. 

5. He yokes the Horse to a gilded chariot, reciting the text taken from 

r. y. i. 6. i. 

6 Three other horses are harnessed to the same chariot, with the text 
from R V. I. 6. 2. 

X The flood: the water to which the Horse is driven, to be bathed. 



VERSZ W.y WHITE YAJURVEDA. 211 

9 Let ther Vasus anoint thee with Gayatrf metre. Let the 
Rudre»anoint thee with Trishtup metre. Let the Adityas 
anoint thee with Jagati metre. Earth ! Ether! Heaven ! 
OGod8 r eat this food, parched grains and groats in the 
product ef barley and in the product of cows: eat this 
foody PVaj ft parti. 

9 Who moveth single-and aleoe-T Who is brought forth to life 

again 1 

Whatis the remedy of cold, or what the great receptacle? 

10 The Sun moves singlie and alone. The Moon is brought to 

life again. 

Fire is the remedy of cold;. Earth is the great receptacle: 

11 What was the antecedent thought I What was* the bird of 

mighty size ? 

The slippery matron, who was she ? Who was the reddish- 
coloured one ? 

12 Heaven was the antecedent thought. The Courser was the 

mighty bird. 

The slippery matron* was the earthv Night was the reddish- 
coloured one. 

13 V&yu help thee with cooked viands! Blackneck with goats 

Nyagrodha with cups; Silrnali with iucrease; this Stal¬ 
lion here, good for the chariot—let him verily come with 
his four feet Brahmakrishna help us L Obeisance to Agni! 

8 When the-Horsehas been brought back from tohe-water; the-Cbie£Qlieen 
and two otherroyal Consorts anoint him with clarified'butter, reciting their 
respective formulae* The Chief'Queen anoints the forequarters,. and the 
others the barrel and hind-quarters. Earth! etc .:with these sacrificial ex¬ 
clamations the three Queens, respectively, entwine the hair ot the Horse's 
head, neck, and tail with chains or other ornaments of gold. 0 O'odsr the 
Sicrificer offers the Horse the-remains of the night-oblation of grain, which' 
is thrown into the water if he refuses to eat it. Product' of cows r the sour 
curds with which the oblatiou was mixed. Prajdpati y meaning the deified 
Horse. 

g Here intervenes a B rah mod yam. a discussion in question* and'answer of 
cosmogonical ancb my Stic-‘-theological doctrine The questions are couched 
in designedly enigmatical language, constituting a sort of * cosmic charade,* 
as Prof. M Bloomfield calls it. Who moveth etc. the Brahman questions 
the Hotar. 

10 The Hotar replies, 

11 The Hotar questions-the Brahman. 

12 The Brahman replies; Heaven : meaning rain; according to MahFlhara: 
The Courser : the Sacrificial Horse. Miykty bird: that carries the sacrifice* 
of himself to heaven. Earth : Mahidhara’s explanation of avih (sheep ^ 
woollen cloth ; Soma-itrainer). Slippery ; after rain. 

13 The Horse, a hornless lie-goat, and a Gomriga or wild ox (Bos Gavaeus)} 
are bound to sacrificial stakes near the fire, auu seventeen- other victuiM,,* 




IBOOK XXIII 


212 THE TEXTS OF THE 

14 The car is with the rein, the steed is fitted with the rein. 
Fitted in waters, water-born, is Brahma following Soma’s lead, 

15 Steed, from thy body, of thyself, sacrifice and accept thyself. 
Thy greatness pan be gained by none but thee. 

16 No, here thou diest not, thou art not injured; only by 

fair paths to the Gods tbou goest. 

May Suvitar the God in that world place thee where dwell 
the pious, whether they have journeyed. 

17 Agni was the victim. With him they sacrificed. He won this 

world in which Agni is. This shall become thy world. 
This shalt thou win. Drink these waters. Vfiyu was the 
yictinj. With him they sacrificed. He won this world 
in which Vayu is. This shall become, etc., as above. 
Sfirya was the victim, etc. He won the world in which 
Surya is. This shall become, etc. 

18 To vital breath, HailJ To out-breathing, Hail! To diffusjvfi 

breath, Hail ! 

Ambfi! Ambika! Amb3,1ikfi! No one is taking me away. 

The sorry horse will lie beside another, as Subhadr* the 
dweller in K&mpila. 

he-goat wd a ram among them, are attached to the Horse. To the other 
stakes are tied a gre;it number of animals, tame and wild, the total, accord¬ 
ing to the Commentator, amounting to six hundred and nine. Vdyu help 
thee: the Horse is addressed. Blackneck: Agni, the fire with its dark smoke, 
Nyagrodha: the Fieus Indira, of whose wood sacrificial vessels are made, 
Safmali : the Seemul or Silk Cotton tree, also used for s&ored purposes. 
With his four feet: with all speed. Brahmdkrishna: the Brahman iu whom 
there is no black spot; said to mean the kfoon. 

14 Fitted r or, quickened. Brahmi: the Great One, the Horse. Water- 
born : as identified with the Sqn who springs oqt of the opeaq of tir. See 
B. V. I. 163. 1. Soma's lead: to heaven. 

15 The Horse is slaughtered, 

16 The Horse is addressed The first line is taken from R V. I. 162. 21, 
and the second from & funeral hymn R. V. %. 17- 4. 

17 Agui was the victim: offered by the Gods of creation. Thy world r 
the Iforse is addressed. In yjhich Vdyu is: the firmament. /» which Story* 
is: the shy. 

18 To vital breathy etc.; three fire-oblations are offered with these three 
formulas. A^bd, etc. : women's names. The Chief Queen calls on her fellow- 
wives for pity. as. to obtain a son, she has to pass the night in disgusting 
contiguity to the slaughtered Horae : “ No one takes me (bv forcp to the 
h»*rse); (but if I go not of myself), the (spiteful) horse will lie with (an¬ 
other, as) the (wicked) SubhadrA who dwells in Kimpila.”—Weber, History 
of Indian Literature, p. 114. Subhadrd: probably the wife of the King of 
KAmpila in the country of the Pafichllas in the North of India. The Chief 
Queen must submit to the revolting ceremony, or its benefits will go to aq« 
.other woman. See Rdmdyana, Book L Canto XIII. Schiegel’s edition. 




VERSE 38.J WHITE tAJURtEDA. 218 

19 Thee we favoktf, troop-lord of troops Thee We invoke, the 
loVed ones’ lord. 

Thee* lord of treasures, We invoke. My precious Wealth ! , 


* 4 4 . • . 4 % 4 • • m 

32 Now have 1 glorified! with praise strong Dadhikr&van, con¬ 
quering steed. 

Sweet may* he make our mouths 1 maty he prolong the days 
we have to live. 

S3 €&yatrf, Trishtup, Jagatf, and Padkti with Amtshtup joined, 
Brihatiy Kakup, l/shniha pacify thee with needle-points ! 

34 Two-footed, those that have* four feet, those with three feet 

and those with five. 

Metrelefcg, with one metre, these pacify thee with needle- 
points ! 

35 May Mahanamnis, Revatfs, all far-spread Regions of the sky. 
Voices, and lightnings from the cloud pacify thee with needle¬ 
points f 

36 May married dames of human birth skilfully separate thy 

hair: 

The Regions, Consorts of the Cods, pacify tbee with needle¬ 
points 1 

19' The three Queens Walk nitfe tfoies' rhtfnd the florae, feciting the for¬ 
mulas. The Chief Queen then begins the performance of the revolting 
ceremony. 

20 Makisht Mccyamevtigmx>qnamdkri*1iya sifdyonau sthdpayati. This and 
the following nine’ stanzas are n-ot reproducible even in the semi-obseurity 
of a learned European language ; ana stanzas 30, 31 Would be unintelligi¬ 
ble without them. 

32 On the following morning the officiating priests raise the Chief Queen 
from the place where she has spent the night, and recite the t»xt, taken 
from R. V. IV. 39. 6. to purify their mouths after the abominable obsceni¬ 
ties which they have littered. Diidkilcrftvan : or in the shorter form, Dadhi- 
kris or Dadhikr4, described as a kind of divine or deified horsey and probab¬ 
ly, like Tdrkshya (XV. 18), a personification of the morning sun. The verse 
is called the Didhikrt, and is used as a purifier after foul language. Cf. 
The Hymns of the Atharva-Veda, Vcrf. II. Appendix, p. 457, 

33 The three Queens with a hundred and one needles, gold, silver and 
copper, mark out the lines, on the body of the horse, which the dissector’s 
knife is to follow. Pacify: or, send to rest; a sacrificial euphemism. 

34 Two-footed: dvipadds; verses with two padas or metrical divisions. 
With one metre: having the same metre throughout. 

35 MahdndmnU : whose name is great; nine verses of the Sftmaveda in 
Sakvarf metre. Revattn: verses from which the Raivata Sim an is formed, 
so named from R. V. I. 30. 13 in which the word revati, splendid, or wealthy, 
occurs. 




214 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XXTIL 

37 They, made of silver, gold, and lead, Are used as helpers tu 

the work. 

As lines on the strong Courser’s skin may they console and 
give thee rest. 

38 What then ? As men whose fields are full of barley, aka, as 

in X. 32. 

39 Who flays thee? Who dissects theel Whs prepares thy limbs 

for sacrifice ? 

Who is the Sage that slaughters t&ee ? 

40 In due time let the seasons as thy Slaughterers divide thy 

joints, 

And with the splendour #f skbe Year isacri£oe thee with holy 
rites. 

41 Let the Half-months a«& let the Months, while sacrificing, 

flay thy limbs: 

Let Dajand Night and Maruts mend each fault in sacrificing 
thee. 

42 Let the divine Adhvaryus flay thy body and dissect thy 

frame., 

And let the sacrificing lines prepare thy .members jeint by 
joint. 

43 May Sky, Earth, Air 4 and Wind supply each failing and de¬ 

fect of thine: 

May Surya with the Stars of heaven duly prepare a world 
for thee. 

■44 Well be it with thine upper parts, well be it with the parts 
below j 

Well be it with tbhy hones and with thy marrow and with all 
thy frame] 

45 Who moveih singly 1 eta, as in mrm ft 

46 The Suu moves singly, etc.,, as in verse 1ft. 

47 What lustre is like Darya’s light ? What lake Is equal to thft 

Sea? 


*87 Lead: meaning, probably, copper or iron, as Mahidhara explains. 

$9 Who? or Ka, that is Prajdpati himself performs these sacrificial opera¬ 
tions, and not I the human priest. 

42 The divine Adhvaryut: the Alvins, the Adhvaryus of the Goda. Sami- 
ficing lines: traced on the body of the horse to guide the lminolatur'a 

See verse 83. 

43 Start: or lunar asterisms. 

45 Before the vapd or omentum is offered as a burnt-oblation the folio#* 
ing Brahmodyam (see verse .9) intervenes. Verses 45, 45 .are jepg»ted from 
.9 aud liO. 



VERSE 55 .] 


WRITE YAJURVEDA. 


215 


What is more spacious than the Earth ? What thing is that 
which naught can mete 1 

48 Brahma is lustre like the Sun. Heaven is a flood to match 

the Sea. 

Indra is vaster than the Earth. Beyond all measure is the 
Cow. 

49 Friend of the Gods, f ask, for information, if thou in spirit 

hast obtained the knowledge, 

Hath Vishnu this whole Universe pervaded in the three steps 
wherein the God is worshipped f 
<0 I also am iu those three steps of Vishnu wherewith this Uni* 
verse he permeated. 

The earth and heaven I circle in a moment and this heaven's 
summit with a single organ. 

91 What are the thii^s which Purusha hath entered ! What 
things hath Purusha contained within him f 
This riddle we propound to thee, 0 Brahman, Why dost 
thou give no answer to my question 1 
4ft Withiu five things hath Purusha found entrance: these 
Purusha hath within himeelf connected. 

This is the thought which I return in answer. Thou art 
not my superior in wisdom. 

¥3 What was the antecedent thought! etc., as in verse 11, 

44 Heaven was the antecedent thought, etc., as in 12. 

£5 Who, tell me, is the yellowish she ? Who is the darkly* 
yellowish! 

Who moves with rapid spring and hound 1 Who glides and 
winds along the path J 


4B BreHhma. : Ttoly lore la the shape of the three Vedas, according to 
Mabldkara. Tlte Vow ; as supplying the elements of sacrifice. 

49 The Brahman questions the Udg&tar, the priest who chants the St* 
©aaas. Three steps: or places ; earth, air, and sky, over and through which 
he strode as the Sun ; according to Mahidhara, the Girhapatya, Ahavaniya, 
end Dakshina fires are intended. 

9% The Udgitar replies. Single organ: my mind. 

41 The Udgitar questions the Brahman. Purusha: the Person; Person- 
*fity; the Cosmic Man, or Embodied Spirit, dtmd, the soul or self, accord- 
hg to Mahldkara. 

52 The Brahman replies. Fire things : the five vital breathings. These: 
the senses ; the substrata of hearing, etc. 

53 The Hotar questions the Adhvaryu. The question and the answer are 
repeated from verses 11 and 12. 

55 The Adhvaryu questions the Hotar. Yellowish .. . darkly-yellowish: 
the precise colours intended are uncertain. 



THE TEXTS OF THE 


216 


[book xxim 


56 The she-goat, Sir, is yellowish, dark-yellowish is the porcu¬ 

pine. 

The hare moves swift with leap and bound ; the make creeps 
winding on the path. 

57 How mauy different forms hath this, how many syllables, 

burnt-oblations, brands for kindling 1 
Here, of the rites of sacrifice I ask thee. Bow many Hotaxs 
in due season worship 1 

58 Sixfold its form, its syllables a hundred, eighty burnt-offer¬ 

ings, just three brands for kindling. 

To thee I tell the rites of sacrificing. Seven Hotars worship 
in appointed season. 

59 Who knoweth this world’s central point T Whoknoweth the 

heaven, the earth, and the wide air betweeu them 1 
Who knows the birthplace of the mighty Sftrya % Who knows 
the Moon, whence he was generated l 

60 I know the centre of the wurld about ns. I know heaven 

earth, and the wide air between them. 

I know the birthplace of the mighty Surya. X know thfr 
Moon, whence he was generated. 

61 I ask thee of the earth’s extremest limit, where is the cen¬ 

tre of the world, I ask thee. 

I ask thee of the Stallion’s genial humour r I ask of highest 
heaven where Speech abideth. 

62 This altar is the earth’s extremest limit y this sacrifice of 

ours is the world’s centre. 

This Soma is the Stallion’s genial humour, this Brahman* 
highest heaven where Speech abideth. 


56 The Hotar replies. The ike-goat: ajd here is explained by Mahidhar* 
(who takes, the word in tha sense o & bitthless.) as. M&y&, Illusion, phenome¬ 
nal Nature ; or Night. 

57 The Brahman questions the Udgftiar. Forms : according to- Mahfdha- 
ra, viands or kinds of food. This : sacrifice. 

58 Sixfold: according to Mahidhara, referring to the six principal tastes, 
sweet, bitter, salt, etc. Syllables: of the sacred metres, twenty-four of this 
Glyatri, etc. Burnt oblations: meaning kinds of victims for such offerings. 
Eighty: four tied to each of twenty stakes. Seven Hotar* r the Hotar, Mai- 
tr&varuna, Achchh&vaka, Grdvastut, Br^mau4ohchhanMt, Agntdhra, Potar. 

59 The Udg&tar questions tha Brahman, who replies in the following: 
verse. 

61 The Sacrificer questions the Adhvaryu. The verse is taken from 
R. V. I. 164. 34. 

62 This altar: as the place nearest heaven, the place where the. Gods 
visit men. The Stallion: Dyaus or Heaven, whose genial humour is the 
fertilizing rain which impregnates the earth. This Brahman: who recites 
the texts of the Yeda represents the abiding-place of Speech, or the Wont* 




m 65 } wm# yajurvbda. snr 

63 The Strong, the Self-existent One, the First, within the 

mighty flood 

Laid down the timely embryo from which Prajapati was born, 

64 Let the Hotar sacrifice to Praj&pati from the Mahiman-Soroa. 

Let him accept. Let him drink the Soma. Hotar r sacrifice, 

65 Prajapati, thou only, etc., as in X. 20. 


63 At the end of the Brahmodyana the Adhvaryu draws the Kahitnan 
libation for Prajapati iii a golden cup. The First: Purusha; the Self. 

64 The Hotar : the Hotar of the Qods. Makiman-Soma: contained in tha 
gold cup called Mahiman, Glory, see verse 1, note, 

Hotar, sacrifice: the human Hotar is addressed. 






BOOK THE TWENTY FOURTH. 


Horse, hornless goat, ‘Gotrjpga, these belong to Pr&japati. 
A. black-uecked goat, devoted to Agni, (is to toe bound) 
in front to the forehead (of the horse ); Sarasvatfs ewe 
below his jaws; two goats belonging to the Asvins, with 
marks on the lower parts of the body, to his fore-legs; a 
dark-coloured goat, Soma’s and Pftshan’s, to his navel; a 
white and a black, sacred to Soma and Yama, to his Bides; 
Tvashtatfs two, with bushy tails, to his hind feet ; Vayu's 
white goat to his tail; for Indra the Good Worker a cow 
who slips her calf; a dwarf belonging to Vishnu. 

2 The red goat, the smoky-red, the jujube-red, these belong to 

Soma. The brown, the ruddy-brown, the parrot-brown, 
these are Varuna’s. One with white ear holes, one with 
partly white, one with wholly white, belong to Savitar. 
One with for.e feet white, partly white, wholly white, be¬ 
longs to Brihaspati. -She-goats speckled, with email spots, 
with big spots, these belong to Mitra-Varuna. 

3 The bright-tailed, the wholly bright-tailed, the jewel-tailed, 

these belongto the Asvins. The white, the white-eyed, 
the reddish, these are for Rudra Lord of Beasts. Long- 
eared goats are for Yuma ; proud-ones for Kudra; cloud- 
coloured ones for Parjanya. 


This .Book contains an exact enumeration -of the animals that are to be 
*tied to the sacrificial stakes and in the intermediate spaces, with the names 
of the deities or deified entities to which they are severally dedicated. The 
principal stake, the eleventh and midmost of the twenty-one, called the 
Aguish th a because it stands nearest to the sacrificial fire, is mentioned first. 
About fifteen victims are bound to each of these stakes, all domestic animals, 
.the total number being 327- In the spaces between the stakes 282 wild 
'Animals, from the elephant and the rhinoceros to the bee and the fly, are tem¬ 
porarily confined, to be freed when the ceremony is concluded, bringing 
the total number of assembled animals up to @09. There is, perhaps, some 
exaggeration in the number, and some almost impossible animals are men¬ 
tioned, but it must be remembered that the Asvamedha was a most impor¬ 
tant tribal solemnity of rare occurrence and that no effort would be apared 
to assure its performance with all possible splendour. 

Several of the wild animals cannot be identified. Some of the names are 
•conjecturaliy rendered and some are left in their native forms. The Com¬ 
mentator is not of much assistance in doubtful cases, 4 a k.nd of beast* or 
* a kind of bird’ being all the information that he has to give. 

1 Gomriga: the Gayal or Bos Gavaeus. Dwarf; with reference to 
Vishnu’s Dwarf Incarnation. 

3 Bright-tailed: * goat’ is to be understood with this and similar epithets. 




WHITE YA JURY EDA. 


210 


VERSE 13] 

ft Croats apeckled. transversely speckled, upward speckled are 
for the Manits. The reddish she-goat, the red-haired, the 
white, these belong to Sarasvati. The goat with diseased 
ears, the short-eared, ithe red eared are Tvashtar’s. The 
black-necked, the white-flanked, one with bright-coloured 
thighs belong to Indra and Agni. Those with black marks, 
small marks, large marks belong to Dawn. 

$ Parti-coloured female victims belong to the All-Gods; red- 
coloured, eighteen mot*ths old to Yak; victims without 
distinguishing marks to Aditi; those of one same colour 
toDhatar; weaned kids sacred to the Consorts<of the Gods. 

6 Black-necked victims for Agni; white browed for the Vasus; 

red for SRudra; bright urnes for the Adityas ; cloud-ewlour- 
ed for Parjanya. 

7 The tall goat, the sturdy, the dwarf, these are Indra-Vish- 

911 ’s; the tall, the white fore-footed, the black-backed, 
Indra-Brihaspati's; parrot-coloured the Vajins’; speckled 
Agui-Maruts’; dark-c(Aoured Pusban’s. 

8 Variegated, Indra-Agnrs; two-coloured, Agni-Soma’s; dwarf 

oxen, Agni-Vishnu’s; barren cows, Mi tra-Var una’s ; partly 
variegated, Mitra’s. , 

9 Black-necked oues, Agni’s; brown. Soma’s; white. Vayu’s; 

undistinguished, Aditi’s; self-coloured, Dhatar’s; wean¬ 
lings, the Gods’ Consorts’. 

lb Black ones for Earth ; smoke-ooloured for Firmament; tall 
ones for Sky; brindled ones for Lightning; blotched nuns 
for Stars. 

11 ;Smoke-colowred owes be sacrifices to Spring; white to 

Summer; black to the Bains; red ones to Autumn; 
speckled to Winter; reddish-yellow to the Dewy Seasou. 

12 halves eighteen months old to G&yatrl; steers of two and 

a half years to Trishtup; two year old steers to Jagati; 
three year olds to Anushtup; four year olds to Ushnih. 

13 Four year old steers to Viraj; full grown hulls to Brihati; 

strong bulls to Kakup; draught oxen to Paukti; milch- 
cows to Atichhaaidaa. 


7 VAfins: the deified Coursers of the Gods; a class of divinities, accord¬ 
ing to S Ay ana. 

11 Sacrifices: literally, tabes and ties up ; a euphemistic expression. 

12, 13 The sacred metres are deified as being 'the embodiment of 
supreme harmony and the efficacy of prayer.'—Eggeling. S. B. E. XII. £Q* 



22* 9Et TBXtfS/ OP TUP [&00K IP/t. 

14 Black-necked victims sacred to Agni; brown to Soma; spott¬ 

ed to Savitar; weaned she-kfds to Sarasvatl; dairk-colour- 
ed goats to Pushaw; speckled victims to the Maruts; 
many-coloured to the All-Gods; barren cows to Heaven 
and Earth. 

15 Called contemporary, the dappled belong to Indro-Agui; 

black ones to Vamps; speckled to the MarUts; bornless 
he-goats to Ka. 

16 To Agui foremost in place he sacrifices firstling gaits; to 

the consuming Maruts those bom of oue mother; to the 
Maruts who perform domestic rites those born after a long 
time ; to the sportive Maruts those born together ; to the 
seif-strong Maruts those born in succession. 

17 Called contemporaneous, the dappled belonging to Indra- 

Agni; those with projecting boms to M&hendra; the 
many-coloured to Vievakarman. 

18 Smoke-coloured, those of brownish btie, to be offered to the 

Soma-possessing Fathers; the broWu and the smoky*look¬ 
ing to the Fathers who sit on sacred grass; the black and 
the brownish-looking to the Fathers who have been tasted 
by Agni; the black and the spotted belong to Tryambaka. 

19 Called contemporaneous, the dappled belong to Suna and 

Sira; white ones to V&yu; white ones to Surya. 

20 To Spring he offers Kapinjalas; to Summer sparrows; to 

the Rains partridges; to Autumn quails; to Wiuter 
Kakaras; to the Dewy Seasou Vikakaras. 

21 To the Sea he sacrifices porpoises; to Parjanya frogs; to 

the Waters fishes; to Mitra Kulipaya#; to Varupa cro¬ 
codiles. 


15 Ka: Praj&pati. See I. 6, note. 

16 Consuming: or Fiery; sdntapanebhyafy. Who perform domestic ritet: 
grihamedhibhyah. Sportive: Jcrtyibhyah. Setf‘strong: svufavdhhyaji; see 
XVIL 85, and S. B. E, XII. pp. 40S, 409. 

IS Three classes of Fathers are here mentioned; the Somavantafe, the 
Barhrishadah, and the AguiebvfttUhi. Tryumbdha: a name of Rudrah See 
HI. 58, note; 

19 Suna and Sira: two cBeities or deified objects which bless or are 1 
closely connected with agriculture. The words probably mean, as sug¬ 
gested in the St. Petersburg Lexicon, plougshare and plough. See The 
Hymns of the Atharva-Veda, ill. 17. 5, note. 

20 Kapinjalas: heathcocks or francolius. Kakaras ... Vikakaras : un¬ 
identified. 

21 Ridipayas: unidentified. Crocodiles: the exact meaning of ndkra, 
some kind of aquatic animal, is uncertain* 




WHITE YAJURVBDA. 


VERSE 86 .} 


m 


22 To Soma lie sacrifices wild geese; to VAyu female eranes ; 

to Indra-Agni curlews; to Mitra divers; to Yarupa 
Chakravikna. 

23 To Agui he sacrifices eocks; to Yanasp&tis owls; to Agni- 

Souiablue jays; to the Awing peaeock®, to Mitra-Yarnna 
pigeon 8. 

24 To Soma he sacrifices quails; to Tvasbtar Kaulfkas ; Mai- 

nas to the Gods’ Consorts; Kulikas to the Gods' Sisters; 
Parushpas to Agui Lord of the Homestead. 

2$ To Day he sacrifices doves; to Night SichApus; to the Joints 
of Day and Night bats; to the Months gallinules; to the 
Year great eagles. 

28 To Ground he sacrifices rats; to Firmament field-rats; to 
Day voles; to the Quarters mung«>oses; to the Inter¬ 
mediate Spaces brownish ichneumons. 

27 To the Y*sus he sacrifices black-bucks; to the Rudras stags; 

to the Adityas Nyaaku deer ; to the AU-Gods spotted deer; 
to the Sadhyas Kulihga antelopes, 

28 To IsAua he sacrifices wild asses; to Mitra Gauras; to Varuna 

buffaloes ; to Brihaspati Gayal *; to Tvashtar camels. 

29 To Prajipati he sacrifices men elephants ; to V&k white ants; 

to Sight dies; to Hearing black bees. 

30 To Prajipati and to VAyua Gayal is to be offered; to Yanina 

a wild ram ; to Yama fa black ram; to a human king a 
monkey; to the Tiger a red doe; to the Bull a female 
Gayal, to the Kshiprasyena a quail; to the Nilahgu a 
worm; to the Sea a porpoise; to the Suowy Mountain an 
elephant. 


22 Chakravjikas: ruddy geese, or Bralimany ducks; regarded by Indian 
poets as types of conjugal love and fidelity. So ‘poin thou this couple, 
Indral like the Chakrgy&ka and his mate r :— Nuptial Hymn, A. V. Xiy. 
2. 64. 

24 Kaulikai . ... KyMkas . Pdrushnas: unidentified birds. Mainas: 

goshddU ; * settling on cows ’; Indian starlings (Coracias Indies). 

25 Sichdpts: unidentified. Joints: evening and morning twilight, 
deified. 

27 Sddhyas: meaning, probably, ‘those who are to be propitiated.' 
According to Ydska ‘the Gods whose dwelling-place is the sky.’ In the 
Amarakosha they are named among the minor deities, but they seem rather 
to be the most ancient of the Gods. Ny ah ku... Kulihga: the species have 

not been identified. 

28 Lord, Ruler; one of the names or titles of Rudra. Wild 
asses: or, perhaps, wild buffaloes, the exact animal intended being uncertain. 

30 Kshiprasyena: perhaps Swift Falcon, Nilahgu; said to be a species 
at worm ; perhaps a tape-worm. 





m THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XXIJ. 

31 The Kinnara belongs to Prajapati; the Ula, the Halikshna, 

the cat belong to Dhatar; the heron belongs to the Quar¬ 
ters ; the Dhunksha to Agni; sparrow, red &nake r Saras, 
these are Tvashtar’s; the curlew belongs to Y&k. 

32 To Soma an antelope is to be offered; wild goat, mungoose, 

Sak&, these are Pushan’s; the* jaekal is the Mayu’»; the 
Gaura Indra’s; Pidva,antelope, cock, these are Amuaati’s; 
the Chakrav&ka is for Echo: 

33 The female crane is Surya ? s; SUrga, Srijnya, Say&n<feka, 

these are Mitral; tO'Sarasvati belongs the'human-voiced 
Maina; to Ground the porcupine; tiger, wol£ viper be¬ 
long to Passion; to Sarasvan the human-voiced parrot. 

34' The eagle is P&rjanya’s; the Ati,, the Vahasa, the' wood¬ 
pecker, these are-for Ya.yu; for Brihaspati Lord ofif Speech* 
is the Paingar&ja; the Alaja? belongs to Firmament; 
pelican, cormorant, fish, these belong to the Lord:o£ Rivers; 
the tortoise belongs to Heaveil'and Earth* 

35* The buck belongs to the Moon; iguana, K&)ask&, woodpecker,, 
these belong to the Vanaspatis; the cock belongs to>Savi- 
tar; the swan* is YataV: crocodile, dolphin, Kulipaya,. 
these belong;t>o the Sea;, the porcupine to Modesty. 

38 The Blackrdoe belongs to Dhy; frog, female rat, partridge;, 
these belong to the Serpents; the jackal belongs to* the* 
A«svins; the Black-buck to Night; bear, bat, Sushilikl,. 
these belong, to the Other Folk.;, the polecat belongs* to 
Yltthnu. 


3 V Kinnara: ‘What sort of man?’, or Mayu; probably ar monkey: 
Ula ..Hhlikshna: unidentified; according to Mabidhara, the latter is a kind* 
of lion. Cat: vrishdamsa, ‘'the strong biter,’ is thus explained* by the* 
Commentator. Dhuhkshd: a kind of bird, says MahidHnra. Sdras: the* 
Indian or Siberian Ctane (Ardea Sibirica) ; a splendid bird, easily dbmesth 
cated. 

32 &tkd: variously explained as bird, fly, long-eared beast; Mdyw :* 
probably a Kimpurusha, or manlike monkey. Pldtia: unidentified? ^Intc- 
mati: Divine Favour personified. Echo: because the male and female* 
bird are condemned to pass the night on opposite banks of a river, inces¬ 
santly callins: to each other. 

33 Sh'ga, Snjay t, Siydndaka: unidentified. Sarasvdn: SarasvatiU Contort.. 

34 The birds and beasts whose names are left untranslated 4 inthiB and 
following verses are unidentified, Lord of Riven : Oceana 

35 Vanaspatis: Sacrificial Stakes. 

36 Other Folk: a euphemistic expression for certain beings who-apoear 
to be regarded as spirits of darkness. S \ in England, fairies are called 
Folk, People, Neighbours ; in Germany, Little Folk ; in Switzerland.. Hilll 
People-and Earth People. 



VERSE 40 .]’ 


WHITE YAJURVt&A. 


223 


37 The-cuckoo belongs to the BUlf Months ; antelope*, peacock, 

eagle; these are the Gaudharvas’; the otter belongs to 
the Months; tortoise, doe-antelope,, iguana, Golathikfe 
belong tathe Apsarases; the black snake belongs to Death. 

38 Th&frog belongs to the Seasons y the vole, the rat, the mouse*, 

these are the Fathers’; the Python, the Bal4ya belong to 
the Vasus ; Kapifljala, pigeon, owl, hare belong, to Nirriti; 
the wild ram to Varuna. 

39 The white anknai belongs to the Aditjcas the camel, the 

Ghrinirvazv the rhinoceros to Mati; the Sidmara belong to 
the Foreat-God ; the Kura buck is Rudra’s; Kvayi, cock, 
gallinule^ these are the Vajins 7 ^ the cuckoo belongs to 
Kama. 

40 The Khanga fo the AU-Gbds’ y the* brack (Jog, the long^eared',. 

the-ass, the* hyena, those are the- R&kshasas’; the* boar is 
for Indra^ the lion ie for the Maruts;; the chameleon, 
the Pippaka* the vulture, these belong to Sfcravy&; the 
spotted antelope^ belongs to the All-Gods.. 


38 EapififcUa .- see- verse- 20. Nirriti: the- Goddess off Death and De¬ 
struction.. See- XIB. 02. 

39 Ghrintv1r*.r explained by Mahfdhara as the splendid or strong victim. 
Mati: Thought or Devotion. Vdjins: see verse 7T. Cuckoo: pika; whose voice 
^supposed to say Ptkahdn, Where in my darling?) is chiefly heard, in. Spuing,, 
is the-favourite bird of K&ma the God of Love. 

40 SkravyA: the arrow personified as a deity.. 



BOOK THE TWENTY-FIFTH. 


I gratify Fr»sh Grass with his teeth, Avals at with his gums, 
Clay with his tooth-sockets, Tegas with his f&ugs. The 
tongue-tip for Sarasvati; I gratify the root of the tongue 
aud the palate with his neigh, Vaja with bis jaws, the 
Waters with his mouth, the Stallion with his testicles, 
the Adityas with the heard, Path with his eyebrows, 
Heaven and Earth with his eyelashes, Lightning with 
the pupils of his eyes. Hail to the white! Hail to the 
blaek 1 Effectual are bis eyelashes, irresistible are his 
lower eyelashes; irresistible are his eyelashes, effectual 
are his lower eyelashes. 

t With his breath I gratify Vata; with his outbreath the two 
Nostrils; with his lower lip the Upay&ma; with his up¬ 
per lip Existence. With his bright look 1 please Ant&ra, 
with his reflection Bahva; the Whirlpool with his head; 
Thunder with his frontal bone ; the Lightning-flash with 
his brain ; Lightning with the pupils of his eyes ; Hear¬ 
ing with his external ears ; Ears with his internal ears; 
Blood with his lower neck ; Waters with the fleshless 
part of his neck ; Thought with the back neck-tendons; 
Aditi with his head; Nirriti with his ragged head 5 
Vital Breathings with his roars ; Tempest with his crest. 

3 I gratify Flies with his hair; Indra with his active shoulder; 
Brihaspati with his quick spring; Tortoises with his 
hoofs ; Approach with his fetlocks ; Kapifljalas with his 
heel-ropes; Speed with his two thighs; the Way with 
bis two fore-legs ; the Forest-God with a kneepan ; Agui 
with his two knees; Pushan with his two fore-feet; the 
Asvins with his shoulders; Rudra with his shoulder-joints. 

The fforse-sacrtfice jg continued. In the first nine verses (which consti¬ 
tute a Br&hmana or Exegetical Treatise as distinct from the Te^ts and 
Formulas) oblation is made of the roasted flesh, the various parts of the 
victim being assigned, with the cry of Sv&hd ! All-hail! to a host of deities 
and other objects which are regarded as deified for the occasion. 

1 Avakd: a water-plant. See XIII. 30. Tegas: the Commentator 
gives no explanation, and the meaning is unknown. Vdja: Strength ; or 
Sacrificial Food. The Path: cf. the Way in verse 3. The white: the light- 
coloured part of the body. 

2 Upaydma: the formula accompanying certain Soma libations : Taken 
upon a base (upaydma) art thou. See VII. 4. Bright look: according to 
Mahidhara, the gloss on the upper part of his body. Antara: interior. 
JReflection: gloss on the lower part of his body, according to the Commen¬ 
tator. Bdhya: exterior. Bagged: nirjarjalpa ; the word (apparently 
meaningless here) is probably used as a sort of play upon the word jarjara, 
brain. 

3 Hair: which has so often brushed them away. Active: the same word 
is an epithet of Indra. Hoofs: to renovate their shells with the horny 
material. Cf. A. V. IX. 4. 16 : They gave the hooves to tortoises. 


VBBSB 8 .] 


WHITE YAJURVBDA. 


225 


4 The first rib is Agni’s; the second Vayu’s; the third 

India’s ; the fourth Soma’s; the fifth Aditi’s; the sixth 
Iudrani’s; the seventh the Maruts’; the eighth Brihas- 
pati’s; the ninth Aryamau’s ; the tenth Dhatar’s ; the 
eleveuth Iudra’s the twelfth Varuga’s; the thirteenth 
Yama’s. 

5 (On the left side) the first rib belongs to Indra-Agni; the 

secoud to Sarasvati; the third to Mitra ; the fourth to 
the Waters; the fifth to Nirriti ; the sixth to Agni-Soma; 
the seventh to the Serpents ; the eighth to Vishnu ; the 
ninth to Pushan ; the tenth to Tvashtar; the eleventh to 
Indra; the twelfth to Varuna ; the thirteenth to Yaraa. 
The right flank belongs to Heaven and Earth, the left to 
the Ail-Gods. 

6 The shoulders belong to the Maruts ; the first rib-cartilages 

to the All-Gods ; the secoud to the Rudras; the third te 
the Adityas ; the tail belongs to V&yu; the hind-quarters 
to Agni-Soma. I gratify the two Gurlews with the hips ; 
Indra-Brihaspati with the thighs; Mitra-Varuna with 
the groins; Approach with the buttocks ; Strength with 
the two cavities of the loins. 

7 I gratify Pusliau with the rectum ; Blind-worms with the 

large intestines ; Serpents with the entrails ; Worms with 
the guts; the Waters with tbe bladder ; Scrotum with 
the testicles ; the Vajins with his penis ; Offspring with 
his seed; Blue jays with his bile; Fissures with his 
arms; Kushmas with his lumps of dung. 

8 His chest belongs to Indra ; his belly to Aditi; his clavicles 

to the Quarters; his nether hind-part to Aditi. I gratify 
Clouds with his aorta; Firmament with his pericardium ; 
Mist with his belly ; the two Chakravakas with his car¬ 
diac bones; Sky with his kidneys; Mountains with his 
ducts ; Rocks with his spleen ; Ant-hills with his lungs ; 
Shrubs with his heart-vessels ; Streams with his veins ; 
Lakes with his flanks; Sea with his belly; Vaisvanara 
with his ashes. 

4 Indrdnt: Iudra’s Consort. 

6 T!w tail belongs to Vdyu: so at the offering of tbe typical Sacrificial 
Bull : Vat* the God receives the tail: he stirs the plants and herbs there¬ 
with.—A V. IX. 4. IS. Curlews: regarded, like the Chakravdkas, as semi- 
sacred birds. See Rdm&yaiia, I. 2. 12If. for V&lmiki’s curse on the slayer 
of one of a pair. KUshmas: unexplained and unkuown. 

8 Cardiac bones: two bones, says Mahiihara, one on each side of the 
heart. .The word matasne more probacy means kidneys, as I have trans¬ 
lated it in XIX. 85. 

15 



226 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XXV. 

9 I gratify Separation with his navel; Batter with his flavour; 
the Waters with his broth ; Sunbeams with his drops of 
fat; Hoar-frost with his heat; Ice with his marrow; Hail¬ 
stones with his tears ; Thunderbolts with the rheum of 
his- eyes ; Rakshasas with his blood ; Bright things with 
his limbs ; Stars with his beauty; Earth with his skin. 
All-hail to Jumbaka ! 

10 In the beginning rose Hiranyagarbha, etc., as in XIII. 4 ; 

XXIII. 1. 

11 Who by his grandeur, etc., as in XXIII. 3. 

12 Whose, by his might, are these snow-covered mountains, 

and men call sea and Rasa his possession : 

Whose are these arms, whose are these heavenly regions. 
What God shall we adore with our oblation % 

13 Giver of vital breath, of power and vigour, he whose com¬ 

mandment all the Gods acknowledge : 

Tne Lord of death, whose shade is life immortal. What 
God shall we adore with our oblation? 

14 May powers auspicious come to us from every side, never 

deceived, unhindered and victorious, 

That the Gods ever may be with us for our gain, our guar¬ 
dians day by day, unceasing in their care. 

15 Miy the auspicious favour of the Gods be ours, on ua 

descend the bounty of the righteous Gods. 

The friendship of the Gods have we devoutly sought: so 
may the Gods extend our life that we may live. 


9 Separation: vidhriti ; the ritual name of two blades of grass laid cross¬ 
wise on the altar. See VII. 4; S. B. G. XII. p. 93; XXVI. 89. Jumbaka: 
a name of Varuna. 

10 Four tevts follow constituting the Inviting and Offering Verses of the 
Sacrifice of the Horse and other victims to Prajipati. Verse 10 is repeated 
from XIII. 4 and XXIII. 1. 

12 Taken from the same hymn as verses 10 and 11. R. V. X. 121. 4. 
Rasd: the ancient name of a river in the north of India ; sometimes re¬ 
garded as a stream that flows round the earth and the firmament See 
Prof. A. Weber, Vedische BeitriLge, VII. pp. 10—12. What God: ether 
than Praj&piti. Or. God Ka let us, etc. 

13 Taken from R. V. X. 121. 2. The first division of the second line 
difficult. Prof. M. Muller renders it : ‘ Whose shadow is immortality, 
whose shadow is death.’ The meaning may be that his cold shadow (his 
displeasure, or ignorance of him, is death, while the shadow, reflection, or 
knowledge of his bright glory makes his worshipper immortal. 

14 Ten stanzas follow constituting the Inviting and Offering Verses of 
the oblations of marrow or omentum and rice-cakes to the AlI Goda. They 
are taken from R. V. I. 89. 1—10. 



VERSE 23.] WHITE YAJURVEDA. 227 

16 We call them hither with a hymn of olden time, Bhaga, the 

friendly Daksha, Mitra, Aditi, 

Aryaman, Vanina, Soma, the Asvius. May Sarasvati, aus¬ 
picious, grant felicity. 

17 May the Wind waft to us that pleasant mediciue, may Earth 

our Mother give it, and our Father Heaven, 

And the joy-giving stones that press the Soma’s juice. As- 
vins, may ye, for whom our spirits long, hear this. 

18 Him we invoke for aid who reigns supreme, the Lord of all 

that stands or moves, inspirer of the soul, 

That Pushan may promote the increase of our wealth, our 
keeper and our guard infallible for our good. 

19 Illustrious far and wide, may Indra prosper us: may Pushan 

prosper us, the Master of all wealth. 

May Tarkshya with uninjured fellies prosper us: Brihaspati 
vouchsafe to us prosperity. 

20 The Maruts, Sons of Prisni, borne by spotted steeds, moving 

in glory, oft visitiug holy rites, 

Sages whose tougue is Agni and their eyes the Sun,—hither 
let all the Gods for our protection come. 

21 Gods, may we with our ears listen to what is good, and with 

our eyes see what is good, ye Holy Ones. 

With limbs and bodies firm may we extolling you attain the 
term of life appointed by the Gods. 

22 A hundred autumns stand before us, 0 ye Gods, within 

whose space ye bring our bodies to decay; 

Within whose space our sons become fathers in turn. Break 
ye not in the midst our course of fleeting life. 

23 Aditi is the heaven, Aditi is mid-air, Aditi is the Mother 

and the Sire and Son. 


16 Daksha: Strength ; a creative Power associated with Aditi, and 
therefore sometimes identified with Praj&pati. 

19 Tdrkshya: see XV. 18. 

20 Prisni: see VII. 16. 

22 Hundred autumns: a hundred years, counted in earlier times by 

winters, then by autumns, then, as now, by Rains (varsha having become 
the Hindi baras, a year), being regarded as the natural duration of human 
life. Cf. Isaiah. LXV. 20. 1 There shall be no more thence an infant of 

days, nor an old man that hath not tilled his days : for the child shall die 
an hundred years old.’ 

23 Aditi: as the Infinite; Infinite Nature. Five-classed: the four castes 
and Nish&das or wild aboriginal tribes, according to Sdyana ; or ‘ Fivefold 
life or being,’ that is, Gods, men, Gaudharvas and Apsarases, Serpents, and 
Fathers, according to the same authority. 



228 THE TEXTS OP THE [BOOK XXV. 

Adifci is all Hods, Aditi five-classed men, Aditi all that hath 
been born and shall be born. 

24 Slight us a not Varuna, Aryaman, or Mitra, Ribhukshau, 

Indra, Ayu, or the Maruts, 

When we declare amid the congregation the virtues of the 
Strong Steed, God-descended. 

25 What time they bear before the Courser, covered with trap¬ 

pings and with wealth, the grasped oblation, 

The dappled goat goeth straightforward, bleating, to the 
place dear to Indra and to Pushan. 

26 Dear to all Gods, this goat, the share of Pushan, is first led 

forward with the vigorous Courser, 

While Tva^htar sends him forward with the Charger, accept¬ 
able for sacrifice, to glory. 

27 When thrice the men lead round the Steed, in order, who 

goeth to the Gods as meet oblation, 

The goat precedeth him, the share of Pfishan, and to the 
Gods the sacrifice announceth. 

28 Invoker, ministering priest, atoner, fire-kindler, Soma- 

presser, sage, reciter, 

With this well ordered sacrifice, well finished, do ye fill full 
the channels of the rivers. 

29 The hewers of the post and those who carry it, and those 

who carve the knob to deck the Horse’s stake; 

Those who prepare the cooking-vessels for the Steed,—may 
the approving help of these promote our work. 

30 Forth, for the regions of the Gods, the Charger with his 

smooth back is come ; my prayer attends him. * 

In him rejoice the singer and the sages. A good friend 
have we won for the Gods’ banquet. 

24 The Asvastuti or Eulogy of the Horse follows, comprised in twenty- 
two verses which form Hymn 162 of Book I. of the Rigveda. Ribhukshem: 
a name of Indi a as lord of the Ribhus, the three season-making deities who 
perhaps represent the past, the present, and the future. Ayu : said by 
S&yana and Mahidhara to be used in this place for V4yu. It is apparently 
a name of Agni, the Living, Lively One, as in V. 9. God-descended: sprung 
from the Gods. or. according to S&ya ia, boru as the type of various deities. 
See R. V. I. 163. 2-4. 

25 Grasped oblation: the offering of clarified butter taken from the re¬ 
mains of a previous burnt-offering. Goat: that is to be tied to the Horse 
at the sacrificial stake. See XXIV. 13. Pdshan: said by Sdyana to 
stand for Agni in this and the two following verses. 

28 Invoker, etc.: these are the designations of eight of the sixteen priests 
emnluyed. Sage: the Brahman, a piiest of profound knowledge (see V. 81; 
VIT. 45) who superintends the ceremony. Fill full the channels: obtain 
blessings iu abundance. 



WHITE YAJVRVEDA . 


229 


YEREE 41. ] 

31 May the fleet Courser’s halter and his heel-ropes, the head- 

stall and the girths and cords about him, 

And the grass put within his mouth to bait him,—among 
the Gods, too, let all these be with thee. 

32 What part of the Steed’s flesh the fly hath eaten, or is left 

sticking to the post or hatchet, 

Or to the slayer’s hands and nails adhereth,—among the 
Gods, too, may all this be with thee. 

33 Food undigested steaming from his belly, and any odour of 

raw flesh remaining, 

This let the immolators set iu order and dress the sacrifice 
with perfect cooking. 

34 What from thy body which with fire is roasted, when thou 

art set upon the spit, distilleth,— 

Let not that lie on earth or grass neglected, but to the long¬ 
ing Gods let all be offered. 

35 They who, observing that the Horse is ready, call out and 

say, The smell is good ; remove it ; 

And, craving meat, await the distribution,—may their 
approving help promote our labour. 

36 The trial-fork of the flesh cooking caldron, the vessels out 

of which the broth is sprinkled, 

The warming-pots, the covers of the dishes, hooks, carving- 
boards,—all these attend the Charger. 

37 Let not the fire, smoke-scented, make thee crackle, nor 

glowing caldron smell and break to pieces. 

Offered, beloved, approved, and consecrated,—such Charger 
do the Gods accept with favour. 

S3 The starting-place, his place of rest and rolling, the ropes 
wherewith the Charger’s feet were fastened, 

The water that he drauk, the food he tasted,—among the 
Gods, too, may all these attend thee. 

39 The robe they spread upon the Horse to clothe him, the 

upper covering and the golden trappings, 

The halters which restrain the Steed, the heel-ropes,—all 
these, as grateful to the Gods, they offer. 

40 If one, when seated, with excessive urging hath with his 

heel or with his whip distressed thee, 

All these thy woes, as with oblation’s ladle at sacrifices, 
with my prayer I banish. 

41 The fonr-and-thirty ribs of the swift Courser, kin to the 

Gods, the slayer’s hatchet pierces. 


41 Four-and-thirty: bo many out of the thirty-six. As the Sacrificial 
Horse represents the heavens, the thirty-four ribs symbolize the Sun, the 



230 WHITE YAJURVEDA. [BOOK XXV. 

Cut ye with skill so that the parts be flawless, and piece by 
piece declaring them dissect them. 

42 Of Tvasbtar’s Courser there is one dissector: this is the cus¬ 

tom : two there are who guide him. 

Such of his limbs as I divide in order, all these, amid the 
lumps, in fire I offer. 

43 Let not thy dear soul burn thee as thou comest, let not the 

hatchet linger in thy body. 

Let not a greedy clumsy immolator, missing the joints, 
mangle thy limbs unduly. 

44 No, here thou diest not, thou art not injured: only by easy 

paths to Gods thou goest. 

Both Bays, both Spotted Mares are now thy fellows, and to 
the Ass’s pole is yoked the Courser. 

45 May this Steed bring us all-sustaining riches, wealth in 

good kine, good horses, manly offspring. 

Freedom from sin may Aditi vouchsafe us; the Steed with 
our oblations gain us lordship ! 

48 We will, with Indra and all Gods to help us, bring these 
existing worlds into subjection. 

With the Adityas, with the band of Maruts, may Indra 
give us medicine to heal us. 

Our sacrifice, our bodies, aud our offspring may Indra re¬ 
gulate with the Adityas. 

47 iO Agni, be our nearest Friend, etc., as in III. 25. 

To thee then, 0 Most Bright, etc., as in III. 26. 


Moon, the five planets, and the twenty-seven nakshatras or lunar asteriems. 
See Ludwig, Der liigveda, III. p. 186. Piece by piece: the dissectors art 
to name the several parts as they divide them, each part being assigned to 
a separate deity. 

42 One dissector: in chief. The lamps: the portions of meat made up 
into balls. 

43 Burn thee: make thee sad. 

44 Both Buys, etc.: thou art now associated in heaven with the two bay 
horses of Indra, the two spotted mares of the Maruts, and the ass (repre¬ 
senting the grey or dun colour of early morning) that draws the chariot of 
the As v ins. 

46 Taken, with variations, from R. V. X. 157. 1, 3, 2. 

For a description of au Asvamedha in later times, see R&m&yana, Book 
I. 10—15. 

The Dakshinits or honoraria bestowed upon the officiating priests ere not 
mentioned in the text. They consisted chiefly of a large proportion of the 
booty taken from the ruler and the people of the conquered country. Ac¬ 
cording to a Commentator, the spoil of the east was given to theHotar, and 
that of the south to the Brahman. The Adhvaryu received a maiden (tb* 
daughter of the Sacriflcer, says a Commentator), and the Sacrificer’s fourth 
wife. See Hillebraudt, Ritual-Litteratur, p. 152. 



BOOK THE TWENTY-SIXTH. 


Agni and Prithivi, closely connected, may they bring low for 
me the boon I mention. 

Vayu and Firmament, closely connected, may they, etc. 

Closely connected Dyaus and the Aditya, may they, etc. 

Closely connected Varuna and Waters, may they, etc. 

Lord of the seven communities and her who forms all be¬ 
ings, eighth, 

Make our ways full of pleasantness: may So-and-So and I 
agree. 

2 That I to all the people may address this salutary speech, 

To priest and nobleman, Sudra and Arya, to one of our own 

kin and to the stranger. 

Dear may I be to Cods and guerdon-giver. Fulfilled be this 
my hope : be that my portion ! 

3 Give us, Brihaspati, that wondrous treasure, that which ex¬ 

ceeds the merit of the foeman, 

Which shines among the folk effectual, splendid, that, Son 
of Law, which is with might refulgent. 

Takeu upon a base art thou. Thee for Brihaspati. This is 
thy home. Thee for Brihaspati, 

4 Come hither, Indra, rich in kine ! Drink Soma, Lord of 

Hundred Powers, 

Effused by braying pressing-stones. 

Takeu upon a base art thou. Thee for Indra, rich in kine. 
This is thy home. Thee for Indra, rich in kine. 

Books XXVI—XXIX contain sacrificial texts and formulas connected 
with the Lunar Sacrifices, Oblation to the Manes, the Agnihotra, the Sea¬ 
sonal Sacrifices, the V&japeva, the U:\jasuya, the Sautrdmani, the Asvamedha, 
etc., which have formed the subjects of earlier Books. To these sacrifices 
these supplementary formulas are to be applied as occasion requires. 

1 Bring low: under my control; into my possession. The boon I men¬ 
tion: a blank prayer, the special blessing that is desired must be stated 
when the formula is used. Seven communities: probably meaning, all the 
people. See R. V. VIII. 81. 20. According to Mahidhara, the seven organs 
of perception are intended, and Paramitma the Supreme Self, is their Lord. 
Eighth: Earth, or Vak. These words are in the nominative case, and the 
verb, male, is in the second person singular of the imperative. Mahidhara 
therefore supplies He Svdmin , yasya lava, 0 Lord, whose are. So-and-So: 
some mau with whom the speaker is at variance, and whose name is to be 
applied as occasion requires. Cp. VII. 3; IX. 38, 40. 

2 Arya: the Vaisya, the man of the people, the agriculturist and trader, 
of the third class Be that: the special boon prayed for, wealth, kine, sons, 
or .whatever it may be, is to be declared when the formula is used. 

3 Taken from R. V. II. 23. 15. The foeman: the ungodly man of alien 
creed. Son of Law: who hast thy being in accordance with rita, Right, 
Truth, or eternal Law and Order. Taken upon a bane : see VII. 4. Ho 
addresses the cup of Soma juice which lie takes or draws for Brihaspati, 



232 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XXVI. 

5 0 Indra, YTitra-slayer, come. Drink Soma, Lord of Hun¬ 

dred Powers, 

Expressed with stones whose wealth is kine. 

Taken upon a base art thou, etc., as in verse 4. 

6 Vaisv&nara the righteous One, the Lord of sacrifice and light,. 
The heat that wasteth not, we seek. 

Taken upon a base art thou. Thee for Vaisvanara. 

This is tby home: thee for Vaisvanara. 

7 Still in Vaisvanara’s grace may we continue: yea, he is 

King Supreme o'er all things living. 

Sprung hence to life upon this All he looketh. Vaisvanara 
hath rivalry with Surya. 

Taken upon a base art thou, etc., as in verse 6. 

8 Hitherward come Vaisvanara to succour us from far away, 
Agni through laud that brings him near! 

Taken upon a base, etc, as in verse 6. 

9 Agni is Pavamana, Sage, the Tribe-Priest of the Races Five: 
To him of mighty wealth we pray. 

Taken upon a base art thou. Thee for lustre. This is thy 
home. Thee for lustre. 

10 May mighty Indra, thunder-armed, may Shodas; protect us 

well, and slay the wicked man who hateth us. 

Taken upon a base art thou. Thee for Mahendra. This is 
thy home. Thee for Mahendra. 

11 As cows low to their calves in stalls so with our songs wo 

glorify 

This Indra, e’en your wondrous God who checks assault*, 
who joys in the delicious juice. 

12 Agni’s is the most fetching song. Shine mightily, thou rich 

in light 1 

Like the Chief Consort of a King, riches and strength proceed 
from thee. 

5 Whose wealth is kine: libations of Soma juice being thus rewarded. 

6 The heat that wasteth not: ‘ Exhaustless heat am I (Agni)*:—R. V.IIL 
26. 7. 

7 Sprung hence: produced from these two aranis, the fire-drill. The- 
text is taken from R. V. 1. 98. 1. 

9 Taken from R. V. IX. 66. 20. Pavamdna: Self-purifying an epithet 
applied both to Soma and to Agni. Tribe Priest: or Purohita. Race* 
Five: the four castes aod Nishddas or aboriginal tribes, according to the 
commentators. 

10 Shodad: a title of Indra. See VIII. 33, note. Mahendra: Great India. 

11 Taken from R. V. VIII. 77. 1. Cows: milked for sacrificial purposes 
and temporarily separated from their calves. See I., introductory note. 

12 Taken from R. V. V. 25. 7. Most fetching: most effectually attract¬ 
ing and bringing to the sacrifice. Like the Chief Consort: like a chief 
queen proceeding from her home in royal state. 



verse si.] 


WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


2*S 


13 Come, here, 0 Agni, will I sing verily other songs to thee, 
And with these drops shalt thou grow strong. 

14 The Seasons spread thy sacrifice ! the Months protect thine 

offering ! 

May the Year guard our sacrifice for thee and keep our child¬ 
ren safe. 

15 There where the mountains downward slope, there by the 

meeting of the streams 
The gage was manifest with song. 

16 High is thy juice’s birth: though set in heaven, on earth it 

hath obtaiued 

Strong sheltering power and great renown. 

17 Finder of room and freedom, flow for Indra, meet for worship, 

flow 

For Varuna and the Marut host. 

18 Striving to win, with him we gain all wealth of the ungodly 

one, 

Yea, all the glories of mankind. 

19 May we be prosperous with brave sons, eattle, horses, each 

wish of ours, and varied blessings, 

With quadrupeds, and with the men about us. May the 
Gods guide our sacrifice in season. 

20 0 Agni, bring thou hitherward the yearning Consorts of the 

Gods, 

Bring Trash tar to the Soma-draught. 

21 0 Neshtar girt by Dames, accept our sacrifice : with Rita 

drink, 

For thou art he who giveth wealth. 

13 Taken from R. V. VI. 16. 16. _ " ————— 

15 Taken from R. V. VIII. 6. 28. The Sage: Indra. ‘S&yana’s sonclu- 
sion of the purport of the verse is that men ought to worship where Indra 
is said to be manifested.’—Wilson. According to Mahidhara, the transla¬ 
tion should be ‘ The Sage was gendered with the thought ’; that is, he says, 
the Soma plaut sprang to life with the knowledge that men would use it in 
their sacrifices. 

16 Taken from R. V. IX. 61. 10. The verse is addressed to Soma. 

17 Taken from R. V. IX. 61. 12. Addressed to Soma. Meet for worship : 
yajyave; according to Prof. M. Muller, the pursuer. 

18 Taken from R. V. IX. 61. 11. Him: Soma. 

20 Taken from R. V. I. 22. 9. Tvashtar: ‘probably on account of his 
creative agency in the womb, Tvastr is closely allied with celestial females 
(gndh, janayah) or the wives of the gods who are his most frequent attend¬ 
ants'—Macdouell, Vedic Mythology, p. 117. 

21 Taken from R. V. I. 15. 3. NeshJtar: the priest who leads forward 
the wife of the Sacrifioer and prepares the Sur& (see VIII. 10, note). In 
this place Neshtar is said to be a title of Tvashtar from his having on some 
occasiou assumed the function of a Neshtar priest. Ritu: with the God 
Ritu, the Season deified; or, in the proper season. 



234 WHITE 7AJURVEDA. [ BOOK XXVI ., 

22 He with the Tfcitug fain would drink, Wealth-giver, from the 
Neshtur’s bowl. 

Begin, pay offerings: hasten ye. 

2*5 Thiue is this Soma: come thou near, approach it. Drink 
thou thereof, benevolent, and cease not. 

Sit on the sacred grass at this our worship, and take these 
drops iuto thy belly, Indra. 

24 Come unto us, ye swift to listen ! as at home, upon the 

sacred grass sit and enjoy yourselves. 

And, Tvashtar, well content be joyful in the juice with Gods 
and Goddesses in gladsome compauy. 

25 In sweetest and most gladdening stream flow pure, 0 Soma, 

on thy way, 

Pressed out for Indra, for his drink. 

2C Fiend-queller, Friend of all men, he hath in the vat attained 
unto 

His place, his iron-fashioned home. 

22 Taken freua R T. I. 15. 9. With the, Ritas: with the deified Seasons; 
or in due season, a a above. Wealth-giver: Agni. 

23 Taken from R. V. III. 35. 6. 

24 Come unto us: according to Mahtdhara, the Gods’ Consorts are ad¬ 
dressed. 

25 Taken from R. V. IX. 1. 1. 

26 Taken from R T. IX. 1. 2, with a slight variation. Iron-fashioned 
home: receptacle that has been hammered or formed with a tool of ay as, 
iron or perhaps bronze. 



BOOK THE TWENTY-SEVENTH, 


Half-years and Seasons strengthen thee, 0 Agni, the Years 
and all the Verities and Rishis! 

Flash forth with thy celestial effulgence: illumine all four 
regions of the heaven. 

2 Kindle thee, Agni, wake this man to knowledge: rise up 

erect for great and happy fortune. 

Agni, be those uuinjured who adore thee, thy priests be 
glorious and none beside them ! 

3 The Brahmans present here elect thee, Agni: be thou pro¬ 

pitious in our sanctuary. 

Slayer of rivals, Agni, quell our foeroen : watch in thy house 
with care that never ceases. 

4 Even here do thou, 0 Agni, stablish wealth : let not oppres¬ 

sors injure thee by thinking of thee first. 

Light be thy task of ruling, Agni, with thy power : may he 
who worships thee wax strong, invincible. 

5 Kind to the people, grasp thy power, 0 Agni: contend thou 

with the Friend by way of friendship. 

Placed, Agni, in the centre of our kinsmen, flash forth to be 
invoked by Kings around thee. 

6 Past those who slay, past enemies, past thoughtless men, 

past those who hate,— 

Yea, Agni, drive away all woe and trouble: vouchsafe us 
opulence with men about us. 

7 Holder of sway, shine here refulgent, Agni! invincible, 

unconquered Jatavedas. 

Light all the regions, chasing human terrors : with happy 
helps guard us to-day for increase. 


1 Verses 1—9 are to be used at an animal sacrifice between the 9th and 
10th of the normal Grlyatri kindling-verses recited while the sacrificial fire 
is being lighted or when additional fuel is applied to it. See Sacred Books 
of the East, XLI. pp. 167 (eote), 168. half-years: samdh; the warm 
halves of the years as distinguished from, and equal (sama OflO£) to the 
hhudh or winters. See Prof. A. Weber, Vedische Beitrage, VII. pp. 1, 2, 
and Zimmer, Altindisches Leben, p. 371. Verses 1—3 are taken, with vari¬ 
ations, from A. V. II. 6. 1—3. 

4 Varied from A. T. VII. 82. 3. Let net oppressors: let act the wicked, 
atuieipating our worship, secure thy attention before us, and, as unworthy 
ador ers, insult and degrade thy majesty. 

5 A V. II. 6. 4. The Friend: the God Mitra. By way of friendship: 
mitradhd. 

6 A. V. II. 6. 5, slightly varied. 

7 Varied, from A. V. VII. 84. I. 



236 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XXV1L 

8 Brihaspati, Savitar, give this man knowledge : sharpen him 

thoroughly though already sharpened. 

To great and high felicity exalt him: in him let all the Gods 
rejoice and triumph. 

9 As thou, Brihaspati, from curse hast freed us, from dwelling 

yonder in the realm ot Yama, 

The Asvins, Leeches of the Gods, 0 Agni, have chased Death 
far from us with mighty powers, 

10 Looking upon the loftier light, etc., as in XX. 21. 

11 Uplifted are the brands that are his fuel: lofty and brilliant 

are the flames of Agni, 

Splendidly bright of the Son fair of aspect. 

II Tanunapat the Asura, all-possessing, God among Gods, the 
God with mead and butter shall bedew the paths. 

13 With mead to sacrifice thou comest, Agni, comest as friendly- 

minded Narasamsa, and Savitar righteous God who brings 
all blessings. 

14 He cometh hitherward with power and fatness, the luminous 

implored with adoration. 

While rites proceed the ladles move to Agni. 

15 Let him pay worship to this Agni’s greatness, daintily fed: 

he verily gives enjoyments: 

The wisest Yasu he, and best wealth giver. 

16 Widely expansive, ruling by foundation, the Doors divine— 

and, after, all— 

Preserve this'Agni’s holy works. 

17 May Dawn and Night protect—his heavenly Consorts—in 

his home this our sacrificial worship. 

18 Ye two celestial Hotars, greet with praises this lofty rite of 

ours, the tongue of Agni. 

Cause that our sacrifice be well conducted. 


8 Varied, from A. V. VII. 16. Brihaspati , Savitar: meaning Agni who. 
is identified with these Gods. 

11 Varied, from A. V. V. 27. 1. This and the eleven following verssa 
form an Apr! or Propitiatory Hymn, the whole of which is found, with 
variations in the same Atharva-veda hymn. The Son: Agni is called the 
Son of the Sacrificer as being produced and supported by him. 

12 Asura: Lord Divine. The paths: the ways or courses of the Sacrifice 
14 The luminous: vahnih; or, the priest ; or, the furtherer (of oblations). 

See M. Muller, Vedic Hymns, I. pp. 37 sqq. 

16 Doors: of the sacrificial half deified. And all: there is no substan¬ 
tive ; dewlh, God*, is probably understood. ' 

17 Dawn and Niyht: personified as Goddesses. 

18 Celestial Hotars: Agni with Aditya or Varuna, or Agni terrestrial apd 
firmamental. 



YBH8E 28] WHITE YAJURVBDA. 287 

19 Upon this grass three Goddesses be seated, Idfc, Sarasrati, 

Bharati the Mighty glorified with song. 

20 This our productive wondrous flow may Tvashtar pour down 

on this man’s kin, and wealth and heroes. 

21 Yanaspati, presenting of thyself, send God-ward ! Let Agni, 

Imrnolator, season our oblation. 

22 Pay sacrifice to Indra, JaUvedas Agni! with Hail! All Gods 

accept the gift we offer ! 

23 Wise, bright, arranger of his teams, he seeketh men with 

rich food whose treasures are abundant. 

They have stood firm of one accord with V&yu: yea, the 
men wrought all noble operations. 

24 The God whom both these worlds brought forth for riches, 

whom heavenly DhishansL for our wealth appointeth— 
His team of harnessed horses waits on Vayu and, foremost, 
on the radiant treasure-holder. 

29 What time the mighty waters came containing the universal 
germ, producing Agni, 

Thence sprung the foods’ one spirit into being. What God 
shall we adore with our oblation 1 

26 Who in his might surveyed the floods enclosing productive 

force and generating Worship, 

He who is God mid Gods, and none beside him—What God 
shall we adore with our oblation 1 

27 The teams wherewith thou seekest him who offers, within 

his house, 0 Vayu, to direct him, 

Therewith send wealth to us with full enjoyment, a hero son 
and gifts of kine and horses. 

28 With thy yoked teams in hundreds and in thousands come 

to our sacrifice and solemn worship. 

0 Vayu, make thee glad at this libation. Preserve us ever¬ 
more, ye Gods, with blessings. 

19 Three Goddam: of Prayer and Devotion. 

21 Vanaspati: the sacrificial stake, regarded as a form of Agni. Send: 
our offerings to the Gods in heaven. 

23 This and the following verse, taken respectively from R. V. VII. 91. 
3 and 90. 3, are used at the sacrifice of a white hornless he-goat to Vdyu. 

24 DJtUkand: a Goddess of abundance and prosperity. 

25 This and the following verse, in honour of Praj^pati, are taken from 
R. V. X. 121. 7, 8. What God shall wt adoi'e: or, Worship we Ka the God. 

27 This and the following verse are taken, in continuation of verse 21, 
from R. V. VII. 91. 3, 5. 



238 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XXVII 

29 Drawn by thy team, 0 V&yu, come; to thee is offered this* 

the pure. 

Thou visitest the presser’s house. 

30 Vayu, the bright is offered thee, best of the meath at holy 

rites. 

Come thou to drink the Soma juice, God longed-for, on thy 
team-drawn car. 

31 Lover of worship, leader, come Vayu with thought, to sacrifice, 
Propitious with propitious teams ! 

32 With all the thousand chariots that are thine, 0 V&yu, come 

to us, 

Team-drawn, to drink the Soma juice. 

33 Come thou with one, and ten, 0 Self-Existent! with two 

unto the sacrifice, and twenty. 

Three are the teams and thirty which convey thee. O Vayu, 
in this place unyoke thy coursers. 

34 Wonderful Vayu, Lord of Truth, thou who art Trashtars 

Son-in-law, 

Thy saving succour we elect. 

35 Like kine unmilked we call aloud, Hero, to thee and sing 

thy praise, 

Looker on heavenly light, Lord of this moving world, Lord, 
Indra! of what movetb not. 

36 None other like to thee, of earth or of the heavens, hath 

been or ever will be born. ; 

Desiring horses, Indra, Bounteous Lord! and kine, as rued 
of might we call on thee. 

37 That we may win us wealth and power, we poets call on 

only thee. 

In war men call on thee, Indra 1 the hero's Lord, in the 
steed's race-course call on thee. 

38 As such, 0 Wonderful, whose hand holds thunder, praised 

as mighty, Caster of the Stone ! 


29 Taken from R. V. II. 41 2. The pure: Soma juice. 

30 Taken from R. V. IV. 47. 1. 

32 R. V. 11. 41. 1. 

34 R. V. VIII. 26. 21. Tvashlar's Son-in-law : the commentators give no 
satisfactory explanation. Sarany u (who is perhaps Ushas, Dawn), Tvashtar’t 
daughter, was wedded to Vivasvdn who cannot be identified with Vftyu. 
See Hillebrandt, Vedische Mythologie, I. p. 521. 

35 R. V. VII. 32. 22. Moving world: all animated beings. 

36 R. V. VII. 32. 23. 

37 R. V. VI. 46. 1. In war: literally, in, or among, foes. 

38 R. V. VI. 46. 2. The Stone: the thunderbolt. 



WHITE YAJURVBDA. 


VERSE 45.1 


23d 


Pour on us boldly, Indra, kine and chariot-steeds ever to be 
the conqueror’s strength. 

39 What succour will he bring to us, wonderful, ever-prospering 

Friend ? 

With what most mighty company 1 

40 What genuine and most liberal draught will spirit thee with 

juice to burst 

Open e’en strongly-guarded wealth ] 

41 Do thou who art. protector of us thy friends who praise thee 
With hundred aids approach us. 

42 Sing to your Agni with each song, at every sacrifice, for 

strength. 

Come, let us praise the Wise and Everlasting God even as a 
well-beloved Friend. 

43 Protect us, Agni, through the first, protect us through the 

second hymn. 

Protect us through three hymns, 0 Lord of Power and Might; 
through four hymns, Vasu ! guard thou us. 

44 The Son of Strength ; for is he not our Friend 1 Let us serve 

him for offering our gifts. 

In battles may he be our help and strengthener, yea, be the 
saviour of our lives. 

45 Thou art Samvutsara; thou art Parivatsara; thou art Ida- 

vatsara; thou art Idvatsara; thou art Vutsara. 

Prosper thy Dawns! Prosper thy Day-and-Nights 1 Prosper 
thv Half-months, Months, Seasons, and Years ! 

Combine them for their going and their coming, and send 
them forward on their ordered courses. 

In eagle’s shape thou art piled up and layered. With that 
divinity, Angiras-like, lie steady. 


39 This and the two following verses are taken from R. V. IV. 31. 1—3. 

42 R. V. VI. 48. 1. 

43 R. V. VIII. 49. 9. First, etc.: the numbers probably have reference to 
the four quarters of the sky.—Ludwig. According to Mahidhara, first re¬ 
fers to the Rig ; second to the Yajur ; three to Rig, Yajur, S&ma; four to 
these three and Nigada or loud recitation. 

44 R. V. VI. 48. 2. A continuation of verse 42. Son of Strength: in the 
accusative case governed by ‘let us praise’ in the preceding verse. 

45 The formulas contained in this verse are to be employed in the Agni- 
chayana ceremony at the time when the Sacrificer touches as much as he can 
of the surface of the newly-constructed Fire-altar. See XVII. 2. Agni is 
addressed, as identified with Prajapati the Presiding Deity of the Year and 
with the Altar. Samvatsara and the restare the names given to the years 
of the five year cycle intended, with the aid of an intercalary month, to 
adjust the difference between the lunar and the solar year. See Zimmer, 
Altindisches Leben, p. 370. In eagle's shape: see XI., first note. Thou: 
the Fire-altar. Angiras-like: as thou didst when constructed by Angiras. 
See XII. 53; XI. 9. 



BOOK THE TWENTY-EIGHTH. 


On the earth’s centre, at libation’s place let the Priest wor¬ 
ship Indra with the kindling-stick. 

The mightiest of the lords of men is kindled on the height 
of heaven. 

Let him enjoy the butter. Hotar, worship. 

2 Him let the Hotar worship, him Tanunapat with ready aids; 

the conqueror never overcome, 

Indra, the God who finds heaven’s light on paths most rich 
in pleasant sweets, with Narasamsa all aglow. Let him 
enjoy, etc., as in verse 1. 

3 With viands let the Hotar worship Indra immortal, praised, 

receiver of oblations. 

The God, the equal of the Gods in vigour, the thuuder- 
wielder, breaker-down of castles. Let him eujoy, etc. 

4 Let the Priest worship Indra, Bull who sitteth on sacred 

grass, doer of manly actions. 

Let him be seated on the grass with Yasus and Rudras and 
Adityas for companions. Let him enjoy, etc. 

5 Let the Priest sacrifice. The Doors have strengthened In¬ 

dra, his force and conquering might and vigour. 

At this our worship let the Doors be opened, easy to pass, 
the strengtheners of Order : wide let them open out for 
bouuteous indra. Let them enjoy, etc. 

6 Let the Priest sacrifice to Night and Morning, the teeming 

Cows of Indra, Mighty Mothers. 

Indra their calf with lustre have they strengthened, even 
as two mothers of a calf in common. Let them enjoy, etc. 

7 Let the Friest worship both the heavenly Hotars, Friends, 

Leeches, healing Indra with oblation. 

The sages, Gods preeminent for wisdom bestow on Indra his 
surpassing power. Let them enjoy, etc. 

This Bouk is closely connected with, and supplementary to, Books XIX.— 
XXI. which treat of the Sautr&man! ceremony. 

1 Verses 1—11 form an Apr! or Propitiatory Hymn. See XX. 37, note. 
The Priest: the divine Hotar in heaven, whose example the human Hotar if 
to follow. Earth's centre: the altar. Hotar: the human Hotar is addressed. 

2 Tandnapdt: Son of Himself; Agni as continually reproduced from 
other fire. Nardsum,sa: Praise or Desire of men; Agni. 

3 Castles: the cloud-castles of the demons who withhold the rain. 

5 Doors: of the sacrificial hall. 

7 Hotars : Firmawental and Terrestrial Agni. 



241 


VERSE 14 .] WBITE YAJURVBDA. 

S Let the Priest offer sacrifice to the three Goddesses and balm. 
Let the three triple active Ones, let Idi and Sarasvati and 
Bh&rati the mighty Dames, Consorts of Indra, who receive 
our sacrificial offerings, enjoy the butter, etc. 

9 Let the Priest worship Tvashtar radiant Indra, Physician 

good at sacrifice, graced with butter, 

Multiform and prolific, rich and bounteous. Let Tvashtar, 
giving wondrous powers to Indra, enjoy, etc. 

10 Let the Priest worship him, the Forest-Sovran, the Immola- 

tor, Lord of Hundred Powers, the lover of the prayer, the 
friend of Indra. 

Balming with mead, may he on easy pathways sweeten our 
sacrifice with savoury butter. Let him enjoy, etc. 

11 Let the Priest offer sacrifice to Indra : with Hail! to Gods 

of butter; with Hail! to Gods of marrow; with Hail! 
to Gods of drops; with Hail! to Gods of offerings paid with 
Svaha; with Hail! to Gods of sacrificial hymns. 

All-hail! May butter-drinking Gods and Indra rejoicing 
taste the butter. Hotar, worship. 

12 Vigorous, strewn by Gods upon the altar the right Gods* 

sacred Grass hath strengthened Indra. 

Cut in the day, cherished by night it hath surpassed those 
who have sacrificial Grass with wealth. For gain of riches 
let him taste. Pay sacrifice. 

13 Firm, closely joined, the Doors divine have strengthened 

Indra in the rite. 

Pressed by a calf or tender boy may they drive off the 
courser as he tosses up the saud. For gain of wealth let 
them enjoy. Pay sacrifice. 

14 Morning and Night, the Goddesses, have called ou Indra as 

the rite advanced. 

May they well-pleased and ordered well make the Celestial 
Tribes come forth. For gain of wealth let them eujoy. 
Pay sacrifice. 


8 Three Goddesses: see XX. 43. Active Ones: said to mean Agni, V&yu, 
SGrya. 

9 Radiant Indra: identified with, or mighty as, Indra. Multiform : as 
creator of all living beings. 

10 Forest-Sovran: Vanaspati, the S'icrificial Stake. See XX. 45, note. 

11 Of drops: who enjoy the dripping fat or marrow. Cf. XX. 46. 

13 Pressed by a calf etc.: that is, easily closed for protection from raiders. 
Cf. R. V. VI. 28. 4. 

14 Celestial Tribes : Vasus, Rudras, Adityas, All-Gods, Maruts, etc. 

16 



242 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XXVIII 

15 Two Goddesses, wealth-givers, kind, have heightened radiant 
Indra’s strength. 

One drives away hatreds and sins; the other shall bring the 
Sacrificer boons and treasure. 

Instructed, let them both enjoy, for gain of wealth. Pay 
sacrifice. 

10 Bringers of strengthening sacrifice, the Goddesses, the teem¬ 
ing Cows, have prospered Indra with their milk. 

Let one bring food and energy, the other feast and banqueting. 
Bringers of strengthening sacrifice, allotting the several por¬ 
tions they have put together old energy with new and new 
with olden, strengthening boons and treasures for the 
Sacrificer. Instructed, let them, etc., as in verse 15. 

17 The two Celestial H otars, Gods, have heightened radiant 

Indra’s might. 

Freed from slain sinners these have brought the Saerificer 
wealth and boons. Instructed, let them, etc. 

18 Goddesses three, three Goddesses have heightened their 

Lord Indra’s strength. 

One, Bharati, hath touched the sky, Sarasvati the sacrifice 
with Rudras, and, enriched with wealth, Id& the home¬ 
steads of the folk. For gain of wealth let them enjoy. 
Pay sacrifice. 

19 The radiant Indra, Praise of Men, thrice-shielding, borne on 

three car-seats, hath heightened radiant Indra’s strength. 
Set on a hundred white-backed cows, yea, on a thousand 
forth he goes. Mitra and Varuna alone deserve to be his 
Hotar-Priests, Brihaspati his Chanter, and the Asvins bis 
Adhvaryavas. For gain of wealth let him enjoy. Pfcy 
sacrifice. 

20 Vunaspati, a God with Gods, with golden leaves, sweet 

boughs, fair fruit, hath heightened radiant Indra’s strength 
Sky with his summit hath he touched, and firmament, and 
stablished earth. For gain of wealth let him enjoy. Paj 
sacrifice. 

15 Two Goddesses: Heaven and Earth, or Day and Night. 

16 Instructed: knowing reality or the true nature of things. 

19 Indra: equal to Indra; endowed with sovereign power. Prams/ 
Men: Nar&samsa Agni. Three car-seats: the Sadas or Priests' shed, the 
Havirdh&na or store of sacrificial elements, and the Agnidhra or hearth when 
sacred fire is kindled; or, according to Mahidhara, the three Vedas. Com: 
as the sources of the milk and butter required for oblations. Chanter: 
singer of hymns of praise. Adhvaryavas: or Adhvaryus; the Asvins bei^ 
invested with the functions of these priests among the Gods. 

20 Firmament: with his waist. Earth: with his foot. 



WHITE YAJURVBDA. 


243 


V£k8E 28 .] 

21 The grassy robe of water-plants, divine, hath heightened 

Indra’s strength. 

This, the fair seat where Indra sits, hath topped all other 
sacred grass. For gain of wealth let it enjoy. Pay saorifice. 

22 Agni, Fair-offering-maker, bright, hath heightened radiant 

Indra’s strength. 

To-day may Svisht&krit, Fair-offering-maker, paying good 
saorifice, for us perform it. For gain of wealth let him 
enjoy. Pay sacrifice. 

23 To-day the Sacrificer hath elected—dressing messes of cooked 

food and a rice-cake, binding a goat for Indra—Agni as 
his Hotar. 

To-day divine Vanaspati hath with a goat served Indra well. 
He hath eaten from the fat, he hath accepted the cooked 
food, he hath waxed strong with the rice-cake. 

Thee, to-day, 0 Rishi, etc., as in XXI. 61. 

24 Let the Priest worship Agni, Indra, kindled, splendidly 

kindled, excellent strength-giver, 

Lending him mighty power, G&yatri metre, a cow aged 
eighteen months, and vital vigour. Let him enjoy the 
butter. Hotar, worship. 

25 Let the Priest serve with sacrifice him who breaks forth, 

Taufinap&t, the germ which Aditi conceived,‘pure Indra 
who bestoweth strength, 

Bringing him mighty power, the Ushnih metre, an ox of two 
years old, and vital vigour. Let him enjoy, etc. 

26 Let the Priest sacrifice to Soma, Indra, adorable, adored, 

best Vritra-slayer, strength-giver, might, to be adored 
with viands, 

Bringing him mighty power, Anushtup metre, a cow of 
thirty months, and vital vigour. Let him enjoy, etc. 

27 Let the Priest worship Indra, strength-bestower, immortal, 

with fair grass, allied with Pftshau, seated on sacred grass, 
dear, everlasting, 

Bringing him mighty power, Brihati metre, a steer of three 
years’ age and vital vigour. Let him enjoy, etc. 

28 Let the Priest worship the wide-opening Portals, easy to 

pass, divine, Law-strengthening, golden, Indra, the Brah¬ 
man Priest, the strength-bestower, 

21 Water-plants: see XXI. 67. 

22 Fair-offering-maker: Sviaktakrit. See XXI. 47. 

23 Cf. XXI. 69. 

24 Cf. XXI. 60. 




244 THE TEXTS OP THE [BOOS XXVfll. 

Bringing him mighty power, the Pankti metre, a bullock 
four years old, and vital vigour. Let them enjoy the 
butter. Hot&r, worship. 

29 Let the Priest worship lofty Night and Morning, well¬ 

decked, of varied hue, lovely to look on, Indra the Uni¬ 
versal, strength-bestower, 

Bringing him mighty power, the Trishtnp metre, a bullock 
four years old, and vital vigour. Let them enjoy the 
butter. Hotar, worship. 

30 Let the Priest worship both celestial Hotars, the Gods* best 

glory, sages famed for wisdom, the two companions, Indra 
strength-bestower, 

Bringing him mighty power, Jagati metre, an ox that draws 
the wain, and vital vigour. Let them enjoy the butter. 
Hotar, worship. 

31 Let the Priest sacrifice to three well-decorated Goddesses, 

gold-decked, great, lofty, Bharatis, Indra their Lord who 
giveth strength, 

Bringing him mighty power, Vir&j the metre, and a cow in 
milk. Let him enjoy the butter. Hotar, worship. 

32 Let the Priest worship Tvashtar the prolific, strengthener 

of growth, maintaining varied growth and form, Indra 
who gfveth vital force, 

Bringing him Dvipad metre, mighty power, and an ox full- 
grown. Let him enjoy the butter. Hotar, sacrifice. 

33 Let the Priest serve with sacrifice the Forest Lord Vanaspati, 

the Immolator, hundred-powered, praise-worthy, golden- 
leafed, who wears the girdle, loved, the gracious Lord, 
Indra who gives the strength of life, 

Giving him Kakup metre, mighty power, a barren, a calf¬ 
slipping cow, and vital vigour. Let him enjoy the butter. 
Hotar, sacrifice. 

34 Let the Priest offer worship to the Svahakriti Goddesses, to 

Agni Household Lord apart, to Varuna the Leeoh and 
Sage, might, Indra who bestoweth strength, 

Bringing him Atichhandas metre, great and mighty power, 
. a strong bull, in his prime, and vital vigour. Let them 
enjoy the butter. Hotar, sacrifice. 


31 BhdratU: that is, Bh&rati and her two constant companions, Sans- 
vatt and Id&. 

33 The girdle .* the cord with which the victim is attached. 

34 SvdhdJcriti Goddesses: the deitieB of the Pray4jas or Foie-offerings; 
Introductory* Oblati jus deified. 



WfflTS YAJUIIVBDA. 


245 


VBR8B 43 .] 

35 The Grass divine hath added might to radiant Indra strength- 

giver, 

Laying in Indra wondrous power and sight and strength by 
Gayatri. For gain of wealth let him enjoy the butter. 
Offer sacrifice. 

36 The Doors divine have magnified bright Indra, who bestoweth 

strength. 

With Ushgih laying mighty power in Indra, vital breath 
and force. For gain of wealth let them enjoy the butter. 
Offer sacrifice. 

37 Morning and Night, divine Ones, have strengthened bright 

Indra, strength-giver, the Goddesses advanced the God, 
With the Anushtup laying power in Indra, strength and 
vital force. For gain of wealth let them enjoy. Pay 
sacrifice. 

38 Kind, bounteous, and divine, they have strengthened bright 

Indra, force-giver, the Goddesses advanced the God, 
Laying in Indra power and force and hearing with the 
Brihati. For gain of wealth let them enjoy. Pay sacrifice. 

39 Bringers of strengthening sacrifice, the Goddesses, two teem¬ 

ing cows, have heightened Indra’s power with milk, 
Laying bright power in Indra with Pankti, and vital energy. 
For gain of wealth let them enjoy. Pay sacrifice. 

40 The Gods, two heavenly Hotars, have strengthened bright 

Indra, force-giver, those Gods have magnified the God, 
With Trishtup giving Indra power, impetuous might, and 
vital strength. For gain of wealth let them eujoy. Pay 
sacrifice. 

41 Goddesses three, three Goddesses have heightened their 

Lord Indra’s strength, his who bestoweth vital force, 
Laying in Indra power and might and vital strength with 
Jagati. For gain of wealth let them enjoy. Pay sacrifice. 

43 The God, the Praise of all men, hath strengthened bright 
Indra force-giver, the God hath magnified the God, 
Laying in Indra with Viraj beauty and power and vital force. 
For gain of wealth let him enjoy. Pay sacrifice. 

43 The God the Forest Sovran hath strengthened bright Indra, 
force-giver, the God hath magnified the God, 

With Dvipad storing Indra with fortune aud power and vital 
strength. For gain of wealth let him enjoy. Pay sacrifice. 


38 They: the deities of the Anuy&jas or Post-offerings. 

42 Virij: the metre of that name, four P&das of ten syllables each. 



246 WHITE YAJURVEDA. [BOOK XXVIII. 

44 The Grass divine of water-plants hath helped bright Indra 

force-giver, the God hath magnified the God, 

Laying in Indra mighty power with Kakup, fame and vital 
strength. For gain of wealth let it enjoy. Pay sacrifice. 

45 Agni, the God who makes fair rites, hath strengthened 

Indra force-giver, the God hath magnified the God, 
Laying with Atichhandas power in Indra, sway, and vital 
strength. For gain of wealth let him enjoy. Pay sacrifice. 

46 To-day the Sacrificer hath elected, etc., as in verse 23. 

To-day divine Vanaspati, etc. . 

Thee, to-day, 0 Eishi, etc. . 


44 Kakup: a metre of three Pddas, 8 + 12 + 8 syllables. 

45 Atichhandas: hypermeter; any metre of more than forty-eight syl¬ 
lables. 




BOOK THE TWENTY-NINTH. 


Decking the treasure-house of prayers, 0 Agni, enkindled, . 

pouring forth sweet-tasted butter, 

Swift-moving, bearing curd, 0 Jat&vedas, bear what they 
love to the Gods’ habitation. 

2 Balming the paths that lead to heaven with fatness, let the 

Steed go unto the Gods well-knowing. 

Courser, the Quarters of the sky attend thee! Bestow thou 
food upon this Sacrihcer. 

3 Thou, Steed, art meet for laud and veneration; swift, fit for 

sacrifice art thou, 0 Courser. 

In concert with the Gods aud Vasus Agni Omniscient waft 
thee a contented bearer ! 

4 Pleased with much Sacred Grass which we have scattered 

wide spread upon the earth, a pleasant carpet, 

Joined with the Gods may Aditi, accordant, bestowing bliss 
award it happy fortune. 

5 May these your Doors divine that wear all colours, auspi¬ 

cious, with uplifted leaves unfolding, 

Lofty and closely fitted and sonorous, rich in adornment, 
offer easy passage. 

6 Your two Dawns rich in gold and varied colour, travelling 

on ’twixt Varuna and Mitra, 

Acquainted with the face of sacrifices, I settle here within 
the home of Order. 

7 Your two chief Hotars have I pleased, bright-coloured, borne 

on one car, Gods who behold all creatures, 

Those who prepare your rules and ordinances aud make you 
see the light by their direction. 

8 Bharat! with Adityas love our worship! Sarasvati with 

Budras be our helper, 

And Id& in accord, invoked with Vasus! Goddesses, place 
our rite among the Immortals. 

This Book is supplementary to Book XXII.—XXV. which treat of the 
Asvamedha or Horse-Sacrifice. 

1 This and the ten following verses form an Aprt or Propitiatory Hymn. 
See XX. 37, note. 

5 Leaves: sides of the double door of the sacrificial hall. 

6 Two Dawns: Morning and closely connected Night. Varuna and 
Mitra: representing, respectively, sky and earth. 

7 The light: according to Mahtdhara, the Ahavanlya fire. Direction: 
commanding them to offer sacrifice. 


248 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XXIX. 

9 The God-devoted son Tvashtar produces: from Tvashtar 
springs to life your fleet-foot Courser. 

Tvashtar gave being to this All about us. Priest, worship 
here the mighty work's achiever. 

10 Let the Steed seek his home, and balmed with butter go of 

himself unto the Gods in season. 

To the Gods' world Vanaspati, well-knowing, bear our obla¬ 
tions which the Are has tasted ! 

11 Thou, waxing by Prajapati's strong fervour, bora quickly, 

guardest sacrifice, 0 Agni. 

With consecrated offering go, preceding, and let the Sadhyas, 
Gods, eat our oblation. 

12 What time, first springing into life, thou neigbedst, proceed¬ 

ing from the sea or cloudy vapour, 

Limbs of the deer hadst thou, and eagle pinions. O Steed, 
thy birth is high and must be lauded. 

13 This Steed, bestowed by Yama, Trita harnessed, and Indra 

was the first to mount and ride him. 

His bridle the Gandharva grasped. O Vasus, from out the 
Sun ye fashioned forth the Courser. 

14 Yama art thou, 0 Horse; thou art Aditya; Trita art thou 

by secret operation. 

From Soma thou art thoroughly divided. They say there 
are three bonds in heaven that hold thee. 

15 Three bonds, they say, thou hast in heaven to bind thee, 

three in the waters, three within the ocean. 


« Sddhyas: see XXIV. 27, and R. Y. I. 164. 50; X. 90. 7, 16. 

12 This and the twelve following verses are taken from R. V. 1. 168. 
From the tea: the Sacrificial Horse identified with the Sun who rises in the 
ocean of air. 

13 Yama: according to SAyana, meaning the Controller. Agni. Trita: 
as a Solar deity, God of the distant birthplace of the Sun. The Oavdhan/a: 
Yisv&vasu, a celestial being connected with the Sun and regarded as the 
chief of that class of semi-deities. 

14 Yama: Agni, according to S&yana. Aditya: the Sun. Seeret oper¬ 
ation ; the mysterious effect of sacrifice. From Soma , etc.: the meaning 
is obscure. According to Styana and Mahidhara, the translation should 
be * With Soma thou art thoroughly united ’, that is, identified with the 
Moon. This would oert&inly be preferable if vipi'ikU h, excluded separated, 
could possibly mean ‘united/ Three bonds: According to Sdyapa, his 
‘ media of origin,’ the VasuB, Aditya, and Heaven. 

15 The waters: meaning here, Bays Suyana, the habitable world, the 
bonds being seed, rain, and tillage. Ocean : of air, in which the bonds are 
cloud, lightning, and thunder. Varuna: on account of the three bonds 
with which Varuna binds the sinner. See R. Y. I. 24. 16. 




VERSE 22 .] WHITE YAJURVBDA. 242 

To me thou seemest Varuna, 0 Coarser, there where they 
say is thy sublimest birthplace. 

16 Here, Courier, are the places where they grooved thee; 

here are the traces of thy hooves as winner. 

Here have 1 seen the auspicious reins that guide tfce, which 
those who guard the holy Law keep safely. 

17 Thyself from far I recognized in spirit, a Bird that from be¬ 

low flew through the heaven. 

1 saw thy head still soaring, striving upward by patas un¬ 
soiled by dust, pleasant to travel. 

18 Here I beheld thy form matchless in beauty, eager tc win 

thee food at the Cow’s station. 

Whene’er a man brings thee to thine enjoyment, thou 
swallowest the herbs, most greedy eater. 

19 After thee, Courser, come the car, the bridegroom, the kine 

come after, and the charm of maidens. 

Full companies have followed for thy friendship: the patten 
of thy vigour Gods have followed. 

20 His horns are golden and his feet are iron. Less fleet than 

he, though swift as thought, was Indra. 

The Gods came only to the oblatiou-banquet of him who 
mounted first of all the Courser. 

21 Symmetrical in flank, with rounded haunches, mettled like 

heroes, the celestial Coursers 

Put forth their strength like swans in lengthened order when 
they, the Steeds, have reached the heavenly causeway. 

22 A body formed for flight hast thou, 0 Charger; swift as the 

wind in motion is thy spirit. 

Thy horns are spread abroad in all directions; they move 
with reatless beat in wildernesses. 


16 Who guard the holy Law: the Gods who maintain the order of the 
universe. Here the reference is to the course of the Sun, with whom the 
Horse is identified. 

17 A Bird: the swiftly-moving Sun. 

18 Food: in the shape of oblations. The Cow's station: the chief place 
of earth, the Cow being the altar. Mahtdhara explains it as the station of 
the Bull, that is, the disc of the Sun : ' 1 beheld thy form in the disc of 
the Sun.* Most greedy eater: regarded as an earthly horse. 

20 His horns: according to S&yana his mane is intended. There may 
be a reference also to the rays of the Sun. Him who mounted: Indra, as 
is said in verse 13. 

21 The horses of the Sun are spoken of. The exact meaning of two of 
the epithets is uncertain. 

22 Thy horns: here, perhaps, meaning hoofs. 



150 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XXIX. 

23 The stnng Steed hath come forward to the slaughter, ponder¬ 

ing with a mind directed God-ward. 

The goat who is his kin is led before him: the sages and the 
singers follow after. 

24 The Steed is come unto the noblest mansion, is come unto 

his Father and his Mother. 

This day shall he approach the Gods, most welcome: then 
le declares good gifts to him who worships. 

25 Ttou in the house of man this day enkiudled worshippest 

Gods, a God, 0 Jatavedas, 

Wealthy in friends! observant, bring them hither. Thou 
art a sapient envoy, full of wisdom. 

26 Tanunapat, fair-tongued, with sweet mead balming the 

paths and ways of Order, make them pleasaut. 

Convey our sacrifice to heaven, exalting with holy thoughts 
our hymns of praise and worship. 

27 With sacrifice to these we with laudations will honour holy 

Narasamsa’s greatness— 

To these the pure, most wise, the thought-inspirers, Gods 
who enjoy both sorts of our oblatious. 

28 Invoked, deserving laud and adoration, 0 Agni, come accoiv 

dant with the Vasus. 

Thou art, 0 vigorous One, the Gods’ Invoker, so, best of 
Sacrificers, bring them quickly. 

29 By rule the Sacred Grass is scattered eastward, a robe to 

clothe the earth when dawns are breaking. 

Widely it spreads around and far extended, fair for the Gods 
and bringing peace aud freedom. 

30 Let the expansive Doors be widely opened, like wives who 

deck their beauty for their husbands. 

Lofty, celestial, all-impelling Portals, admit the Gods and 
give them easy access. 


23 The goat: te be attached to the Horse at the sacrificial stake. 

24 Noblest mansion: heaven, to which he goes by sacrifice. Hit Father 
and his Mother: Heaven aud Earth. 

25 This and the following verse are taken from R. V. X. 110. 1, 2. 

26 Order: sacrifice. 

27 Both sorts: libations of Soma juice and offerings of clarified bntWr, 
rice-cakes, etc. 

28 This and the eight following verges are taken from R. V. X. 110. 
8—11, forming, with verses 25 and 26, a complete Aprt or Propitiatocy 1 
Hymn. 



WHITE TAJURVEDA. 


251 


VERSE 39.] 


31 Pouring sweet dews, let holy Night and Morning, each 

cl 086 to each, be seated at their station— 

Lofty, celestial Dames, with gold to deck them, assuming 
all their fair and radiant beauty. 

32 Come the two chief celestial sweet-voiced Hotars, arranging 

sacrifice for man to worship, 

As singers who inspire us in assemblies, showing the east¬ 
ward light with their direction 1 

33 Let Bh&rati come quickly to our worship, and Ida showing 

like a human being. 

So let Sarasvatl and both her fellows, deft Goddesses, on 
this fair grass be seated. 

34 Hotar more skilled in sacrifice, bring hither with speed to¬ 

day God Tvashtar, thou who knowest, 

Even him who framed these two, the Earth and Heaven, 
the Parents, with their forms, and every creature. 

35 Send to our offerings which thyself thou balmest the Com¬ 

panies of Gods in ordered season. 

Agni, Yanaspati, the Immolator sweeten onr offered gift 
with mead and butter. 

36 Agni as soon as he was born made ready the sacrifice and 

was the Gods* preceder. 

May the Gods eat our offering consecrated according to the 
true Priest’s voice and guidance. 

37 Thou, making light where no light was, and form, 0 men! 

where form was not, 

Wast born together with the Dawns. 

38 The warrior’s look is like a thunderous rain-cloud’s when, 

armed with mail, he seeks the lap of battle. 

Be thou victorious with unwounded body: so let the thick¬ 
ness of thine armour save thee. 

39 With Bow let us win kine, with Bow the battle, with Bow 

be victors in our hot encounters. 

The Bow brings grief and sorrow to the foeman: armed with 
the Bow may we subdue all regions. 


32 Eastern light: the Ahavantya fire : cf. verse 7. 

37 Taken from R. Y. 1.6.3, which is addressed to Indra and the Maruts. 
Thou: the Sun, with whom Agni is ideutified. 0 men /; perhaps merely 
an exclamation expressive of admiration. If the Maruts be meant, the 
words thou, making , wast born may apply to these Gods as one company. 

38 In connexion with the Horse, who plays a most important part in 
raids and battles, the bow and various implements of war are eulogized in 
fourteen verses taken from R. V. VI. 75 and six from R. V. VI. 47. 26—31. 



252 THE TEXTS OP THE [BOOK XXIX 

40 Close to his ear, as fain to speak, She presses, holding her 

well-loved Friend in her embraces. 

Strained on the Bow, She whispers like a woman—this Bow¬ 
string that preserves us in the combat. 

41 These, meeting like a woman and her lover, bear, mother 

like, their child upon their bosom. 

May the two Bow-ends, starting swift asunder scatter, in 
unison, the foes who hate us. 

42 With many a son, father of many daughters, He clangs and 

clashes as he goes to battle. 

Slung on the back, pouring his brood, the Quiver vanquishes 
all opposing bauds and armies. 

43 Upstanding in the Car the skilful Charioteer guides bis 

strong Horses on whitherso’er he will. 

See and admire the strength of those controlling Reins which 
from behind declare the will of him who drives. 

44 Horses whose hoofs rain dust are neighing loudly, yoked to 

the Chariots, showing forth their vigour. 

With their forefeet descending on the foemen, they, never 
flinching, trample and destroy them. 

45 Car-bearer is the name of his oblation, whereon are laid his 

Weapons and his Armour. 

So let us here, each day that passes, honour the helpful Car 
with hearts exceeding joyful. 

46 In sweet association lived the fathers who gave us life, pro¬ 

found and strong in trouble, 

Unwearied, armed with shafts and wondrous weapons, free, 
real heroes, conquerors of armies. 

40 She: the bowstring, well-loved friend; the arrow. Whispers tike • 
woman: ‘ twangs like the scream of a woman-'—Muir. But the faint sound 
made by the string while it is being drawn to the ear is intended, Horn* 
likens the sound to the voice of a swallow, 

41 These: the two ends of the how. Like a woman and her lover: 
'drawing close like two women to their lovers.* Their child: the arrow. 

42 With many a son: the quiver is called the father of sons and daughter^ 
it is said, because the words signifying arrow are both masculine and feminine. 

45 Car-bearer: rathavdhanam: a platform, stand, or truck on which tbs 
chariot is placed when not in use. The word seems in this place to mean 
also the oblation offered by the warrior to the ideal war-chariot personified, 
or to a tutelary deity of chariots. 

46 There is no verb in this stanza, and the only substantive, pitsare^ 
fathers, is explained by both Commentators as pdlayitdrah, guards, deft*- 
ders, that is, apparently, those who attend the chariot of the chief. Pit- 
fessor Wilson, following S&yana, translates: ‘ The guards (of the chariot^ 
revelling in the savoury (spoil), distributors of food, protectors in calamity, 
armed with spears, resolute, beautifully arranged, strong in arrows, iuvift* 
cible, of heroic valour, robust, and conquerors of numerous hosts.' 



WHITE YAJIfRVEDA. 


253 


VERSE 55 .] 

47 The Brahmans, and the Fathers meet for Soma draughts, 

and, graciously inclined, unequalled Heaven and Earth. 
Guard us from evil, Pushan ! guard us strengthened of 
Law ! let not the evil-wisher master us. 

48 Her tooth a deer, dressed in an eagle’s feathers, bound with 

cow-hide, launched forth, She flieth onward. 

There where the heroes speed hither and thither, there may 
the arrows shelter and protect us. 

49 Avoid us thou whose flight is straight, and let our bodies 

be as stone. 

May Soma kindly speak to us, and Aditi proteot us well. 

50 He lays his blows upon their backs, He deals his strokes 

upon their thighs. 

Thou Whip who urgest horses, drive sagacious chargers in 
the fray. 

51 It compasses the arm with serpent windings, fending away 

the friction of the bowstring : 

So may the Brace, well skilled in all its duties, guard man¬ 
fully the man from every quarter. 

52 Lord of the Wood, be firm and strong in body: be, bearing 

us, a brave victorious hero. 

Show forth thy strength, compact with straps of leather, 
and let thy rider win all spoils of battle. 

53 Its mighty strength was borrowed from the heaven and earth: 

its conquering force was brought from sovrans of the wood. 
Honour with holy gifts the Car like Indra’s bolt, the Car 
bound round with straps, the vigour of the floods. 

54 Thou bolt of Indra, Vanguard of the Maruts, close knit to 

Varuna and Child of Mitra,— 

As such, accepting gifts which here we offer, receive, 0 God¬ 
like Chariot, these oblations. 

55 Send forth thy voice aloud through earth and heaven, and 

let the world in all its breadth regard thee; 

0 Drum, accordant with the Gods and Indra, drive thou 
afar, yea, very far, our foemen. 

47 The Br&hmana and the Fathers : or, perhaps, the sacerdotal Fathers. 
The stanza, which is grammatically difficult, seems out of place. 

48r Her tooth a deer : the point of the arrow is made of a piece of deer's horn 
attached to the shaft with leather strings. The butt of the arrow is feathered. 

50 He: the whip. 

51 It: the brace or guard worn on the archer's left arm, fastened on 
with leather straps. 

52 Here follow six verses from R. V. VI. 47. 26—31 in praise of the Chariot 
and the Drum. Loi'dofthe Wood: tall tree, the timber of which theCaris made. 

55 0 Drum : the dundubhi here addressed and glorified was a sort of 
loud kettle drum like those which are still used. 



254 WHITE YAJURVEDA. [BOOK XXIX 

56 Thunder out strength and fill us full of vigour: yea, thun¬ 

der forth and drive away all dangers. 

Drive hence, 0 War-drum, drive away misfortune : thou art 
the Fist of Indra : show thy firmness. 

57 Drive hither those, and these again bring hither: the War- 

drum speaks aloud as battle’s signal. 

Our heroes, winged with horses, come together. Let our ear- 
warriors, Indra, be triumphant. 

58 The black-necked victim belongs to Agni; the ewe to Saras- 

vati; the brown victim is Soma’s; the dusky Pfishan’s; 
the white-backed is Brihaspati’s ; the dappled belongs to 
the All-Gods; the red to Indra; the spotted to the Maruts; 
the strong-bodied to Iudra-Agni; one with white marks be¬ 
low to Savitar; to Varuna a black ram with one white foot. 

59 To Agni Anikavan is sacrificed a red-marked ox; two with 

white spots below are for Savitar; two with silvery navels 
for Pfishan; two yellow hornless he-goats for the All-Gods; 
a spotted one for the Maruts; the black-faced he-goat is 
Agni’s; the ewe is Sarasvati's; the ram is Vanina's. 

60 To Agni of the Gayatri, of the Trivrit hymn and of the 

Rathantara Saman is to be offered a rice-cake on eight 
potsherds; to Indra of the Trishtup, the Pafichadafa 
hymn and the Brihat Saman one on eleven potsherds; to 
the A11-Gods of the Jagati, the Seventeenfold hymn and 
the Vairupa Saman, one on twelve potsherds; to Mitn- 
Varuna of the Anushtup, the Ekavimsa hymn, and the 
Vairaja Saman, a mess of curdled milk; to Bpihaspati of 
the Pankti metre, the Trinava hymn, and the S&kvaza 
S&man, an oblation of rice boiled in milk; to Savitar of 
the Ushnih, the Thirty-threefold hymn, and the Raivata 
Saman, a rice-cake on eight potsherds; a mess of boiled 
rice is to be made for Prajapati; the same for Vishgu’s 
Consort Aditi; to Agni Vaisvanara is to be offered a rice- 
cake on twelve potsherds, and to Anumati one on eight 

57 Drive to us the cows of the enemy and send our own home in safety. 
Or, as Mahidhara explains, understanding sendh, troops, instead of cows, 
with the feminine pronoun: Drive thither away the troops of the enemy, 
and rally ours and lead them to victory. 

58—60 These verses are supplementary to the list of sacrificial animals 
in Book XXIV. 

59 Antkavdn: having a face or an army (of pointed rays); perhaps, set in 
the front or van of the army. See Sacred Books of the East, XII. p. 408, note. 

60 Of the Gdyatri , etc.: praised in the metres, hymns, add Ramans 
named in the verse. Anumati: divine Grace or Favour shown in the Gods’, 
acceptance of oblations, personified as a female deity. FuAnu'f Contort 
Aditi: only in this place and in a passage of the Taittirfya-Samhitfi is 
Aditi said to be the wife of Vishnu. In the Epic and Pur&nic mythology sht 
is the wife of K&sy&pa and the mother of Vishnu in his Dwarf Incarnation. 



BOOK THE THIRTIETH. 


Our sacrifice, God Savitar! speed onward: qpeed to his share 
the sacrifice’s patron. 

May the Celestial Gaudharva, cleanser of ;hought and will, 
make clean our thoughts and wishes. 

The Lord of Speech sweeten the words ws utter! 

2 May we attain that excellent glory of Sa’itar the God: 

So may he stimulate our prayers. 

3 Savitar, God, send far away all troubles tnd calamities, 

And send us only wbat is good. 

4 We call on him distributer of wondrous bcunty and of wealth. 
On Savitar who looks on men. 

5 For Brahman ( Priesthood) he binds a Brfchman to the 

stake; for Kshatra ( Royalty) aRajmya; for the Maruts 
a Vaisya; for Penance a Sudra; for Darkness a robber; 
for Hell a homicide or a man who ha» lost his consecrated 
fire; for Misfortune a eunuch; for Venality an Ayogu; 
for K&ma a harlot; for Excessive Noise a Magadha; 

Books XXX. and XXXI. treat oi the Purushanedha or Human Sacrifice, 
an old-established custom among almost all natims of antiquity. The cere¬ 
mony was to be performed by a Brahman or a lAjanya, and was expected 
to obtain for the Sacrificer universal preeminence and every blessing which 
the Horse-sacrifice might have failed to secure. The ritual resembles in 
many respects that of the Asvamedha; man, toe noblest victim, being ac¬ 
tually or symbolically sacrificed instead of the Horse, and men and women 
of various tribes, figures, complexions, characters, and professions being at¬ 
tached to the sacrificial stakes in place of thi tame and wild animals enu¬ 
merated in Book XXIV. These nominal victims were afterwards released 
uninjured, and, so far as the text of the White Yajurveda goes, the whole 
ceremony was merely emblematical, a type of the allegorical self-immola¬ 
tion of Purusha, Embodied Spirit or the Cosmic Man. See Colebrooke, 
Miscellaneous Essays, II.; Weber, Indisclie Streifen, I. 54 seq. ; Wilson, 
Selected Works, II. 247 seq ; Muir, Origica) Sanskrit Texts, IV. 289, note ; 
Oldenberg, Religion des Veda, p. 865 ; Ronesh Cbunder Dutt, Civilization 
in Ancient India, I. 274, 275 (first edition); Max Muller, Ancient Sanskrit 
Literature, 419 seq. ; Vedic India (Story cf the Nations Series), pp. 406— 
413 ; A. Hillebrandt, Ritual-Litteratur, p. 153. 

1 The verse is repeated from XI. 7. 

2 Repeated from III. 35 and XXII. 9. 

3 Taken from R. V. V. 82. 5. 

4 Taken from R. V. I. 22. 7. 

5 Lost: that is, allowed to go out. AyogH: the meaning is uncertain ; 
perhaps ‘ a gambler,’ or ‘ an uuchaste woman,’ as Prof. "Weber translates in 
Indische Streifen, I. 76, where, and in the following pages, Prof. W. has 
given a version, with explanatory notes, of the whole list of victims and 
objects to which they are dedicated Mdgadha: the word meaning original¬ 
ly ‘ belonging to the Magadha country (South Bah£r)’ means a professional 
bard, minstrel, or panegyrist, the son of a Vaisya and a Kshatriy&. 




256 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XXX. 

6 For Dance t stable-master; for Song a publio dancer; for 

Duty one who attends court; for Pastime a timid mau; 
for Sport a chatterer; for Laughter an artist; for Pleasure 
a woman-Uver; for Desire a damsel’s son; for Dexterity 
a car-builder; for Firmness a carpenter; 

7 For Trouble a potter’s son; for Device an artificer; for 

Beauty a jwelter; for Welfare a sower; for the Arrow- 
deity a maktr of shafts; for Injury a bowyer; for Action 
a bowstring-naker; for Fate a rope-maker; for Death a 
hunter; for .he Finisher a dog-leader; 

8 For Rivers a fiaierman; for RikshikAs a Nish&da’s son; for 

the Man-tigei a madman; for the Gandharvas and Ap- 
sarases a Vratfa; for Motives one demented; for Serpents 
and Genii an untrustworthy man; for Dice a gambler; 
for Excitement a non-gambler; for Pisachas a woman who 
splits cane; fo* Yatudhauas a woman who works in thorns; 

9 For Rendezvous a lover; for Homestead a paramour; for 

Trouble an unnarried elder brother; for Nirriti a younger 
brother who haj married before his elder; for Misfortune 
the husband oi a younger sister whose elder sister has 
not been marriel; for Representation a woman who em¬ 
broiders; for Agreement a woman who deals in love- 
charms ; for Gariulity a by-sitter; for Colour an obstinate 
man; for Strength a yielding man; 

10 For Interruptions a hunch-back; for Delight a dwarf; for 

Doors a blear-eyed man; for Sleep a blind man; for Un¬ 
righteousness a deaf man; for Purifying Medium a physi¬ 
cian ; for Insight at astrologer; for Craving for Knowledge 
an inquisitive man; for Desire of extra Knowledge an 
extra-inquisitive man; for Moral Law a question-solver; 

11 For Eye-diseases an elephant-keeper; for Speed a hone- 

keeper; for Nourishment a cowherd; for Manliness a 
shepherd; for Keenness a goatherd; for Refreshment a 
ploughman; for Sweet Beverage a preparer of Sur&; for 
Weal a house-guard ; for Well-being a possessor of wealth; 
for Supervision a doorkeeper’s attendant; 

7 The Finisher: An taka, another name of Death. 

8 Rikshikds: a class of evil spirits, mentioned in A. V. XII. 1. 49 in con¬ 
nexion with lions, tigers, hyenas, and wolves. Vrdtya: the chief of a band 
of nomad Nonconformists of Aryan extraction, but absolutely independent 
and not following the Aryan or Br&hmanist way of life. See A. V. XV. 
Pisdchas: a class of fierce and malignant imps or goblins. Y&tudh&MM; 
fiendish sorcerers. 

9 Nirriti: or Destruction. 

11 Sweet Beverage: kil&la ; see II. 34 ; III. 43 ; XX. 65. 



WHITE YAJURVEDA. 


VERSE 16 .] 


267 


12 For Light a wood-bringer; for Brightness a fire-kindler; for 

the Sun’s Station a bespriukler; for Highest Heaven a 
high steward; for the World of Gods a carver; for the 
World of Meu a distributer; for All-Worlds a pourer-out: 
for Poverty, Affliction a stirrer-up of strife; for Sacrifice 
a washerwoman; for Delight a female dyer; 

13 For Assault a thievish-hearted man; for Homicide a slander¬ 

er; for Discrimination a door-keeper; for Inspection a 
door-keeper’s attendant; for Strength a servant; for 
Plenty a runuiug footman ; for the Beloved a sweet speak¬ 
er ; for Safety the rider of a horse; for the World of 
Svarga a dealer-out of portions; for Highest Heaven a 
high steward; 

14 For Passion an iron-smelter ; for Anger a remover; for Yok- 

iug a yoker ; for Pain an assailant; for Quiet an unyoker; 
for Up-hill and Down-hill one who stands on three legs; 
for Form a conceited man ; for Virtue a female ointment- 
maker ; for Nirriti a female scabbard-maker; for Yama 
a barren woman ; 

15 For Yama a mother of twins; for the Atharvans a woman 

who has miscarried; for the First Year a gad-about; for 
the Parivatsara oue who has not borne a child; for the 
Ida vatsara one who exceeds; for the Idvatsara oue who 
transgresses; for the Vatsara one who is worn out; for 
the Siimvatsara one with grey hair; for the Ribhus a hide- 
dresser ; for the Sadhyas a currier; 

16 For Lakes a fisherman; for Standing Waters a fisher; for 

Tank-waters a Nishada; for Reed-beds a fish-veuder ; for 
the Opposite Bank one who gropes for fish ; for This Bank 
a fish-catcher; for Fords an Auda; for shallows a MaimUa; 

12 Besprinkler : a priest who consecrates a king by aspersion. High ste¬ 
ward : chief attendant at me.ils. Distributer : of portions of food. 

14 Remover: nnaram; the meaning is uncertain: Niedergehender:—Weber ; 
perhaps asort of *ohucker-out.’ Threelegs: with a staff to make his footing surer. 

15 Twins ; the word Yama meaning originally oue of twins. The Athar¬ 
vans : spells and charms, such as are contained in the Athai va-veda. First 
Year: of the Five-year Cycle. Parivatsara, Ida vatsara, Idvatsara, Vatsara 
are names of the other years. See XXVII. 45. Sumcatsa: the first year of 
the cycle mentioned again. Ribhus : three artificers, raised to Godhead for 
their merits. A hule-dresser: alluding to the re-animation of the dead cow’s 
skin by the Ribhus, that is, the refreshment and restoration of the parched 
earth by the Rains, the Ribhus beiug Seasonal deities. See R. V. I. 110. 8. 
Sddhyjs: see XXIV. 27*; XXIX. 11. 

16 And a: said to mean one who oatohes fish by damming up water. 
Maindlu : a netter of fish. BhiUa : a Bheel. ‘ The Bheel is a black man, only 
hairier. He carries bows and arches in his hands. When he meets you he 
shoots you and throws your body in a ditch. By this you may know the Bheel.’ 
— Indian Examinee’s Answer-paper. Kirdta : a savage who lives by hunting. 

17 




258 


THE TEXTS OF THE 


lBOOK XXI . 

for Sounds a Bhilla; for Caverns a Kir&ta; for Mountain- 
heights a destructive savage; for Mountains a wild man; 

17 For Abhorrence a Paulkasa; for Colour a goldsmith; for 

Balance a merchant; for Repentance a sluggard ; for All 
Spirits a leper; for Prosperity a watchful man; for Failure 
a sleepy man ; for Mischief a chatterer; for Misfortune 
a shameless man; for Undoing one who cuts up into small 
pieces; 

18 For the Dice-king a gambler; for the die Krita one who con¬ 

templates his adversary’s ill luck ; for the Tret& a gamble- 
manager ; for the Dvapara a chief manager; for Askanda 
one who will not leave the gambling-hall; for Mrityu one 
who approaches cows; for Antaka a Cow-killer; for 
Hunger one who goes begging to a man who is cutting 
up a cow; for Misdeed a leader of the Charakss; for 
Misery a robber; 

19 For Echo areviler; for Noise a snarler; for End a very 

talkative man; for Endless a mute; for Sound a drum¬ 
mer ; for Might a lute-player; for Cry a flute-blower; for 
Confused Tone a Conch-blower; for the Wood a wood- 
ranger ; for Partly-wooded Land a forest fire guard; 

20 For Pastime a harlot; for Laughter a jester; for Lust a 

woman with spotty skin; for Might these, the head-man 
of a village, an astrologer, and a watchman; a lute-player; 
a hand-clapper, a flutist, these for Dance; for Pleasure a 
musician; 

21 For Fire a fat man ; for Earth a cripple; for Wind a Chan- 

dala; for Mid-Air a pole-dancer; for Sky a bald-head; 
for the Sun a green-eyed man; for Stars a spotty man; 
for the Moon a leper; for Day a white yellow-eyed mail; 
for Night a black man with yellow eyes. 


17 Paulkasa: a man of very low birth, son of a Nish&da and a Kah atriyft. 

18 Dice-king : the ace, the die called Kali ; Krita, Tretft, Dv&para, A** 
kanda being the names of the other four in general use. Who willnot leave: 
etc. : sabhdsthdnum : literally a gambling-saloon pillar or post. Mfityu : 
Death. Antaka : the Finisher. Death. Who approaches cows : a oow-knacker 
(Kuhschinder) :—Weber. Chavakas: followers of one of the principal 
schools of the Black Yajurveda, regarded as opponents. 

19 Forest fire guard : forest conflagrations, caused by the inter-friotKNi 
of dry branches and other accidents, are not uncommon in the hot weather. 

20 Lunt : an aquatic monster, according to S&yana. 

21 Chdnddla : a man of an impure or degraded tribe, an outcast. Poii- 
dancer: an acrobat. See The Hymns of the Rigveda, I. 10. 1, note. 




WHITE YAJURY EDA. 


259 


VERSE 22 .] 

22 IJow he ties up the eight following variform men: one too 
tall, one too short, one too stout, one too thin, one too 
white, one too black, one too bald, one too hairy. These 
must be neither Sfidras nor Brahmans, and must be dedi¬ 
cated to Praj&pati. 

A minstrel, a harlot, a gambler, and a eunuch—neither of 
S&dra nor Brahman oaste—are to be dedicated to Praja- 
pati. 


22 Mirutrd: Aftgadha; see verse 5. 






BOOK THE THIRTY-FIRST. 


Purusha hath a thousand heads, a thousand eyes, a thou¬ 
sand feet. 

Pervading earth on every side he fills a space ten fingers 
broad. 

2 Purusha is in truth this All, what hath been and what yet 

shall be; 

Lord, too, of immortality which waxes greater still by food. 

3 So mighty in his grandeur; yea, greater than this is Pfirusha. 
All creatures are one fourth of him, three fourths eternal 

life in heaven. 


The ceremony is continued and concluded. The Brahman priest recites 
to the assembled human victims the famous Purusha Hymn (verse 1—16), 
taken, with transpositions and variations, from R. V. X. 90 (A. V. XIX. 6), 
which celebrates the mystical immolation of Purusha, t.he origin of all crea¬ 
tion, of which the Purushamedha or Human Sacrifice is an emblematical 
representation. 

1 Purusha : the Person, embodied spirit, or Man personified and regard¬ 
ed as the soul and original source of the universe, the personal and life- 
giving principle in all animated beings, is said to have a thousand, that is, 
innumerable, heads, eyes , and feet, as being one with all created life. In 
the A. V. version arms has been substituted for heads, to agree, apparently, 
with the numbers of eyes and feet. A space ten fingers broad: the region 
of the heart of man wherein the soul was supposed to reside. Although, 
as the Universal Soul, Purusha pervades the universe, as the Individual 
Soul he is enclosed in a space of narrow dimensions. Cf. A. V. IV. 16. 3. 

‘ The loins of Varuna are both the oceans, and this small drop of water, too, 
contains him’; one of the recently discovered Logie or Sayings of Jeens is 
to the same effect: * cleave the wood, and thou wilt find me; lift the stone, 
and I am there/ 

2 The second liue is variously explained. The meaning of the wordi 
seems to be : he is lord of immortality or the immortal world of the Goda, 
which grows greater by food, that is, by the sacrificial offerings of men. 
According to S Ay an a : he is the lord or distributer of immortality because 
he becomes the visible world in order that living beings may obtain the 
fruits of their actions and gain moksha or final liberation from their bonds; 
‘ he is also the lord of immortality ; for he mounts beyond (his own condi¬ 
tion) for the food (of living beings)/—Wilson. Colebroke translates the 
line : * he is that which grows by nourishment, and he is the distributer of 
immortality/ Muir renders it by 1 * He is also the lord of immortality 
since by food he expands/ According to the paraphrase in the Bhdgamti* 
Purdna, the meaniug of the last clause is : * since he hath transcended 
mortal nutriment.' Prof. Ludwig’s version is : * auch uber die unsterblioh- 
keit gebietend, [da er,] was durch speise [ist,] weit iiberragt, ruling also 
over immortality, [since he] far transcends what [exists] through food; hut 
in his Commentary a somewhat different explanation is given. ( Ruling over 
immortality, he was all that grows by food.’—Peterson. 

3 Et&'nal life: amritam ; immortality, or the immortal Gods, 




VERSE lOj 1 VtilTE YAfURVEDA. 261 

4 With three fourths Purusha rose up: one fourth of him 

again was here. 

Thence he moved forth to every side over what eats not 
and what eats. 

5 From him Vit&j was born; again Purusha from Viraj was 

born. 

When born, he spread to west and east beyond the bound¬ 
aries of earth. 

6 From that great General Sacrifice the dripping fat was 

gathered up. 

He formed the creatures of the air and animals both wild 
and tame. 

7 From that great General Sacrifice Bichas and S&ma hymns 

were born : 

Therefrom were spells and charms produced ) the Yajus 
had its birth from it. 

8 From it were horses born, from it all cattle with two rows 

of teeth: 

From it were generated kine, from it were goats and sheep 
produced. 

9 They balmed as victim on the grass Purusha born in earliest 

time. 

With him the Deities and all Sadhyas and Bishis sacrificed. 
10 When they divided Purusha how many portions did they 
make ? 


4 Over lohat eats not and what eats ; over animate and inanimate creation. 
According to Slyana and Mahidhara, over both classes of created things, 
those capable of enjoyment, that is, who can taste the reward and punish¬ 
ment of good and evil actions, such as Gods, men, and lower animals, and 
those who are incapable thereof, such as mountains and rivers— chetanam , 
or conscious, axketanam , or unconscious, creation. 

5 From him: or, from that, the ‘ one-fourth ’ mentioned in stanzas 3 and 
4. Virdj, or, in the nominative form, Vir&t, is said to have come, in the 
form of the mundane egg, from Adi-Purusha, the primeval Purusha, or 
presiding Male or Spirit, * who then entered into this egg, which he ani¬ 
mates as its vital soul or divine principle.’ Or Vir&j may * be the female 
counterpart of Purusha as Aditi of Daksha in,X. 72. 4, 5.’ See Muir’s ex¬ 
haustive Note ou this passage, 0. S. Texts , V. pp. 369, 370 ; and Wallis, 
Cosmology of the Rigveda , p. 87. 

6 Dripping fat : * the mixture of ourds and butter.’—Wilson. He: or, 
It ; the sacrificial victim Purusha, or the sacred clarified butter. 

7 Richas : verses of praise and prayer for recitation. Sdma hymns : psalms 
for chanting. Spells and charms : magical incantations ; probably those 
of the later collection of the Atharva-veda. The Yajus : the Collection of 
Sacrificial formulas. 

9 Sddhyas: see XXIV. 27 ; XXIX. 11 ; XXX. 15. 




THE TEXTS OP THE 


m 


[BOOS XXXL 


What was his mouth? what were his arms? what are the 
names of thighs and feet ? 

11 The Br&hman was his mouth, of both his arms was the 

R&janya made. 

His thighs became the Vaisya, from his feet the S&dra was 
produced. 

12 The Moon was gendered from his mind, and from his eye 

the Sun had birth; 

Vayu and Prana from his ear, and from his mouth was Agni 
born. 

13 Forth from his navel came mid-air ; the sky was fashioned 

from his head; 

Earth from his feet, and from his ear the Quarters. Thus 
they formed the worlds. 

14 When Gods performed the sacrifice with PuruBha as offering 
Spring was the butter, Autumn the oblation, Summer was 

the wood. 

15 Then seven were his enclosing-sticks, his kindling-brands 

were three tiroes seven, 

When Gods, performing sacrifice, bound as their victim 
Purusha. 

16 Gods, sacrificing, sacrificed the victim: these were the earli¬ 

est holy ordinances. 

The Mighty Ones attained the height of heaven, there where 
the Sa ihyas, Gods of old, are dwelling. 


11 The Brthman is called the mouth of Purusha as baying the special 
privilege as a priest of addressing the Gods in prayer. The arms of Parasha 
became the Rdjanva, the priuce and soldier who wields the sword and spear. 
His thighs, the strongest part of his body, became the agriculturist and 
tradesman, the chief supporters of society; and his feet, the emblems of 
vigour and activity, became the S&dra or labouring man on whose toil and 
industry all prosperity ultimately rests. This is the only passage in tbs 
Kigveda which enumerates the four castes. 

13 Cf. the creation-myth of the world-giant Ymir in Old Northers poetvji 
The hills are his bones, the sky his skull, the sea his blood, and the clouds 
his brains. See Corpus Poeticum Boreale, II. 468. 

15 Enclosing-sticks: See II. 3. Kindling-brands: See II. 4. S&yana ex¬ 
plains paridkayah here as the seven Bacred metres, or as six shallow tren¬ 
ches dug round the fire and an imaginary one round the Sun. According 
to Mali! lhara. the twenty-one kindling-brands are the twelve months, five 
seasons, the three worlds of earth, air, and heaven, and the Sun. 

This pantheistic hymn, whioh is generally called the PuruahasAkta, is ef 
comparatively recent origin, and appears to be an attempt to harmonise the 
two ideas of sacrifice and creation. For further information regarding it, sen 
Muir. 0. S. Texts, I pp. 6-11, and V. 368—377, Prof. Max MiiUer, Aooi- 
ent Sanskrit Literature, pp. 57Of, and Dr. Sohermaa, Phiiosophisoto Hymngi 



WHITE YAJURY EDA. 


263 


VERSE 22.] 


17 In the beginuiug he was formed, collected from waters, earth, 

and Visvs&armau’s esseuce. 

Fixing the form thereof Tvashtar proceedeth. This was at 
first the mortal's birth and godhead. 

18 I know this mighty Purusha whose colour is like the Sun, 

beyond the reach of darkness. 

He only who knows him leaves Death behind him. There is 
no path save this alone to travel. 

19 In the womb moves Prajapati: he, never becoming born, is 

born in sundry figures. 

The wise discern the womb from which he springeth. In 
him alone staud all existing creatures. 

20 He who gives light and heat to Gods, first, foremost Ageut 

of the God 8, 

Born ere the Gods—to him the bright, the holy One, be 
reverence \ 

21 Thus spake the Gods at first, as they begat the bright and 

holy One : 

The Brahman who may know thee thus shall have the Gods 
in his control. 

22 Beauty and Fortune are thy wives: each side of thee are 

Day and Night. 

The constellations are thy form : the Asvins are thine open 
jaws. 

Wishing, wish yonder world for me, wish that the Universe 
be mine. 


aus der Rig-und Atharva-veda-SanhitA, pp 11—23. The hymn has al*o 
been translated by Colebrooke, Miscellaneous Essays, pp. 167, 168 ; by 
Wallis, Cosmology of the Rigveda, pp. 87, 88 ; and by Peterson, Hymns 
from the Rigveda, pp. 289, 290 ; also by Burnouf, Bhdgavata Pur&na, Pre¬ 
face to Vol. I., and by Weber, Indixcbe Studien, IX. p. 5. Grassmanu’s 
Translation in his Appendix to Vol. II., and Ludwig's Translation and Com¬ 
mentary should be consulted. See also The Hymns of the Atharvu-veda, 
XIX. 6, which is a reproduction of this hymn with transpositions and 
variations, 

17 The earliest performer of the Purusbamedha, who gained thereby the 
form of the Sun, is glorified. He: there is n<» noun in the text Mahidhara 
supplies yo rasah, the essence which. Tvashtar: the Sun. Proceedeth : on 
his daily course, Godhead: gained by Sacrifice. 

19 The first line is taken, with a variation, from A. V. X. 8. 13. Sundry 
place* : every birth that occurs being in reality a re-birth of the Creative 
Power Prajftpati. 

20 He: Pr»jlpati in the form of the Sun. Foremost Agent: purohituh. 

22 Beauty and Fortune: S:1 and Lake him. Thy: the Sun is addressed. 

Constellations: or stars in’general. The Asvins: here according to Mahi¬ 
dhara, meaning Heaven and Earth. The Universe: he wishes for liberation 
from the bonds of this world and absorption into Brahma, the All. 




BOOK THE THIRTY SECOND. 


Agni is That; the Sun is That; Vayuand Chandramasare 
That. 

The Bright is That; Brahma is That, those Watera, that 
Prajapati. 

2 All twinklings of the eyelid sprang from Purusha, respleud- 

ent One. 

No one hath comprehended him above, across, or in the 
midst. 

3 There is no counterpart of him whose glory verily is great. 
In the beginning rose Hiranyagarbha, etc. Let not him 

harm me, etc. Than whom there is no other born, etc. 

4 This very God pervadeth all the regions; yea, born afore¬ 

time, in the womb he dwelleth. 

He verily born and to be bora hereafter meeteth his off¬ 
spring, facing all directions. 

5 Before whom naught whatever sprang to being; who with 

his presence aids all living creatures, 

Prajapati, rejoicing in his offspring, he, Shodasf, maintains 
the Three great Lustres. 

6 Bv whom the heavens are strong and earth stands firmly, 

by whom light’s realm and sky-vault are supported 9 , 

By whom the regions in mid-air were measured. What 
God shall we adore with our oblation 1 


This and the two following Books contain texts and formulas to be used 
at the performance of a Sarvamedha or Sacrifice for Universal Success Sod 
Prosperity, a ten-day ceremony that ranks higher and is considered to be 
more important than even the Purushamcdha. After performing this cere¬ 
mony the Sacrificer has to leave his home and retire to the wilderness foe 
the rest of his life. This Book is considered to be an Upanishad, entitled 
Tadeva from the first two words. 

1 That: tad; the Supreme Self. Chandramie: the Moon. Thme : the 
celebrated. 

•> Ticinldings: moments and measures of time. Comprehended: an Ml 
object of perception. 

3 In the beginning , etc. : three passages are referred to, which have oc¬ 
curred, respectively, in XXV. 10—13 ; XII. 103 ; VIII. 86, all celebrating 
the greatness of Prajapati or Purusha. 

i Aforetime: or, the first. Cf. XXXI. 19. 

5 The second line is repeated from VIII. 36. Three . Zuetree: Agni, 

Vftyu, Siirya. or the Sun, the Moon, and Agni. 

6 Taken from R. V. X. 121. 5. What God, etc.: or, Worship we Kaths 
God. See XIII. 4. 





VERSE 11] WtilTE YAJURVEDA. 265 

7 To whom, supported bj his help, two armies embattled look 

while trembling in their spirit, 

Where over them the risen Sun is shining. What God shall 
we adore with our oblation ? 

What time the mighty waters, etc. He in his might sur¬ 
veyed, etc. 

8 The Sage beholdeth That mysterious Being wherein this 

AH hath found one only dwelling. 

Therein unites the Whole, and thence it issues: far-spread it 
is the warp and woof in creatures. 

9 Knowing Eternity, may the Gandharva declare that station, 

parted, kept in secret. 

Three steps thereof in mystery are hidden: he who knows 
these shall be the father’s father. 

10 He is our kin, our Father and Begetter: he knows all be¬ 

ings and all Ordinances, 

In whom the Gods obtaining life eternal have risen upward 
to the third high station. 

11 Having encompassed round existing creatures, the worlds 

and all the Quarters and Mid-quarters, 

Having aproached the first-born Child of Order he with his 
Self into The Self hath entered. 


7 Two armies embattled look : or perhaps better : To whom, supported 
by his favour, Heaven and Earth look up. See M. Mtiller, Vedic Hymns, 
Part I. pp. 2, 9. What time , etc. : repeated from XXVII. 25. He in hi$ 
might: repeated from XXVII. 26. 

8 Mijstei’ious Being: Brahma, the Absolute. Unites: is absorbed, at the 
periodical destruction of the universe at the eud of a Kalpa or day of 
BrahmA, an eon of four hundred and thirty-two million years of mortals. 
Isssues : at the time of a new creation. 

9 Taken, with a variation, from A. V. II. 1. 2. The Gandharva: meaning 
here, according to Mahldhara, Colebrooke, and Weber, the sage, the learn¬ 
ed theologian ; or, it may be, the Sun. Parted : in the absorption and tbe 
re creation of the universe. The A. V. reading is paramam , highest. Three 
steps : according to Mahldhara, the three paddni , steps, or conditions, are 
creation, continuance, and disappearance, or the Absolute (Brahma), the 
Demiurgus or Creator, and the individual Self. Prof. Weber suggests that 
the reference is to the Purusha Sukta, 3, 4, of Book XXXI. Father's father: 
wiser than, and able to teach, his elders. 

10 He : the Almighty Creator. Obtaining life immoi’tal: Agni alone who 
is here identified with the Creator was originally immortal and the other 
Gods obtained immortality through him. Third high station: highest 
heaven The first line is taken from A. V. II. 1. 3. Cf. R. V. X. 82. 3. 

11 The performer of the Universal Sacrifice is liberated from the bonds 
of human life. Encompassed round ; with the glanee of his enlightened 
mind which shows the universe to be Brahma. Order : the eternal Law of 
the universe, whose firstborn Child is apparently Prajftpati; or, according 
to Mahldhara, V.ik the Sacred Word connoting religious ceremonies per¬ 
formed therewith. He ; the performer of the Universal Sacrifice. 



266 WHITE YA JURY EDA. [BOOR XXXU. 

12 Having gone swiftly round the eurth and heaven, around 

the worlds, around the sky, the Quarters, 

Having spread out the lengthened thread of Order, he views, 
and he becomes and is That Being. 

13 To the Assembly's woudrous Lord, to Indra’s lovely Friend 

who gives 

Wisdom, have I drawn near in prayer. 

14 That wisdom which the Companies of Gods, and Fathers, 

recognize. 

Even with that intelligence, 0 Agni, make me wise to-day. 
All-hail! 

15 Varuna grant me wisdom ! grant it Agni and Prajdpati! 
Wisdom may Indra, Vayu graut. May the Creator grant it 

me. All-hail! 

16 Let these the Priests and Nobles both enjoy the splendonr 

that is mine. 

Best splendour may the Gods bestow on me. To thee, that 
splendour, hail! 


12 Thread of Order: sacrifice, which is a line reaching down from an¬ 
cient times and uniting men and Gods. 

13 The Assembly'8 wondrous Lord: Agni, called SadasAspati, Lord or 
Guardian of the congregation of priests and worshippers. The verse is taken 
from R. V. I. 18. 6. 



BOOK THE THIRTY-THIRD. 


His be the fires, eternal, purifying, protectors of our homes, 
whose smoke is shining, 

White, waxing in their strength, for ever stirring, and seat¬ 
ed in the wood : like winds are Somas. 

2 Gold-coloured, bannered with the smoke, urged by the wind, 

aloft to heaven 

Rise, lightly borne, the flames of fire. 

3 Bring to us Mitra-Varuna, bring the Gods to the great 

sacrifice; 

Bring them, 0 Agni, to thine home. 

4 Yoke, Agni, as a charioteer, thy steeds who best invoke the 

Gods: 

As ancient Hotar take thy seat. 

5 To fair goals travel Two unlike in semblanoe: each in suc¬ 

cession nourishes an infant. 

One bears a Godlike Babe of golden colour: bright and fair- 
shining is be with the other. 

6 Here by ordainers was this God appointed first Invoker, 

best at worship, to be praised at rites, 

Whom Apnavana and the Bhrigus caused to shine, bright- 
coloured iu the wood, spreading to every house. 

7 Three times a hundred Gods, and thrice a thousand, and 

three times ten, and nine have worshipped Agni, 

For him spread sacred grass, balmed him with butter, and 
stablished him as Priest and Sacrificer. 

The formulas for the Universal Sacrifice are continued. 

1 The first seventeen verses constitute a litany to Agni The first verse 
is taken from R. V. X. 46. ?. Protectors : this is Mahldhara’s explanation 
of aritrd, as though the word came from ari, an enemy, and tn f, to protect 
from. The literal meaning is oars, rudders, or propellers. Like winds : as 
winds fan flame, so Soma libations increase the might of Agni. 

2 Taken from R. V. VIII. 43. 4. 

3 R. V. I. 76. 5. 

4 Repeated from XIII. 37, 

5 R. V. I 95.1. Two: Day and Night. Infant: Agni as the Sun by day, 
and Fire, or the Moon, by night. 

6 Repeated from III. 15 ; taken from R. V. IV. 7. 1. 

7 R. V. III. 9. 9. In the Vaisvadeva Nivid or Formula of Invitation to 
the All-Gods, the number of the Gods is said to be 3 times II, then 33, then 
303, then 3003. By adding together 33 + 303 + 3000 the number 3339 is ob¬ 
tained. See Haug’s Aitareya Br&hmanam, IL p, 212, note* 



268 THE TEXTS OP THE [BOOX XXXltt. 

8 Him, messenger of earth and head of heaven, Agni Vaisvi- 

nara, born in holy Order, 

The Sage, the King, the Guest of men, a vessel fit for their 
mouths, the Gods have generated. 

9 May Agui slay the foemeu,— fain for riches, through the 

love of song 

Kindled, bright, served with sacrifice. 

10 With the All-Gods, with Indra and with V&yu drink the 

Soma mead, 

0 Agni, after Mitra’s laws. 

11 When splendour reached the Lord of men to speed him, 

down from the heaven was shed the brilliant moisture. 
Agni brought forth to light and filled with spirit the youth¬ 
ful host benevolent and blameless. 

12 Show thyself strong for mighty bliss, 0 Agni; most excel¬ 

lent be thine effulgent splendours. 

Make easy to maintain our household lordship and trample 
down the might of those who hate us. 

13 We have elected thee as most delightful for thy beams’ 

glow : hear our great laud, 0 Agni. 

The best men praise thee as the peer of Indra in strength, 
mid Gods, like Vayu in thy bounty. 

14 0 Agni who art worshipped well, dear let our princes be to 

thee, 

Our wealthy patrons who are governors of men, who part III 
gifts their stalls of kine. 


8 Repeated from VII. 24; taken from R. V. VI, 7. 1. A vessel: through 
whom they receive sacrificial offerings. 

9 R. V. VI. 16. 34. 

10 After Mitra's laws: mitrasya dhdmabhih} according to Mahfdhara* 
(praised) by the names of Mitra. 

11 R. V. I. 71. 8. The Lord of men : the protector of the sacrificer, ac¬ 
cording to Mahidhara, that is, Agni. Prom the heaven: the text has dy oejk 
which, Mahidhara says, is used in the sense of the genitive dyofa. into which 
probably, it may be corrected. See Oldemberg, Vedic Hymns, Part ILp. 
80, note. Youthful host: probably the Maruts, the verse being here a NiVid 
formulary used on drawing the Marutvatiyagraha or cup for Indra attended 
by the Maruts. 

12 R V. V. 28. 3. Make easy to maintain : or, to follow S&yana and Ha- 
hidhara: Perfect the well-knit bond of wife and husband. 

13 R. V. VI. 4. 7. 

14 R. V. VII. 16. 7. Gifts : sacrificial offerings of milk, curds, and clari¬ 
fied butter as well as honoraria to the priests. 



VERSE 21.] WHITE YAJUR VEDA. 269 

15 Hear, Agni who hast ears to hear, with all thy train of 

escort Gods. 

Let Mitra* Aryaman, seeking betimes our rite, seat them 
upon the sacred grass. 

16 The Freedom of all Gods who merit worship, freely received 

as Guest in all men’s houses, 

Agni who hath secured the Gods* high favour, may he be 
gracious to us, Jatavedas. 

17 In great enkindled Agni’s keeping and, for bliss, free from 

all sin before Mitra and Varuya, 

May we share Savitar’s best animating help. We crave this* 
gracious favour of the Gods to-day. 

18 Like barren cows, moreover, swelled the waters: singers 

approched thy holy cult, 0 Indra. 

Come th*>u to us as to his team comes Vayu. Thou through 
our solemn hymns bestowest bounty. 

19 Ye Cows, protect the fount. The two mighty Ones bless the 

sacrifice. 

The handles twain are wrought of gold. 

20 Now when the Sun hath risen to-day may sinless Mitra, 

Aryaman, 

Bliaga, and Snvitar speed us forth. 

21 Pour on the juice the ornament which reaches both the 

heaven and earth : 

15 R V. I. 44. 13. Let Mitra , Aryaman: and Varu.a, implied and un¬ 
derstood. 

16 R. V. IV. 1. 20. Freedom: or, Aditi, meaning the freest, most inde¬ 
pendent. There is a play on the words aditily aud atitkih , guest. 

17 R. V. X. 36. 12. The verse is a Nivid formula used when the S&vitra- 
graha, or cup for Savitar, is drawn. 

18 Verses 18 —29 constitute a service of praise addressed to Indra. Verse 
18 is taken from R. V. VII. 23 4. Barren cows: supposed to be fatter than, 
(Others. The waters : used for swelling the stalks of the Soma plant. 

19 R. V. VIII. 61.12. The fount: the caldron called or wafofvfro 

in which libations of milk are heated. According to Mahldhara, the Chit* , 
Ivdla or pit (see VII. 26 ; VIII. 23) is intended, which the cows are to ap¬ 
proach. The two Mighty Ones : Heaven and Earth. Bless: conjecturally 
translated, the meaniug of rapsudd being uncertain. ‘ The two kiuds of 
milk in the sacrifice are plentiful and fruit-giving*Wilson, according to 
/Sdyava. The handles : of the caldron ; but this too is doubtful. 

1 20 R. V. VII. 66. 4. Sinless: aadglh : taken by Siyana as -andgasafr: 
may Savitar, Mitra, Aryaman, Aud Bhaga send us sinless forth. 

21 R. V. VIII. 61. 13. 77te ornament: the milk which is mingled with 
Soma. The Bull: the mighty Soma. I take rasd (as Prof. Ludwig has 
done) as an instrumental ci»e. According to Mahtdhara the translation 
should be : The river nourishes the Bull; i. e. the S>»ma which grows near 
it. Thou: See: the beginnings of two Nivid formulas repeated, respective- 
I ly, from VII. 12 and 16. 



270 


THE TEXTS OF THE 


[BOOK XXXIII 


Supply the liquid to the Bull. 

Thou in the first old time. See, Vena. 

22 As he was rising up they all revered him: self-luminous he 

travels, olothed in splendour. 

That is the Bull's, the Asura's lofty nature: he, Omniform, 
hath reached the eternal waters. 

23 I laud your Mighty One who joyeth in the juice, him who 

is good to all men, who pervadeth all; 

Indra whose conquering strength is powerful in war, whose 
fame and manly vigour Heaven and Earth revere. 

24 Great is their fuel, strong their laud, wide is their sacrificial 

post 

Whose Friend is Indra, ever young. 

25 Come, Indra, and delight thee with the juice at all the 

Soma feasts, 

Conqueror, mighty in thy strength. 

26 Leading his band, Indra encompassed Vritra; weak grew 

the wily leader of enchanters. 

He who burns fierce in forests slaughtered Vy&ipsa, and 
made the milch-kine of the nights apparent. 

27 Whence oomest th m alone, thou who art mighty, Indra, 

Lord of the Brave ? What is thy pnrpose 1 
Thou greetest us, encountering us the Bright Ones. Lord Of 
Bay Steeds, say what thou hast against us. 

Indra, great iu his power and might. Ne'er art thou fruit¬ 
less. Never art thou neglectful. 

22 R. V. III. 38. 4. He: Indra at the Sun. Eternal waters: ampitdni; 
jcUdni, waters, being understood; ‘ the forces of eternity, f according to vet 
Roth. Nature: or, title, such as Vritra-slayer, etc. 

23 R. V. X. 50. 1. 

24 R. V. VIII. 45. 2. Well provided with the materials of sacrifice, and 
consequently successful, are those whom Indra favours. 

25 R. V. I. 9. 1. 

26 R. V. III. 34. 3. His band: the Maruts. Encompassed Vpitra: vfif- 
ramavrinot; a play upon the words, both from Vfi, to encompass; Vritra the 
drought demon beiug the encompasser or obstruoter of the seasonal rains. 
He who bums fierce: perhaps the thunderbolt. Vyaipsa: the name of as* 
of the demons of drought. See R. V. I. 101. 2; 103. 2. MUek-Hm qf til 
nights : according to Sdyana, the (stolen) cows (that had been h : dden) hi; 
the night ; that is, he recovered the vanished rays of light. M&hldhan’a 
interpretation, *and made the lauds of devotees apparent/ seems very fur- 
fetched. 

27 R. V. I. 165. 3. The Maruts address Indra whom they meet alon% 
unattended by them as usual, in consequence of some ill-feeling that has 
arisen See M. Muller. Vedic Hymns, Part I. (Sacred Books of the East, 
XXXII. pp. 179—203). The verse ends with Against us.’ Then follow 
the beginnings of three Nivid formulas repeated respectively, from VIL 40, 
VIII. 2 and 3. 



VERSE 84-1 WHITE YAJURVEDA. 271 

28 Those men extolled that deed of thine, 0 Indra, those who 

would fain burst through the stall of cattle, 

Fain to milk her who hare but once, great, lofty, whose sons 
are many and her streams a thousand. 

29 To thee the Mighty One I bring this mighty hymn, for thy 

desire hath been gratified by my laud. 

In Indra, yea, in him victorious through his might, the 
Gods have joyed at feast and when the Soma flowed. 

30 May the Bright God drink glorious Soma-mingled mead, 

giving the sacrifice’s lord uninjured life; 

He who, wind-urged, in person guards our offspring well, 
hath nourished them with food and shone o’er many a 
land. 

31 His bright rays bear him up aloft, the God who knoweth all 

that lives, 

Surya, that all may look on him. 

32 Pure Varuna, with that same eye wherewith thou lookest 

upon one 

Actively stirring mid the folk— 

33 Ye two divine Adhvaryns, come hither upon a sun-bright car: 
Bedew our sacrifice with mead. 

Thou in the first old time. See, Vena. The brilliant presence. 

34 Loved of all men, may Savitar through praises offered as 

sacred food come to our synod, 

That ye too, through our hymns, ye ever youthful, may 
gladden at your visit all our people. 

28 R. V. X. 74. 4. Those men : the Angiraaea. Burst through the stall of 
cattle : to recover the stolen cows, the rays of light that had been carried 
away by the demons of darkness. Her who bare but once: Heaven, accord¬ 
ing to SAyana j Earth, according to Mahldhara. Prism, the mother of the 
Maruts, must be meant.—Ludwig. See R. V. VI. 48. 22. 

29 R. V. I. 102. 1. 

30 R. V. X 170. 1. Verses 30—43 are formulas in praise of Stirya, ac¬ 
companying libations to that deity on the third d*y of the ceremony. 
Wind-urged : the disc of the Sun deriving its motion from the wind. 

31 R. V. I. 50. 1. See VII. 41. 

32 R. V. I. 50. 6. Varuna : the word is, As SAyana points out, used as an 
appellative (encompasser) and applied to Surya. SAyana explains it as 
anishtanivlruka, averter of evils. Actively stirring : in the performance of 
sacrifice. In the original hymn the sense is completed in the following 
verse, * thou metest with thy beams our days.’ Mahldhara supplies, * look 
upon us who are similarly busied here.’ 

33 Two divine Adhvaryus : the Asvins, the Adhvaryus of the Gods, the 
heralds of the Sun’s approach, are addressed. Thou etc.: see verse 21, and 
VII. 42. 

34 R. V. I. 186. 1. Savitar : the Sun, especially regarded as the vivifier 
and generator. Ye too : the Visvedevas or All-Gods. 




272 THE TEXTS OF TEE [BOOK XXXIJl 

35 Whatever, Vi’itra-slayer ! thou Surya hast risen on to-day, 
That, Indra, all is iu thy power. 

36 Swift, visible to all art thou, 0 Surya, maker of the light, 
Illuming all the radiant realm. 

37 This is the Godhead, this the might of Surya: he hath 

withdrawn what spread o’er work unfinished. 

When he hath loosed his horses from their station, straight 
over all Night spreadeth out her garment. 

33 In the sky’s lap the Sun this form assumeth that Varuna 
and Mitra may behold it. 

His Bay Steeds well maiutain their power eternal, at one 
tirfie bright, and darksome at aiiother. 

39 Verily, Sfirya, thou art great; truly, Aditya, thou art great. 
As thou art great indeed thy greatness is admired : yea, 

verily thou, God, art great. 

40 Yea, Surya, thou art great in fame : thou, evermore, 0 God, 

art great, 

Thou by thy greatness art the Gods’ Home*priest, divine, 
far-spread, uncouquerable light. 

41 Turning, as ’twere, to meet the Suu, enjoy from Indra all 

good things. 

When he who will be born is born with power we look to 
treasures as our heritage. 

42 To-day, ye Gods, when S irya hath ascended, deliver us 

from trouble and dishonour. 

This boon may Varuria and Mitra grant us, aud Aditi aud 
Siudhu, Earth and Heaven. 

35 R, V. VIII. 82. 4. Indra: as identified with Stirya. 

36 R. V. I. 50. 4. 

37 R. V. I. 115. 4. He hath withdrawn: ‘The cultivator or artisan d* 
sists from his labour, although unfinished, upon the setting of the Suu 
when the sun ‘ has withdrawn (iuto himself) the diffused (light which has 
been shed) upon the unfinished task ’ rWilson. The stanza is difficult, 
and no thoroughly satisfactory explanation of it has yet been offered. See* 
Ludwig, Her Rigvt*da, IV. 131, 132. 

38 R. V. I. 115. 5. This form: of might aud Godhead. Varuna : as God 
of the N'ght. Mitra; as God of the Day. 

39 R. V. VIII. 90. 11. 

40 R. V. VIII. 90. 12. 

41 R. V. VIII. 88. 3. This stanza is difficult and obscure. Mahldhara'i 
explanation is : The gathering (rays) proceeding to the sun distribute all-’ 
Iudra’s treasures (to liviug beings, as rain, corn, etc.) : may we too by our 
power leave those treasures as an inheritance to him who has been or will 
be born ’—See Prof. Cowell’s note in Wilson’s Translation. 

42 The second line is the stock conclusion of many Rigveda hymns. 
Sindhu : is the deity presiding over, or identified with, water, and it may 
mean the Sea, or the Indus. 



WHITE YA/URVEDA. 


VERSE 50 .] 


478 


43 Throughout the dusky firmament advancing, laying to rest 

the immortal and the mortal, 

Borne on his golden chariot he someth, Savitar, God, 
beholding living creatures. 

44 Soft to the faead the sacred grass is scattered: these go 

like Kings amid the band around them, 

At the folk’s early call on Night and Morning,—Vfiyu, and 
Pikban with his team to bless us. 

45 Tndra, V&yu, Brihaspati, Mitra, Agni, Pushan, Bhaga, 
Adityas, and 'the Marut host. 

46 Be Varuna our chief defence, let Mitra guard us with all aids: 
Both make us rich exceedingly! 

47 Regard us, Indra, Vishnu, here, ye ABvins, and the Marut 

host, us who are kith and kin to you. 

Thou in the first old time, See, Vena. 0 ye eleven Gods. 
Loved of all men, may Savitar. With the All-Gods. Ye 
Visvedevas who protect. 

48 0 Agni, Tndra, Varuna, and Mitra, give, 0 ye Gods, and 

Marut host, and Vishnu. 

May both Nasatyas, Rudra, heavenly Matrons, Pushan, 
Saraavatt, Bhaga accept us. 

49 Indra, Agni, Mitra, Varuna, Aditi, the Waters, Mountains, 

Maruts, Sky, and Earth and Heaven, 

Vishnu I call, Pfisban and Brahmanaspati,and Bhaga, Samsa, 
Savitar that they may help. 

50 With us are raining Rudras, clouds accordant in call to 

battle at the death of Vritra, 

The strong, assigned to him who sings and praises. May 
Gods with Indra as their chief protect us. 


43 R. V. I. 35 2. 

44—54 celebrate the Visvedevas or All-Gods. Verse 44 is taken from 
R. V. VII. 39. 2. 

45 R. V. I. 14. 3. 

46 R V. I. 23. 6. 

47 The G&yatr! veree is taken from VIII. 72. 7. Kith andMn: as com¬ 
mon children of Aditi the General Mother of all living beings. The six un¬ 
connected Pratlkas or Verse-beginnings are repeated from (1, 2) XXXIII. 
21 ; (3) VII. 19; (4) XXXIII. 84 ; (5) XXXIII. 10 : (6; VII. 33. 

48 R. V. V. 46. 2. 

49 R. V. V. 46. 3. Sutnsa: Praise or Prayer, personified. According to 
Mrthidhat a, praiseworthy* qualifying Savitar. 

50 R. V. VIII. 52.12. Raining: pouring down riches; bounteous. The 
strong: perhaps the thunderbolt, With which Indra aids the worshipper. 

18 



274 


THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XXXIII. 

51 Turn yourselves hitherward this day, ye Holy, that fearing 

in my heart I may approach you. 

Protect us, Gods, let uot the wolf destroy ns. Save us, ye 
Holy, from the pit and failing. 

52 This day come all the Maruts, etc., as iu XVIII. 31. 

53 Listen, All-Gods, to this mine invocation, ye who iuhabit 

heaven and air’s mid-region. 

All ye, 0 Holy Ones, whose tongue is Agni, seated upon 
this sacred grass be joyful. 

54 For thou at first producest for the holy Gods the noblest of 

all portions, immortality. 

Thereafter as a gift to men, 0 Savitar, thou openest existence, 
life succeeding life. 

55 I with a lofty song call hither Vlyu all-bounteous, filler of 

liis car, most wealthy. 

Thou, Sage, with bright path, Lord of harnessed horses, im¬ 
petuous, promptly honoured the prudent. 

56 These, Indra-Vayu, have been shed, etc., as in VII. 8. 

57 Mitra of holy strength I call, aud foe-destroying Varuna, 
Who make the oil-fed rite complete. 

58 Nasatyas, Wonder-workers, yours are these libations with 

dipt grass. 

Come ye whose paths are bright with glow. 

59 When Sarama had found the mountain’s fissure, that vast 

and ancient place she plundered throughly. 

Iu the floods’ van she led them forth, light-footed: she who 
well knew came first unto their lowing. 


51 R. V. II. 29. 6. 

52 Repeated from XVIII. 31. 

53 R. V. VI. 52. 13. Whose tongue m Agni r who enjoy oblations offend 
in the sacrificial fire. 

54 R. V. IV. 54. 2, 

55 — 69 Here follows a compilation of unconnected verses in praise of 
various deities. Verse 55 is taken from R. V. VI. 49. 4. Filler of kit ear: 
with wealth to reward his servants. The prudent: the wise worshipper. 

57 R. V. I. 2. 7. Oil-fed: performed with ghritam, ght , or clarified butter. 
Complete : by granting the worshipper’s prayer. 

53 R. V. I. 3. 3. Ndsatyas : Asvins; see XIX. 83, note. 

59 R. V. III. 31. 6. Saramd: the messenger and scout of Indra, various¬ 
ly explained as Dawn, Stormcloud, Wind, etc. See R. V. X. 108 j and Mme. 
Zenaide Ragozin, Vedic India (Story of the Nations Series), pp. 256 —260. 
In later Vedic literature Sarami is regarded as the hound o£ the Goda. In 
the Hoods' van: hastening out of the mountain cavern, that is, the massive 
d, in advance of the liberated waters. Them: the cows, the waters. 




VERSE 69.] WHITE YAJURVEDA. 275 

60 For nowhere did they find another envoy to lead the way 

than this Vaisv&nara Agni. 

The Gods immortal strengthened the immortal Vaisvanara 
to win the land in battle. 

61 The strong, dispellers of the foe, Indra and Agni, we invoke: 
May they be kind to one like me, 

62 Sing forth to Indu, 0 ye men, to him as he is purified, 

Fain to pay worship to the Gods. 

63 Drink Soma, India, banded with the Maruts who, Boon 

Lord ! strengthened thee at Ahi’s slaughter, 

’Gaiust Sambara, Lord of Bays! in winning cattle, and now 
rejoice in thee, the holy singers. 

64 Thou wast born mighty for victorious valour, exulting, 

strongest, full of pride and courage. 

There, even there the Maruts strengthened Indra wheu his 
most rapid Mother stirred the Hero. 

65 0 thou who slewest Vritra, come, 0 Indra, hither to our side, 
Mighty One with thy mighty aids. 

66 Thou in thy battles, Indra, art subduer of all hostile bands. 
Father art thou, all-conquering, cancelling the curse: van¬ 
quish the men who fight with us. 

67 Heaven and Earth cling close to thy victorious might 
As sire and mother to their child. 

68 The sacrifice obtains the Gods’ acceptance, etc., as in VIII. 4. 

69 Protect our habitation, Savitar, this day with guardian 

aids around, propitious, ne’er beguiled. 

God of the golden tongue, keep us for newest bliss: let not 
the evil-wisher have us in his power. 


60 They: the Qods. To win the land : from the original inhabitants for 
the new Aryan settlers. 

61 R. V. VI. 60. 5. 

62 R. V. IX. 11. 1. Indu: Soma. 

63 R. V. III. 47. 4. A hi: the Serpent; a demon of drought. Simhara : 
another drought-fiend. In winning cattle: in recovering the stolen kine, 
the rays of light carried off by the demons of darkness, or, generally, in bat¬ 
tle with the demons who withhold the rain. 

64 R. V. X. 78. 1. Thou : Indra. Mother: Aditi. Stirred the Hero : 
incited him to action by telling him of his future opponents. See R. V. VIII. 
45. 5, and 66. 2. 

65 R. V. IV. 32. 1. 

66, 67 R. V. VIII. 88. 5, 6. 

69 R. V. VI. 71. 8. Of the golden tongue: ever-truthful (Solem quia 
dicere falsum Audeat ?); or, having tongues or rays of golden fight. 



THE TEXTS OP THE 


276 


[BOOH XXXllt 


70 For you have flowed, through noble ministration 1 , pressed 

by Adhvaryus, bright sweet-flavoured juice* 

Drive on thy team and come thou hither, V&yii: drink for 
thy rapture of the sap of Soma. 

71 Ye Cows* protect, etc., as in verse 14. 

72 Come ye foe-slayers to the place of meeting, tor the birth¬ 

places of the two great Sages, 

With force of intellect unto the dwelling; 

73 Ye two divine Adhvaryus, etc., as in verse 33. Thou ia 

the time of old. See, Vena. 

74 Transversely was the severing line extended: was it above, 

or was it, haply, under ? 

There were begetters, there were mighty forces, free action 
here and energy up yonder. 

75 He hath filled heaven and earth and the great realm of light, 

when at his birth the skilful held him in their hold. 

He like a steed is led forth to the sacrifice, Sage, gractotfsfy 
inclined, that he may win us wealth. 

76 Call hither with the song and lauds the two best slayers of 

the foe, 

Delighting even in our hymn. 

77 All Sons of Immortality shall listen to the songs we sing; 
And be exceeding good to us. 

78 Mine are devotions, hymns, sweet are libations. Strength 

stirs, and hurled forth is my rooky weapon. 

They call for me, for me their lauds are louging. To their 
libations these my Bay Steeds bear me. 


70 Vftyu is the deity addressed. For you : the Sacrificed and hia wife. 

72 Come ye : Mitra and Vanina are addressed. Two great Sages : the tut 
Gods who are addressed. The stanza is difficult and obscure. 

78 The two Pratfkas are repeated from VII. 12 and 16. 

74 R. V. X. 129. 5. Line : drawn by the ancient creative Rishis or Dear 
urgi to make a division between the upper world and the lower, to 
bring duality out of unity. Begetters : the Fathers may be meaat. Free 
action : the happiness of the Fathers. The verse is one of the obscurest of a 
very obscure hymn ou Creation. 

75 R. V. III. 2. 7. He: Agni Vaisv&nara. The skilful: the priests who 
kindle the fire. 

76 R. V. VII. 94.11. Call hither: I follow Prof. Ludwig in reading dri- 
vdsata instead of dvivdsatah which involves a harsh construction. The 
deities invoked are Indra and Agni. 

77 R. V. VI. 52. 9. Of Immortality: or, of the Immortal Ontf, PrajA* 
pati, the progenitor of gods and men. 

78 R. V. I. 165. 4. Indra addresses the Maruts in reply to their quee* 
tion in verse 27. 




PJtetf 86] WMITR tJltMlTMM. til 

t9 Nothing, 0 Bounteous Lord, stands firm before thee: among 
the Gods not one is found thine equal. 

None bom or springing into life comes near thee. Do what 
thou hast to do* exceeding mighty! 

80 In all the worlds That was the Best and Highest whence 

sprang the mighty God of splendid valour. 

Quickly when bom he overcomes his foemen, he in whom 
all who lend him aid are joyful. 

81 May these my songs of praise exalt thee, Lord, who hast 

abundant Wealth* 

Men skilled in holy hymns, pure, with the hues of fire, have 
sung them with their lauds to thee. 

82 Good Lord of wealth is he to whom all Aryas, Dasas here 

belong. 

E’en over unto thee, the pious Rusama Paviru, is that 
wealth brought nigh. 

83 He, with his might advanced by Rishis thousandfold, hath 

like an oceau spread himself. 

His majesty is praised as true at solemn rites, his power 
where holy singers rule. 

84 Protect our habitation, Savitar, etc., as in verse 89. 

85 Come, Vayu, drawn by fair hymns, to our sacrifice that 

reaches heaven. 

Poured on the middle of the straining-cloth and dressed, 
,this bright drink hath been offered thee. 

86 Indra and Vayu, fair to see and swift to hear, we call to us, 
That in assembly all, yea, all .the folk may be benevolent to 

us and free from malady. 


79 R. V. I. 165. 9. The Maruts address Indra in continuation of the 
dialogue. 

80 R. V. X. 120. 1. That: Brahma, the original Cause of the universe. 
The Mighty Ood : Indra. 

81 R. V. VIII. 3. 3. Indra is addressed. With the hues of fire: or, radiant 
aiAgni. 

82 V&lakhilya 3. 9. He : the prince named in the following line. Ddsas : 

aboriginal inhabitants. Rusama Paviru: the people called Rusamas are men¬ 
tioned in R. V. V. 30. 13—15. The name of Paviru, apparently their prince, 
does not occur again. 1 

83 R. V. VIII. Z. 4. He : Indra. 

85 R. V. VIII. 90. 9. 

86 Taken, with variations and additions, from R. V. X. 141. 4, 




278 THE TEXTS OP THE [BOOK KIVU 

87 Yea, specially that mortal man bath toiled for servioe of 

the God8, 

Who quickly hath brought near Mitra and Vanina to share 
bis sacrificial gifts. 

88 Approach ye, and be near to us. Drink, 0 ye Asvins, of 

the mead. 

Draw forth the milk, ye mighty, rich in genuine wealth! 
Injure us not, And come to us. 

89 May Brahmanaspati draw nigh, may S&nrit& the Goddess 

come, 

And Gods bring to our rite which gives the fivefold gift the 
Hero, lover of mankind. 

90 Within the Waters runs the Moon, he with the beauteous 

wings, in heaven. 

To yellow-hued abundant wealth, object of many a man’s 
desire, loud-ueighing goes the tawny Steed. 

91 Singing their praise with godlike hymn let us invoke eaoh 

God for grace, 

Each God to bring you help, each God to strengthen you. 

92 Agni Vaisvanara, set in heaven, with mighty splendour 

hath shone forth. 

Increasing in his power on earth, benevolent, he quells the 
darkness with his light. 

93 First, Jndra-Agui! hath this Maid come footless unto those 

with feet. 

Stretching her head and speaking loudly with her tongue, 
she hath gone downward thirty steps. 


87 R. V. VIII. 90. 1. 

88 R. V.VII. 74. 3. 

89 R. V. I. 40. 3. S&nritd: Pleasantness ; according to the Comments* 
tors, V&k the Goddess of Speech as lover of truth. Fivefold gift: oblations, 
of grain, gt'uel, curdled milk, rice-cake, and curds, offered, respectively, to 
various deities. 

90 The first line is taken from R. V. I. 105. 1. The wafer#; the oeeen of 
sir. He with the beauteous wings: or, the eagle; the Sun. Yellow-hued: 
in the form of gold, or golden-coloured grain. The tawny Steed: Soma. 
Mahldhara explains the whole stanza sacrificially, as referring to Soma iden¬ 
tified in the first line with the Moon. 

9i‘ R V. VIII. 27. 13. Their: the Visvedevas’. 

92 Attributed to a Rishi named Medha. 

93 R. V. VI. 59. 6 . This Maid: the text has only the feftfdiine pronoun 
i yam (haec); Ushas or Dawn is intended. Footless : moving unsupported in 
the sky. Thirty steps: the thirty divisions of the Indian day and night 
**"*0 which Dawn passes before she reappears. 




VERSE 97.] 


WHITE TAJURVEDA. 


279 


94 For of one spirit are the Gods with mortal man, co-sharers 

all of gracious gifts. 

May they increase our strength hereafter and to-day, provid¬ 
ing ease and ample room. 

95 Indra who quells the curse blew eurses far away, and then 

in splendour came to us. 

Indra, refulgent with the Marut host! the Gods eagerly 
strove to win thy love. 

96 To Indra, to your mighty Chief, Maruts, sing forth a mighty 

prayer. 

Let Satakratu, Vritra-slayer, kill the fiend with hundred- 
knotted thunderbolt. 

97 Indra increased his manly strength at sacrifice, in the wild 

rapture of this juice ; 

And living men to-day, even as of old, sing forth their 
praises to his majesty. 

May these. Good Lord of wealth. He with his might. 
Stand up erect 


94 R. V. VIII. 27. U. 

95 R. V. VIII. 78. 2. 

96 R. V. VIII. 78. 3. Sataleratu: Lord of a Hundred Powers ; Indra. 
The fiend: Vritra. 

97 R. V. VIII. 3. 8. The four Pratika*, May these, etc., are repeated 
from verses 81—83 of this Book and XI. 42. 




B0OK THE THIRTY-FOURTH* 


That which, divine, mounts far when man is waking* that 
which returns to him when he is sleeping, 

The lights’ one light that goeth to a distance, may that, 
my mind, be moved by right intention. 

2 Whereby the wise and thoughtful in assemblies, active in 

sacrifice, perform their duties, 

The peerless spirit stored in living creatures, may that, my 
mind, be moved by right intention* 

3 That which is wisdom, intellect, and firmness, immortal light 

which creatures have within them, 

That without which men do no single action, may that, my 
mind, be moved by right iutention. 

4 Whereby, immortal, all is comprehended, the world which is, 

and what shall be hereafter, 

Whereby spreads sacrifice with seven Hotans, may that, my 
mind, be moved by right intention. 

5 Wherein the Richas, Samans, Yajur-verses, like spokes with¬ 

in a car’s nave, are included, 

And all the thought of creatures is inwoven, may that, my 
mind, be moved by right inteution. 

6 Controlling men, as, with the reins that guide them, a skil¬ 

ful charioteer drives fleet-foot horses, 

Which dwells within the heart, agile, most rapid, may that, 
my mind, be moved by right intention. 

7 Now will I glorify great strength’s upholder, Food, 

By whose invigorating mightTrita rentVritra limb from limb. 

The first six verses of this supplementary Book constitute a hymn re¬ 
garded as au Upanishad and called the Sivasankalpa, Right-in ten tioned, 
from the concluding words in each stanza. The rest is a compilation of 
miscellaneous texts which may be used iu the performance of the General 
Sacrifice. 

1 Moved by right intention : or, having an auspicious resolve; f iwutdb 
Tcalpam. The lights' one light: the illuminator of all the perceptive senses. 

4 Seven Hotars: the chief Hotar and six assistant priests, the Maitrft' 
Varuna, Achchh&v&ka, Gr ivastut and others. 

7 The first verse of R. V. I. 187, entitled Annastuti, the Praise of Food, 
(in the shape of Soma). Trita: (see I. 28, note) a mysterious ancient deity 
frequently mentioned in the Rigveda, principally in connexion with India, 
V&yu, and the Maruts. His home is in the remotest part of heaven, and 
he is called Aptya, the Watery, that is, sprung from, or dwelling in, the sea 
of cloud and vapour. By S3yana he is identified sometimes with VAyn, 
sometimes with Indra as the pervader of the three worlds and sometimes 
with Agui stationed in the three fire-receptacles. Mahidhara identifies him, 
without explanation, with Indra who is generally regarded as the slayer vl 
Vritra. See Macdonell, Vedic Mythology, pp. 67—69. 



VERSE 160 Vi BITE tAJtlEV&tH- Ml 

tt Do thou, iu truth, Anum&ti, assent and graut tis happiness* 
Urge us to strength, and energy : prolong the days We have 
to live. 

9 Anumati this day approve our sacrifice among the Gods ! 
Oblation-bearing Agni be, and thou, bliss to the worshipper I 

10 0 broad-tressed Sinivflli, thou who art the sister of the Gods, 
Accept the offered sacrifice, and, Goddess, grant us progeny. 

11 Five rivers flowing on their way speed onward to Sarasvati, 
But then became Sarasvati a fivefold river in the land. 

12 0 Agni, thou the earliest Angiras, the Seer, hast, God thy¬ 

self, become the Gods* auspicious Friend. 

After thy holy ordinance the Maruts, sage, active through 
wisdom, with their glittering spears, were horn. 

13 Worthy to be revered, 0 Agni, God, preserve our wealthy 

patrons with thy succours, and ourselves. 

Guard art thou of our seed and progeny and cows, incessantly 
protecting in thy holy law. 

14 Lay this with care on her who lies extended: straight, when 

impregned, hath she brought forth the Hero. 

With his bright pillar—radiant is his lustre—in our skilled 
task is born the Son of Ida. 

15 In Itja’s place, the centre of the earth, will we deposit thee, 
That, Agni JAtavedas, thou mayst bear our offerings to the 

Gods. 

16 Like Angiras a gladdening laud we ponder to him who loveth 

song, exceeding mighty. 

Let us sing glory to the far-famed Hero who must be praised 
with fair hymns by the singer. 


8 A numati: Divine Favour, shown especially in the acceptance of sacri¬ 
fice, personified. See XXIX. 60. 

10 R. V. II. 32. 6. Sintvdli: a Lunar Goddess, associated with child¬ 
birth. See XI. 65. 

11 Sarasvati: here, apparently, meaning the Indus. See Vedic India/ 
(Story of the Nations Series) pp. 267, 268. 

12 R. V. I. 31.1. Glittering spears: the lightning flashes that accom¬ 
pany the Storm-Gods. 

13 R. V. I. 31. 12. 

14, 15 R. V. III. 29. 3, 4. The two texts accompany the production of 
sacrificial fire by means of the fire-drill. Lay this : place the upper fire- 
stick, which is to be turned rapidly round, on the lower piece of wood 
which is prepared to receive it. The Son of Idd : Agni. Id&'t place: the 
northern altar, the place of worship and libation, or prayer and praise. 

16, 17 R. V. I. 62 1. 2. The two verses are in honour of Indra. Found 
the cattle : recovered the rays of light that had been carried away by thft 
fiends of darkness. 




282 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XXXIV . 

17 Unto the Great One briug great adoration, a chant of praise 

to him the very potent, 

Through whom our sires, Angirases, singing praises, and 
knowing well the places, found the cattle. 

18 The friends who offer Soma long to find thee: they pour 

forth Soma and present their vinnds. 

They bear, unmoved, the cursing of the people, for all our 
wisdom comes from thee, 0 ludra. 

19 Not far for thee are mid-air’s loftiest regions: start hither, 

Lord of Bays, with both Buy Horses. 

Pressed for the Firm and Strong are these libations. The 
pressing-stones are set, the fire is kindled. 

20 Invincible in fight, saviour in battles, guard of our camp, 

winner of light and water, 

Born amid hymus, well-housed, exceeding famous, victor, in 
thee may we rejoice, 0 Soma. 

21 To him who worships Soma gives a milch-cow, a fleet steed, 

and a man of active knowledge, 

Skilled in home duties, competent in council, meet for the 
court, the glory of his father. 

22 These herbs, these miloh-kine, and these running waters, all 

these, 0 Soma, thou hast generated. 

The spicious firmament hast thou expanded, and with the 
light thou hast dispelled the darkness. 

23 Do thou, God Soma, with thy God-like spirit, victorious, 

win for us a share of riches. 

Let none prevent thee : thou art Lord of valour. Provide 
for these and those in fight for cattle. 

24 The earth’s eight points his brightness hath illumined, three 

desert regions, and the Seven Rivers. 

18, 19 R. V. III. 30. 1, 2. Of the people: who oppose the worship of India. 

20 —23 R. V. I. 91. 21, 20, 23. The God Soma, identified with the Moon, 
is addressed. 

21 A man: a manly son. 

22 These milch-kine : referring to the milk which is to be mingled with 
the Soma juice. 

23 For these and those : for the priests and their patrons. The text has 
only ubhayebhyah } for both ; for our gain of both worlds, according to 
Mahidliara. 

24—27 R V, I. 35. 8—11. Three desert regions: the meaning is not 
clear ; heaven, firmament, and earth, according to SAya n a and Mahidham. 
The Seven Rivers: according to Prof. Max MUUer, the Indus, the five rivert 
of the PanjAb (VitastA, Asikni, Parushnt, Vipfts, Sutudri), and Sarasvatt. 
Lassen and Ludwig put the KubhA in the place of Sarasvatt. See ZixMqor, 
Altindische8 Leben, pp, 3 sqq. 



7 ERSE 82 .} WHITE YAJVRVBDA. 288 

God Savitar the gold-eyed hath come hither, giving choice 
treasures to the man who worships. 

15 Savitar, golden-handed, swiftly moving, goes on his way 
between the earth and heaven, 

Drives away sickness, bids the Sun approach us, aud spreads 
the bright sky through the darksome region. 

!6 May he, gold-handed Asura, kind leader, come hitherward 
to us with help and favour. 

Driving off Rakshasas and Y&tudh&nas, the God is present, 
praised in hymns at evening. 

17 0 Savitar, thine ancient dustless pathways are well estab¬ 

lished in the air’s mid-region. 

0 God, come by those paths so fair to travel: preserve thou 
us from harm this day and bless us. 

18 Drink our libations, Aflvins twain, grant us protection, both 

of you, 

With aids which none may interrupt. 

Make ye our speech effectual, 0 Asvins, and this our hymn, 
ye mighty Wonder-workers. 

In luckless game I call on you for succour : strengthen us 
also on the field of battle. 

10 With undiminished blessings, 0 ye Asvins, through days and 

nights on every side protect us. 

This prayer of ours may Varuna grant, and Mitra, and Aditi 
and Sindhu, Earth and Heaven. 

11 Throughout the dusky firmament, etc., as in XXXIII. 43. 

12 Night! the terrestrial realm hath been filled with the 

Father’s power and might. 

Thou spreadest thee on high unto the seats of heaven : terri¬ 
fic darkness cometh nigh. 


25 Bid* the Sun approach u*: approaches the Sun, according to S&yana 
rho observes that although Savitar and the Sun (Sftrya) are the same as 
egards their diviuity, yet they are two different forms, and therefore one 
lay be said to go to the other. 

26 Asura : mighty Lord. Ydtudhdnas : a class of demons, sorcerers or 
oblins. 

28 R. V. I. 46. 15. 

29, 30 R. V. I. 112. 24, 25. In luckless game : a metaphorical expression 
•orrowed from dicing; that is, in a time of difficulty, perhaps the eve of a 
lesperate battle. S&yana, following a different derivation of the word, ex¬ 
plains it, in the absence of light, or in the last watch of night just before 
Lawn, when the Asvins are especially to be worshipped. 

32 A. V. XIX. 47. 1. Terrestrial realm : the atmosphere immediately 
hove the earth. With the Father's pov>er and might: or mighty laws., 
According to Mahldhara, together with the places of the mid'world. 



m fni teZts oi fit [took klttt 

33 0 Dawn ehriched with ample wealth, bestow on us that 

wondrous gift 

Wherewith we may support children and children's sons. 

34 Agui at dawn, and lndra we iuvoke at dawn, and Varans 

and Mitra aud the Asvins twain, 

Bhaga at dawn, Push an and Brahmanaspati, Soma at dawn, 
Budra may we invoke at dawn. 

35 May we invoke strong early-conquering Bhaga, the Son of 

Aditi, the great Arranger, 

Thinking of whom the poor, yea, even the mighty, even the 
King says, Let me share in Bhaga. 

36 Bhuga our guide, Bhaga whose gifts are faithful, favour this 

prayer and give us wealth, 0 Bhaga. 

Bhaga, increase our store of kiue and horses: Bhaga, may 
we be rich in men and heroes. 

37 So may felicity be ours at present, and when the day ap¬ 

proaches, and at noontide; 

Aud may we still, 0 Bounteous One, at sunset be happy in 
the Deities* loving-kindness. 

38 May Bhaga verily be Bliss-bestower, and through him* 

Gods ! may happiness attend us. 

As such, 0 Bhaga, all with might invoke thee: as such ha 
thou our Champion here, 0 Bhaga. 

39 To this our worship may the Dawns incline them, and come 

to the pure place like Dadhikr&van. 

As strong steeds draw a chariot may they bring us hither¬ 
ward Bhaga who discovers treasure. 

40 May friendly Mornings dawn on us for ever, with wealth of 

kine, of horses, and of heroes, 

Streaming with .all abundance, pouring fatness. Preserve 
us evermore, ye Gods, with blessings. 

S3 R. V. I. 92. 18. Wondrous gift: of riches. 

84 — 40 R. Y. VII. 41. The hymn is addressed chiefly to Bhaga, tkf 
B ountiful, whose name, slightly corrupted, survives in Slavic languages pt 
the name of the God of monotheistic Christianity. 

35 Earlft-conquering: in his character of the morning Sun overpowering 
Ushas or Dawn who in Rigveda I. 23. 5 is called his sister. Let me tkurt j* 
Bhaga: or, Give me my portion. The meaning is that every one, poor and 
wea c, strong and mighty, looks to Bhaga as the giver of his allotted fartun* 

38 Bliss-bestower: bhagavdn ; originally, possessing a happylot, for frunstfr 
blessed, adorable ; now generally me&uing Almighty God. 

39 The Dawns: the lights of morning, personified. The pure plaee: where 
sacrifice is performed. Like DadhikrAvan: with the swiftness of the famous 
mythical horse, the type and model of racers. See IX* 14, note. 



mfits YAjmvtni. 


m 


VERSE 48 ] 


41 Secure in thy protecting care, 0 Ptishan, never may we fail: 
We here are singers of thy praise. 

42 I praise with eloquence him who guards all pathways. He, 

when his love impelled him, went to Arka. 

May he vouchsafe us gear with gold to graoe it: may Pft&han 
make each prayer of ours effective. 

43 Vishnu the undeeeivable Protector strode three steps, thence¬ 

forth 

Establishing bis high decrees. 

44 This, Vishnu’s station mmt sublime, the singers ever vigilant, 
Lovers of holy song, light up. 

45 Filled full of fatness, compassing all things that be, wide, 

spacious, dropping meath, beautiful in their form, 

The Heaven and the Earth by Varupa’s decree, unwasting, 
rich in seed, gtaud parted e&oh from each. 

46 Let those who are our foemen stand afar from us: with 

Indrajuid with Agni we will drive them off. 

Vasus, Adir.yas, ftudras have exalted me, made me preemi¬ 
nent, mighty, thinker, sovran lord. 

47 Come, 0 Nksatyas, with the thrice eleven Gods; come, 

0 ye Asvius, to the drinking of the meath. 

Prolong our days of life, and wipe out all our sins: ward off 
our enemies ; be with us evermore. 

48 May this your praise, may this your song, 0 Maruts, sung 

by the poet, MAua’s son, M&ndarya, 


41 R. V. VI. 44. 9. 

42 R. V. VI. 49. 8. Who guards all pathway* : Puriian the special pro¬ 
tector of travellers and guard fan of roads and paths. Arka: the Suta, to 
whom Pfishan appears to have gene, both a* an en voy on behalf of the other 
Gods when Sury4 or Sunlight was to be given in marriage, and as a Buitor 
on his own account. 

43, 44 R. V. I. 23. 18, 31- Three ittps: ato the Sim, o^er earth *hd 
through firmament and heaven. See X. 19. Light up; glorify with praise. 

4,5 R. V. VI. 70 1. Parted each from each : heaven and earth Were, it is 
said, originally in close juxtaposition, and were subsequently separated and 
held apart by Indra, Agni, Soma, or, as in this place, Varuna. 

46 R. V. X. 128. Have exalted . . . made: that Is, may they do so. 

47 R. V. 1. 34. 11, Thrice eleven: the number of the Gods is said to have 
been originally three thousand three hundred and thirty-nine, then reduced 
to 33, to 6, to 3, to 2, to 14, and at last to one, which one is the breath of 
life, the Self, and his name is That. See Max Mtiller, Three Lectures on the 
Vedanta Philosophy, p. 26. 

48 R. V. I. 165. 15. I borrow three-fourths of this Verse from Prof. Max 
Muller, Vedic Hymns, Part L 



286 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XXXIK 

Bring offspring for ourselves with food to feed o& Kay we 
find strengthening food in full abundance. 

49 They who were versed in ritual and metre, in hymn* and 

rules, were the Seven godlike Rishis. 

Viewing the path of those of old, the sages have taken up 
the reins like chariot-drivers. 

50 Bestowing splendour, length of life, inorease of wealth, and 

conquering power, 

This brightly shining gold shall be attached to me for victory. 

51 This gold no demons injure, no Pis&chas; lor this is might 

of Gods, their primal offspring. 

Whoever wears the gold of Duksha’s children lives a long life 
among the Gods, lives a long life among mankiud. 

52 This ornament of gold which Daksha’s children bound, with 

benevolent thoughts, on Satanika, 

I bind on me for life through hundred autumns, that 1 may 
live till ripe old age o’ei takes me. 

53 Let Ahibudhnva also hear our calling, and Aja-Ek&p&d and 

Earth and Ocean. 


49 R. V. X. 1 SO. 7. Seven godlike Rishis: BbaradvAja, Kasyapa, Gotama, 
Atri, Vasishtka, VisvAmitra, and Jamadagni. ‘ The knowledge of tha ritual 
is derived from the divine priests ; the sages or Rishis have followed them 
in sacrificing, and modern priests are ouly imitators of those who preceded 
them.'—Ludwig. 

50 Gold : worn as an amulet 

51, 52 Taken, with variations, from A. V. I. 85. 2,1. Dalcsha's chtidrm: 
Daksha is in the Veda a Creative Power associated with Aditi (Infinity or 
Eternity), the mother of the Adityas. In post-Vedic literature he is gener¬ 
ally regarded as the son of BrahmA, and placed at the head of the PrajA- 
patis or Lords of Created Beings. The DAksMyanas, or descendants of 
Daksha, are mentioned also iu the Sat&patha-BrAhmana,II. 4. 4. 6. Pifdckat: 
see XXX. 3. 

The investiture of Satdnika must be an occurrence of ancient times* of 
which no particulars have been preserved. Hundred autumns : regarded as 
the natural duratiou of human fife ; an expression frequently occurring in 
the Rigveda, alternating with * hundred winters.’ Cf. Isaiah LXV. 20 : 
There shall be no more thence an infant of days, nor an old mau that hath 
not filled his days : for the child shall die a hundred years old. 

53 R. V. VI. 50. 14. Ahibudknya: the Serpent or Dragon of the Deep ; 
a mysterious atmospheric deity, regent of the depths of the firmament. 
Aja-EJcapdd: according to von Roth, probably a genius of the storm, *the 
stormer of one foot.’ But aja signifies also unborn, birthless, and the Sun 
may be intended. Aja-Ekapid is called, in R. V. X. 65. 13, the bearer of 
heaven, * and the ascription of one foot to the Sun might be due to his ap¬ 
pearance alone in the sky bs opposed to the Dawns and the Asvins.’—Wallis, 
Cosmology of the Rigveda, p 54. Other conjectural explanations have been 
proposed. See Macdonell, Vedic Mythology, pp. 78, 74. 




VERSE 58 .] WHITE TAJURVEDA . 287 

All Gods Law-strengtheners, invoked and lauded, and Text* 
recited by the sages, help ns ! 

54 These hymns that drop down fatness, with the ladle I ever 

offer to the Kings Adityas. 

May Mitra, Aryaman, and Bhaga hear us, the mighty Varuna, 
Daksha, and Am a. 

55 Seven Rishis are established in the body: seven guard it 

evermore with care unceasing. 

Seven waters seek the world of him who lies asleep: two 
sleepless Gods are feast-fellows of him who wakes. 

56 0 Brahmanaspati, arise. God-fearing men, we pray to thee. 
May they who give good gifts, the Maruts, couie to us. Indra, 

be thou most swift with them. 

57 Now Brahmanaspati speaks forth aloud the solemn hymn 

of praise, 

Wherein Indra and Vanina, Mitra, Aryaman, the Gods have 
made their dwelling-place. 

58 0 Brahmanaspati, be thou controller of this our hymn, and 

prosper thou our children. 

All that the Gods regard with love is blessed. Loud may 
we speak, with brave sons, in assembly. 

He who sate down. Mighty in mind. Father who made uek 
A share of good, O Lord of Food. 


54 R. V. II. 27. 1. A* s«a .• the Distributer ; one of the Adityas 

55 Seven Rishis: here meaning the vital breathings. Seven puard it r 
touch, sight, hearing, taste, smell, mind, and intellect. Waters: pervaders,. 
according to Mahtdhara ; meaning the vital airs. World : the soul or self. 
Two sleepless Gods: Inbraath and Outbreath. 

56. 57 R. V. I. 40. 1, 5. 

58 R. V. II. 23.19. With heroes: with brave sons about ns who will give 
ns confidence. The four Prattkas that follow are taken, respectively, from 
XVII. 17, 26, 27, and XI. 83. 


W)OK THE THIRTY-FIFTH. 


6egon& the Panis, hence away, rebellious, swrtnaers of tire 

Gods! 

The place is his Who poured the juice. 

2 Let Savitar approve a spot upon the earth lot thy remains : 

And let the bulls be yoked for it. 

3 Let Vayu purify. Let Savitar purify. With Agdi’s glitter. 

With Savitar’s lustre. Let the bulls be unyoked. 

4 The Holy Fig Tree is your home, your mansion is the P&rna 

Tree: 

Winners of cattle shall ye be if ye regain for me this man. 

5 Let Savitar lay down thy bones committed to the Mother’s 

lap. 

Be pleasant to this man, 0 Earth. 

6 Here in the God Praj&pati, near water, Man, I lay thee down: 

May his light drive mishap from us. 

7 Go hence, 0 Death, pursue thy special pathway apart from 

that which Gods are wont to travel. 

To thee I say it who hast eyes and hearest: Touch not our 

offspring, injure not our heroes. 

This Book is connected with the Pitriyajfta or Sacrifice t» the Fathers or 
Ancestral Manes (II. 29. 84), containing chiefly formulas to be used at 
funeral ceremonies. See R. V. X. 14; 16; 18 ; and Muir, Original Sans¬ 
krit Texts, V. pp. 291-297. 

1 Begone: addressed to the Fanis, Pis&chas and other evil spirits that 
haunt the ground prepared for the cremation of the corpse. Cf. R. V. X. 
14. 9. His: the deceased householder’s who in his life time duly worship¬ 
ped the Gods with libations of Soma juice. 

2 Remain*: the bones and ashes which are to be buried. Let the bull$ 
be yoked: six in number, to a plough With Which furrows are driven from 
the south or north side of the ground, to keep evil spirits at a distance. 

8 Four furrows are drawn, with a formula for each. 

4 Addressed to the various plants whose seeds he sows. The formula, 
taken from R. V X. 97. 5, is repeated from XII. 79. Sacrificial vessels and 
implements are made of the Asvattha or Ficus Religiosa and the P&rna, 
Paldsa, or Butea Frondosa, which are therefore said to be the home of plants 
used in religious ceremonies. 

6 The collected bones and ashes are laid down in the middle of the pre¬ 
pared ground. 

6 Man: the name of the deceased is to be supplied. The hat line of tha 
formula is the burden of R. V. I. 97, 1—8. Mishap from us: our sin, ao» 
cording to Mahidhara. 

7 R. V. X. 18. 1. Death: Mrityu, distinct from Tama the judge and 
ruler of the departed. Our offspring; meauing here, says S&yana, f emale 
offspring. Oar heroes: our sons and grandsons. 




V'BR8B'16.] WHITE YAJURVBDA. 289 

8 Pleasant to thee be wind and sun, and pleasant be the bricks 

to thee. 

Pleasant to thee be the terrestrial fires : let them not scorch 
thee in their flames. 

9 Prosper for thee the regions and the waters, and let the seas 

for thee be most propitious. 

Auspicious unto thee be Air. Prosper all Quarters well for 
thee! 

10 On flows the stony flood: hold fast each other, keep your¬ 

selves up, my friends, and pass the river. 

Here let us leave the powers that brought no profit, and 
cross the flood to Powers that are auspicious. 

11 Drive away evil, drive away fault, sorcery, and guiltiness. 
Do thou, 0 Ap&m&rga, drive the evil dream away from us. 

12 To us let waters and the plants be friendly, to him who 

hates us, whom we hate, unfriendly, 

13 For our prosperity we touch the ox the son of Surabhi. 

Be bearer aud deliverer to us as India to the Gods. 

14 Looking upon the loftiest light, etc., as in XX. 21. 

15 Here I erect this rampart for the living: let none of these, 

none other, reach this limit. 

May they survive a hundred lengthened autumns, and may 
they bury Death beneath this mountain. 

16 Agni, thou pourest life, etc., as in XIX. 38. 


8 The deceased householder is addressed. The bricks: three of which 
are laid down towards each quarter of the sky. Let them, not scorch the: 
cf. R. V. X. 16. 1 :—Burn him not up, nor quite consume him, Agni: let 
not his body or his skin be scattered. 

10 R. V. X. 53 8. The original verse contains words of encouragement 
to the bearers who with the funeral procession are crossing a stream. Here 
the natural stream is represented by a ditch cnt for the purpose, filled 
with water and covered with aquatic plants and Ku$a grass, into which 
stone* are cast. 

11 Purificatory and benedictive formulas follow. Apdm&rga: (from 
mrij , to cleanse or wipe, with apa + d) Achyranthes Aspera. a biennial plant 
frequently used in medicine, in incantations or countercharms, and in sac¬ 
rifices. See The Hymns of the Atliarva-veda, Index. 

12 Repeated from VI. 22 and XX. 19. 

13 Surabhi: the Cow of Plenty, regarded as the mother of all bovine 
cattle. See The Rdm&yana, II. 74. 

15 Thu rampart: a mound of earth (or, according to some, a brand or 
enclosing-stic* from the Southern Fire) raised by the Arihvaryu as a line nf 
demarcation between the dead and the living, limiting, as it were, the 
jmisdiction of Death until the natural time for his approach. This moun¬ 
tain : the mound oi ridge so raised. 

19 




290 WHITE YAJVRVBDA. [BOOK XXXf. 

17 Waxing with sacrifice live long, 0 Agni, with butter on thy 

face and homed in fatness. 

When thou hast druuk the cows’ fair savoury butter, guard, 
as a father guards his son, these people. 

18 These men have led about the ox, have duly carried Agni 

round, 

And raised their glory to the Gods. Who will attack them 
with success ? 

19 1 drive Corpse-eating Agni to a distance: sin-laden let him 

go to Yama’s kingdom. 

Here let this other, Jatavedas, carry oblation to the Deities, 
foreknowing. 

20 Carry the fat to Fathers, JAtavedas, where, far away, thou 

kuowest them established. 

Let rivulets of marrow flow to meet them, and let their 
truthful wishes be accomplished. All-hail! 

21 Pleasant be thou to us, 0 Earth, without a thorn, our rest¬ 

ing-place. 

Vouchsafe us shelter reaching far. May thy light drive 
mishap from us. 

22 Born art thou, Agni, from this man: let him again be bom 

from thee, 

For Svarga’s world, the man I name. All-hail! 


18 The ox: see verse 13. The text, taken from R. V. X. 15.5, is a giving 
over or recommendation of the people to divine protection. 

19 A. V. XII. 2. Corpse-eating Agni: Agni KravyAd, the fire that con¬ 
sumes the bodies of the dead, to be extinguished as soon as the cremation 
is completed. This other: the friendly sacrificial fire. 

21 R. V. I. 22. 15. The additional concluding line is repeated from 
verse 6. 

22 Bom .... from this man: generated or produced by the deceased 
householder at the AgnyAdhAna or ceremonial establishment of his own sac¬ 
rificial fires. See I. 1, note ; III. 1, note. Bom from thee: reproduced 
from the funeral fire for new life in Svarga or heaven. 

A full and excellent account of the old Indian funeral ritual will be found 
in Madame Ragozin’s Vedic India (Story of the Nations Senes) pp. 349—850. 
See also Max Muller, India, What can it Teach us ? pp. 231—342. 


•— 




BOOK THE THIRTY-SIXTH. 


Refuge I take in Speech as Rich ; refuge in Miud as Yajus- 
text; refuge in Breath as Sama-chant; refuge in Heariug 
and in Sight. 

Speech-energy endowed with strength, inbreath and out- 
breath are iu me. 

2 Whatever deeply-sunk defect I have of eye, or mind, or 

heart, that may Brihaspati amend ! 

Gracious to us l>e he, Protector of the world. 

3 Earth ! Ether ! Heaven ! May we attaiu that excellent, etc., 

as in III. 35. 

4 With what help will he come to us etc., as iu XXVII. 39. 

6 What genuine, etc., as in XXVII. 40. 

6 Do thou who art, etc., as iu XXVII. 41. 

7 0 Hero, with what aid dost thou delight us, with what 

succour bring 

Riches to those who worship thee ? 

8 Indra is king of all that is : may weal attend out bipeds and 

our quadrupeds. 

9 Gracious be Mitra unto us, and Varuna and Aryaman ; 
Iudra, Brihaspati be kind, and Vishnu of the mighty stride. 

10 Pleasantly blow the wind for us, may Sdrya warm us plea¬ 

santly. 

Pleasantly, with a ro*r, the God Parjanya send the rain on us. 

11 May days pass pleasantly for us, may nights draw near de¬ 

lightfully. 

Befrieud us with their aids Indra and Agni, Indra and 
Varuna who taste oblations. 

Indra and Pushau be our help in battle, Indra and Soma 
give health, strength, and comfort. 

12 May the celestial Waters, our helpers, be sweet for uq to drink, 
Aud flow with health and strength to us. 


This Book contains preliminary formulas—chiefly prayers for long life, 
unimpaired faculties, health, strength, prosperity, security, tranquillity, and 
contentment—of the Pravargya ceremony which is a preparatory rite of the 
Soma sacrifice. See Sacred Books of the East, XII. 44 ; XXVI. 104.* 

7 R. V. VIII. 82. 19. 0 Hero: Indra is addressed. 

9 R. V. I. 90. 9. 

10 The first line is taken from A. V. VII. 69. 1, as is also the first line of 
the following verse. 

11 Befriend u«; taken from R. V. VII. 85. 1. 



292 WHITE YAJUfiVEDA* [BOOK XXXVI 

13 Pleasant be thou to us, 0 Earth, etc., as in XXXV. 21, 

14 Ye, Waters, are, etc., as in XI. 50. 

15 Give us a portion, etc., as in XI. 51. 

16 To you we gladly come, etc., as in XT. 52. 

17 Sky alleviation, Air alleviation, Earth alleviation, Plants 

alleviation, 

Trees alleviation, All-Gods alleviation, Brahma alleviation, 
Universe alleviation, just Alleviatiou alleviation—may 
that alleviation come to me ! 

18 Caldron, strengthen me. May all beings regard me with the 

eye of a friend. May I regard all beings with the eye of 
a friend. 

With the eye of a friend do we regard one another. 

19 Do thou, 0 Caldron, strengthen me. Long may I live to 

look on thee. Long may I live to look on thee. 

20 Obeisance to thy wrath and glow, etc,, as in XXII, 11. 

21 Homage to thee the lightning flash, homage to thee the 

thunder’s roar ! 

Homage, 0 Bounteous Lord, to thee whereas thou fain 
wouldst win to heaven ! 

22 From whatsoever trouble thou desirest, give us safety thence. 
Give to our children happiness and to our beasts security. 

23 To us let Waters and let Plants be friendly, etc., as in VI. 22, 

24 Through hundred autumns may we see that bright Eye, God- 

appointed, rise, 

A hundred autumns may we live. 

Through hundred autumns may we hear; through hundred 
antumns clearly speak: through hundred autumns live 
content; a hundred autiumis, yea, beyond a hundred 
autumns may we see. 


17 Of. the nearly similar verse in A. V. XJX. 9. 14 which ends differ¬ 
ently : ‘By these alleviations, these universal alleviations, I allay all that 
is terrific here, all that is cruel, all that is wic’ced. This hath been calmed, 
this is now auspicious. Let all be favourable to us.’ 

18 Caldron: he addresses the chief earthen vessel, the Gharma or liahft* 
vira (see XIX. 14) in whioh the offering of heated milk is prepared. This 
Caldron is glorified in A. V.1V.11.1 —6. See also Muir, 0. S. Texts, V. 399. 

21 The first line, addressed origiually to Lightning personified, is taken 
from A. V, I. 13. 1. 

24 The first two lines are taken from R. V. VII, 68. 16. Bright Eye: <-f 
the universe, the Sun; here meaning the glorified Caldron. Hundred 
autumn*: alternating with ‘a hundred winters’ and ‘a hundred years’ 
regarded as the natural duration of human life. 



ftoox the thirt y-seventh. 

ftY impulse of God Savitar I take thee, etc. Spade art thou. 
Woman art thou, etc., as in XI. 0> 10. 

2 The priests of him the lofty Priest, etc., as in V. 14. 

3 0 Heaven and Earth divine, may l duly prepare for you 

this day the head of Makha on the place of earth where 
the Gods sacrificed. 

For Makha thee, thee for the head of Makha 1 

4 Ye who were born the earliest of creation, Ants divine, may 

1 duly prepare for yon this day the head of Makha on 
the place of earth where the Gods Sacrificed. 

For Makha thee, thee for the head of Makha ! 

This Book and the two tli:it follow contain the formulas to be used at the 
actual performance of the Prtivargya cferem<»ny, when the necessary animals, 
vessels, and implements have been brought to the sacrificial ground, and the 
propitiatory texts (Book XXXVI) have been recited by the priests. 

1 I take thee: the wooden sacrificial spade, with which earth is to be dug 
to form two square beds for the chief Caldron, called MahAvtra and Gharrna, 
to rent on. Woman: abhri, spade, being feminine : see V. 22. note. 

3 Heaven and Earth,: the Adhvaryu takes up a lump of clay, the moisture 
of which represents the vapoury heaven, and the earthy portion the earth. 
2'Ae head of Makha : according to the legend related in the S itapatha and 
Panchavimsa Brahrnanas, Makha (who appears as a malignant demon in 
It. V. IX. 101% 13 and perhaps X, 371. 2) w T as attending a sacrificial session 
with Agni, Indra and other Gods who agreed to share among them any glory 
that should accrue from it. The glory came to Makha who t<»ok it And was 
g"iug to depart, but the Gods surrounded him and claimed their shares. 
He stood leaning on his bow when the string (gnawed through by confeder¬ 
ate ants, according to the S. Br4hinana) gave way, and the bow-end, 
springing upwards, cut off his head. This head, replaced by the Alvins, 
became the Pravargya, and when men offer this sacrifice they replace the 
head of Makha. See Muir, O. Sanskrit Texts, IV. pp. 124 — 129. Mabt- 
dhara, however, without allusion to this legend (which is somewhat differ¬ 
ently related in the two Br&hmanas), explains makha by yajila. sacrifice, 
the head, or main essential of which is the Muh&vira or chief caldron con¬ 
taining the heated milk. 

4 Ants: meaning termites (Hindi dimak or dlwak. corrupted from upajih - 
vikd, au older form of upajika or upadtka . and found in the Uigveda). here 
erroneously called vamryah , ants or emmets, aud white ants in English. Earth 
thrown up by them, a nest or hill containing some of the insects, is taken 
up and placed on a black-antelope skin. They are addressed ns divine on 
account of the wouderful power, bestowed upon them by the Gods, of pro¬ 
ducing water wherever they dig See The Hymns of the Atharva-veda, 
Vol. I. pp. 44 and 300, notes. A lump from a white auts’ nest is used in’ 
the Atharva-veda ritual in connexion with a charm for diarrhoea, and as an 
antidote against poison. See Bloomfield, American Journal of Philology, 
Vol. VII. pp. 482 —484. Au aut-hill has been employed also in the ritual 
of this Veda. See XI. 17, note. These white ants are addressed as * the 
earliest of creation,’ and it seems to be a fact that these Corrodentia of 
Pseudo-Neuropfcera have been in existence from Carboniferous ages, while 
ants, which are Hymenopterous insects, do not occur before Tertiary times. 
See Chambers’s Encyclopaedia, Termites. Mahidhara explains the antiquity 
of their origin by their close connexion with the * first-born' earth. Thee; 
the lump of earth. 




294 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XXXYIL 

5 Only so large was it at first. Duly may I prepare for you 

this day the head of Makha on earth’s place where the 
Gods sacrificed. 

For Makha thee, thee for the head of Makha ! 

6 Indra’s effective might are ye. Duly may I prepare for you 

this day the head of Makha on earth’s place where the 
Gods sacrificed. 

For Makha thee, thee for the head of Makha ! For Makha 
thee, thee for the head of Makha ! For Makha thee, thee 
for the head of Makha ! 

7 May Brahmanaspati draw nigh, etc., as in XXXIII. 89. 

For Makha thee, thee for the head of Makha, etc., as in 

verse 6. 

8 Thou art the head of Makha. Thee for Makha, thee for 

Makha’s head ! Thou art the head of Makha. Thee for 
Makha, thee for Makha’s head ! Thou art the head of 
Makha, thee for Makha, thee for Makha’s head ! 

For Makha thee, thee for the head of Makha, etc., as in. 
verse 6. 

9 Thee on Gods’ sacrificial ground with stallion’s dung l 

fumigate. 

For Makha thee, thee for the bead of Makha ! 

For Makha thee, thee for the head of Makha ! For Makha 
thee, thee for the head of Makha ! For Makha thee, thee 
for the head of Makha ! 

10 Thee for the True. Thee for the Good. Thee for the plane 
of happy rest. 

5 It: the earth. At firtt: when raised up by Vishnu in his Boar-incsr* 
nation. 

6 Ye: he addresses the P itikas, plants used to expedite the curdling of 
the sacrificial milk, and as substitutes for Soma plantB when these are net 
at hand ; a kind of grass, according to M&hidhara. Thee: the mQk which 
he lays down on the antelope skin. 

7 Murmuring the text from the lligveda, the Adhvaryu and his assistants 
go to the Parivrit, an enclosed shed* or shrine, where he deposits the sacri¬ 
ficial apparatus, the most important of which is the Mahdvtra or ohfcf 
caldron, two inferior caldrons being kept in reserve. Thee: he addrssMi 
the chief Mah&vtra. 

8 He touches and addresses each of the three caldrons. 

9 He fumigates each caldron with horse-dung, addressing each In tarn 
with the formula. 

10 The heated vessels are lifted up, each being addressed. The* for At 
True : I raise thee, the first Mahdvira, to gratify the truthful Sun. TUt 
for the Good : the second to please Vayu. Thee for the place of happv red: 
the third to please Earth. For Makha , etc.: be sprinkles the three jfahft* 
vlras with goat’s milk, addressing a formula to each. 



WBiTE YAJURVEDA. 


295 


VERSE 15.] 

For Makha thee, thee for the head of Makha ! For Makha 
thee, thee for the head of Makha ! For Makha thee, thee 
for the head of Makha ! 

11 For Yarna thee. For Makha thee. For Surya’s fervent 

ardour thee. 

May Savitar the God with balm anoint thee. Guard thou 
the touches of the earth 

Flame art thou ; thou art radiance ; thou art heat. 

12 Unconquerable, eastward, in Agni’s overlordship, give me life. 
Rich in sons, southward, in India’s overlordship give me 

offspring. 

Fair-seated, westward, in God Savitar’s overlordship, give 
me sight. 

Range of hearing, northward, iu Dh&tar’s overlordship, give 
me increase of wealth. 

Arrangement, upward, in Bribaspati’s overlordship, give me 
euergy. 

From all destructive spirits guard us. Thou art Mann’s mare. 

13 All-hail! By Maruts be thou compassed round. 

Guard the sky’s touches. Mead, mead, mead. 

14 Germ of the Gods, Father of hymns, all living creatures’ 

guardian Lord, 

Radiant, with radiant Savitar united, with the Sun he shines. 

15 Agni combined with flaming fire, combined with Savitar 

divine, hath shone together with the Sun. 

11 Directed by the Brahman priest, the Adhvaryu besprinkles the chief 
Mahlvira three times, consecrating it to Yama, here said to mean the Sun, 
to Makha or Sacrifice, also meaning the Sun, and to the Sun’s heat, the 
MahAvira being regarded as the representative of the Sun in these three 
forms. May Savitar , etc. ; lie anoints the Mah&vira with sacrificial butter. 
Guard thou, etc.: he addresses a silver plate which has been put under the 
Mahavira to protect it from the evil spirits that infest the earth. It has 
also been covered with a plate of gold. 

12 The Adhvaryu makes the Sacrificer recite the seven following for¬ 
mulas addressed to Earth. Dhdtar: the Ordainer; Creator. Manu't 
mare: bearer of the representative man and father of the human race, 1 
here represented by the Mah&vtra. 

13 He surrounds the Mah&vira with ashes and coals, and above then* 
lays thirteen pieces of Vikankata wood, representing the thirteen months, 
the Pravargya being the year. By Maruts: that is. by us thy peoplei 
Guards etc.: he addresses the plate of gold with which he covers the MahA-. 
vira. The sky's touches : meaning the Gods, according to Mahidhara, those 
who touch the sky. Mead, etc.: the three breathings which the Adhvaryu 
establishes in the Mahlvira. 

14 They fan the fire, walk reverentially round the Mah&vira, and do 
obeisance to it as the representative of the Sun. 

15 Agni: represented by the M'ah&v ha. 




2%‘ WHITE YAJURVEDA. [BOOS XXXVIL 

1G He shines on earth upholder of the sky and heat, the Gods’ 
upholder, God, immortal, born of heat. 

To him address a speech devoted to the Gods. 

17 I saw the Herdsman, him who never stumbles, approachiug 

by his pHthway8 and departing. 

He, clothed with gathered atid diffusive splendour, within 
the worlds continually travels. 

18 Lord of all earths, Lord of all mind, Lord of all speech, 

thou Lord of speech entire* 

Heard by the Gods, Caldron divine, do thou, a God, protect 
the Gods. 

Here, after, let it speed you twain on to the banquet of the 
Gods. 

Sweetness for both the sweetness-lovers ! Sweetness for 
those the twain who take delight in sweetness ! 

19 Thee for the heart, thee for the mind, thee for the sky, for 

Surya thee. 

Standing erect lay thou the sacrifice in heaven among the 
Gods. 

20 Thou art our Father, father-like regard us. Obeisance be to 

thee. Do not thou harm us. 

May we, accompanied by Tvnsbtar. win thee. Vouchsafe me 
sons aud cattle. Grant us offspring. Safe may 1 be to¬ 
gether with my husband. 

21 May Day together with his sheen, fair-lighted with his light, 

accept. All hail! 

May Night together with her sheeu, fair lighted with her 
light, accept. All-hail! 

16 He: the Caldron identified with and sprung from the Sun. 

17 R. V. I. 164. 31. The Herdsman: the Sun who surveys and guards 
the world; here represented by the Mahivira. 

18 You, twain: the As vine. Sioeetness: according to S&yaa and Mahl* 
dham, madhu here means Madhuvidyft, the knowledge of sweetness or mead; 
that is, the esoteric lore of Soma which was unlawfully revealed to the A»- 
vins by Dadhyach the son of Atharvan. See The Hymns of the Rigveda, 
I. 116. 12; V. 75. 1, notes. 

19 Thee: the Caldron. For the hearty for the mind: for their purification. 
Fo ' the sky: that we may obtain a home in heaven. We praise, is under- 
sto >d. 

20 Accompanied by Tvashtar: favoured by the God who presides over 
procreation and the bestowing of children. This formula is spoken by the 
Sacrificer’s wife. 

21 He offers a burnt oblation of Rauhina, n special kind of rice-cake, so 
called, it is suid, because the Sacrificer thereby ascends (rohatij to heaven. 



book THE THIftTY-ElGtirtf. 


bY impulse of God Savitar I take thee with arms of Afivins* 
with the hands of Push&n. 

A zone for Aditi art thou. 

2 Id4, come hither. Aditi) come hither. Sarasvati, come 

hither. 

Come hither, So-and-So. Come hither, So-and-So. Come 
hither) So-and-So* 

3 Thou art a zone for Aditi, a diadem for Indt&ni. Pfishan art 

thou. Spare some for the Gharma. 

4 Overflow for the Asvins. Overflow for Sarasvati. Overflow 

for Indra. 

All-hail, what belongs to Indra! All-hail, what belongs to 
Indra ! All-hail, what belongs to Iudra ! 

5 That breast of thing, eihaustless, fount of pleasure) wealth- 

giver, treasure finder, free-bestower, 

Wherewith thou rearest all things that are choicest,—bring 
that, S&raBv»it!, that we may drain it. 

Throughout the spacious middle air I travel. 

6 Thou art G&yatra metre. Thou art Trishtup metre. With 

Heaven and Earth I grasp thee. With the Firmament I 
raise thee up* 

Indra and Asvins, drink ye the hot draught of sweet honey: 
sacrifice, ye Vasus. Vat! All-hail to the rain-winning 
beam of the Sun ! 


The Pravargya formulas are coutinued. 

1 The Adhvaiyu takes the rope that is to tie the cow for milking. Thti: 
the rope. The formula has been used in Xl. 9 and elsewhere. A zone: of* 
I. 30 ; XI. 59. 

2 In the first line he calls the cow by her three sacrificial names. Cf. 
III. 27 ; VIII. 43, note. In the second line he calls her three times by 
her ordinary name, White, Dapple, or whatever it may be, which is to be 
supplied accordingly. 

3 A zone for Aditi: he ties the cow to a post. PUsJian art thou: he looses 
and addresses the calf. Some: of the milk. The Gharma: the heated caldron. 

4 He milks the cow, addressing the milk. What belongs to Indra: milk 
that drops on the ground, regarded as a sacrificial offering. # 

5 Taken from R. V. I. 164. 49, addressed originally to the Goddess, here 
to the cow also. Throughout, etc.: repeated from I. 7. 

6 He addresses the Paristea, a duplex implement, probably like a pair 
of tongs, with which the caldron is lifted from the fire. One leg is said to 
be Giyatra metre, and the other Trishtup. Thee: the Mali&vira, represent¬ 
ing the Sun. 



318 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XXXVlll 

7 Thee with Sv&hi to V&ta the sea. Thee with Sv&h& to Vats 

the flood. 

Thee with Sv&ha to Vata the unconquerable. Thee with 
Sv&h& to V&ta the irresistible. 

Thee with SvahA to VAta the protection-seeker. Thee with 
SvAbA to VAta the uon-destructive. 

8 Thee with SvahA to In Ira Lord of Vasus. Thee with SvAbA 

to Iudra Lord of Rudras. 

Thee with SvahA to Indra killer of foes. Thee with SvAhA 
to Savitar attended by Ribhu, Vibhu, and V^ja. Thee 
with SvAhA to Brihasputi beloved of all the Gods. 

9 SvahA to Yama attended by the Augirases, attended by the 

Fathers 1 

SvahA to the Gharma ! The Gharma for the Father ! 

10 Here hath he worshipped, seated south, all the sky-regions, 

all the Gods. 

Drink, Asvius, of the heated draught, the SvAhA-consecrated 
mead. 

11 In heaven lay thou this sacrifice; lay thou this sacrifice in 

heaven. 

To sacrificial Agni hail! May bliss be ours from Yajus texts, 

12 Drink, Asvins, with your daily helps, the Gharma, strong- 

thener of hearts. 

To him who draweth out the thread be homage, and to 
Heaven and Earth. 

13 The Gharma have the Asvins drunk : with Heaven and 
Earth have they agreed. 

Here, verily, be their boons bestowed. 

14 Overflow for food. Overflow for energy. Overflow for ths 
Priesthood. Overflow for the Nobility. Overflow for 
Heaven and Earth. Thou, 0 duteous one, art Duty. In¬ 
nocent one, in us establish manly powers; establish ths 
People. 


7 Thee: the MahAvira ; * I consecrate/ understood, to VAta the Wind 
God under various appellations. Protection*seeker: projection-giver, would 
be more suitable, but the word d«»es not seem to bear this meaning; 

8 Ribhu , Vibhu (more oominonly Vibhvan), and V4ja : the Ribhos, mm 
of Sudhauv&n. raised to heaven and Godhead for their merita." See XXX. 
15. note, and The Hymns of the Rigveda, Index. 

11 Lay thou: the MahAvira is addressed. 

12 Him who draweth out the thread: or web, of time, the 8un, aocordinf 
to Mahidhara. 

14 Innocent one: here the Caldron is placed on the khara or hod d 
earth prepared to receive it. 


VERSE 19.] WHITE YAJURVBDA. 299 

15 All-hail to P&shan, to the milk's skin ! All-hail to the press- 

stones ! 

All-hail to their echoes! All hail to the Fathers who ate 
above the grass, who drink the Ghurraa! All-hail to 
Heaven and Earth ! All-hail to the All-Gods ! 

16 All-hail to Rudra invoked by worshippers ! All-hail ! Let 

light combine with light. 

May Day together with his sheen, fair-lighted with his light, 
accept. A11-hail ! 

May Night together with her sheen, fair-lighted with her 
light, accept. All-hail! 

May we enjoy the mead offered in most Indra-like Agni. 
Homage to thee, divine Gharma ! Bo not thou injure me. 

17 Thy far-spread majesty, instinct with wisdom, hath surpas¬ 

sed this* heaven, 

And, with its glorious fame, the earth. 

Seat thee, for thou art mighty : shine, best entertainer of 
the Gods. 

Worthy of sacred food, praised Agni! loose the smoke ruddy 
and beautiful to see. 

18 Gharma, that heavenly light of thine in G&yatri, in the 

Soma-store,— 

May it increase and be confirmed for thee, that light. 
Gharma, that light of thine in air, in Trishtup, iu the sacred 
hearth,— 

May it increase and be confirmed for thee, that light. 
Gharma, that light of thine on earth, in Jagati, of the priest's 
shed,— 

May that increase and be confirmed for thee, that light. 

19 Thee for the sure protection of the Nobles. Guard thou 

from injury the Brahman’s body. 

We follow thee in interest of the People, for the renewal of 
our peace and comfort. 

15 He anoints the Mah&vira with sacrificial butter, and-offers oblation. 
Pdshan: represented by the Mah&vira. The milk's skin : raised by boiling 
on the contents of the Mahdvira. Cf. XXXIX. 5. 

16 Let light , etc.: he pours some of the milk into the Upayamant, a large 
wooden spoon from which the Sacrificei* drinks, the two lights being the milk 
and the butter. May Day, etc.: these two lines are repeated from XXXVI l. 
21. Most Indra-like : most mighty. a 

17 The Mah4v!ra is placed on the Asand! or stool, the seat of which i6 

made ot mufija grass. Agni represented by the Mah&vtra, is addressed. 
Seat thee etc.: repeated from XI. 37. 3 

19 Thee: the Gharma or Mah&vtra ; we follow, being understood. ThO 
Sacrificer’s wife is brought in and stationed in front of the Gharma. 



300 WHITE YAJURVEDA. [BOOK XXXYIIL 

20 Square* far-spread is the sacrifice’s navel: it spreads for us 

wide, full of all existence, spreads wide for us full of 
complete existence. 

We turn against the hate aud guiles of him who keeps an 
alien law. 

21 This, Ghsrma! is thy liquid store. Swell out aud wax in 

strength thereby. 

May we too grow in strength and wax to greatness 
2 2 Loudly the tawny Stallion neighed, mighty , like Mit.ra fair to see. 
Together with the Sun the sea, the store shone out with 
flashing light. 

23 To us let Waters and let Plants be friendly} to him who 

hates us, whom we hate, unfriendly. 

24 Lonkiug upou the loftierlight abovethednfknesswehave come 
ToSftrya, God among the Gods, the light that is most, excellent 

25 A brand art thou, fain would we thrive. Fuel art thou, and 

splendour : Give me spleudoUr. 

26 Far as the heaven and earth are spread iu compass, far as 

the Seven Rivers are extended, 

So vast thy cUp which I with streugth am taking, India, 
unharmed in me, uninjured ever. 

27 Iu me be that great heto power, iu me be strength and 

mental force. 

The Gharma shines with triple light, with lustre fulgent 
far away, With holy lore, with brilliancy. 

28 Brought hither is the seed of milk. Through each succeed* 

iug year may we enjoy the bliss of draining it. 

Invited, I enjoy a Share of that which hath been offered me, 
the savoury draughtby ludra drunk and tasted by Prajapati. 

20 Square : or four cornered ; the Gharma which is placed on the High 
Altar. Navel: the central and chief point. Keeps an alien law: follows ottar 
than Vedic observances. Cf. R. V. V. 20. 2. 

21 Repeated, with variation, from II. 14. 

22 The tawny Stallion : the Caldron representing the Sun. Together with : 
equally with ; as brilliantly as. The sea: the Caldron with its liquid coa* 
tents. The store: of blessings. 

23 The priests and the Sacrificer perform ablutions at the Ch&tVlla or 
pit,. The formula is repeated from VI. 22. 

24 The Sacrificer returns from the Cbfttvftla and goes towards the north¬ 
east. The formula, taken from R. V. I. 50. 10, has been used in XX. 21; 
XXVII 10 ; XXXV. 14. 

25 The Sacrificer lavs a kindling-stick on the Ah&vaniya fire. The formall 
is repeated from XX. 23. 

26 Seven Rivers: the five rivers of the Panjftb, the Indus, and the Ssrts- 
vati or the Kubh4. Thy cup: the draught from the caldron which At 
Sacrificer drinks. Unharmed: may it be unharmed, according to Mshidhaie. 

27 The Sacrificer and the priests drink the remains of the oouteuts of the, 
caldron. 



BOOK THE THIRTY-NINTH. 


SvAhA to the Vital Breathing* with their Controlling Lord! 
To Karth SvAhA! To Agni SvAhA! To Firmament Svaha ! 
To VAyu Svaha ! To Sky Svaha ! To Surya Svaha ! 

2 To the Quarter* Svaha ! To the Moon SvAhA! To the Stars 

SvAhA ! To the Waters Svaha ! To Varuna Svaha ! To 
the Navel SvAha ! To the Purified SvAhA ! 

3 To Speech SvahA ! To Breath SvAhA ! To Breath SvAhA ! 

To Sight SvAha ! To Sight SvAhA ! To Hearing SvAha ! 
To Hearing Svaha ! 

4 The wish aipl purpose of the mind and truth of speech may 

I obtain. 

Bestowed on me be cattle’s form, sweet taste of food, and 
fame and graoe. Svaha l 

5 Prajapati while in preparation ; Samraj when prepared ; 

All-Gods’ when seated; Ghaima when heated with tire; 
Splendour when lifted up; the Asvins’ while milk is 
poured in ; Pushan’s when the butter trickles down it; 
the Mamts’ when the milk is clotting; Mitra’s when t)ie 
milk’s skin is spreading; Yayu’s when it is carried off; 
Ajmi’s while offered as oblation; VAk when it has been 
offered, 

6 Savjtar on the first day ; 4j:ni on the second ; VAyn on the 

third ; Aditva (the Sun) on the fourth : ChandramAs (the 
Moon) on the fifth ; llitu on the sixth ; the Marnts on 
the seventh ; Brihaspati on the eighth ; Mitra on the 
ninth; Varuna on the tenth; Indra on tbp eleventh; 
the All-Gods on the twelfth. 

TJiis Book contains expiatory formulas intended to remedy and atone 
for any failure or defect in the performance of the Prayargya ceremony ; 
in case, for instance, the caldron should break, or the contents be allowed 
to boil over, or the cow give sour or bloody milk. Oblations of butter, 
accompanied with the formulas, aie ofleied to various deities and deif ed 
objects. 

1 Svdhd ! the sacrificial exclamation on making an offering ; May the obla¬ 
tion be properly made! Tfieir Controlling fiord: Hiranyagarbhaor FrajApnii. 

2 Navel: the central point ; the High Altor may be meant. The Puri - 
led: according to Mahidhara, the God who purifies. 

3 Speech , etc. : meaning the deities who i reside over these faculties. 
battle's form: beauty or splendour connected with cattle, says Mahidhara. 

5, 6 The Mahnvira represents or belongs to various deities at different 
tage* «>f the ceremony, and expiatory oblations, if required, are to be offered 
ccordingly. Milk's shin : Cf. XX^VIII. 15, 

tf Ritu: the Season, personified. 



302 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOE XXXIX. 

7 Fierce; Terrible; The Resonant; The Roarer; Victorious; 
Assailant; and Dispeller. Svaha. 

* 8 Agui with the heart; Lightning with the heart’s point; 
Pasupati with the whole heart; Bbava with the liver. 

Sarva with the two cardiac bones; Isana with Passion; 
Mahadeva with the intercostal flesh; the Fierce God with 
the rectum; Vasishtha hanuh, Singis with two lumps of 
flesh near the heart. 

9 The Fierce with blood; Mitra with obedience, Rudra with 
disobedience; Indra with pastime; the Maruts with 
strength ; the Sadhyas with enjoyment. 

Bhava’s is what is on the throat ; Rudra’s what is between 
the ribs; Mahadeva’s is the liver; Sarva’s the rectum; i 
Pasupati’s the pericardium, 

10 To the hair Sv3M ! To the hair Swkhk ! To the skin Svahd! 
To the skin Svaha ! To the bloud Svaha ! To the blood 
Sv&ha l To the fats Svaha ! To the fats Sv&b& ! To the j 
fleshy parts Svaha! To the fleshy parts Sv&h& I To the j 
sinews Svah& ! To the sinews Sv&hfi! SvahS, to the bones! ; 
Svaha to the bones! To the marrows Sv&ba ! To the , 
marrows SvaM ! To the seed Svaha ! To the anus Svfthi! I 


7 This formula, called technically aranye ndchyam. To be recited in thi 
forest, contains the names of seven of the fiercest Maruts. See XVII. 81— 

85, from the last line of which the formula is repeated. 

8 With the heart: I propitiate or gratify, understood. Pafupati: bad 
of Beasts or Cattle, a title of Rudra who is called also Bhava and Sam 
See XVI. 28 . Cardiac hones : or, according to some, kidneys See XIX 86; 
XXV. 8. Isdna: Lord ; Ruler; also one of the older names of Rudra. 8ei 
A. V. XV. 5. Mahddeva: the Great God; Rudra, Vamtha-Tianuh, fmgk: 
nothing can be made out of the text which appears to be corrupt. 

9 The Fierce: Rudra in his terrible manifestations; I propitiate, being 
understood. Sddhyas: a class of ancient deities ; Blessed Gods : Eggeling. 

10 The object of the Pravargya, which is a purificatory and introductory : 
ceremony like Diksli& or Consecration (IV. 2 ; V. 6) is the bodily regain- 1 
ration of the Sacrifices the provision of a heavenly body with which akm | 
he is permitted to enter the residence of the Gods (Haug, Aitareya Brik* 
man am. II. 42, note). At the conclusion of the ceremony, therefore, the ■ 
sacrificial materials are so arranged as to form the semblance of a bunas 
figure. The Mahdviras represent the head; the Prastara or sacrificial bunnk 
of grass the hair ; the two milk-vessels are his ears ; the plates of gold sad 
silver bis eyes ; the Rauhina cake potsherds represent the heels ; the COS' 
tents of the caldron are the blood, and so on (see Hillebrandt, Ritual-lit* 
teratur, p. 135). The formulas contained in this verse provide the Pravargj* 
man with the bodily parts enumerated, and the regeneration of the SacrA 
cer is thus completed. Faculties and feelings are imparted by the forms]* 
which follow. 




WHITE YAJURVBDA. 


VERSE 13.1 


30 ? 


11 To Effort Svaha! To Exertion Svaha! To Endeavoar Svaha! 

To Viyasa SvahA ! To Attempt Svaha ! 

12 To Grief SvAhA ! To the Grieving SvahA ! To the Sorrowing 

Svaha ! To Sorrow SvAha ! 

To Heat SvAhA ! To him who grows hot SvAhA! To him 
who is beiug heated Svaha ! To him who has been heated 
Svaha ! To Gha»ma Svaha ! 

To Atonement SvAha! To Expiation SvAliA! To Remedy 
Svaha ! 

13 To Yama Svaha ! To the Finisher SvAhA ! To Death Svaha! 

To the Priesthood Svfiha ! To Brahmanicide Svaha ! To 
the All-Gods SvAha ! To Heaven and Earth Svaha ! 


11 Viydsa: the meaning of the word if* not clear, and MahSdhara offers 
no explanation : * a tormenting spirit of Yama’s world, according to the 
Commentators’ :—S. P Lexicon. Formed from vi + yas, as the other words 
in the line are from d, pra-d, sum, and ud + ya*, it might, perhaps, be ren¬ 
dered by Distraction or Distraint. 

12 To Oharma: the word means (1) heat (2) the heated caldron (3) its 
heated contents. Atonement: Expiation: for defects in the sacrifice. See 
first note. Remedy: the putting together of the Pravargya-man and the 
bodily regeneration of the Sacrifices 

The Pravargya, which was originally, probably, a milk-offering to the Sun 
and his heralds the Asvins, is alluded to in the Rigveda (V. 30. 15; VII. 
103. 8), and the ritual (with formula** different from those of the Yajurveda) 
is described in the Aitareya-Brobiuaua which belongs to that Veda. See 
Haag, Ai. Br. II. 41—51. The Caldron is also glorified in A. V. IV. II. 1—6. 
More details of the performance of the rite may i*e found in Prof. A. Hilie- 
brandt’s Ritual-Litteratur, and in Sacred Books of the East, Vol. XLV. 
See also Oldeuberg, Die Religion des Yeda, under Pravargya. 




BOOK THE FORTIETH. 


Enveloped by the Lord must be This All—each thing that 
moves on earth. 

With that renounced enjoy thyself. Covet no wealth of 
any man. 

2 One. only doing Karma here, should wish to live a hundred 

years. 

No way is there for thee but this. So Karma oleaveth not 
to man. 

3 Aye, to the Asuras belong those worlds enwrapt in blinding 

gloom. 

To them, when life on earth is done, depart the men who 
kill the Self. 


This. the last AdhyAya or Book of the White Yajurveda SamhitA, iasa 
Upanishad or religious and philosophical treatise, not directly connected 
wirh any sacrificial ceremonial. It ‘is professedly designed', says Profeaac 
Weber, ‘to fix the proper mean between those exclusively engaged in sncri- 
fiend aots and those entirely neglecting them. It belongs at all events to a 
very advanced stage of speculation as it assumes a Lord (if) of the universe. 
According to MahhUpoa’* commentary, its polemic is directed partially 
against the Bauddhas, that is. probably, against the doctrines which After- 
wards were called Sarpkhya’.—History of Ipdian Literature, p. 108, 

1 Enveloped: or covered The Lord: Is. the Soul of All, and thy in¬ 
most Self—the only Absolute Reality. This All: the phenomenal universe. 
On earth: in the three world.*; in the who)e imaginary Casino*. WiA 
that renounced: after absolute renunciation of the world and all the vain 
desires connected with it. Enjoy thyself: delight in the bliss of the Beati¬ 
fic Vision. According to Sri Sankara, save or protect the Self. Covet m 
wealth: and set not thy heart upon what thou easiest thipe, The seeming 
existence of the world is to be covered by the all-embracing, all-absorbiaj, 
all-satisfying thought of the Deity. 

% Of the two courses, Sanny&sa or denunciation and Karma or Heligiona 
Action, the former, consequent on right knowledge of the Self, is the better 
way. Only doiny Karina: he who desires life U not fitted to follow the 
higher path and in order to avoid sin he ipust perform the religious works, 
such as Agnifiotra (III. 9) and the like, ordained by the $istras. Thus, and 
thus only, will be be untainted by evil notion, and by a gradual purification 
of the heart ho will attain to Renunciation aud its direct goal of Muktl, 
Liberation, or Final Beatitude, that is, the reabsorption of the individual 
Self info the Supreme Self or Soul of the Universe. 

3 This text condemns tlp'se who perform Karma with a view to future 
advantages in this world or sensual enjoyments in Svarga, aud who kill the 
Self by ignorance of its eternal nature. To the Asuras: as compared with 
the nature of the Supreme Spirit who is without a second, even the Gods 
aud other beiugs are sj>oken of as Asuras or demous. The worlds of Asuras 
include Gods, human beings, the iower animals, and even plants aud minerals. 




VERSE 7.J WRITE YAJURVEDA . 305 

4 Motionless, one, swifter than Mind—the Devas failed to 

overtake it speeding on before them. 

It, standing still, outstrips the others running. Herein doth 
Matarifvan stablish Action. 

5 It moveth; it is motionless. It is far distant; it is near. 

It is within This All; and it surrounds This All externally. 

6 The man who in his Self beholds all creatures and all things 

that be, 

And in all beings sees his Self, thenee doubts no longer, 
ponders not 

7 When, in the man who clearly knows. Self hath become all 

things that are, 

4 Am ignorance of the AtmA or Self lends to repeated mundane transmi¬ 
grations, some explanation of its nature is now given. MotionU* : in its 
unconditioned states free from the- obstructions of the body, its- organs of 
perception, conception, etc , and of the objective or external world. One : 
all-pervading, and really only one, although appearing to the ignorant to be 
encased separately in every body. Swifter than Mind: seeming, as it is 
all-pervading, to travel faster than even the Mind (Manas, Kens, ' the sen* 
serium commune, the rallying-point of the senses*—Max MiilW). The Mind, 
says Sri Sankara, by its power of imagination is known to travel to the 
world of BrahmA even in a second, and the Self—Atmf—seems to arrive 
there previously. Because AtmA or Brahma—Intelligence Absolute—which 
is the basis of all perception, imagination and though^ and as such reflects 
itself in ail the conscious functions of the senses of tha Mind, cannot hut be 
considered as going before; otherwise how can the Mind function at all? 
The Devas: here meaning the organs of sense, sight, etc. It: the entity of 
the AtmA. The others : the senses. Herein : on by it, the entity of the 
AtmA which pervades all existence. Mdtarifm® : VAyu, Air ; the special 
supporter of all life, which allots their respective functions to the forces of 
Mature, urging lire to burn, the Sun to give b* light, and the clouds to pour 
their rain. Action : the manifestations of ad activity; the actions of human. 
beings as well as natural phenomena. 

5 It moveth; it is motionless: substantially a repetition, to add force to 
the assertion,from veree 4. It: the entity of the AtmA. Although constant 
and unmoving in itself, it seems to t&e ignorant to move. Or, physically, 
it is stationary in plants and mineralsand moving in animated creatures. Far 
distant: far beyond the reaeh of the ignorant. Near: close to those who 
know its nature. Or, Mahldhara says, it is far away in the sun and the stars 
and close at hand in the earth. Within This AU: being all-pervading and 
extremely subtile it is at the same time within and without the Universe. 

6 The man : he who has renounced the world and wishes for final release 
from transmigration. In his Self: as not distinct from his own AtmA or Self. 
Thenee : consequently. Doubts no longer; this interpretation of na viehikit * 
sati is given by Mahldhara who quotes a Sfitra from PAnini (3. 1. 5) imply¬ 
ing that the affix san is used in the root’s own sens e—svdrthe san pratyayah 
—i. e. not in the desiderat re sense. The feeding of the KAnva recension is 
na vijugupsate, that is, does not shrink away from them as alien and inferior 
to his own Self. 

7 As ignorance, the source of grief and delusion, has been destroyed in 
the man who beholds the one, all-pervading, pure Self, free from duality, 
his condition is One of uninterrupted bliss. 

20 




306 THE TEXTS OF THE [BOOK XL 

What wilderment, what grief is there ia bins who sees the 
One alone % 

8 He hath attained ante the Bright, Bodiless, Woundless, 

Siuewless, the Pure which evil hath not pierced. 

Far-sighted, wise, encompassing, he self-existent hath pres¬ 
cribed aims, as propriety demands, note the everlasting 
Years. 

9 Deep into shade of blinding gloom, fall Asamhhdtfs wor¬ 

shippers. 

They sink to. darkness deeper yet who on Sombh&ti are 
intent. 

19 One fruit, they say, from Sambhava, another from Asambhava. 

Thus from the sages have we heard who have declared this 
lore to us. 

11 The man who knows Sambhflti and VinSsa sfmitTtaneousIy, 

He, by Vinasa passing death, gains by Sambhdfci endless life. 

8 He: the Tian. who has this right knowledge of the Self. The Bright r eU.: 
Brahma, the Highest Essence, the Supreme Being. §rl Sankara explain* 
differently : Re 'the Atm.i) encompassed or pervaded all, being blight,, eta, 
thus putting the*e neuter adjectives in apposition to the masculine pronooa 
8«h (he). Mahtdhura also gives this alternative explanation. Far-sighUif 
etc.: referring either to the man. who knows, or to the AtmA, according to 
the preferred interpretation of the first line of the- verse. A» propridf 
demands: so-that eveiy living being, might receive the proper fruit of ith 
action. Tears: Praj&pOiis or Creative Powers, Ptaij&pati being identified 
with the Year,, of which W is the Presiding Genius. See IX. 20; XXVIL 4& 

9 In order to- enjoin the combined worship of AsambhUti and Sambh&d, 
their separate worship is- condemned. AsaiMAti is, according to §rl 9*4- 
kara. undeveloped Prakriti, xTgture in its causal or germinal state when ifc 
lias not evolved as the universe which is the effect. It is also* called tamos, 
darkness or chaos. This worship. is mere blindness and ignorance, and ifcl 
adherents fall into corresponding darkness. SambAAti: explained by §ll 
Sankara as the manifestation of Brakma as BrahmA the phenomenal creator, 
called Hiranyagarbha the Golden Ghrm, or PrajlpatL ‘See IL V. X. 121. 
According to Mahtdhar&Y first explanation, Asambhati is the denial of a MV 
birth or existence after deaths and Saiabh iti is the exclusive assertion dt 
that belief, devotion to which will produce excess in the practice of Kama 

10 The text now declares the separate fruit of each- element of the com* 
bined worship of Undeveloped Nature and Kiranyagubha in order to teach 
their combination, having first condemned the cults practised separately. 
Prom Sambhava .* from the cult of Sambhava which is tne same aa Sam bhiti 
in verse 9, or Hiranyagarbha. Asambhava: Undeveloped Nature or turn. 
bhdti. The result of the former cult is the attainment of certain supers* 
tural powers called Sfddhis which enable their possessor to- inereaae or re 
duce his size and weight to any extent at his pleasure, ete. Eight of these 
f iculties are: usually enumerated. The worship of Prakriti results in absoip. 
tion into Prakrits Each, therefore, fails to attain the "object to be desired^ 
red integration in the Supreme Self. 

11 SimbkAti: standing for Asambhfiti, say the Commentators^, by aphae 
resis, and so meaning Undeveloped Nature. Via Isa: (Destruction) that 




15.] WHITE YA JURY EDA. 807 

12 To blinding darkness go the men who make a cult of 

Nescience. 

The devotees of Science euter darkness that is darker still. 

13 Different is the fruit, they say, of Science and of Nescience. 
Thus from the sages have we heard who have declared this 

lore to us. 

14 The man who knoweth well these two, Scienoe and Nescience, 

combined, 

O'ercoming death by Nescience by Science gaineth endless 
life. 

15 My breath reach everlasting Air! In ashes let my body end. 
Om! Mind, remember thou; remember thou my sphere; 

remember thou my deeds. 


Hiranyagarbha. The combination of the two cults is now expressly enjoined, 
since the fruits can be obtained only by one and the same person succes¬ 
sively, and not by different persons practising each cult independently. 
Passing death: that is, overcoming death in the shape of the absence of 
supernatural powers and of vice and desire by means of the faculties obtained 
by the worship of Hiranyagarbha (verse 10). Sambkdti: here again mean¬ 
ing Asambh&ti or Undeveloped Nature. Endless itfe: that is, conditioned 
or limited immortality by absorption into Prakyiti. 

12 Nescience: Avidyd, the opposite of Vidy4 or true Science; including 
ignorance of the real nature of the Atm l and belief in the phenomenal and 
transient objective world. See Professor Max M tiller’* Three Lectures on 
the Ved.inta Philosophy, pp. 97—100. Here the word is nsed as equivalent 
to Karma (verse 2), oue of its results, the constant performers of which, 
exclusively, fall into darkness which prevents their knowing the truth. 
Science: Vidy i ; meaning, here, only knowledge of the Devat&s or Deities, 
not of the ParamHml or Supreme Sdf This Science, alone, is insufficient. 

13 Different is the fruit: Science (knowledge of the Deities) leads a man 
after death to the Devaloka, the world of the Devas or Gods. Nescience, 
that is, Karma, leads to the Pitriloka, the world of the Fathers, Hlf^yies or 
Ancestral Spirits. 

1 i The person who practises the sacred rites and conjointly cultivate* 
the Science of the Deities successively attains the fruits of both, obtaining, 
in the end, the union with the Gods called immortality in a limited sense/ 

15 This and the two succeeding verses are addressed to Brahma, the True, 
typi^ed by Fire, and designated Om the Sacred Symbol of the Deity. The 
S> >lar Fire, the Supreme D dty, and the 8<>lf manifested in the Mind are 
here addressed in identity by the dying devotee, meditating upon the Sup¬ 
reme Light in the Sun as no other than, his own Inner Light. The meaning 
of this verse is May my breath—the life-principle in me (call'd the lihya- 
S'irtra, and consisting of the five organs of action, the five organs of sense, 
the five Airs, the Mind and the Intellect), leaving its bod ly limitation, 
reach, or be united with, the immortal Hiranyagarbha or Satr&tman. the 
Soul-thread, the Divine, all-pervadiug, Cosmic Life; and may this gross 
t)ody consumed on the funeral pile end in ashes. Mg sphere: kl$be t which 
is not in the K&nva text, is explained by the Commentators as * the region 
allotted to, or intended (ha 1 pita) for, me'. 




TBE TEXTS OP THE 


808 


[BOOK XL 


16 By goodly path lead us to riches, Agni, thou God who 

kuowest all our works and wisdom. 

Remove the siu that makes us stray and wauder; most 
ample adoration will we bring thee. 

17 The Hears face is hidden by a vessel formed of golden light. 
The Spirit yonder in the Sun, the Spirit dwelling there am I, 
Om! Heaven! Brahma! 


16 This verse, repeated from V. 30, and taken from R. V. I. 89. 6. is a 
continuation of the dying devotee's prayer. Goodly path : not by the path 
that leads to the abode of the Hanes and subsequent transmigration, but 
by the fair road travelled by the Gods, on which there is no returning. 7b 
riches : that is, according to the Commentators, enjoyment of the reward 
of our Karma. 

17 The Real's face : the face or real form of that True Being—Brahma— 
the indwelling Spirit of all beings, animate or inanimate,—the Inward Ruler 
(antary&min), the Purusha who dwells in the Sun yonder and in the bodv, 
In the Kftnva reoension a verse numbered 16 follows : 0 Nourisher, Sob 
Hover (or Sole Seer), Yama (Controller), 0 Sun, Prajfipati's Son, remove 
thy rays and draw together or oontract tby burning energy, so that I may 
behold thy most blessed Form. That Spirit (Purusha) who dwelletb in the 
Sun yonder, l am He (the immaterial eternal Soul), 4 Thy most blessed 
Form ’ implies that True Spiritual Light which is, as it were, veiled by the 
golden orb of physical material light which typifies it 

In both recensions, Midhyandina and K&nva, the order of verses 1-^8 is 
the same. In the K&nva reoension verse 9 corresponds with 12 of the Iffldlh 
yaadina; 10 with 13; 11 with 14; 12 with 9; 13 with 10; 14 with 11'; 15 
(varied) with 17; 16 has no corresponding verse ; 17 with 15; 18 with ll 

This Upanishad of the Vdjasaneya Samhitft, called also the |a4v4sji0| 
from its initial words, Is&dhy&ya, and Isopanishad, tf I Book and Ifi Upsaiv 
shad, has been translated by' Sir William Jones (Posthumous Works); by 
R&j& Ram Mohan Roy; by Dr. Roer in Vol. XV. of the,Bibliotheca Indies; 
by Professor Max Muller in Yol, I. of the Sacred Books of the Hast, and re¬ 
cently. together with the Commentary of Sri Safikara. by S. Sitar&ma Sastei 
B. A (published by V.O. Seshacbari, B.A., J^. L » through G f A. Nateean 4 
Co., Madras), I am indebted to my old pupil and valued friend. Rabu Fnr 
mad& Ddsa Mitra of Benares, oompleter of Dr. Ballantyne*8 translation of the 
Sihitya-darpana and author of an admirable Englishversion of the Bhagarrad- 
Gttft, for kind revisiou of mv translation of, and notes on, this Upanishad^ 
and for many corrections and improvements therein. The following R wm 
pus from this scholar's pen, mainly in defenoe and justification of the Ccnr 
mentator Srf Sankara, is, I think, a valuable addition to my annotations. 


“ Simple in language as this Upanishad is, it presents difficulties in the 
shape of apparently conflicting sentiments which it has taxed the ingenuity 
of ancient and modern oommentators to reconcile; yet a doubt aometifnet 
arises whether the real sense has been actually discovered. 

44 This translation is generally in aocordanoe with the Commentary of fkt 
S&nkar&ofaArya who is followed by the great majority of commentators anf 
is recognized as the greatest authority on the YedAnta Philosophy as ex¬ 
pounded in its prasthdna-traya, or triple course, vis. the Upaikiahadii tb* 
Yedfinta Sfitras, and the Bhagavnd-GitA 



VM)tS£ 1 ?.] WttlTtt YAtU&tltDA, 809 

“ The Chief paradox i» contained in verse 12 which deolares that ignorance 
(avidyA) leads to blind darkness, and knowledge (vidyA) to darkness blinder 
still.* Si 1 $ tftkara explains vidyA to mean knowledge of the inferior Deities 
and not thv knowledge of the Supreme Brahma* For, according to him, the 
true knowledge of the Supreme Brahma being the highest object of all re¬ 
ligious duties aud the sole end of the Upanishads, it cannot be said; under 
any cirOumstanoes, to result in darkness* 'Whilst a knowledge of the Divi¬ 
nities and certain forms of their worship, also termed vidyA in the Upanishads, 
may bring a man into darkness or an unhappy region if he neg’ects the duties 
ordained by the Sruti and Smriti. Sri $ank*Ta. in all his VedAntic Com¬ 
mentaries. has Urged repeatedly and forcibly that true knowledge of Brahma 
cannot be Combined with Karma, for it removes the notion -of duality and 
fills the devotee*8 mind with an ever-abiding consciousness of the El tern *4 
Spirit, the Sole Reality. His mental aud bodily acts are almost automatical, 
not being caused by any strong desire or passion. They are results of the 
residual avidyA the source of his present and last birth*. Eire option is made 
only iu the Case of Divioe Incarnations and tiioae who work solely for the 
good of the world without any selfish motive or passion. 

“The fourth Chapter of the third Book of the VedAnta-Sfttras opens With 
the Sfitra: ‘The end of man (is attained) by this (the independent know¬ 
ledge of the Self ordained irt the VedAnta): such being the word of the 
Veda. So says B&darAyaaa. In refating the opponents arguments Srt 
Bankara explains that verse 2 of this Upanbhad refers to men iu general 
and not specially to one Who knows Brahma (III. 4. 13), and that even if 
it be conceded by virtue of the context that it refers to such a person it 
implies only a permission and not an injunction to perform works, for the 
purpose of praising knowledge, as is shown by the Words na karma lipyate 
nure, * Work does not taint the man’. That is to say* even if a man who 
knows Brahma performs work as long as he lives it has no tainting effect 
upon him : such is the power of knowledge (til. 4 14)*+ This discussion 
about the connection of Work with Wisdom is concluded by explanations 
summed up in the following words :—‘ Knowledge, when produced, does not 
require anything else for the attainment of its fruit (salvation): but for its 
production it does require (the help of Sacrifices, etc). So says the Sruti: 
‘ Him (the Supreme Spirit) do the BrAhmans desire to know by study of 
the Veda, by sacrifice, by gift, by austerities, and by fasting f (Com. on 
VedAnta S III. 4 26). ‘Thefore, thus knowing, sereue and self-subdued, 
retir ing (from the World), enduring (every pain and self concentrated, one 
sees the Self in his own self ’ (Brih. Up. VI. 4 23). * Whereas the qualifica¬ 
tions serenity, etc. are directly connected with knowledge as is implied in the 
epithet evafy-vit, ‘thus knowing,’ they are the intimate or immediate 
(pratyAsanua) means of gaining knowledge ^Whilst sacrifice, etc., being con¬ 
nected with the detire of knowledge, are its outward and remote means. 
Such is their distinction.* (Com. Ved. S. III. 4. 27 ) 

“ It Will be seen from the above tbat there is tio inconsistency, as Profes¬ 
sor Max Muller (Sacred Books of the Bast, Vol. I. p. 319) supposes, in the 

* This verse occurs also in the BtfhadAraijyaka Upanisbad jlV. 40.10). 
where vidyA is explained as that portion of the' Veda which treats of 
Karma only. m A „ 

+ VAchaspati Misra says: ‘One only doing, etc,, verse 3, refers to a per¬ 
son who has no knowledge. Bvenif it should refer to one who knows 
there would be no oontradiotion. glorification of knowledge being intend¬ 
ed.’—BhAm&tf. a gloss on §ankara. p.675. S. 13. . 

t BrihadAranyaka Upanisbad IV. 4.22; Fasting (anAsaha) is explained 
as moral fasting, abstaining from sensaal gratifications. 


310 


WHITE TA JURY EDA. 


[ROOK XL. 


explanations given by Sri Sankara of verse 2 in his Commentaries on this 
U pan is bad and the Vedftuta-S&tras. The Professor rightly remarks: *Our 
Upanishad seems to have dreaded libertinism, knowledge without work*, 
more even than ritualism, works without knowledge, and its true object 
was to show that orthodoxy aud sacrifice, though useless in themselves, 
must always form the preparation for higher eulightenment.' It would 
seem that it did not strike the Professor that Sri Sankara's contention is 
not that work should uot precede the highest knowledge, but that when it 
has been attained, there is no necessity for going back to the preparatory 
stage, seeing that the goal has already been reached for which the prepjira- 
tion was previously undergone. It cannot be too carefully borne in mind 
that this knowledge to which the great SanuyiUt attaches so much value is 
not a verbal or eveu a speculative knowledge of the Supreme Brahma, which, 
as the Professor justly fears, may lead to libertinism. Far from being the 
highest knowledge as understood by Sri Sankara, the latter knowledge may 
indeed be lower than that of the Gods who are manifestations of Brahma as 
Wind, Fire, Sun, etc. Brahma so manifested is worshipped in verses 15—17 
of our Upanishad. So Sankai&nanda, the preceptor of S4yanAch4rya. fol¬ 
lowing as he does Sri Sankara, adds an alternative explanation of vidy4 in 
verse 12, viz. a knowledge of Brahma that lies only on the lip or in the mouth 
(mukhato Brahmav&dino va), and not in the actual realization of Brahma* 
shown in a life altogether free from desires and affections, doubts and fears, 
grief and delusion (see verse 7). Certainly it would be a contradiction to 
counect such knowledge with libertinism, aud so after all §ri Sankara must 
be prououuced to be right. 

*' It may not be out of place to remark here that Sri Sankara's view of the 
relation of wisdom to work ac ords also with the teaching of the Bhagavad- 
Git& which sets forth so prominently the importance of duty done un¬ 
selfishly. without expectation of reward. The Glt4 says : 'But the men 
who delighteth iu Spirit (the Inner Self), is satisfied in Spirit, and is oon- 
tented in Spirit.alone, he (indeed) hath no work to do.' III. 17. 

“ I feel tempted to give here an interpretation of verse 12, being the ex¬ 
pansion of an idea hinted at by a Pandit. It is uot, however, found in ally 
of the published Commentaries. It removes the apparent contradiction oC 
the verse, and at the same time restores the force of iva rendered meaning 
less in all the other interpretations, and gives to vitfyd its highest sense:— 

‘‘Those who are devoted to knowledge (the highest knowledge of .Brahma) 
enter iutu darkness, as if bliuder still, i. e. a darkness devoid of all forma 
and colours—of all this phenomenal world—darkness indeed as being be¬ 
yond the light of the sun, the moon, the stars, fire and lightning, for the 
Sruti says : There the Sun shines not, nor the Moon, nor the Stars, nor do 
these lightnings shine, far less does fire (Katha Up. 5. 15). jjri §.ifikar* in 
his Anandalahart, a hymn to the Primeval Power or Sfakti, sings : * I adcre 
the Supreme Sambhu, seated in the lotus, named Ajftl-ohakra, between the 
eyebrows (termed Avimukta or K4si in the J4v&la Upanishad), bearing the 
brilliance of a hundred millious of suns and moons, united on one side with 
the Supreme Intelligence (Para Chit, the power of universal consciousness'; 
whom to worship with devotion, man dwelleth in the lightless house of hip 
own Light, unapproached by the Sun aud Moon and fire*. The Bhagavgd- 
Glt4 also gives expression to a similar idea when it says: ‘What is night to 
all creation—therein waketh the self■concentrated* (II. 69). Milton's * B*$k 
with excessive light’ might perhaps be explained in a like spiritual senafc ■ 

“ Lastly in favour of Sr! Sankara it may be observed that he avoids the 
tautology which other Commentators make of verses 9—11 by explaining 
Sambh&ti and Asambhuti in the same sense almost as vidyi and avldjA." 


EKAPATKANDA 

♦ 0 


Chapter One 
BRAHMAN A I 

i. He (who is to perform the installation of the holy fires, agnyadhma ) gathers 
the requisite materials; he collects them from here and there (from various 
places). That verily constitutes the ‘collectedness’ of the materials. He gathers 
this (fire) from different places where there is inherence of fire. By that, he 
makes it flourish with glory, as it were, with cattle (wealth) and with a mate; thus 
he makes it grow with productivity. Therefore, indeed, he gathers the required 
materials. 

2, That place where he is going to set up the two fires, he scrapes with a 
wooden sword. Much of this earth that has been spat upon and that has been 
trodden is indeed impure. That very thing he scrapes with the.wooden sword 
and then he establishes (the fires) only upon pure ground that is fit for sacrifice. 
That (place) he sprinkles with water. That is the provision of water. Water is 
verily food; water, indeed, is food. Therefore when waters arrive here, then 
food grows here. This (sprinkling of water) makes it (the fire) flourish with 
(good) food. Water is, indeed, the female, fire the male. That makes a 
productive couple. This (sprinkling with water) makes this (fire) prosper with a 
procreative mate. All this (Universe) is verily pervaded by the (primordial) 
waters. Covering this (place) with water itself, he (the sacrificer) installs this 
(fire). Hence is it that he procures water. 

3. Then he provides gold. (Once)Agni coveted the waters, thinking, “1 shall 
be coupled with these.” He united with them and deposited his seed in them. 
That (became) gold. Hence gold shines like fire; (for) it is indeed the seed of 
fire. So people find this (gold) only in waters. In waters do they purif y (this), for 
he (Agni) deposited it verily in waters. People do not wash with this (gold), nor 
do they do anything (else). Now, splendour (glory) is the seed of gods. 1 his 
(provision of gold) makes this (fire) grow with splendour. He (the sacrificer) sets 
up the entire fire with its seed. Therefore does he procure gold. 



1.1.1.7] 


TRANSLATION 


4. Then he brings salts. Yonder sky (the resplendent region visible above) 
bestowed cattle (wealth) on this earth. That, became the salts. Hence, where 
there is saltish ground they declare it fit for cattle. Verily, the salts are the visible 
wealth (cattle). Thus, this (provision of salts) makes this (fire) flourish with cattle 
(wealth). Such a thing (the salt) is the essence of the yonder divine region. It 
became established in this earth. They consider it (the salt) as the essence of 
Heaven and Earth. It (the provision of salts) makes this (fire) prosper with the 
very’ essence of these two—Heaven and Earth. 

5. Then he secures (the earth from) a mole-hill. Moles, indeed, know the 
savour of this earth. Therefore moving down and (further) down they became 
fat. Wherever there is the essence of this (earth), from there they throw it up. 
This (provision of earth from a mole-hill) enriches it (the fire) with the essence 
of the earth. Karisa (what is scattered or thrown up) arid purisa (what is cast 
off/wealth) are alike. (They are synonymous.) They call a person who attains 
wealth ,‘Purisz \ for the preservation (retention) of that (wealth) too (does the 
sacrificer provide the mole-hill). 

6. Then he (the sacrificer) gathers pebbles. Devas and Asuras (gods and 
demons) both sprung from Prajapati, contended (with each other). Then this 
earth was, as it were not restrained (fixed). It tossed about as a lotus leaf would 
toss about. The wind carried it along. It (the earth) then came near the Devas 
and then came near the Asuras. 

7. When it approached the gods, they said, * Ah! Let us fasten this (to make it) 
steady. Having made it stable and tight and installing the tw o fires on it , we shall 
deprive the Asuras,our hateful rivals (of any share). Where (when) it reached 
them, they fixed it all round with pebbles as one would spread out a hide with 
pins. Having made it firm and steady and setting up the two fires on it, they 
excluded the Asuras } their hateful rivals, from any share. In that manner, this 
person (sacrificer) keeps away (from any share) his inimical rivals by making this 
(ground) firm and steady and installing the two fires on it. 



n.2.1] 


TRANSIATION 


8. He verily collects these five requisite materials (described, before). Indeed 
the sacrifice is fivefold and fivefold are the (sacrificial) animals and five are the 
seasons of the year. Hence he gathers these five materials. 

9. Regarding that, they (some) say, “Indeed six are the seasons of the year.” 
If the seasons of the year are six, surely deficient is the production . These 
creatures are indeed bora of the deficient (lower part of the body). This is 
production too, then and the prosperity (of the future) has further 
improvement (for the sacrificer). If the seasons are six, then Agni himself 
becomes the sixth of these (materials) and he (the sacrificer) acquires (fulfills) 
with Agni himself, that desire (need for the sixth material) which is there, 

10. About that (provision of materials) they (some) say, “One need not do 
anything at all. He (the sacrificer) indeed collects (all) these materials from this 
earth and installs (the fires) on this (earth). By the very fact that he sets up (the 
fires) on this (earth), he acquires (fulfills) those desires (needs) that are there in 
the matter of the materials.’' 

But (in this matter) one must gather (the materials). Regarding what one says, 
“He (the sacrificer) sets up (the fires) on this (earth) and by that he obtains 
everything”; truly what occurs with the gathered materials come to him and 
there is the fulfilment of the desire for the materials and the desire regarding 
this earth (place). For that, he (the sacrificer) enriches both (by providing the 
materials). Therefore, he must verily gather (the equipment). 

(First Brahman a Ends) 

BRAHMAN A II 

1. They say that one may set up the two fires under the constellation Krttika 
(when the moon is in conjunction with the Kfttikd stars). Kitt'ik&s aie verily the 
asterism of Agni. It is but proper that one should install the two fires under the 
star of Agni. Moreover, the other stars (stellar groups) consist of one, two,, three, 
or four (stellar bodies). But then, this (Krtttkd group) is large. This (setting up 
of fires) verily attains largeness. And he (the sacrificer) becomes plentiful with 
progeny and cattle. Also, the other stars move away. Only these (KjttikS, stars) 
do not move away from the eastern direction. His two (the sacrificers two fires) 
become established only in the eastern quarter. That (setting up of the fires) 
reaches the eastern quarter only. Hence one should set tip (the fires) under the 

Krtiikds, 



1.1.2.7] 


TRANSIATION 


9 


2. About this they (some) say “One should not set up (the fires) under the 
Krttikas. There is rejection (disapproval) in their case”. “At first (originally) 
these (Krttikas) were the wives of the Rksas (the Bears). Formerly they (people) 
called the seven sages (of the Great Bear constellation) Rksas. They (Krttikas) 
were deprived of pairing, because they rise here in the east and the seven sages 
rise in the north. Who will set up (the fires) under these stars that were deprived 
of copulation? If not (if one, on the contrary, sets up), it will lead to deprivation 
of intercourse”. 

One may well set up (the fires) under them. It is Agni that is their mate. These 
(Krttikd stars) prospered with intercourse with him. Therefore, one may surely 
set up (the fires under Krttikas). 

3. They say that one may install (the fires) under Rahim. It was under Rohini 
that Prajapati who desired progeny set up (the fires), thinking, “I shall become 
plentiful with progeny and cattle* I shall be born (I shall create)”. He created 
these creatures. The created beings were all of one form (similar), very much 
like herded red cows and they waited upon him. That is the red-cow nature 
(Rohimtva) of (the asterism) Rohini. Indeed, a person who, realizing this, sets up 
(the fires) under Rohini becomes rich (great) in progeny and cattle. 

4. Thinking (wishing), “We should grow up (ascend) in the desire (love) of 
men” for cattle, did set up the two fires under Rohini. Just as these (present) 
cattle even now have arisen in the wish of men and as those cattle arose in the 
desire of men, in the very same manner does a person who, understanding this, 
sets up (the fires) under Rohini grows up in the wish (love) of cattle. 

5. They say one may set up the two Fires under (the asterism) Mrgaiiras. What 
is called Mrgaiiras is indeed the head of Prajapati. ‘Excellence’ indeed is the 
head. Verily the head is ‘excellence’! “He who is the best of a community (of 
people)—he is the head of that community” so they say. He who sets up (the 
fires) under Mrgaiiras, knowing this surely attains excellence (wealth) and 
becomes the most excellent. 

6. About that they (some) say, “One should not install (the Fires) under 
Mrgasiras. There is rejection (disapproval) of this (asterism). This (star) is verily 
the body of Prajapati wherein the god pierced him with a three-segmented 
arrow. Being struck, he (Prajapati) gave it up. As such, this abode (body) (of 
Prajapati) came to be without virility and unfit for sacrifice. Who wall set up (the 
fires) under that (star)? 

One may well install that (the fires) (under MrgaRras). That abode of God is 
neither lacking in virility nor is it unfit for sacrifice (unholy), as it belongs to 
Prajapati. Therefore, one may certainly set up (the Fires under Mrgeihm). 

7 . Under Pumwasu one should perform pummihey®' (re-kkicKin^ 
re-installation). One should set up (the fires) under the two Pkatgu (stars). The 



LI.2.11] 


TRANSLATION 


11 


two stars called Pkalgu form, indeed, the asterism of Indra and they have his 
corresponding names. Indra is also known as Arjuna, which is his secret (mystic) 
name. These (stars-Phaigus) are known as Arjunis. Who is fit to utter his secret 
name? So they indirectly call them (the stars) Phalgums . The sacrificer is indeed 
Indra. He sets up (the fires) under this, his own asterism. indra is the deity of 
the sacrifice. The installation is then connected with Indra, One may install (the 
fires) under the two prior stars (Puma phalgunis). To him (the sacrificer) the 
sacrifice accrues even before (even at the outset). It does not go beyond him. 
One may set up (the fires) under the two later stars (Utiara Phalgunl). His future 
prosperity certainly acquires superiority (progression). 

8. They say that one may set up (the fires) under Hasta. He who wishes, “May 
it (good things) be presented to me” may perform it. To him who, knowing this, 
sets up the two fires under Hasta, all that is given verily with the hand is given. 

9. They say one may set up the two fires under Citra. Devas and Asuras.both 
of them sprung from Prajapati, contended. Both of them wished to ascend to 
the heavenly world.Then the Asuras kindled the fire (constructed the fire altar) 

* Rauhina’ (conducive to ascent) that would lead to heaven, thinking, “We shall 
ascend to heaven by means of this”. The gods were afraid and thought, “If these 
(Asuras)will complete this (Rauhina fire-altar), they will overpower us”. Then 
Indra bound up a brick with a rope of lightning (a rope of Rks ) and went there 
proclaiming himself to be a Brahmin. 

10. He said, “I too shall place this (brick), (The Asuras said))'Put it”. He placed 
it. That (altar) seemed verily to be incomplete with very little (required very little 
for completion). 

Then he said, “I shall take (back) that brick of mine”. (They said), ‘Take it” 
He went towards it and pulled it. Following its pulling out, the fire became 
extinct. Following the extinction of the fire, the Asuras fell down. Making 
thunderbolts with their very bricks, he (Indra) killed (hit) them. Then the gods 
remained (safe) and the Asuras turned away (were afar). He who, knowing this, 
sets up (the fires) under Citrd remains by himself (unaffected) and his spiteful 
enemy goes far away. 

11. Those gods got together and said, “We have become wonderful—we who 
have killed so many enemies”. That is the wonderful nature (Citratzm) of Citra 
(asterism). He who sets up (the fires) under Citra, understanding this, destroys 
his rival and kills his spiteful enemy. Therefore,too, the Ksatriyas want to take it 









1st the manes 































c: 'O 











































1 . 1 . 4 . 9 ] 


TRANSLATION 


19 


5. About this, Indradyumna Bhailaveya said,**l hat one (the sacrifice!') should 
’ this rice-food, surelv seems to be a wrong: thing and it is like * u '" 


- U if ^ U W W ^jr * - a 

may go along a different way (with action and intention being at variance with 
each other). Therefore one need not care for it”. It is indeed (improper) wrong 



















1.1.4.15} 


TRANSLATION 


21 


There is no hope of immortality (for the sacrifker). He (the sacrifker) attains 
entire (full) life. The gods are wealth (prosperity). He attains prosperity. The 
gods are ‘glory’ (glorious). He becomes glorious. Therefore,one should set up 
the fires only after the Sun has risen, 

10. They say, “As the fire is not set up with (the chanting of) a Rk nor with 
Yajus nor with Sdtnan, then with what is the fire set up?” He (the sacrifker) 
should indeed say, “Surely it is of Brahman, with Brahman"(it is set up) with 
Brahman (the symbolic formula of the Brahman only). Indeed “Speech is 
Brahman"-Its, truth itself is Brahman. These vyahrtis (mystic utterances) Bhuh, 
Bhuvah, Svah are only ‘Truth’. His (the sacrifteer’s) two fires are verily set up 
with ‘Truth’. 

11. Indeed Prajapati generated this (earth) by (uttering) (the mystic syllable) 
'Bhuh' the middle region (between earth and heaven) by ‘ Bhuvah and the sky by 
Svah' As far as these worlds are thus far is this (Universe). The two fires become 
established with the whole of this (Universe). 

12. Prajapati createdBrahmanaftheBrahmana class/priesthood) by(uttering) 
Bhuh] the Ksatra(Ksatriya class)by Bhuvah and vit (Vai§ya)by Svah. So much is 
this-asmuch as are Brahmana, Kfatra and vit. Indeed the two fires are set up 
with the whole of this. 

13. Prajapati verily generated Atman (the self) with Bk&h; the excellent 
creature(s) (human race) with Bhuvah' and the animals with "Svah'. So much 
indeed is this,viz., as much as the self, humanity and animals. 

14. He (the sacrificer) installs the Gdrkapatya (fire) with (uttering) these three 
syllables Bhurbhuvati and (leaves out) keep (unused) two (syllables) for the sake 

of ‘frochrvpxic’ (thf* stafr** of rtf it Iwnmino ststk with hms** of timfl With what will 








1.1.4.21] 


TRANSl A! IO N 


23 


destructive Raksasas ,iire arose (was produced) in its safe shelter that was free 
from fear. Therefore,one who is going to churn the fire (produce fire by 
churning) should say, “Bring the horse*’. 

16. It (the horse) should stand in front. Thus indeed does this (sacrificer) light 
up this thunderbolt (viz. the horse).(On his) Destroying the destructive Raksasas 
with it, fire arises (is born) in its fearless and safe (not destructive) shelter. 

17. It (the horse) should be one that (moves ahead) (eastward) is a leader 
(foremost of horses). Indeed ‘virility’ is the horse. This (horse) is verily 
(represents) limitless vigour. He who is the leader (who goes in the fore Front— 
who moves eastward) grows greatly. If there is no leader (leading horse) 
available, any one (any horse that is available) will do. If even (an ordinary) 
horse is not available, there may be an ox (an ox will serve the purpose). This 
indeed is the relationship of the ox (with the horse). 

18. Where he (the sacrificer) is going to take it (the fires) on eastward, then he 
should say, “Move on with the horse ahead”. Indeed the horse is the 
thunderbolt. Verily destroying the devastating demons(Raksasas)in front with 
the thunderbolt itself and breaking them up, he (the sacrificer) moves and then 
takes it (the fire) into the safe and fearless shelter. One should take it in such a 
manner that it will turn (westward) (backward) towards the sacrificer. (As the 
fire is taken forward towards the east, the smoke will move backwards towards 
the Yajamana). 

19. This fire is indeed the sacrifice. The sacrifice verily enters him (the 
sacrificer) (westward) backwards. Him the sacrifice quickly approaches. 
Moreover, the sacrifice turns away from him from whom this (fire) turns away. 
If one, there, should curse him saving, “May the sacrifice turn away from this 
person, may the lordly sacrifice not approach this person: lordly is it (the 
sacrifice). (The sacrifice will not approach this person)”. It will surely happen 
so. Therefore,one should carry this (fire) so that it will turn {back) towards 
(facing) the sacrificer. 

20. This fire indeed is the vital breath. Him (who takes the fire in such a way 
that it turns back towards him) verily the life-breath enters back. He attains the 
entire (span of) life. And from whom this (fire) turns away, vital breath also 
turns away from him. If one should curse him thus saying, “May life turn away 
from this person. Vital breath (life) is going to leave this person”. Lordly is it (the 
vital breath) and it will surely happen so. Therefore, one should convey this 
(fire) in such a manner, that this (vital breath which blows or purifies) will move 
back towards the sacrificer. 

21. This (fire) verily is the sacrifice. Indeed, him (the sacrificer) the sacrifice 
enters backward. Him the sacrifice reaches quickly. And the sacrifice turns away 



1,1.4.24] 


TRANSLATION 


25 


surely from him from whom this (fire) turns away. Should one curse him 
therein, “May the sacrifice turn away from this person! The sacrifice is not 
going to reach him!” The sacrifice (fire) being powerful, it will surely happen 
so. Hence, one should convey this (fire) in such a manner that this (sacrifice) 
which purifies will move back towards the sacrificer. 

22. This (fire), indeed, is the vital breath (life). The vital breath enters this 
person (sacrificer) backward. He attains the full (span of) life. And the vital 
breath turns away from him whom this(sacrifice/fire) turns away. If one curses 
him, “May life-breath turn away from this person! Life-breath will leave this 
person ”, the sacrifice being lordly, it will surely happen so. Therefore, one 
should convey this (fire) in such a manner that it will approach the sacrificer 
back. 

23. He (the sacrificer) makes the horse step on it (the fire-altar), then makes 
it move up towards the east and then makes it turn back again. Indeed the horse 
is (represents) virility. In order that virility may not ran away from this 
sacrificer, he turns it (the horse) towards the north and east. He places it (the 
fire) at the foot (foot-print) of the horse. The horse is verily ‘virility". Therefore 
this indeed places it (the fire) in virility. He (the sacrificer) makes it (the fire) 
touch it (the horse’s foot-print) and lifts it up (again); he makes it touch it and 
lifts it up. Only at the third time he establishes it (the fire) chanting 
Bhurbhuvaksvah These worlds are indeed three. Therefore with this he enjoys 
these worlds; he pervaded these worlds. 

24. They say, regarding this, ‘Touching (the horse’s footprint) only once, 
then at the second time one should establish (the fire)”. He who, without 
remaining established (well planted) on this (earth) lifts up a burden (tries to lift 
up) cannot lift it up. It crushes him. The fact that he touches once (means) he 
stays firm on this resting place (the earth). Being firmly established, he sets up 
(the fire) at the second time uttering., ‘BkurbhuvuhsvQk\ Thus (thereby) he does 
not come to grief, Asun f PMti and MMkuki thus set up (the fire), (saying), “All 
this else (on the altar) becomes troubled. So, we established it, chanting 
“Bhurbhuvahsvah’ even at the first time”. Indeed, they did .so, establishing (the 
fire) then, even with one (even at the first) touching. 

25. He (the sacrificer) touches the burning sticks- saying, “like the sky with 
abundance, like the earth with girth (in superiority)”. He says verity this, “Just 
as the yonder sky is plentiful with stars, so may I become plentiful!” By “like the 
earth with girth-he says verily this, “Just as this earth is big (vast) may I become 
big (great)”. He (the sacrificer) establishes this (fire) cm die back of this (earth). 
Chanting, “Oh Earth! the- one fit for the worship of the Gods! On the back of 



LI.4.26} 


TRANSLATION 


9 *: 


Vourself-, I set up Agni the eater of food,for the sake of good food". He savs 
(means) verily this “Agni is the consumer of food. May I become the consumer 
of food! This is (a prayer for) blessing. One may mutter it, if he wishes. If he so 
wishes he may ignore it. 

26. Then he worships with the Rks pertaining to the 'Queen of serpents', 
(thus). This spotted bull has come here and has lain down before the mother 
and before the father, too, on going up to heaven. She, shining (with liking) 
moves in, breathing out from his breath. The great one has illumined the sky. 
He shines much in his thirty abodes. Speech is bestotved on the winged one, Ah? 
with the lustres of everything!” Whatever has not been secured by the 
installation of this (fire) or by the seasons or by the (gathered) materials or the 
stars, that very' thing,all that one secures by this. One need not care for it. This 
(earth) is indeed the Queen of Serpents (for) w hatever creeps along of fall) that 
this (earth) verily is the queen. The fact that he sets up (the fire) on this (earth), 
verily by that itself, this (fire), entire and full and rich, becomes established. 

(Fourth Brahmana Ends) 



1 . 2 . 1 . 6 ] 


TRANSLATION 


29 


Chapter Two 
BRAHMAN'A 1 

1. Having taken out the Ahavaniya fire, he (the sacrificer) offers the full 
oblations, ‘ Puryiahuti . Indeedhe (thereby) makes this Agni become a consumer 
of food for his own sake. To him (Agni) he offers this food. Just as one (the 
cow or the mother) would offer the breast to the (just) boot calf or to the voting 
child (son), in the same manner one offers this food to this (fire). Appeased and 
pleased by that, he (Agni) waits quietly for the subsequent oblations that are 
cooked. If they (the sacrifices) do nor. offer this oblation, in this (Agni), it (the 
fire) will soon burn up the Yajamam or theAdhvaryu(for) those two move, as it 
were, nearest, to it (the fire). 

2. That (offering) he offers in full. Indeed, full is (means) ‘all’. That (offering) 
appeases this (fire) with ‘all’. He makes the offering uttering the sound 'svdh&\ 
The expression 4 svSh&' is undefined (general). ‘AH’ also is undefined (general). 
That, then, appeases this (fire) verily with ‘alf (every thing). The first offering 
which Prajapad offered, he indeed offered It with the utterance of the sound 
‘$vakd\ That is indeed this, primarily. Hence he (the sacrificer) makes the 
offering, muttering 'svdha. At (when) this (offering has been made), he (the 
sacrificer) presents a boon (gift) (to the priest). Everything is indeed a gift (a 
worthwhile thing). That (offering of gift) appeases this (fire) with even- thing 
(all), 

3. Here they (some) say, “Having made this offering (Purn&huti) one need not 
care for the subsequent offerings. He surely achieves even by this that wish for 
which he may make the subsequent offerings. 

4 . The fact that one makes an offering to Agni Pavamina (the Blower) means 
that it puts life-breath, indeed, into this (sacrificer). Verily food is life breath. 
This offering is indeed food. Thus it puts into this (sacrificer) that (vital breath) 
by means of this (offering). 

5. Then, the fact that one makes an offering to Agni P&zmka (purifier) 
means that it indeed puts food into tins (Agni). This offering (viz,,) food is 
directly visible. Therefore one puts that (food) into this (fire) by this very 
offering. 

6. That one makes an offering for Agm imd (the Brilliant) means that it puts 
virility into this (fire). That this flame blazes up; it Hazes up higher only when 
an offering is put into this (flame). It (the fire) becomes, as it were, more virile. 
Therefore, one puts it. (virility) into this (fire) only by means of this (offering). 



1 , 2 . 1 . 10 ] 


TRANSLATION 


SI 


Therefore, they (some) say, “One need not care for it (the subsequent 
oblations)’'. One must, certainly make that (subsequent offerings). This (fact) is, 
as it were, invisible (incomprehensible) that ‘This is that, yonder thing and that 
is this”. Just as, as long as the child (embryo) is not born, it breathes (lives) in 
consonance with the vital breath of the mother. 

7. That one makes the offering for Agni Pavamana (the Blower) means that 
Pavamana is the breath and he (the sacrificer) puts that into him (the fire) even 
as it (the fire) is born. 

8. Then he makes the offering for Agni Pavaka ( Purifier) for, food indeed is 
the purifier. As soon as this (fire) is born, he (the sacrificer) puts the food into 
this (fire). 

9. Then he makes the offering for Agni $ua (the Brilliant)and it puts virility 
into this (fire). For when he (the fire) grows with food, then,he builds up 
strength. Thus making this (fire) grow by means of food, thereby he (the 
sacrificer) puts this bright strength into this (fire). Therefore, one must make 
that offering. This being alike, it (the practice of not making the subsequent 
offerings after Purnahuti) appears to be reversed (wrong), in a matter where 
Agni approached men from the gods and thought, “Let me not go to the men 
from the gods with my full self (body)”. He placed (his) three bodies in these 
(three) worlds; what was his Pavamana (blowing) form he placed on this earth; 
what was Pavaka (the purifier) (that he placed) in the mid region and that which 
was Suri (bright) (he placed) in the sky,' And then he came to the men. Those 
who were then sages among men realized that (and thought), “Agni has come 
to us not in his entire form”. (Therefore) I hey made these offerings for hint 
(Agni). 

10. What he (the sacrificer) offers to Agni Pavam&na, by that he gets (reaches) 
that very body (of Agni) which is in this earth. And then what he offers for Agm 
Pavaka, by that he gets at that very body (of Agni) which is in the mid region. 
And then what he offers for Agni $ud, by that he verily gets at that very body 
(of Agni) which is in the sky. (Thus) He (the sacrificer) sets up the entire Agni 
who is not placed away (who is present in his fulness) .The first oblation has m 
only (separate) seat of sacred grass and the subsequent two (oblations) Have. a. 
common barhis (seat of sacred grass). These are the worlds, these are the 



1.2.1.13] 


TRANSLATION 


33 


oblations. This world (earth) is, as it were, fine and dense; the mid region 
appears to be oscillating and oscillating seems the sky. For (imparting) equal 
weightiness, so that those two (worlds) may counterpoise (may come towards) 
this (earth), (the last two oblations are offered with a common barhis). 

11. The sacrificial cakes (intended) for Agni are cooked on eight potsherds. 
Gayatrl (metre) has eight syllables (in a pdda or foot). Gdyatra is the metre of 
Agni, He (the sacrificer),then, establishes this (Agni) with its own metre. They 
(the potsherds) amount to twenty-four. Indeed Gayatrl has twenty-four syllables 
(on the whole), Gdyatra is the metre of Agni. He then , sets up (the fire) with its 
own metre. The Yajyanuvdkyas (the offering formulas and the connected 
expressions) are in the Gayatrl metre. Gdyatra is the metre of Agni and he then 
sets up (the fire) with his own metre. Then subsequently, occurs this (offering 
of) cooked food dedicated to Aditi. He who prepares (and offers) these 
(preceding oblations) seems to make himself slip away from this world of men 
towards the world of the Gods. Indeed he moves,as it were, ascending above. 
This (earth) is Aditi. This is (the firm) resting place. Therefore, ultimately, he 
(the sacrificer) rests firmly on this (firm) resting place. 

12. Its two Samyajyas (inviting and offering formulas) are in Virdt (metre), for 
this (earth) is indeed vast (shining); and (or) two trisfufah verses for this (earth) is 
tristubh indeed (three-propped) and (or) twojagati verses; indeed this (earth) is 
Jagati (constantly moving). But anyway it remains that they are only two VirM 













I.2.2.5] 


TRANSLATION 


brAhmana II 

1. In that they perform (elaborately) the sacrifice,they kill it. In that they pi ess 
(ritually prepare the juice) the King (the Soma plant), they kill it. In that they 
quieten and immolate the (sacrificial) animal, they kill it. With mortar and 
pestle and with a pair of mill-stones they kill the kaviryajna (the sacrificial 
food offerings). The sacrifice having been killed thus became incapable of 
producing the desired result.The gods made it capable with fees (ritual gifts to 
priests). As they invigorated (the sacrifice) with these, these (fees) came to be 
known as Daksind (invigorating means). Therefore, indeed, must one give the 
fees. Whatever (part) of this destroyed sacrifice flags, that very’ thing oi the 
sacrifice does one invigorate by means of the sacrificial fees that one gives. Then 
the sacrifice becomes verily rich (prospers). 

2 One should give six of them (fees/cows). Indeed six are the seasons of the 
year; the year is the sacrifice, (it is) Prajapati. As much as is the sacrifice as much 
as is its measure, by so much (many) fees only does he (the sacmicer) t ere y 

invigorates it. 

3. Or one may give twelve; indeed twelve are the months of the year. The 
year is the sacrifice, Prajapati. As much as is the sacrifice, as much as is its 
measure, by so much only does he thereby invigorate it. 

4 Or one mav give twenty-four. Indeed twenty-four are the half-months erf 
the year. The year is the sacrifice, Prajapari.As much as is the sacrriice, as much 
as is its measure, by so much only does he thereby imagomte it These have 
been indicated (advised). One may give more according to his faith. 














I.2.2.9] 


TRANSLATION 


37 


same manner, these priests place the sacrificer in heaven. The sacrificer 
presents this (fee) to them (priests), thinking, “These are those who have made 
me reach this (heaven)”. This is indeed, concerning sacrificial fees. 

6. The Devas and Asuras, both of them sprang from Prajapati, contended 
(with each other). Both of them were without Atman ’(eternal soul). Indeed they 
were mortals. Verily he who is mortal has no (abiding) soul. Among them only 
Agni was immortal. Both of them (Devas and A su ras) lived by resorting to him 
(Agni). Whom (soever) among them they killed; he remained so (slain). Then 
the gods remained (were left over) thinner (in number or strength). They 
worshipped and tired themselves (in austerities), thinking, “How can we 
overcome our rivals the Asuras?” They Indeed discovered this very' 'Agnyadheya 
(installation of Agni). 

7. They said, “Ah! installing this immortal thing (Agni) within ourselves and 
thereby becoming immortal and invincible, we shall overcome the Asuras,our 
mortal conquerable rivals. 

8. They said, “Verily this Agni is in both of us. Well, let us speak to the Asuras 
in a contrary way.” They went to the Asuras and said, “Verily we are going to set 
up Agni (ceremoniously). What are you going to do with him (Agni)? ” The 
Asuras spoke, as it were, maliciously “Then we shall surely lay it down','saying, 
‘Burn the (blades of) grass here; ‘burn the logs of wood here;” cook meat here" 
and ‘cook rice here’. This (what the Asuras laid down) was the fire with which 
men eat and resorting to which these creatures live. 

9. Then, the gods, installing this (Agni) within themselves and becoming 
immortal and invincible, overcame their rivals»the conquerable mortal Asuras. 
For that(which)there are two fires,shall one set up? 'There is no hope of 
(attaining) immortality. (But) he (the sacrificer) indeed becomes 
unconquerable. One who wishes to conquer him does not conquer him at all. 
Therefore, when one who has set up his fires and one who has not set up his 
fires contend (with each other), only the one who has set up his fires overcomes 
(the other). For he, indeed, becomes invincible 










































what, having rained sucks it up is of the 





























<u>ne oeeo. not la 
nights. Then he offe 
dedicated to Agni. F< 
utterances (Ydjyas and 
the seasons are live. ' 
produces this (fire) frc 


IS. The whole (sacr 
the favourite abode of 
what one is eroini? to d 
















1.2.3.23] 


translation; 


47 


18. I hen he says, if they decide on Coffering to ) Agni-Pavamdna, “Make the 
call for Agm-Pavamdna . Then he(Hotr»says,“Oh Agni! yon breath (blow) life. 
Please produce for us food and strength. Drive far away misfortune”. Thus 
indeed it becomes of Agni. Soma indeed is the Pavamdm (the purifier). (The 
Soma elements) do not go away from the ghee portion belonging to Soma. 

Uzy Agm-Pavamam being pleased, accept the ghee!" So he retires (on making 
the offering), * 


.. 19 ‘ If the y ^ eade on (offering to) ‘Agni-Indumat’ he says, “Make the call for 
Agm-Indumat . He(HotaJsays, following this, “Come here, Oh Agni! I shall 
g a v say these and other words (of praise). May you grow with these drops” 
I hen, indeed does it become of (dedicated to) Agni. Soma, indeed, is Indu (the 
drop). I hey (the Soma elements) do not go away from the portion of ghee 
Je onging to Soma. He recites, in worship. May Agtu-Jndutnai (possessor of 
drops), being pleased, accept the ghee". 

20. Then he says, “Make the call for Agni”. 

“Worship (recite the offering prayers to) Agni”. 

Make the call for Agni Svistakrt,('who makes the offerings well offered)”. 

“Recite the offering prayers to Agni Sxnstakrt". 

21. Where the Adhvaryu (priest) over-stepping (these) and calling attention 

says “Worship {recite the prayers) for the gods; there he should verilvsav (recite 
the prayers for) “worship Agnis”. ‘ ' 

22. He recites May it. (Barkis) accept (the offering) for Agni re-acauisttiofi of 

abundant wealth “Vausat”. “The divine Agni Simtakrt”. This third subsequent 
offering by itself belongs to Agni. ” 1 

23. These are indeed the six case-forms. Four (are used) in primary offerings 
and two in after-offerings. Verily six are the seasons. He (Agni) entered-the 
seasons. He, thus, produces him (Agni) only front the seasons. Of the six 
case-forms, there are twelve or thirteen syllables. Indeed twelve or thirteen are 
the months of the year. The year entered the seasons. He (Agni) entered the 
year, the seasons. He verily produces him (Agni) from the. seasons. He does not 
put two together. Should he perform two together, he would be doing a fault. 
The form of (usage of) primary offerings is “May it accept.”. “May they accept ”, 
1 he form of (expression) after-offerings is “May it accept "for abundant 
acquisition of riches Gold is the sacrificial fee. This sacrifice verily belongs to 
Agni. Indeed gold is the seed of Agni. Or it (the sacrificial fee) is art ox. Verily 



the ox is related to Agni, by its shoulder. The shoulder of the ox looks as if it is 
burnt by fire. Agni is the carrier of the oblations to the gods. This ox carries 
(burdens) for the sake of men. 

(Third Brahmana Ends) 

brahmana IV 

1. Prajapati alone existed here. He saw (thought),“How can I be bom (become 
abundant progeny)7”He toiled. He performed penance. He produced Agni, 
indeed, from his mouth. Therefore, it is that Agni is a consumer of food. For, 










1-2.4,93 TRANSLATION 


5. It was pleasing to him. Frajapati then doubted, “Shall I offer?” “Shall I not 
offer?” His greatness addressed him, ‘‘Offer:’ He realized that his own 
greatness had indeed said, “Offer”. He offered {the oblation) saying only 
“Svdhd. From it verily arose the yonder one (Sun)who burns. Then arose this 
































ering (oblati- 

theirs: they attained this victory which is theirs. They won t 
was verily Agni who conquered this world; this one 

‘ ed) the mid ■ ‘ 

* • 


trth that is 
victory. It 
-ho blows 
h He who, 















































































aHag 


r/»yi 


procreation in (the other mantra). “Agm is the light; the light is Agm-te* 
This light, the seed, one encloses on both sides, with the deity. The seed t! 
verily enclosed on both sides germinates. Therefore, enclosing it verily on 
sides, he causes it to be born. “Surya is the light; the light is Surya SviM'\ 
light’ which is the seed, one encloses cm both sides with the deity. Verih 
__ j rtT-i KrutVi ci/tips: aprminatps. Therefore, enclosing it, verilv on 
















*y 'mmm 






























































































?comes 4 



















(form of) sacrifice, it is thereby called iMkmymia sacrifice. And some moreover 
sav, (This is) Vasistha sacrifice”. He (Daksa) was, indeed, (known) by one 
name, ‘ Vasistha’ (the wealthiest). They call it verily after him. On his sacrificing 
with this sacrifice, there came to be this which is the progeny of Prajapati and 
what prosperity (there is). He who knowing thus sacrifices, with this (Dahmana 
sacrifice), multiplies (in progeny) like this and attains similar prosperity. 

2. Then Pratidarsa Svaikana indeed sacrificed with that (sacrifice). To those 
who looked up to .him, he was like an authority [(authoritative) explanation]. He 
who, knowing thus, sacrifices with this (sacrifice) indeed becomes an authority 
as it were. Supla Sarnjaya came to him, verily, for disciplined Vedic study. 
Having studied from him this sacrifice and another too, he came back to the 
Srnjaya country. They, the Srnjayas knew, “He has come after studying the 
sacrifice for our sake . T hey said', “He who has come after studying the sacrifice 
has verily, come to us with the gods ”, Therefore (he came to be known as) 
Sahadeva Sarnjaya, There is also the saying, “Supla has taken another name!” 
On his sacrificing with this sacrifice, there came to be this progeny which is of the 
Srnjayas and what prosperity (there is). He who, knowing it to be thus, sacrifices 
with this sacrifice, produces (progeny) in this very manner and attains 
prosperity like this, indeed, 

S. Then Devabhaga, Srautarsa sacrificed verily with that sacrifice. He was the 
Purohita (an honoured family priest) of both the Kurus and Srnjayas. That 
indeed is a supreme (superior) position that one is the .Pyrafeste of one kingdom.* 
What then is the superiority (of one) who (is the PtmhiM) of two (kaogrbsitsi? 
He who knowing thus, sacrifices with this sacrifice surely attains superiority. 


4. Then, Daksa Parvatt verily sacrificed with that sacrifice. He acquired 
sovereignity (a kingdom). These descendants ofDaksa, even now have acquired 
royal status. He who, knowing thus, sacrifices with this sacrifice, surety attains 
royal status. Therefore indeed one should sacrifice with this sacrifice. In it, 
there is (to be offered) one Pumddm (cake) every day. Thus (thereby) fits 
prosperity becomes free from disturbance and without a rival (to share it), He 
performs the sacrifice (on) two Full Moon days and two New Moon clays 
Indeed a pair is a group of two. Verily this, a productive pair is made. 



pair. Verily thus,a productive pair is made. Then at dawn (of the morrow) there 
is one PurodaSa consecrated for Agra. (There is an offering of) curds dedicated 
to Mitra and Varana (together). The Purodma (sacrificial cake) for Agra is for 
the very reason that if (it is) not (offered), (Agni would say), “Let me go away 











































1 . 3 . 4 . 14 ] 


TRANSLATION 


85 


into the seasons. Then the seasons bring forth the seed that had been deposited 
as (in the form of) these creatures. Therefore does he offer it behind the 
sacrifice. Verily the male runs towards the female covering her from behind. He 
deposits his semen into her. Therefore does he (the sacrificer) offer behind (in 
the fire of) the sacrifice saying, “Go verily in front’! That is the receptacle of 
‘Svistahf (Agni who renders all offerings already made properly offered) 
Therefore he verily offers that in the east. 

14 . He then sprinkles the quarters (with the whey),—(1) the quarters. (2) the 
fore-quarters, (3) the by-quarters, (4) the intermediate quarters, (5) the 
upper-quarters, uttering “To the quarters Svahd !” The quarters are five. The 
seasons are five. He thus makes the seasons themselves become pairs with the 
quarters. Five only indeed eat (the residual whey)—(1) theHotr, and (2) the 
Adhvaryu/3) theBrahmaand (4) theAgnidhand (5) the sacrificer. Making this 
verily the form of the seasons, they establish the seed in the seasons themselves. 
The sacrificer, the first person, eats (first), thinking, “May I, the first person 
receive the seed (first)” and then the last (best), thinking,“May the best (last) 
seed stay firmly in me!” “Being invited, you please invite!”-*-thus saying and 
having verily rendered this (whey) as Soma itself, they (other four) eat (it). 

(Fourth Brahman a Ends) 

(Chapter Three ends) 


1 . 4 . 3 . 5 ] 


TRANSTAHOV 



Chapter Four 
BRAHMANAI 

1. The gods deposited all animals, those that were rustic (domestic) and those 
that were wild, into Agni,because they were going out to achieve victory or 
because of a desire foi moving about (Freely) as they wished or with a thought, 
“This (Agni) is the best protector (and) let him protect (these animals of) ours’’. 
Agni coveted them very much and gathering them together he entered the 
night. The gods (said), “Let us get back'' and verily (came) to Agni who was 
concealed. They came to know, “(Agni) has entered here; indeed he has entered 
the night ’’.'When the night returned, they waited upon him saying,“Plea$e give 
our animals back, please give us our animals”. He gave (the animals) back to 
them. 

2. For that one should worship the two Fires. Indeed the two Fires are the 
bestowers. He (the sacriFicer) thus verily supplicates only them for cattle, 
wherefore he worships them. Therefore he should worship them In the 
evening. For the gods waited upon (Agni) in the evening. To him who, knowing 
thus,worships (the two Agnis), they give (cattle). 

3. Now (this is the reason) why he should not approach (them) (with wmntms}. 
Indeed men and gods were here together in the beginning. Whatever there is 
not for men, that verily they asked of the gods “This indeed we do not. have. Let 
this be for us”, Those gods, out of dislike for-that request disappeared. 
Therefore one should not approach (the gods); (he should think), “If not (he. if 
I request them) I shall hurt (them) and if not (if I request them) I shall become 
one to be hated”. 

4 . Now (here is the reason) why one should verily -worship (them): Indeed the 
sacrifice belongs to the gods and the prayer for the blessing is the saaifker’a. 
The oblation is (in itself) this sacrifice belonging to the gods, that he worships h 
(in itseif)the prayer for blessing of the sacriffeer. What indeed »there for Mia 
here, that very thing he takes to himself. Therefore om must verily worship 
(approach the gods). 

5. And now (is the reason) why one should not approach (with worship for a 

blessing); whoever follows aBrahminor aKptriya(Raianya;a crowned monarch) 
praising him, thinkings “This man will give me hotnes”, he (the Brahmin m 
Ksatiiya)thinks that it should -be given to him who tries to please ban with ward 
or action.But whoever says to him, *Of what use are you to me? whoclb not 

give me {anything). That master hates him (the mippiant). Therefore otic 
should not approach (the Agnis with a request), thfokiag, “If not I may hurt; if 
not I may become hateful”. Thus really does tfik (lacrifeeirf respeit this 
(Agni) in that he kindles (the fire) and in that he makes offerings (m k% (So be 
should not request again). 




1 . 4 . 1 . 11 ] 


TRANSLATION 


89 


6 . And now (is the reason) why one should verily approach (with a request): 
he who asks verily finds a bestower. Also,the master does not know (the wants 
of the dependant). Only when the dependant says to the master, “Please 
support me” then does he (the master) supports him or does he consider him 
worthy of support. Therefore one must approach (the two fires with a prayer). 
This is the whole (argument) wherefore one must verily approach (the fires 
with worship and request). Indeed this (Agni), being Prajapati (or Prajapati 
becoming this,(Agni) thus,deposits the seed of everything, all that is about him 
and all that he rules over, in that one who performs the Agnihotm. Performing 
that (worship) (Agnihotm) one imitates abundance and produces abundance 
continuously. Therefore one must verily worship. 

7 . He prays with a first (prayer) that contains (the word) ‘upa- . Indeed this 
(earth) is ‘ upa\ This upa is with two (meanings). Whatever is born, that surely Is 
bom upon this (earth). Whatever perishes, that is scattered upon this earth 
only. This verily becomes more and more, by day and by night. Thus, he (the 
sacriftcer) takes up with this imperishable abundance. 

8 . He says/‘Approaching verily the Adkmra - Indeed, the sacriftcer is Adhvara, 
Saying, “Approaching the Adkmm-” he says (means) this only,viz., “Let us utter 
the chant (of prayer) to Agni "for, he is going to utter the chant {mantra ),““Who 
hears us also from afar”. He verily says (means) this, “Though you are far away 
from us, please do hear this (prayer) of ours. Let this be verily thus”. 

9. And then, (he prays), “This Agni (is) the head, the shoulder ©f the sky, the 
lord of the earth. He pleases (excites) the seeds of waters”, just as one who 
supplicates will speak auspiciously (thus), “You are verily the descendant of 
such and such a (great) person! Indeed you are capable of this (achievesKtU)", 
and will praise (the donor) wishing to make him happy; so indeed is this (Rk of 
praise), 

10. Then (is. chanted) this of Indra and Agni; this one (Sort) who holms is 
verily Indra. This is the one who, setting, enters Agni indeed. Therefore is (the 
chant) to Indra and Agni—“I invoke you both Indra arid A«i! loth of you 
together do I delight with pleasing service. Both of you are foesicwers of 
strength and wealth. I invoke you two for acquisition of food”. He verily' says 
(means) this only,viz., “You two, the bestowers, remaining together give to me”. 

11. Then (he chants), 'This is thy seasonal source (womb), born from which 
you shone forth. Knowing that. Oh! Agni! climb up (grow) and ateremse ©«r 
wealth”. Indeed wealth is nourishment. He verily .says (means) this; “This our 
nourishment is your own. Please make it more and more (abuudteut) m m. 
Please increase that (nourishment) of ours”. 







jDiirgus—wno acquired rum.) made bright, the colourful one in the forests, the 
one who pervades in every home”. Just as one making a request would speak 
auspiciously (thus), ou indeed are the descendant of such and such a (exeat ) 


indeed is this. As he (Agni) really is, so does he 













































1.4.1,25] 


translation 


95 


(means), “With essence". (By saying),“With 
(means) this, “With abundance”. 


possession of cows”, he verily says 


22. Then he goes near the Gdrhapatya (chanting), “Oh Agnil we approach you 
every day, at dusk and dawn, conveying our obeisance with our thought” * By 
this (Rk) he verily performs obeisance to this (Agni). (He chants), “(We approach 
you) Who are the shining protector of sacrifices and the effulgent (protector) of 
the Sacred Law (Rta) and who thrives in your own home”He (in this) verily savs 
(means) this, “What is our nourishment, this is your own thing. Make it more 
and more for us! That of ours please increase”. (He chants), “Oh Agni* be of 
good (easy^ access to us, like a father to his son. Take us (on) for the sake of 
well-being . Just as a father is easy for a son to serve (to move near), thus you 
please be easy for us to serve (approach)-this is just what he says (means)," (as 
also) Just as he (the son) does not in any way hurt him (the father), in the same 
way, may we not hurt you in any way". (He further chants). “Oh Agni! you 
please be proximate to us, (be) our protector, (be) auspicious, you—-the head of 
a host (of gods), (you who provide security)! Agni is the wealth, (Agni has) 
wealthy 'fame. (Agni is famed for wealth). Come towards tis, you the bestowee 
of most glowing wealth!” Oh most bright one! Oh resplendent one! We come 
to you for happiness for (our) friends. Please understand us. listen to our call 
(prayer). Please be desirous of saving us from all evil-doers”. 


23. That he worships the Ahavamya, (means) that he prays (in that) for 
(obtaining) cattle. Therefore he worships it lAhavonfya) with metres, lofty and 
short. Indeed cattle are (of sizes) great and small (That he worships) Gdrktpam 
(means that he prays for obtaining) men. Therefore he worships (the 
Gdrhapatya) first with a triad of Rks in Gayatn metre. Gdyatr® is the metre of Agni, 
He (the sacrificer) therefore, worships this (Agni) with its own metre. Then"fhe 


worships Gdrhapatya ) with Rks with two feet ip&das). Indeed t 
two feet) is man’s metre. Verily this, the man is a biped Indc 
sacrificer) prays for (obtaining) men. He who knowing thus 
verily one possessed of cattle and possessed of men. 


I ndeed the dzdpadi (Mk with 
wd Indeed with titii he (the 
ing thus, worships heroines 


24. Then he goes very near the cow (ch&nting),*Oh Ida! come here”. “Oh 






1 . 4 . 2 . 1 ] 


TRANSLATION 


97 


26. That he worships the Ahavamya (amounts to this) that he worships 
the sky; (that he worships) the Garhapatya (means that he worships) the 
earth. Then does he worship this mid region (ether). Therefore he 
worships (it) with a triad of Rks that praises Brahmanaspati (the lord of 
Vedas) (the lord of expression). Indeed this (mid region, the ether] is the 
direction of Brahmanaspati. Indeed he worships this direction (thus), 
“May the great heavenly and unassailable protection of the three, viz., 
Mitra, Aryaman and Varuna be (with us)! The enemy who speaks ill 
(curses) indeed does not have power over them (who are thus protected), 
at home or on the roads that might prevent (one’s movement). For, verily, 
those sons of Aditi constantly provide light for the man to live”. These 
indeed are the obstacles of the paths, these that are in between heaven and 
earth. He verily worships them thus. Therefore, indeed, the destructive 
demons (Raksasas) do not find him out in these paths that would 
(otherwise) be beset with obstacles. 

27. Then (he worships) with a prayer dedicated to Indra, Indra is the 
deity of the sacrifice. He (the sacrificer) makes this worship of Agni verily 
to be (connected) with Indra. (He says) “Oh Indra- you are never barren. 
You cling to (honour) the givers (of oblations). 

He verily says (means) this, “Never do you harm (never are you 
malicious towards) the sacrificer”. 


“Oh mighty god! more and more, indeed, and ever more does the gift of you, 
the god, increase”. (By saying),“More and more, indeed”. This is what he verily 
says (means), “This our nourishment (prosperity)- please make it verily more 
and more for us. Increase it for us”. 

28. Then (he worsxiips) with a Rk addressed to Savitr. Indeed Savitf (the Sun) 
is the begetter of the gods. Therefore do all these desires, produced by Savitr 
get fulfilled for him. (He chants), “May we meditate upon the superior 
effulgence of the divine Savitr, who will prompt our mental faculties!” 

29. Then (he worships) with a Rk addressed to Agni. By that, at 1an he gives 
(himself) to Agni for protection. (He chants), “May your inaccessible chariot 
surround us (to protect) all around—the chariot by which you protect the givers 
(of oblations)”. Indeed the sacrifices are the givers (of oblations). He verily-says 
(means) this, “That your most inaccessible chariot with which you protect the 
sacrificers- with that protect us from everything (all around T* 

30. He then utters the name of (his) son. (He saysfMayfmy) son continue this 
my task, this (my) virility.* In that same manner does his ton continue this, task 
of his and this virility. If there is no son, then he -should utter Ills own (tiase), 

(First Brithniana Ends) 
brAhmana II 

I, After performing the Agnik&$r&» Ik worship® (the Agni) m the ewai«g r . 







IS 


(abundance)“That long fire-worship also is, indeed, a prayer tor Messing, i 
(short) one, too, is indeed that (same) prayer for blessing. Therefore, one g 
all this (blessing) even with this (short prayer to.Agni). Therefore one n 
«mr«hin vprilv with this- we serve (Asni) verily with this ,, -sosaki Asuri, indee 


2. Now when he is 
















For, the gods know the mind of man. The Garhapaim knows his mind {and 
thinks), (This person) who is going to live abroad has approached me the 
bestower”. Then he worships the Ahavaniya verily silently. The Ahmmnvp, knows 
his mind (and thinks), “(This person) who is going to live abroad has 
approached me the bestower”. 


7 . Then he either walks off or drives oft, where he considers (it to be) thk. 
boundary, reaching that (place) he speaks (breaks his silence). Then having 



















I.4.3.6] 


TRANSLATION 


103 


He (Prajapati) verily looked about (thought), “Even as I was alone formerly, 
so am 1 (now) verily (alone) ” He created a second (batch of living beings). They 
too verily languished (went away). That is this vile (small) (species) reptile which 
is different from snakes. He created a third (batch of beings). They too verily 
languished. They (the people) say,“They are the serpents”' Yajnavkkya said, 
“These are indeed of two kinds”. But according to the Rk, they are of three 
kinds. 

3. Worshipping and exerting himself, Prajapati (thought). “How is it that mv 
creatures that were created languish {perish)?'’ He discovered verify this, “They 
languish (because of) not eating (food)”. He provided milk, even at first, in the 
two breasts in the body itself and afterwards created the creatures. Those 
creatures of this that had been created came to be found (well) (they survived), 
having taken verily to the breasts. They are these creatures that have not 
languished (that have not perished). 


4 . Therefore too, has this been repeated (said) by the Rm (Veda) (thus), 
“Three generations indeed, passed beyond”. Those (generations) are those that 
perished, “The others settled around the Sun (Arte). Surely Agni is Arte. These 
creatures which have not perished have settled around him {Agni) ‘the great; 
one’ verily remained within the worlds’! This has been said only with regard to 
Prajapati. “The blower (purifier) entered into the directions (quarters)”. The 
directions are indeed the quarters (regions). This blower (purifier) {she wind.) 
has entered into them. This Rk itself has been recited with regard to this. It is 
(so) even now; creatures are bom in the same manner as Prajapati created the 
creatures. It is indeed this; when the two breasts of a woman and the adder of 
(cows) cattle are filled up (with milk), thereafter is bom,what is born (the 
creature) (the offspring). It was verily thus that PrajSpati created the creatures 
at first. 

5 . About that they (people) say. Verily milk is food”, “ForPra|ipati created 
verily this (milk) as food”. (People)• say about it, “Indeed food- itself is 
creature (being)”. It is this -those (creatures), even m they arc : 
thereafter only resorting to the breasts of those who have milk, 
no milk, they too feed the just bom (infant) ( with other food) 
say, “Food itself is the creature”. He who, being desirous of progeny, 
with this oblation, thus makes himself verily this sacrifice which is 

6. This (offering) belonging to Agni is on eight potsherds, 
mouth of the gods; he is the progenitor (of the gods). Hence tin 
Agni on eight potsherds. 





1,4.3.12] 


TRANSLATION 


m 


7. Then is offered a cam (boiled rice) dedicated to Soma. Indeed Sotna is the 
seed (semen). He (the sacrificer) pours Soma, that semen, into Agni the 
progenitor. Thereby is formed at the outset a productive pair. 

8. Then there is (the offering of oblation) dedicated to Savitr, either on twelve 
potsherds or on eight potsherds. Indeed, Savitr is the begetter of the gods. (He 
is) Prajapati (the lord of created beings), the intermediate progenitor. 
Therefore, the offering to Savitr is either on twelve potsherds or on eight 
potsherds. 



9. (Then there is offered) a cam (boiled rice offering) to Sarasvatl {and there 
is) a cam for Pusan. Sarasvad is female, Pusan is male. That again, is made into 
a later productive couple. Prajapati indeed, created creatures from the two fold 
pair (union)-they (the creatures)that were before now and those that are later 
(in that will be) [they that are (straight) upward from there (the ground) and 
they that are (bent) downward}. Similarly does this (sacrificer)produce (beget) 
creatures from the two fold pair (union)-those that are upward and those that 
are downward. Therefore are these five offerings (made), 

10. Thereafter verily (comes) the basts of curds: the offering to Maruts is on 
seven potsherds. (The reason) why (the offering ) to Maruts is on seven 
potsherds (is that) the Maruts are Vis (common subjects), the ml 
gods. They went about here, indeed, unchecked as it were. Having aj 
Prajapati who was performing a sacrifice, they said, “If you do not aflat a share 
to us in this (offering in the sacrifice) we shall destroy these, the creatures, which 
you are going to create with this oblation”. 

1X. Prajapati observed, “My former creatures have perished. If these (Maruts) 
destroy these (creatures to be .created), then nothing will be left me r for me” 
Then he allotted to them 'this share. This offering to Maruts as am seven 
potsherds. (The reason) why it is on seven potsherds 
Maruts is (in groups of) seven and seven (each). 

12. That (share) should, be for the seif-strong (Mantis'); for, 
that share for themselves. But then, they (the priests ) do not find the two 
(chants) for offering 'and subsequent address, related to the 
(Maruts). If one .can not find the two (chants) ¥& 

* Self-possessed \ then they (the two 
Maruts (in general). This (offering) is 
creatures and for foe sake of the tranquility of the •creatures, 
the offering to Maruts become (one) on seven: 




produces by means of these foregoing offerings. Therefore (is this offering 
made) for Heaven and Earth on a single potsherd. 

15 . Then therefore, there is verily this procedure: He (the sacriffcer) does 
not raise (use) the uttaravedi (the northern or extra altar), (He thinks), "‘Let 
everything be ( complete); let the offering be (made); let it be sacred to the 
Visvedevas ’’.The sacred grass (harhk) is tied into three (bunches) and that (the 
three) again becomes one (bigger bunch). Thus is indeed the form of 
procreation. This is verily procreation. This procreation is indeed made 
threefold (in three ways). (There is) the father, (there is) the mother, what i$ 
born.—that is the third. Therefore (is) sacred grass tied in three ways (into three 



















1 . 4 . 3 . 17 ] 


translation 


109 


sides-the creatures that are upward (straight) here and that are bent 
(downward) here. Therefore is it that there is group of nine fore-offerings and 
a group of nine after-offerings. 6 

17. He offers three ‘Samista Yajus'. (That would make the sacrifice 
well-performed) Because this (ritual) (consists of) a group of nine 
fore-offenngs and a group of nine after-offerings, this is better than a ham: 
yajna. \ et, one may offer one oblation only (one samista yajus). Indeed this (also) 
is a kawryajna. He who knowing thus, sacrifices with this (offering), is bom (i.e. 
reproduces) verily and attains wealth (splendour), in the same manner, (attains 

the progeny and wealth) which accrued to Prajapati on his thus performing this 
sacrifice. ® 

(Third Brahmana Ends) 


(Chapter Four ends) 




1 . 5 . 1 . 6 ] 


TRANSLATION 


111 


Chapter Five 

BRAHMAN AI 

1. Indeed,Prajapati created the creatures (progeny) by means of (an offering 
to) ‘All Gods’ (ViSvedevas). They, the created beings of this (Prajapati), ate up 
the barley (com) of Varuna.Originally, barley verily belonged to Vanina. Then, 
because they verily ate the barley of Varuna/hence, indeed they are known as 
‘ Yarunapraghdsd \ 

2. Varuna, verily, captured them. Captured by Varuna,they lay down and sat 
down, merely breathing in and breathing out, having been rent. Only the 
inhalation and exhalation of breath did not go out of them. Then all other 
faculties went out. Because of those two (breaths), they did not perish indeed. 

3. Prajapati treated them with this oblation. He released from Varuna s noose 
(bondage) both the kinds of creatures of his,-those which had been bom and 
those that were (yet) unborn. His creatures were then born without disease and 
without evil (blemish). Because this (sacrificer) performs the sacrifice with this 
(offering) in the fourth month, Varuna does not seize his progeny at all in that 
manner. He releases both kinds of progeny from Vanina’s noose—those that 
have already been born and those that are not (yet) bom. Those children of his 
>are born without disease and without blemish. Therefore indeed,.-does-this 

(sacrificer) perform the sacrifice with this (offering) in the fourth month, 

4. At that (sacrifice) there are two altars and two fires. From both sides, 

;„ /thp carrifirerl releases the DFosenv icreatures) from V s&ritria s noose. 











1 . 5 . 1 . 13 } 


TRANSLATION 


11S 


(in return) to one who has (already) done a good turn. He thus treats the 
creatures (progeny) verily with exhalation and inhalation. He places (infuses! 
exhalation and inhalation into the creatures. Therefore is this (offering) 
dedicated to Indra and Agni (together). 

7. In both (fires) there are two (offerings of) curds. Indeed creatures 
originated from milk; they exist well because of milk. Therefore, where from 
they came into being and because of which they exist,-with that very thing, he 
releases these creatures thus on both sides from Vanina’s noose-the creatures 
that are before this and that are (will be) after (those that are upright here and 
those that look downward here). Therefore there are two (offerings of) curds in 
both (fires). 

8. The northern one (the one offered in the fire in the north) is dedicated to 
Varuna. Indeed Varujia captured these (creatures). He (the sacrificer) directly 
releases the creatures (progeny) thus from Vanina’s noose, through,verily, the 
offering to Varuna. (The offering made in the south (fire) is dedicated to 
Maruts. (It is) verily for non-repetition (that) the offering to Manats (is made). 

For, if both (the offerings) were dedicated to Varuna, he (the sacrifker) 
would indeed be committing a repetition. Moreover, the Maruts wished to kill 
the creatures of Prajapati, from the south. (Prajapati) propitiated, them with 
this share. Hence (in the fire in) the south (is made) the offering dedicated to 
Maruts. 


9. Verily, on both of them (curds), be scatters Karim fruits. Prajapati indeed 
brought about happiness to the creatures with Kama frails. Thus, • this 
(sacrificer too) verily brings about happiness to the creatures. 

10. On both indeed, he puts £amt leaves. Prajapati verily brought about 
happiness to the creatures by means of $am leaves. This (sacrificer too) thus 

brings about happiness to the creatures. 

11. There is an offering dedicated to Prajapati, on one potsherd, indeed. 
Prajapati brought about happiness to the creatures by means of the offering 
dedicated to *ka (Prajapati) on a single potsherd. This (sacrificer lew), then 
brings about happiness to the creatures. 



© 


sairaai 




H 

























1 . 5 . 1 . 26 ] 


TRANSLATION 



Thus she releases the children (progeny) from VarunaYnoosc, verily through 

the union (pair). 

22 . Prior to sacrifice, prior to the oblations, she makes the offering. For, 
indeed, the common subjects are not consumers of offerings; verily the Maruts 
are the common subjects (of gods). Therefore she offers before the sacrifice and 
before the oblations. Where then the creatures of Prajapati lay down and sat 
themselves having been torn, there did the Maruts destroy their sin (hurt). 
Similarly, indeed the Maruts destroy the sin (harm) of the children of this 
(sacrificer). 

23 . She offers (saying), “What (sin was) commited in the village, what (was 
committed) in the forest”, for sin is commited in the village and in the forest. 
(She says), “What (was commited) in the hall (in the society among the people) 
and what (was committed) in the senses”. She verily says (means),‘in the case of 
men”, when she says, “What in the hall (in society)?*(By) “What in the senses’* 
she verily says (means) this, “Towards the gods”. Indeed a sin is committed 
towards the gods or towards men. (She says),” What sin we have commit ted here, 
we do expiate that- svahd ”. She verily says (means) this, “What sin we have 
committed here, we are released from that”. 

24 . He then mutters (the chant) addressed to I.rtdra and referring to the 














27, Ha 
TheHoti 
theAdhv 
the Agiii 
offering 
offering) 
the spool 
nine fore 



















1 . 5 . 1 . 36 ) 


TRANSLATION 


121 


Indeed the Marats are the subjects. Verily female is without virility. Thus he 
indeed makes the subject lacking in virility (strength), 

33. Then he says, ‘Make the (invitation) call for Vanina”. Then he places the 
(barley) ram (into the offering spoon) along with one of the two cutting up (of 
the ghee); stepping beyond and calling attention, he says,‘'Worship (recite the 
offering prayer for) Vanina". He offers (pours out the libation) after Vasal has 
been pronounced. 


34. Then touching the upper hem of (the garment of)the Pratiprasihatr the 
Adhvaryu says,“Make the invitation call for the MarutsTThen the Pratiprasihatr 
places the (barley) ewe, along with the other cutting up of ghee, (into the 
offering spoon). (But) Adhvaryu himself calls for attention and says, 
“Pronounce the offering prayer for the Marats (worship of the Marats)" when 
Vasat has been pronunced, he(Pratiprasthatr) pours out the oblation (into the 
fire). 


35. Then the Adhvaryu proceeds with the oblation, on a single potsherd, 
dedicated to (ha) Prajapati. Having performed (offered) with the (offering to) 
ha, on a single potshered, (he says) “Make the invitation cal] for Agni-Simtmkrt ” 
The Adhvaryu cuts up (portions) from all the offerings, but the Prat.iprast.hatr 
(cuts up) only of the one dedicated to the Maruts.(The Adhvaryu >step$ beyond, 
calls attention and says, “Worship (pronounce the offering prayer for) Agrar- 


Svhtakrt'\ After 


v 7 T 


moimced he nmirs out the libation (into 


mm 










































1.5.2.4] 


TRANSLATION 


verily perishes). Only with this sacrifice (Full Moon sacrifice), that is regular 
(properly performed), he (the sac rifle er) ultimately gets established. 

(First Brahamana Ends) 

brahamana II 

1. Prajapati released the creatures from Vanina's noose indeed by means of 
> Varumpraghdsas\ Those creatures of his were bom without disease and without 
blemish. Now with these Sakancdhas —indeed by means of the Sfikaxtedhcts did 
the gods kill Vrtra. Verily with these only they attained this victory which victory 
is theirs. In that manner, indeed, does this (sacrificer) destroy his evil hateful 
enemy by means of these (Sokamedhas) arid verily similarly conquers (becomes 
glorious). He indeed performs (this sacrifice) every day, for two days. 

2. On the previous day (the first day) he offers an oblation iPurodma) on eight 
potshbrds to Agni-Anikavat . For,the gods who would kill Vttra on the morning 
(of the morrow) went forward (towards Vrtra), making Agni a sharp point (of 
weapon) (of making Agni the leader). That ‘effulgence’, Agni did not suffer 
(did not feel any pain). So also, this (sacrificer) too moves forward making Agni 
himself as a point (of weapon) (or a leader), in order to kill the evil hateful 
enemy. Therefore he offers a purodma on eight potsherds toAgmAmkmml. 

3. Then at mid-day he offers a cam (boiled rice) to the MamU—Smiapams} 
(Maruts the scorchers). For indeed the Manus, being scorchers, scorched Vrrra, 
Having been scorched, merely breathing in and breathing out,breathtiig heavily 
lie lay, torn all over. In the same manner do the scorching Maruts scorch, at 
midday, the wicked hateful enemy of this sacrificer. Therefore does be offer 
cam, at midday to the Maruts-Santapamis. 

4 . Then (he offers a cam) to ManM-Grhamedhim (Marius tbelfmtsrtit'jlders) 
in the afternoon. Having removed the calves with a leafy turf ami having drawn 
the milk into a vessel that has a purifying (device) (tuft of sanrifioaJ .grass), he 
heats this cam over a fire. All that is indeed a cam wherein they put rice grains 
(for cooking). About to kill Vrtra on the (following) morning, the gods tod 
(consumed) this nourishment within themselves. In that manner, indeed, this 
sacrificer (too) who is about to destroy his wicked hateful enemy, takes into 
himself nourishment in that he has rnilkfood. Indeed milk is wtirislinimt; 
nourishment are grains of rice. He (the sacrificer) takes into himself verily this 
twofold nourishment 



1.5.2.103 


TRANSLATION 


i >i>7 

X &M f 


5. For it there is a twofold method (two methods) of performance. The same 
altar is strewn with a covering (of sacrificial grass). They place the enclosing 
sticks and pieces (of wood) near it. He verily wipes clean the dipping spoon and 
the offering spoon. Having washed two small plates or two dishes, he takes this 
cooked rice in two parts in them. Having made a depression in those two 
(dishes) for pouring ghee and having poured ghee and having taken them (the 
two vessels) up, he rushes to that very altar. Having touched that altar covered 
(with sacrificial grass) and having placed the enclosing sticks around (the fire), 
he puts (into the fire) as many sticks as he likes. He places the (vessels of) two 
rice foods down. TheHotr sits on the Hon A seat.Taking up the dipping spoon 
and the offering spoon (The Adhvaryu) says. 

6. “Make the (invitation) call for Agrii”, with reference to Agni’s share of the 
ghee. He cuts up (and takes) four times; of the ghee of the southern rice-fax!; 
having stepped beyond and having called attention, he says, “Worship 
(pronounce the offering prayer for) AgniT When Yamt has teen uttered, he 
pours the libation (into the fire). 

7. He says, “Make the call (of invitation) for Soma 5 ’, about Soma's share of the 
ghee. He cuts up (and takes) four times, of the ghee of the northern rice-lax;!. 
Having stepped beyond and having called attention he says, “WorshipSoma". 
When Vasal has been pronounced, he makes the offering. 


8. Then he says, “Make the call (of invitation) for Mtmd-Gmkamedkim’ n , He 
spreads (covers) the sourtfeem rice-food with the ghee from itself, mates two 
cuttings from it, sprinkles it with ghee but does not smear k over the two cut op 
(portions). Having stepped across and having called attention, he says, 
“Worship the Marut’~Grkamedhim He makes the offering after ¥mm$ has teen 
pronounced. 


9. Then he says, “Make the (invitation) call for Agni-Svisfy^rf', lie spreads 
(covers) the northern rice-food with the gkee fmm itself, makes two cuttings 
from it, sprinkles it with gkee .(but) .docs not smear the two cut up (jxirttons); 
having stepped beyo-nd and having called attention, he says, “Worship 
Svistokrt”. When Vasat has been pronounced, he makes the offering. He cuts up 
only Ida and not Prahtm. (the fore-portion that belongs to.&mhmm). ‘"This, 
indeed, is one way (of performance). 


10, Now the second (mode of performance);-— 

That very altar becomes covered (with sacrificial grass). They place the 
enclosing sticks and pieces (of wood) nearby. He wipes dean the dipptitii §jk®r 
and also the offering spoon. In the same way (as before) tovtag uMikecI in (a 
vessel) that has a .purifier (bunch of sacred grass), he cooks the mm., Meatfly fee 
heats up the ghee in a pot. When fee thinks it has been mooted, then be removes 
it after haring sprinkled (ghm over) it. Having removed it, fee Messrs h fwitti 



1.5.2.16] 


TRANSLATION 


129 


ghee). Having taken it up along with the salt earth (smeared on the outer 
underside of the pot), he hastens (towards) the altar. Having touched that very 
altar that has been covered (with holy grass) and having placed the enclosing 
sticks around (the altar), he places (in the fire) as many pieces (of wood) as he 
likes. He places down this food with the vessel, with the (smeared) earth (on the 
outside bottom of the vessel). He places the (pot of) ghee down nearby.The Hotr 
sits onthe Hotr’s seat.(The Adhvaryu),taking up the dipping spoon and offering 
spoon, says, 

11. “Make the (invitation) call for Agni”, with reference to Agni’s share of 
ghee. He cuts up (and takes four times from the ghee in the pot. Having stepped 
beyond and having called attention, he says, “Worship Agni”. When Vasat has 
been pronounced, he makes the offering. 

12, He says, “Make the call (of invitation) for Soma”,regarding Soma's share 
of the ghee. He cuts up (and takes) four times, of the ghee from the pot. Having 
stepped beyond and having made the call for attention he says, “Worship 
Soma”. He makes the offering after Vasat has been pronounced. 


13. Then he says, “Make the call (of invitation) for Marui~Grketmedhms'\ He 
spreads ghee (in the offering spoon). Then he cuts up (and takes) two times of 
the earn. He sprinkles ghee (over it) and smears the two cut up portions (with 
ghee) (reanoints that part from where the cuttings have been made). Haring 
stepped beyond and having called attention, he says, “ worship the Meant- 
Grhamedhins After Vasal has been uttered, he makes the offering. 


14. Then he says,“Make the call (of invitation) for Agni 











1 . 5 . 3.1 ] 


TRANSIATION 


(of a hundred sacrifices) let us, (you and me) exchange (sell to each other) 
sustenance and strength as for price. This is verily just as is the fiurmuv&kya 
(prayer of invitation). With this (call), indeed, he (the sacrificer) invites Mm 
(Indra) for this share. 

17. Then they call up a bull. If he should bellow, that (bellowing) is the 
Vasatkdra (permissive utterance for offering) . What is the form of the bull, this 
verily is the form of Indra. (Thus) he (the sacrifker) calls this (Indra) with his 
own form for (accepting) this share and for Wiling Vrtra with this share . If ( the 
bull) should bellow, he (the sacrificer) should understand, “Indra has come to 
my sacrifice. My sacrifice has Indra (is with Indraf Jf (the bull) may not. bellow, 
even then a Brahmin (priest) seated to the south may say, “Perform the Hmm’\ 
That verily is the expression (voice) of Indra. 

18. He makes the offering (chanting)/‘Give to me, I give to you. Bestow on 
me, I bestow on you. I offer to you a present. You give me a present— SuifcT. 

19. Then he makes an offering of purodMa on seven potsherds to 
'Marut-Krilins (Maruts—the spotters). Indeed Maruts are spotters. Praising 
him all around, indeed the Maruts sported around Indra who had come, who 
was going, to kill Vrtra. In that, same manner, the sportive Maruts praising him, 
sport around this (sacrificer) who is going to kill his evil hateful enemy. 
Therefore does he offer a purodam on seven potsherds to the sportive Msnit*. 
(The reason) why it is on seven potsherds is that the host of Maruts (is tn| groups 
of seven each. 

(Second Brahamana Ends) 




1.5.3.10] 


TRANSLATION 


m 


2. Its method (of performance) -He spreads the northern altar (with sacred 
grass). (He binds up the northern altar). He takes up (uses) dotted ghee. He 
churns the fire. There are (in this sacrifice) nine fore-offerings, nine 
after-offerings and three 'Samista-yaju *'.Then there are these (following) five 
oblations. 


3. That (the oblation) is one dedicated to Agni (because) thev (the gods) 
killed him (Vrtra) with Agni, with sharpness. That sharp Agni did not suffer 
(did not feel pain). Therefore there is (an oblation) dedicated to Agni, cm eight 
potsherds. 

4. (There is) a cam (offering) dedicated to Soma. (The gods), verily having 
Soma as their king, killed him (Vrtra). Therefore there is a mru (offering) 
dedicated to Soma. 

5. Then there is (an offering) dedicated to Savitr on twelve potsherds or on 
eight potsherds. Indeed Savitr is the producer (inspirer) of the gods, Produced 
(inspired) by Savitr, indeed did they kill this (Vrtra). 'Therefore there is (art 
offering) dedicated to Savitr, of twelve potsherds, or of eight potsherds. 

6. (Then there is offered) a cam dedicated to Sarasvatf. Indeed speech is 
Sarasvati. She verily cheered him (India) up (saying), “Attack, strike, fciir. 
Hence (the offer of) a cam dedicated to Sarasvati. 

7. (Then there is an offering of) a cam dedicated to Pusan. Verily this earth is 
Pusan (the nourisher). Indeed she surrendered him for killing. They (gods) 
killed this (Vrtra) who was given up by this (earth). Therefore (isoffered) a mm 
dedicated to Pusan. 

8. (The oblation) dedicated to Indra and Agni (together) is on twelve 

potsherds. For indeed by means of that, they killed this (Vrtra);Agni isBiihmm 
(the priest). Indra is Ksatra. (ruler). Having excited Brahman and tvsatra and 
having made them close together, through those two, they (gods) indeed killed 
this (Vrtra). Thus does he (the sacrificer) rast&Brahntan Ksatra (fee close) 

together. Hence are Brahman and Kyatra together. 

9. There (is offered) a cam dedicated to Mahcwica (Indra the CireM). This 
(god) was verily Indra before the kilting of Vrtra .Then he killed Vrtra, Just as 
(a king) (after) conquering (becomes) a great king (MMrijah so ah® (Indra 

, became) Mahendra too. Therefore k a mm dedicated to Mukemim. Thereby Ik 
( the sacrificer) makes this (Indra) great (strong) for kiihpig V ftfft* 

JO. (Then, there is an oblation offered) dedicated to Vtsvmkafman a single 
potsherd. This action of gods who performed the sKrifkes ^ 

complete (coTOptelteMitcK by which all cow|ucyt^ So sho ^ 

■becomes done and everything (becomes conquered) for one who pmimtm the 



1 . 5 . 3 . 10 ] 


TRANSLATION 


135 


Sfikamedha sacrifice. He who knowing this performs a sacrifice thus with this 
(Sakamedha), verily conquers and attains splendour, which conquest and what 
splendour those gods attained after having performed with this (SShamedha) 
(sacrifice). 

(Third Brahmana Ends) 


(Chapter Five ends) 




means of theP^r-v^nfl(sacrifice to the fathers), they impelled (brought) back to 
life among them whom they (the Asuras)had killed in that battle. They became 


the fathers (Pitrs) indeed. Hence it is known as Pitr-yajna. 


2. Now, spring, summer, the rains- these (seasons) are in which they 
conquered; autumn, snow and winter-these are those in which thev (the gods) 

















1 . 6 . 1 . 11 ] 


transition 


139 


south he thrushes (the rite). He places the Drsud and UfMila (the two stones used 
for grinding) on the south itself. He places the six potsherds on the southern 
portion of the G arhapatya. That they take to this direction (south) is (because) 
this is verily the quarter of the manes. Indeed south of the Anii&karwptimtm 
(Dakmmgni) he builds up a square altar. He makes the corners (of the altars) 
towards the intermediate quarters. For the intermediate quarters are t he manes, 

8. In its midst, he lays down the fire. From the east the gods (come) to men in 
the west. Therefore he (man) offers to these (gods), (himself) standing (facing) 
east. All around (in all the directions) (everywhere) are the Pitrs. Indeed the 
intermediate quarters are the manes. AH around (on all skies) are there 
intermediate quarters. Therefore he lays down the fire in the middle. 

Then he takes away (throws) the bunch of st umps of sacred grass to the east, 



9. Then he takes up (makes) the first enclosure (of the altar), this (ride) first, 
then this and then this. (He) scratches (draws lines). (He) removes what has to 
be removed there (the dust).Then taking up (making) the next (second) 
enclosure, he places (in it) the (vessels of) sprinkling water. They place the 
firewood (sticks) and barhis (the sacrificial grass) near it. He wipes the spoons 
dean. Here he does not involve his wife (for the ritual), thinking,“If not, I max 
be placing (her) amidst the Pitn'\ He then wears (changes his sacred thread to) 
yajnopavita position (over his left shoulder and under his right anti) m order to 
take up (before taking up) the ghee. 

10. About that, they say, “He should take (ladle out) twice mi the 
there are two after-offerings (in this sacrifice), thinking, “If not, I may 
from the procedure of the sacrifice”. Having taken up the gte, lie again wears 
the sacred thread in prmitminta position before sprinkling (water). 

11. First he verily sprinkles the fire wood (with water), then theater. Then 

they hand over the sacrificial grass to him. That (btmefa) of sacrificial grass has 
been cut near the root, for the top verily is of gods, the middle verify for mem and 
the bottom (root) verily of the mattes. Therefore, it is cut near die tool. Having 
sprinkled it (with water) and having taken it-very close, - he does wot take field 
of the prastara, for the fathers have departed once for all-ami having nutted the 
knot, he moves thrice, from right to left (in the manna' (around the 

altar) spreading (the sacrificial grass) thrice from right to left. He reserves from 
that (bunch of sacred grass) itself as much as would serve as pmmi&m htswch 
with them, he again moves thrice from left to right (in the pm4®kmt§ manner 
(around the altar). Those three (groups of) Pitrs wi««a be fellows (first, 

m comes towards this-, his-own world, fie .few sipwtt 



1 . 6 . 1 . 16 ] 


TRANSLATION 


Hi 


12. Then he lays the l juhu\ then the *upabhrt then the ‘dhruva then the 
purodasa , then the fried grains and then the mixture of flour and curds (in this 
order). After thus having placed (them in this order) and after thus having 
touched the oblations, all wear their sacred threads in the * upavita' position. 
From here, the Agnidh moves round to the east (of the fire) and the saeri (Icel¬ 
and Brahman go round to the west. 


IS. Therefore do they perform this, in a low (muffled) voice; for verily the 
manes are invisible (concealed) as it were. This, viz., what is in a low voice 
(muffled) is verily, concealed as it were. They perform it in an enclosed space. 
The Pitrs are verily invisible (concealed), as it were. This, what is enclosed, is 
verily as if concealed (invisible). 


14. Now he says, “Make the (invitation) call for Agni who is being kindled”. 
He (Hotr) recites thrice this one Samidhmi (kindling chant),“Being Desirous, we 
place you. Being desirous let us kindle you. Being desirous, bring here the 
desirous fathers for the oblations, to eat (the oblation)”. Why he recites (only) 
one chant (is because) indeed the fathers have passed away only once (once for 
all). 

15. Then he invokes Agni to convey (the gods and Pitrs) (saying), “Oh Agni, 
fetch Soma, fetch the Pitri-Somavats, fetch the Pifr-Barkmds, fetch the Pm 
Agriisvattds, fetch the Gods the consumers of ghee, fetch Agni for the function 
of Hotr,bring here your own greatness; Oh Jatavedas!(Oh knower of all that is 
bornl) fetch, do surely fetch here, “The good sacriftcer, you please offer the 
sacrifice”. So saying, having sprinkled ghee twice and having called attention the 
Adhvaryu-he does not ceremoniously choose the Hotr,(as he thinks), “If not,! 
may be" putting the Hotr amidst the Pitrs "-merely says, “Oh Hotr! please sit 
down”. The Hotr sits on the' Hotrs seat. Being permitted (prompted) the 
Adhvarvu,having taken up the two spoons and having stepped beyond and 
called attention says, “Worship (utter the offering prayer for) S&mAs (kmdfeig 
sticks)”. He makes the four fore-offerings excluding the one utBmtet. “For the 
Barkis is indeed progeny ?If not, I might be putting the progeny (sty off-spring) 
amidst the Pitrs”. —(thus he thinks). Therefore does he -offer the four 
fore-offerings omitting the one to Bursts.Having proceeded with the 
of) two gfec-shares, before performing the h&vis offerin 
perform hams offerings to Ftps),all put on the pf'&a fti&vt _ 
thread. From, here, the Brahma and-the sacrifeer move found to the east and 

Agnidh to the west (of the fire). 

16. Moreover, they call attention as, Om J Svt 

call is,“Let there -be Svadhd'\ (in the place of) I'aset utterance, 
mmA” (obeisance). About that Asuri said, “Veriy they must matfxm, 
.{with’&foSwm as usual). They must make the respa*** caflrfastu as 
usual)** HTbey must utter V&$M (Acy should, not* I -iteli « 5 











m 


tne ratners nave passed away only once {once for all). 1 heretore, indeed, doe 
he recite two invitation- prayers. 

17. Then he( Adhvarv u) says “Make the call of invitation for the Ptir~S#mawts 


spreads (a layer of) the ghee (on the spoon), then makes a cutting of the 


porridge (mixture of flour and curds); thus he puts all at once (in the ptku) 
Having sprinkled ghee on it twice, he pours (a little) ghee again (into wherefron 
he has taken) into the cut parts of sacrificial food. He does not walk beyond 
Here itself, having risen and having made the cal for attention, he says 


£fa it, c 
















translation 


MS 


21. (The reason) that he does not move bevnnd (the fire) is that the fathers 
have passed away only once (once for all). And (the reason) that he cuts up ontv 
once each time (from the sacrificial dishes) is that the fathers have passed away 
only once (once for all). And that he cuts up keeping (them) together is that the 

seasons are the Pitrs thus he keeps together the seasons themselves. He unite, 
the seasons, 

22. Now then (about) lid — Then they place this same in the palm of Hot? . 
Having addressed (invoked) it, the Hotr smells it. They give it to Agnidh. The 
Agnidh smells it. They give it to the Brahman. The Brahman smells it. About 
this Asm i said, Just as they cut up I la and Pradtra of any other sacrifice, in 
the same manner they should cut up; they should only smell (but) should 
not consume (itf.Indeed (a part) of that which they offer in the'fire is to be 
consumed. Thus having invoked lid and having wiped (it)—*, 

23. Now, whoever (of the two)is going to present,whether it h the Adhvaryu 
or the sacrificer, he, having taken the vessel of water and having moved round 
(the altar) from right to left, sprinkling (water),should wash (pour out water for 1 
the father of the sacrificer, saying, “(Name of the father in the vocative!) Wash 
(yourself)”, (then) the grandfather of the sacrificer, saving, “(Name of the 
grandfather in vocative!) Wash, yourself” and then the great grandfather of the 
sacrificer, saying, “(Name of the great grandfather in vocative!) Wash yourself*. 
—This is just in'the manner one would pour out water for-washing for theme 
(guests) who were going to take food. 

24. Then he cuts up (a part) of the cake that he keeps in his left pfem. He cuts, 

up (a portion) of the fried grains; he keeps in his left palm. He cuts up a portion 
of the porridge; that he keeps in his left palm. He presents it there its that 
intermediate direction towards which is this corner (of the squarish altarf im the 
north-western part) (in the fire) to the father of the sacrificer, saying,“fName of 
the father in vocative)! This is for you” (And) then he presents fin that 
intermediate direction towards which is this corner (in the umth-weuem part* 
to the grandfather of the sacrificer, saying,“(Name of the grandfather ui the 
vocative)! 'Hiis is for you”. And then he presents it there in that isitemteclate 
direction towards which is this corner (in the south-eastern part) to the great 
grandfather of the sacrificer, saying, “(Name of the great grandfather m 
vocative!) This is for you”. And then, there towards which is this comer (north 
east) he cleanses his two palms saying, “Oh fathers'! Take delight here. Art like 
bulls towards your particular shares”. Here he verily says (means), "Eat 
according to your share”. This is (done) so that fee don'isot exclude his fathers 
from this sacrifice. Having gone out (of the shed) northward, ai wear their 
sacred threads in the YajftopavUa way (over the left itsider the 'right 

arm). 




1 . 6 . 1 . 28 ] 


translation 


14? 


25 * T t he I f? n * b ? (worshl P> the Ahavamya. Indeed, this person who. having 
established his fires, sacrifices with the New Moon and Full Moon sacrifice*" 
returns to the gods. But then, they have (just now) proceeded with the sacrifker 
to the manes. He keeps this (concealed) from those gods themselves to whom 
he returns. Therefore they worship with two (chants) addressed to Indra. 
Indeed Indra is the Ahavaniya—“(Our)dear persons (friends) have eaten; thev 
have rejoiced. They have shaken (they shook their dear bodies r (in satisfaction). 
(The) shook off their enemies). The wise, w ho have their own imagination, 
have extolled (you) with the newest (praise). Oh Indra! Verily yoke your two 
horses which are (like) thoughts (in speed). “Oh great one! May we adore (make 
obeisance to) you who are very good looking. Praised (thus) do you go forth with 
vour chariot filled (with equipment)—according to our desires.Verily yoke vour 
two horses”. 

26. Then (the) come to) the G(tvh(ip&tya, (and worship it) —“We invoke the 
mind indeed with the string of verses of Naramtim (that praise man) and with 
the hvmns of the manes. May the mind come back to us for wisdom, dexterity 
and life, foi us to see the Sun for long! May the divine being. Oh father!Give 
us out mind again! May we be linked (associated) with the living group. Verily 
have they pet formed this with a sacrifice to the manes. From that they again get 
back to the living beings. Therefore does he say. “May we be associated with 
living beings”. 

27. Then whoever of the two, whether the Adhvaryu or the sacrifices’, he, 
having gone up (towards the fire), mutters, “The fathers have taken delight. 
They have acted like bulls towards their particular shares”. 'He verily says 
(means) this, “The fathers have eaten according to their (individual) share”. 
Then having taken up the water-vessel, he moves round (the altar) from left to 
right thrice, sprinkling water. (Saying) “(Name in vocative)!” “Wash yourself 5 
(he pours water for washing) to the sacrificed father, and to the sacrifker's 
grandfather saying, “(Name in vocative!) Wash yourself* and to the saoificeris 
great grandfather saying, “(Name in vocative!) Wash yourself* This isjttst m 
one would make those who have eaten,wash (themselves). But that fee moves 
round (the altar) thrice from left to right sprinkling (water) (mean’s) he returns 
towards this, his own world, from verily those three Pitn whom he has been 
following. 

28. Then loosening the tuck of his garment (at his navel), he pe ifa qi 
prostration. For the navel tuck has indeed the manes m its divinity. Indeed 'the 
obeisance is sacrifice. Thus he makes the Pitrs worthy of sacrifice. He prostrate* 
himself six times. Verily six are the seasons; the seasons are i he manes. He thus 
establishes this sacrifice; Indeed, in the seasons. He says, “Oh fathers! Give its 
homes”. This indeed is his prayer for blessing of this ritual. Verity the maties 
have power over the homes. Therefore does he say, *Ott fathers! Give 'ns 




1.6.2,1} 


TRANSLATION 


149 


homes”. Thereafter, all wear their sacred threads in the upavSta position, from 
here, the sacrificer and the Brahman go round(around the altar) to the west and 
the Agnldh (moves) (around the altar) to the East. The Hotr sits on the 
Hotr’s seat. 

29. Then the Adhvaryuprompts,“Oh Agnldh! putting the kindling sticks (in 
the fire), trim the fire”.“Brahman, we are going to start”. Having taken the two 
spoons, having crossed to the western side and having called attention, the 
Adhvaryu says," Worship (pronounce the offering prayer for) the gods”. He 
offers two after-offerings, omitting the Barkis. Indeed progeny is Barkis. 
(Thinking). “If not, I might be putting the progeny admidst the manes”. 
Therefore he performs (only) the two after-offerings avoiding the Barkis 
(offering). 


30. Placing the two spoons, he separates them. Having separated the two 
spoons, having anointed (with ghee) the enclosing sticks, having taken up the 
enclosing sticks, and having called attention (for Sraiisat) the Adhvary u says, 
“The divine Hotrshave been desired (called upon)to pronounce auspiciousness 
(welfare). The human (Hotr) has been prompted (desired) for the recitation of 
hymnsTThe Hotrtakes up (recites) the hymns. This person (the Adhvaryu)does 
not take up the ‘prastara' (spread out bunch of sacrificial grass). 

Then the Agnldh says,“Put it (into the fire) after”. The Adhvaryu does not put 
anything after. Then the Agnldh (says), “Speak cordially”. The Adhvaryu tasks), 
“Has he gone, Oh Agnldh!” (Agnldh says) - “He has gone (Adhvaryu says) 
“Make (the gods) hear”. (The Agnldh says) ramaf ’ (may the gods hear). “May 
there be a good-going to the divineHotrs. May there be well-being for the 
humans (human Hotrs). The Hotr recites, “Samjok”. The Adhvaryu, having 
touched the enclosing sticks and gathering together the spoons, places (the 
spoons) on the wooden sword. Then he throws after the sacrtfkai grass (into the 
fire). Even there, some throw thereafter, the remaining sacrificial food (too) 
(into the fire). But one should not do it so.For it is indeed just like one offering 
the ‘left out’ in the fire. Therefore they may either take this (remaining hwts) 
to (throw it into) the water or they may eat it”. 

(First Rrahmana Ends) 

BRAHMAN AII 


1. Indeed the gods killed Vrtra by means of Makt&httvis (the great oblation). 
Thereby only, they won this victory which is theirs. Whomsoever among 
the arrows (of the Asuras)reached (hit) those vet 
(and) removed them in that they sacrificed with 
this (sacrificer) sacrifices with this {Tryambaka chant 

(with the thought) that no arrow (trouble) (will) reach any one bctaatfeg » km 
or that the gods performed (it). Whatever progeny of his km. 'been mm and 



(keeps) the two mile-stones verily (towards the) north. To the north of the 
Garhapalya does he place the potsherds. That they take to the north is because 
this is the quarter of that god. “They (the offerings) may be smeared (with 
ghee )"-they say, for the hams is anointed. But they should verily be uaaaqioted. 




















1.6.2.8] 


TRANSLATION' 


Indeed this thing that is scattered (buried) is as if concealed. (Concealed, as it 
were, are the unborn embryos. Therefore does he scatter (bury). 

6 . Then having returned (to his own seat) he mutters, “We have offered to 
Rudra and to god Trvambaka, so that he may make us wealthier and that he 
may make us determined (in our purpose). You are the medicine; medicine for 
the cow, the horse and medicine for men; welfare for the ram and the ewe he 
verily prays for this blessing thus. 

7. Then they go round (the altar) from right to left beating their thighs; 
(saying), “We worship Trvambaka the fragrant one, the mcreaser of 
nourishment (prosperity). May I be released from death like the cucumber 
from its stalk, but let me not be dissociated from immortality, fie verily 
prays for this blessing. This is verily happiness for one who will be 
released from death but not from immortality. Even there; maidens 
may go round saying, “May we resort to (share in) happiness .1 hat Ambtki who 
is the sister of this (Rudra), she verily has power over happiness for them (the 
maidens). Hence is their muttering,"*We worship I ryambaka, of fine fragrance, 
the one who bestows husbands. May we be released from here like the cucumber 
from the stalk, but not from there”. By “from here" she says (means) “ from my 
relatives’'. By “not from there” she says (means) “from the husbands”. Verily the 
husbands are the (firm) support for a woman. I here fore, indeed, do they 
(sacrificer and others) go round (the altar) from left to right again, muttering 
the same mantras, and saying, “Our ritual may be tightly performed . 

8. Then the sacrificer throws up these (remnants erf the offerings) as far 
(high) as a cow (the earth) may not get it. From themselves (their own bodies} 
they forge his (Rudra's)darts. (Again) desiring to get them (back), they touch 
them; they verily make it a medicine. Then, having packed it into two bastes, 
having attached them on both sides c *♦ a beam (of a balance) Of a bamboo, (oo 
his going northward), if he finds there* a tree, a post or an as# hill, lie should 
fasten them there, (saying), *Oh Rudra! With this prorisk® (for journey) go 
beyond the Mujavat (mountains). Indeed they (people) go on travel with 
provisions. Hence, he sends away this (Rudra) verily with thttp*nri**wi, towards 
where his journey is. Here his (Rudra's) journey is beyond Miijavats. Tlicrefae 
he savs, “Go beyond MujavatT. “With your how let loose (unstnmgf, Oh 
bearer of Pinaka!” He verily savs (means) this, “Not hurting ns, being 
auspicious, tranquil, go away”. “One wearing hide”, he verily mztezbm 
(Rudra) fall into sleep, for, one who is sleeping does rim hurt any one. They 
turn to the right side. They come without looking about I hey touch water; fait 
they have performed this (ritual) relating to Rudra. I lie waters sire jd*attiise*fct 
(of impurity or evil). Verily they are abatements. They reach (backjby 

(way) by which they go out. Haring shared off Ms hair (leaving; the tiritt **» 
beard, he takes ,up(withdraw*)the two fires. Verily after teats? shifted * 
















1,6.3.7] 


TRANSITION 


B7 


3* Its mock (of performance)' He does not prepare the Uttaraivdt (she 
northern altar). He does not take up dotted ghee. He does not churn the fire. 
There are (in the ritual) five fore-offerings, three after-offerings and a single 
Samista-yajus . 

4. And there are indeed these five (regular) oblations. Verily with these 
Prajapati created the creatures. By means of this, verily, did he release (them) 
from the noose of Varuna. By means of this, the gods killed Vrtra. This 
(sacrifker) having taken up the two verily by means of his (sacrifice), takes them 
into himself (makes them his own ) - the twcgviz., the spelndour which was of the 
gods who had sacrificed with Sakamdka (offerings) and who were victorious 
and the essence that, was of the year that had been won. Therefore, there are 
these five oblations. 

5. Now, the Sundsmya (offering) is a purodasa cm twelve potsherds. What we 
have stated is an explanation of Simusiriya. There is (an offering of milk 
dedicated to Vayu. It is inilk indeed that beings (just) born understand. “May 
the creatures recognize (understand/take to) me for (their) prosperity, glory 
and food" -so (he thinks) (and offers that) which is dedicated to Vayu. This 
verily is Vayu who blows (purifies). This Vayu indeed conceals whatever rain 
falls here. From the rains, plants spring up. (On the.cattle) eating plants and 
drinking water, this (milk) the essence of both, is produced. Verily this (Vayu) 
produces this. Therefore is (it) (an offering) to Vayu. 

6. Then, there is (an offering of) a pur&daM on a single potsherd dedicated to 
the Sun (Surya). Verily this ‘Sum’ protects all creatures, by good and by bad 
(means). He himself puts them under (some) a good (thing) and under (some) 
bad (thing). He (the sacrifker) (thinks), “Being pleased, may (the Sun) protea 
me with a good (means)-one who has attained victory; may he put me under 
a good (thing)”. Therefore is there a purnddm on a single potsherd, dedicated to 
* Surya 

7. For that (ritual) the fee is a white horse. That verily is the form of this 
(Surya) who scorches. If one cannot get a horse, there may be indeed a white 
bull (as fee). 






















I.6.4.8] 


TRANSLATION 


3. T hey, the gods said, “Engaged in conflict with the Asuras, with whom 
asking and with whom as leader shall we fight? Agni said, “(You may light) with 
me as king and with me as your leader”. For four months thev conquered verily 
with Agni as king and Agni as leader.They encompassed it with Brahman and 
the three fold learning (the three Vedas). 

4. (Then) they said, “With whom verily as king and with whom as leader shall 
we fight?’'. Vanina said, (“You will fight) Verily with me as king and with me 
as leader”. They conquered another four months, with verily Vanina the King 
and Varuna the leader. That they enclosed with Brahman and the threefold 
learning. 

5. (Then) They said, “With whom verily as king and with whom as leader 
shall we fight?” Indra said, “(You will fight.) verily with me as king and with me 
as leader”. With Indra verily as king and with Indra as leader, thev won another 
four months.That they encompassed with Brahman and the threefold learning. 
Having thus appropriated the entire year of the Asuras,the gods prospered 
along with Indra. Becasue they prospered along with Indra, hence (the 
sacrifices) are known as Sakamedhas. 

6. In that he sacrifices with Vais vadeva, he verily conquers four months with 
Agni himself as his king and Agni as leader. (In shaving) there is a porcupine’s 
quill with spots in three places. The razor is copper. With that he has the shave. 
The three-spotted quill of the porcupine is the form of the threefold knowledge. 
The copper razor is the fonn of Brahman.Indeed Agni is Brahman.Red-like is 
Agni. The copper razor is red-like. Therefore he (the priest) encompasses him 
with Brahman and threefold learning. 


7. Then, as he sacrifices with Vummpr&gh&w (offerings), he wins another 
four months with verily Varuna as his king and Vanina as the leader. There is 
the porcupine quill that has three spots; the razor is copper. With that be has 
the shave. The three-spotted porcupine quill is the fonn of the threefold 
knowledge. The copper razor is the form of Brahman. Verily Agni» Brahman. 
Indeed Aerni is red-like. The copper razor is red-like. Thus he eitcompassesiv 






I.6.4.9] 


TRANSLATION 


165 


9 . In that he sacrifices with Vaiivadeiw (offerings), he thereby verilv becomes 
Agni himself. He wins intimate union with Agni and residence in the same 
world as Agni, then as he sacrifices with Vamnapragh&sa (offerings}, thereby he 
verily becomes \ aruna himself; he wins intimate union with Vanina and 
residence in the same world as \aruiia. Then, as he sacrifices with S&kamfdha 
(offerings), thereby he verily becomes Indra himself; he wins intimate union 
with Indra and residence in the same W'orld as Indra. I hen, as he sacrifices with 
Sunfmriya (offerings), thereby he becomes Vayu himself; he wins intimate 
union with Vayu and residence in the same world as Vayu. In whatever season 
the performer of Caturmasya sacrifices goes to the yonder world that season 
hands him overto another season, that other one to yet another one (and so on). 
Thus the seasons, handing him over (from one to another), make him reach 
the supreme (highest) status and the supreme (highest) world. Therefore, thev 
say, They do not find the performer of the C&turmasya sacrifices; for he verilv 
conquers the very highest (supreme) world, the highest (supreme) conquest " " 

(Fourth Brahmana Ends) 

(Chapter Six ends) 


(EKAPAT kanda ENDS ) 



HAVIRYAJNA KANDA 

Chapter One 

BRAHMANA l 

_ 1. He, who is going to undertake a vow, touches water, standing between the 
Ahavamya and the Garhapatya (fires), standing (facing) eastward. (The reason) 
why he touches water is that man is indeed impure (sacrificial ly). Man issacrificiallv 
impure because he speaks untruth. By that (touching) is verily ‘sacrifice’. (He 
touches water, thinking), “Let me undertake the vow after becoming fit for 
sacrifice”. Water is pure (a purifier). (He touches water, thin king), “Let me assume 
the vow, after haring been purified by a purifier”. 

2. Looking at the Ahavamya , he assumes the vow, saying in the beginning, “Oh 
Lord of vows! I shall observe the vow. May I be capable of it! May it be accomplished 
forme . For, Agni is the Lord of vows for (towards) the gods. Verily, therefore, does 
he, who is going to observe this vow, say and report to him (Agni). “May I be capable 
of it! May it be accomplished for me”. Th ere is nothing concealed, as it were, here 
(in this expression) (it is obvious). 

3. When the morrow' (after the completion of the ritual) has arrived, at the 
conclusion he leaves off (the vow, ceremoniously) saving, “Oh Agni, Lord of vows! 

I have conducted the vow. I have been capable ofit. It has been accomplished for 
me.” He has been capable in that he has reached the completion of the sacrifice. 
He who has reached the completion of the sacrifice has verily succeeded. Most (of 
the sacrifices) commence this way. Or, one who may give direction may take it up 
in this following (way). 

4. This is verily twofold, there is no third. (It is) indeed truth and untruth. Of 
them, truth is the gods, untruth, the men. He should commence (the vow) saying, 
“Here, now! reach truth from untruth”. By that he goes to the gods from men. As 
long as he is under the control of the vow, so long should he desire to speak only 
the truth. Indeed, the gods keep this one vow, viz. Truth. From that (comes) glory. 
He who speaks the truth, knowing it to be thus, indeed becomes glorious. 



II. 1.1.9] 


TRAN SI AT I ON 


5. Then, at the completion, when the morrow has arrived, he leaves off (the vow) 
saying. Now I am verily what I am”. In that one has commenced a vow, he now 
becomes non-human (superhuman), as it were. He becomes a man again bv this 
(cei emonial ending of the vow). Who will, indeed, say, “I now reach untruth from 
truth?” When he says, “I am now' verily the same person that I am”. By that itself he 
becomes a man (again). So is it indeed regarding the undertaking of a vow. 

6 . Now, regarding eating and non-eating from now on—on this (point) Asalha 
Savayasa considered only non-eating (fasting) as a vow. ‘The gods verily know the 
mind of man , so he said, They know this about him who embarks upon a vow-— 
This man is going to sacrifice to us in the morning. All the gods repair to his house. 
They remain there this (whole) night, fasting (or this whole night they keep near 
him). Hence it (the previous night) is upavasatha. It is indeed improper that one 
should eat before men who live (with him) eat. Verily it won Id be improper that one 
should eat before the gods who live (with him) eat. Therefore he should not eat”. 

7. About that, Ylynavalkya said, “If he does not eat, he becomes one haring the 
manes as his deity (a sacrifieer to the manes); (he becomes) one without virility”. 
If he eats of that of which they (the gods) receive as oblation, then he eats before 
the gods who stay (with him) have eaten. Therefore he may verily eat that which 
when eaten, still amounts to not having been eaten. “So did he say indeed”. When 
he verily eats of what they (gods) do not receive (as oblation) thereby he becomes 
one who does not (now) have the manes as his deity; (he remains) one possessed 
of virility. That he eats of that of which they (the gods) do not receive as oblation, 
thereby verily he does not eat before the gods who dwell (with him). Therefore he 
may eat only something which is indeed (the produce) of a forest tree. 

8. And Barku Varsna also said, “Cook beans for me, for (the gods) do not receive 
an oblation of them”. It verily relates to what is beyond comprehension for the 
pulse grain is what makes rice (paddy) and barley swell up (by being added to 
them). Paddy (rice) and barley indeed become abundant with this (pulse added 
to them). Therefore, one may eat only something which is (the produce) ofa forest 
tree. 

9. This night he should be down (sleep) only in either the Akavamya apartment 
or the Garhapatya apartment. For, he who commences a vow goes indeed to the 
gods. He sleeps thus verily amidst them, gods, to whom he goes. He should lie down 



II.1.1.14] 


TRANSLATION 


/ 


under (on the ground); for the respectful treatment of the better one (by a lower 
one) is from below, as it were. Even (on) getting up, he verily takes to water only, 
by his first action. Verily water is ‘sacrifice’. He verily commences the sacrifice by 
this first action now. He fetches the waters. Thus he expands the sacrifice indeed. 

10. He brings (the water ceremoniously) with these indeterminate utterances. 
Who joins your (Prajapati joins you)”. “He joins you”, “For what (purpose) does 

hejoin you (for Prajapati does he join you) ”. “For him (that) hejoins you”. Indeed 
Prajapati is the undefined (not particularly defined as something) sacrifice. (He 
represents all sacrifices). Thus he verily joins (unites, yokes) Prajapati himself 
(who is) the sacrifice. 

11. That he indeed fetches water (ceremoniously) is (because) that all this 
(universe) is verily pervaded by ‘Waters’. By even this first act, he (the sacrifice] ) 
obtains everything: whatever (even) the Hotr or Adhvaryu or Brahman or Agnrdh 
or the Yajamana himself does not obtain, all that of this (sacrifice) (the sacrificer) 
verily obtains by means of this. 

12. Moreover, why he brings water is this: The Asuras and the Raksasas prevented 
the gods who were performing sacrifice, saying, “You shall not sacrifice ”. Therefore 
they are (came to be called) Raksasas. Then indeed did the gods (found) 
discovered the thunderbolt, viz. water. Indeed the waters are thunderbolt. There¬ 
fore, by what (way) they (waters) go, that becomes a depression; where thev are 
near (anything), they destroy it (burn it up). Then they (the gods) took it up. 
Having destroyed (driven away) the destructive Asuras with it, they performed the 
sacrifice in its shelter (under it) where there was no fear and where there was no 
destructive element. Thus indeed does this (sacrificer) lift up this thunderbolt 
(water) and with that having destroyed the destructive Raksasas, he performs the 
sacrifice in its fearless and safe shelter. 

13. Pouring them out (a little) he places (the water vessel) to the north of the 
Garhapatya. Verily waters are female; Agni is male. Garhapatya (fire) is indeed the 
home. This productive pair is formed verily in the home. He who fetches water 
verily lifts up the thunderbolt. Whoever lifts (tries to lift) up the thunderbolt 
without (his being) firmly planted, he cannot lift it up. It destroys him (bums him 
up). Indeed Garhapatya is the house. The house is a firm place (of rest). Being 
firmly planted in this (firm) resting place, he lifts up this thunderbolt. Thus, this 
thunderbolt does not harm this (sacrificer). 

14. Having brought them, he placed them down north of the Ahai’mhya. Verily 
waters are female; Agni is male. Verily thus a productive pair is formed. Thus 
indeed is a pair arranged; for, to the north (left) of the male does the female lie 
down near. Therefore he places (the water pot) to the north. One should not walk 
between them. If not, (it would be that) he would be moving in between a 
copulation that is taking place. He should not take it beyond. He should not set it 



II. 1.2.6] 


TRANSLATION 




down before reaching. There is, indeed, rivalry between waters and Agni, as that 
(enmity) comes to be when they (sacrificer and others) touch the water of this 
(vessel). If he carries (the waters) beyond (the north) he increases the enmity in 
Agni. And if he places the waters down even before reaching (the north), he does 
not. gain (fulfilment of) that desire tor which desire he fetches (the waters). 
Therefore he must place (the waters well (just) (appropriately) at the north). (First 
Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA If 

1. Having strewn sacrificial grass around (the fires), he fetches the (sacrificial) 
vessels, in pair: the Agnihotra ladle and the winnowing basket; the wooden sword 
and the potsherds; the wedge and the black antelope skin; the mortar and pestle; 
the two mill stones. That (comes to) ten. Verily Virat metre is of ten syllables (per 
foot). Indeed Virat (very' shining) is the sacrifice. By this he (the sacrificer) verily 
brings about the brilliant sacrifice. 

2. (The reason) why he fetches (the vessels) in pair (is that) a pair is indeed a 
productive couple; thus indeed a productive couple is formed. A couple is indeed 
‘virility’. When one unites with a second he becomes more virile. (He brings the 
vessels in pairs) for (acquiring) virility. 

3. He takes up the Agnihotra ladle and the winnowing basket, saying, “(I take) you 
for work (I take) you for pervasion”. Indeed work is sacrifice. He verily says (means) 
this, “(I take) you for sacrifice”. (He says) “For pervasion (I take) you”. He 
surrounds (pervades) the sacrifice, as it were. Then he restrains his speech. Verily 
speech is sacrifice. (He restrains speech with the thought) Being unruffled let me 
perform the sacrifice. 

4. He heats (warms) (them), (saying), “The Raksas has been scorched; the 
enemies have been scorched” or “The Raksas has been very 7 much scorched; the 

enemies have been very much scorched”. 

<■ 

5. The gods performing the sacrifice w'ere verily afraid of contact with the Asuras 
and Raksasas. This (sacrificer) thus destroys (removes) the destructive demons 
verily even from the commencement of the sacrifice. 

6. He moves forward saying, “I follow the vast antariksa (aerial region)”. Verily 
the Raksas, moves about the aerial region, as this person does, rootless and cut off 
from both (the earth and the sky). He (the sacrificer) renders this antariksa free 
from fear and free from destruction, verily by means of this very chant. 



II.1.2.12] 


TRANSLATION 


II 


7 He takes (rice for sacrifice) from the cart. First verilv is this cart (the holder 

of the nee etc.); later indeed is this viz. the hall. He does verilv that which is at first 
(ahead). 

, , 8 ' ( ™ e reason) wh >' he takes verily (first) from the cart (is that) the cart is indeed 
a un ance . Indeed\eril\ abundance is the cart’. When there is much, then they 
say it is a cartload. It reaches verily abundance. The cart is indeed ‘sacrifice’. The 
cart is verily ‘sacrifice’ indeed. There are chants of worship ( Yajumsi) for it (the 
cart), not for the store-room nor for the small vessel. The Rsis (once upon active) 
too (the rice) from a leathern bag. There were chants of ( Yajus) worship for the 
leathern bag, with reference to the Rsis. Now verily they have been set aside. Or thev 

take it (nee) from the small vessel. Then one should mutter the Yarns chants 
without interruption. 

9. Then he touches the wooden sword, (saying), “Wherefore (where) we yoke 
(put together), therefore (there) we release (it). Agni is verily the yoke of that cart, 
ndeed Agni is the yoke. Therefore the shoulder of those (oxen) who bear the 

burden (draw the cart) becomes scorched by fire, as it were. The forepart of the 
pole that (serves as ) hind pi op (of the cart), is itself the altar. The enclosed part 
of the cart is itself the receptacle of the offering (havirdhanam). (The reason) why 

he takes (the rice) from the cart is that (he thinks) “I make up the sacrifice from 
the sacrifice”. 

10. He touches the voke (chanting), “You are the yoke. Please hurt the person 
who hurts. Please hurt that person who hurts us. Please hurt whom we hurt’’. It is 
this fire that is in the yoke. He (the sacriflcer) is going to pass beyond him (Agni). 

or that only he conceals this. That way this fire does not harm this (sacriflcer) who 
passes him by. Moreover Aruni said, “By half months, indeed, do I destroy (hurt) 
the spiteful enemy”. He said (meant) that by this (statement). 

11. Then he touches the shaft (of the cart)' (chanting), “You belong to the gods; 
(and) you are the purest (most firmly secured), the best carrier, the most filled, the 
most sought, the best invoker of gods. You are not stumbling; you are the (steady) 
receptacle of oblations. Be firm, do not waver (stray), may not your master of the 
sacrifice stray away”. Thus he verily praises the cart itself (thinking), “Let me receive 
the oblation given from the cart that has been praised”. (When he says), “May not 

)our mastei of the sacrifice stray awav”. He pravs thus for the blessing (for the 
sacriflcer) for steadiness only. 

12. Then he climbs up (the cart) (chanting), “May Visnu ascend you! Visnu 
indeed is sacrifice. He put forth his great (valour) stride for the sake of the gods. 



II.1.2.15] 


TRANSLATION 


13 


He protected (released) verily this (earth) by his first step, then (with the second 
step) this mid-iegion and with the third the skv. This sacrifice, Visnu, puts forth, 
for the sake of this (sacrificer), that great stride. 

He looks at the cart (inner part of the cart) saying, “(Be) big (wide ) for the wind 
(to enter) ”. Verily the wind is life-energy (breath). This thing viz. cart is, as it were, 
enclosed. He makes it, thus, wide for the wind, the breath, by means of mantra itself, 
saying, The Raksas has been destroyed (driven away)”. He throws away grass or 
anything else (that may be there). From the very sacrifice does he drive away, thus, 
the destructive Raksasas. He places (hishand), saying, “May the five bestow”. The 
sacrifice is indeed five-fold. Five are these fingers. He thus takes hold verily of the 
sacrifice (or he thus puts verily the sacrifice). 

13. He takes (the rice) (chanting), “At the prompting of the divine Savitr, I take 
you who are pleasing to Agni, with the two arms of the two Asvins and with the two 
hands of Ptisan , or according to the deity (for whom the rice is going to be used 
in offering). Indeed the sun is the begetter (impeller) of the gods. 

Therefore does he (the sacrificer) say, “At the instance of the divine sun”. (He 
says), “With the two arms of the two Asvins for, indeed the two Asvins are the 
Adhvaryu priests of the gods. Therefore he says, ‘With the two hands of the Asvins 
(He says), “With the two hands of Pusan”, for Pusan, the distributor of the shares 
for gods, places food with his two hands. Therefore does he say, “With the two 
hands of Pusan”. 

14. The gods are ‘truth’, men ‘untruth’. Thus he takes (the rice) verily with truth. 
Then (the reason) why he announces to the (particular) deity' saying, “I take up 
what is pleasing to that god ’, (is that) all the gods verily wait upon (remain near) 
the Adhvaryu who takes up the oblation (for offering), thinking, “(This sacrificer) 
is going to utter my name”, “He is going to utter my name”. He thus brings about 
concord (absence of conflict) to all those gods who are together. Those (as many 
gods) for whom the Adhvaryu announces (by name) taking up the oblations (for 
offering), they consider it a debt (they owe) to the sacrificer; wherefore they will 
fulfil that desire for which he performs the sacrifice. Therefore he announces to 
the deity, 

15. Having taken up (the rice) as before, with this Yajusch ant, he touches again 
(the rice left) (saying), “(I leave you over) for existence and not for non-offering”. 
“(I leave you for the (divine or human) being and not for the enemy) Where from 
he takes up (the rice for) oblation, that itself he replenishes, verily, with this. He 
looks towards the east, chanting, “May I perceive light (heaven)!’ 1 His eye is, as it 
were, covered and blocked. The ‘sacrifice’, indeed, is light (heaven) , the day, the 
gods, the sun and the fire. Therefore does he say, “May I perceive light” (He savs), 
“May the things having doors remain firm on the earth! ” Indeed the houses have 
doors. They verily have power over the sacrificer (they are indeed the ‘master’ of 



II. 1.3.2] 


TRANSLATION 


15 


the sacrificer). They have power to fall down behind and destroy the sacrificer's 
Adhvaryu who pi oceeds with this sacrifice and who walks earning the oblation. He 
(the sacrificer) makes those (very houses) firm on this earth (which is firm). 
Thereby, the sacrificer's homes do not break down. 

16. He walks (forward), (chanting), “I follow the wide aerial region”. The Raksas 
(the preventive evil being) moves along the aerial region, indeed, just as this 
person (moves along), i ootless and cut offboth ways He (the sacrificer) thus, with 
this chant, makes the aerial region free from fear and free from destructive beings. 
If they cook the oblations in the Ahavaniya, then he places it in the Garhapatya (fire 
shed), (saying), I place you in the navel of the earth ”. Verilv the navel is the middle 1 
the middle is free from fear (of danger). Therefore,he savs,' T place you in the navel 
of the earth”. (He says), “(I place you) in the lap of Aditi”, whatever is well 
protected, (about that) they say, “She has borne it as if in the womb”. (He, (she) 
has carried it, as it were, in the lap). (He says, “I place you in the lap of Aditi”), so 
that it may be well-protected. (He says), “Oh Agni! guard the offering”. By that he 
hands ovei this oblation to Agni, verily, for safe-keeping and also to this earth so 
that it may be well-protected. (Second Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMAN A III 

1. He, indeed, makes two pavitras (purifiers) (two blades of sacrificial grass with 
which to spi inkle water or ghee), (chanting), ‘You tw r o are the purifiers, related to 
Visnu , verily the sacrifice is Visnu. He verily thus says (means), “You two are of the 
sacrifice”. They are two. Indeed this one (the wind) that blows is the purifier. He 
(Y ayu) blows as one only. Having entered into the man (person) he blows to and 
fro. They two, are the prana (exhaling breath) and uddna (what is breathed up or 
in), that (the purifier) is in accordance with the measure of this (breath) itself. 
Hence they are two; they (some) say “They (the pavitras) should be three; the imna 
(the pervading breath) is the third . But verily they are only two. Having purified 
the sprinkling waters with them then he sprinkles the oblations with them, for he 
purifies the sprinkling waters with them. 

2. (Once) Vrtra indeed lay down, having covered (surrounded) all this which is 
between the sky and the earth. Hence he is known as Vrtra (the endoser). Indra 
slew him indeed. Having been killed (becoming) putrid, he flowed towards waters 
all round. All around is this Ocean, indeed, some waters loathed him (Vrtra). They 
flowed up higher and higher. They (became) the darhhas (the holy grass’). They are 



II. 1.3.6] 


TRANSLATION 


17 


unpolluted waters. In other (waters) there is a mixture, for the putrid Vrtra flowed 
to them. Whatever is mixed up there, in these (waters), that verily, the sacrificer 
removes with these two purifiers. Then he sprinkles onlv with the pure waters 
(which are verily) fit for sacrifice. 

He^purifies (strains the waters) (chanting), “I purify you at the impulse of 
Savitr , \\ ith the flawless purifier, with the rays of the sun”. Indeed the sun is the 
begettei (impeller) of the gods. Therefore he says, “I purify' at the impelling of the 
sun”. (He says), “With a hole-less (flawless) purifier”. Flawless purifier indeed is this 
one (wind) who blows (purifies). Therefore, does he sav, “With the flawless 
purifier”. (He says), “With the sun’s rays”. “These rays of the sun are indeed 
purifiers”. Therefore says he, “With the rays of the sun’’. 

4. Then he makes these (waters) spurt upwards, verily eulogises these, thus he 
glorifies (them) indeed, (thinking), ‘With these (waters) that have been praised 

and that are i eady (i.e. that ha\ f e given their mind to function) let ine sprinkle the 
oblations”. 

5. He makes the water spurt upwards (chanting), “Oh Divine (shining) waters! 
Oh you who move in front! Oh you who purify ahead”. Because they go to the 
ocean, he says, (\ou) who move in front . (He says), “(You) who purify’ first”, as 
the waters, being first, consume (a part) of King Soma. (He chants), “Please lead 
(forward) this sacrifice now”. “(Also lead) the master of the sacrifice, of fine 
qualities (a fine maintain er), the master of the sacrifice who is devoted to the gods”. 
He verily says (means) this, “(Lead) the sacrifice well”, “(lead) the sacrificer well”. 
(He says) “Indra who contended with Vrtra verily chose them (waters). With them 
(with their help) he killed him (Vrtra). (He says) “You chose Indra, in his conquest 
over (conquesting battle with) Vrtra”. These (waters) indeed chose Indra who was 
contending with Vrtra. With them did Indra kill him. He (the sacrificer) says, “You 
are sprinkled (consecrated)”. He conceals it from them. Then he sprinkles 
(consecrated water on) the oblations. The same is the meaning (link) of sprinkling 
(that) whatever he sprinkles (with consecrated water) that he verily makes 
sacrificially pure (yvorthy of sacrifice). 

6. Then he sprinkles the purodasa dedicated to Agni (chanting), “I sprinkle you 
who are pleasing to Agni”. Thus he makes it fit for .sacrifice for Agni. Thus he 
sprinkles the oblations, as before. 



11.1.3.11] 


TRANSLATION 


19 


7. Then he sprinkles the (sacrificial) vessels, (chanting), “Become pure for the 
ritual relating to the gods, for the sacrifice to the gods. They become pure, indeed, 
for work related to the gods, for the sacrifice to the gods”. (He says), “Whatever 
(thing) of you the impure has defiled that of you I thus purify”. Whatever of these 
which either a carpenter or some (other) impure person defiles, that very thing of 
them, they purify with this (sprinkling). 

8. Then he takes up the skin of a black antelope, for the completeness of the 
sacrifice. The skin of the black antelope conduces to ‘entirety’. The sacrifice 
(once) went away from the gods. Having become a black antelope it roamed about. 
Having found it and having stripped it of its skin, the gods brought it (the skin ). 
What white and black hair were there in it, they are the form of Rks and Samaras. 
Whatever are white they are, verily, they are (the form) of Rks ; what are black, they 
are of the Samaras or (it may be) otherwise: whatever are black, they themselves are 
(the form) of i%s and what are white are of Samans. Those very (hair) which are in 
the middle, brown or green, they are (the form) of the Yajus (chants). This is the 
three-fold knowledge having this form and having this colour. Therefore, they 
initiate on this (black antelope skin); for, it is verily sacrifice. The pounding, 
kneading (is) done on it, so that the oblation may be unspilt (out of it ) or of the 
rice (grains) that are pounded or of flours that are kneaded, a little may spill (on 
it). (This is done) so that the sacrifice may remain firm in the sacrifice. 

9. He takes it up, saying, “You are bliss (sarmanf. Verily this is the skin (carman) 
of the black antelope. It (carman) is its name among men. (Its name) among gods 
is Sarman (bliss)”. He verily does (takes up) what is related to the gods. Therefore 
he says, “You are sarman (bliss) ”, He shakes it (the skin), (saying) “The Raksas has 
been shaken off; shaken off are the enemies”. Thus he verily shakes off the 
destructive Raksasas. Keeping the vessels apart, he shakes it. Thus he verily shakes 
off what impure (matter) it has. 

10. He spreads itwith its neck towards the west, saying, “You are the skin of Aditi 
This (earth) indeed is Aditi. Whatever is on her, is her skin. Therefore does he say, 
“You are the skin of Aditi”. (He says) “May Aditi accept you!" For, one who is related, 
well understands (accepts) him. He thus expresses (mutual) understanding, for 
this (earth) and for the black antelope, for, otherwise they might hurt each other. 
Then the left palm is placed over it. 

11. Then he takes up the mortar, for if not the destructive Raksasas might enter 
here even at first. Indeed the Brahmin is the repeller of the destructive Raksasas. 



11 . 1 . 3 . 16 ] 


TRANSLATION 


21 


12. He takes (it) up, chanting, “You are a stone of wood. May the skin of Aditi 
accept you" or “You are the broad bottomed stone. May the skin of Aditi accept 
you”. Just as there (in the Soma sacrifice) they press (extract) soma with stones, in 
the same manner here they press (prepare) the oblation (oblation-sacrifice) with 
the mortar and pestle and the two millstones. They call them (the pressing 
implements) ‘adrayah *tones ’ by a single name. Therefore he says “You are a 
wooden stone”. Indeed this (mortar) ‘stone’ is made of wood. (He says), “You are 
the broad bottomed stone”. For it is a rock and is broad bottomed indeed. He says, 
“May Aditi’s skin acceptyou! ” He merely expresses this understanding for the sake 
of the mortar and for the skin of the black antelope. For, if not, they might hurt 
each other. 

13. Then he puts the (rice for) oblation, saying, “You are the body of Agni, the 
means of release of speech”. For, this (material for oblation) is sacrifice indeed. 
Agni is verily the sacrifice. Therefore does he say, Abu are the body of Agni". (He 
says), “(You are) the means of release of speech”. Before taking up the (material 
for) oblation, what speech he restrains, he releases that (speech) here. Therefore 
he says, “The means of release of speech”. (The reason) why he releases speech 
here is that this sacrifice has stood firmly in the mortar. This has been spread out 
so that if, before now, he might have uttered badly any human speech, he now 
should mutter a Yajus or ‘Ipi ’ addressed to Visnu. Indeed Visnu is the sacrifice. 
Thereby he commences the sacrifice again. (He says), “I take you up for the enjoy¬ 
ment of the gods”. For they take up the oblation (to offer) (with the thought), “May 
it please the gods”. Therefore he says, “1 take you up for the enjoyment of the gods”. 

14. He now places the pestle (chanting), Abu are the large wooden stone". It is 
indeed a large stone; it is indeed made of wood. (He says), “Prepare this oblation 
for the gods, prepare it quite well”. He verily says (means) this, “Consecrate this 
oblation for the gods, (make it) well consecrated”. 

15. Then he calls out the Haviskrt ( the preparer of the oblation), “Oh Haviskrt! 
come here. Oh Haviskrt! come here”. Verily it is the speech that is the maker of the 
oblation. He thereby indeed releases that (speech). That very speech does he thus 
call (invite). Indeed speech is ‘sacrifice'. Thus he verily calls the sacrifice (hack) 
again (to him). 

16. These are the four forms of expression (in calling): (it is) ehi (come) for the 
Brahmana; (it is) agahi (approach) and adrava (hasten here) for the anointed 
(Ksatriya) and for the Vaisya (respectively); (it is) adkava (run here) for the Sudra. 
He uses (here) verily that which is for the Brahmin; for what is of the Brahmin is 



II. 1.3.20] 


TRANSLATION 


23 


suitable for the sacrifice. This chi (come here) is the most gentle (form) of expres¬ 
sion. Thei efore he says, Oh Haviskrt! chi . In former times onlv the wife (in whom 
he begot his son), only the wife (who was associated with him in sacrificial 
performance) got up, at this (call) as preparer of (sacrificial) food. Now it is that 
or some one else. When he (the sacrificer) calls the Haviskrt thus, then one (of the 
priests) beats the two millstones, whereby they make this speech (of the sacrificer) 
echo back (or they make this speech a response). 

17. Manu had indeed a bull. An Asura-killing and foe-killing voice entered into 
him (the bull). Being crushed by his snorting and roaring (byhisvoiceand breath). 
The Asuras and Raksasas fled. They (conferred and) said, ‘This bull indeed brings 
us evil (suffering) ”. “How can we subdue this?” Kilata and Akuli were the two priests 
of the Asuras. They said, “Manu looks upon sraddha (faith) as a deity. (He is devoted 
to sraddha ). (He looks upon gods with faith), indeed. Let us two verily ascertain 
(it)!" They went up to him and said, “We two perform a sacrifice for you. (We shall 
help you (as priests) to perform a sacrifice)”. (Manu asked) “With what?” (They 
said), “With this bull”. “So be it” (said he). They slaughtered him (the bull). As he 
was killed, that voice went away, 

18. That (voice) entered into Manavi, the wife of Manu. As she spoke and as she 
ate, hearing (that noise) the Asuras and Raksasas fled, being crushed. They spoke 
together, “Here worse evil touches us, for the human voice speaks more, indeed. 
How can we subdue this?” Kilata and Akuli verily said, “Manu isone who has sraddha 
as his deity ( devoted to gods). Let us two verily ascertain (it) ” They went up to him 
and said, “We two shall enable you to perform a sacrifice”. “With what?” “With this 
your wife”. “So be it”. They killed her, indeed. As she was killed, that voice went 
awav. 

19. It (that voice) entered verily the sacrifice and the sacrificial vessels. They 
were not able to destroy it from there. For whomsoever that knows this (to be thus) 
they produce this voice (they make this voice resound), there arises (speaks out) 
verily this voice that kills Asuras and that kills rivals. Verily his rivals become more 
miserable. 

20. He beats (the millstones) saying, “You are the cock (producing the noise 
Kuk, Kut ); (you are) mellifluous”. Towards the gods it (the bull) was indeed 
honey-tongued and (it was) poison-tongued towards the Asuras. He verily says 



II.1.4.1] 


TRANSLATION 


25 


(means) this, “Be for us as what you were for the gods”. He says, “Call up sap and 
strength (here) ”. There is nothing concealed, as it were, here. (It is obvious). He 
says, “May we conquer in eveiy battle”. He says (means) verily this, “May we win on 
every occasion of resistance”. 

21. Then he takes up the winnowing basket, (chanting), “You are grown by rain”. 
It is indeed rain-grown, whether (it is made) of bamboos or of reeds or of rushes. 
He pours out (the threshed rice into the basket) saying, “May the rain-grown accept 
you! ” Whether they are (grains of) rice or barley they are indeed rain-grown. Thus 
he merely speaks the name (symbol) (by which they are identified). 

22. Then he winnows (the rice), (chanting), “Thrown away is the Raksas, thrown 
away are the enemies”. He throws away (the husk) saying, ‘The Raksas has been 
thrown away”. He verily thus drives away the destructive Raksasas from the sacrifice. 

23. Then he separates (the husked grain from the unhusked one), chanting, 
“Vavu separates you”. This one who blows (purifies) verily is Vavu. Indeed this 
(Vayu) separates this thing. Whatever, is separated here. This indeed does this 
Vavu alone separate. Then (the reason) why he separates is that when he separates 
then the rice grains arrive (the rice grains are obtained). 

24. Then he consecrates with mantras (thus): “May the divine Savitr who is 
golden-handed receive you with flawless (tight, hole-less) palm”, (thinking), “May 
the oblation be well received”. Then thrice does he remove husk (from the grains). 
Indeed three fold is the sacrifice. 

25. Then, some bring about removal of husk (chanting), “You be pure for the 
sake of the gods”. One need not do it so. (Here) the oblation is taken (for offering 
to) specified gods. That he makes (he would be making) related to ‘Mi-gods' (by 
saying ‘for the sake of the gods’) (resulting in) a conflict. Therefore one must 
remove husk thrice verily silently. (Third Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMAN AIV 

1. One of the two puts the potsherds, indeed, (on the Garhapatya ); the other one 
(places) the two millstones (on the antelope skin). This is done simultaneously. 
(The reason) why it is done simultaneously (is that) the puradasa (oblation) is 
indeed the head of the sacrifice; the potsherds themselves are the (bones of the) 



II.i.4.5] 


TRANSLATION 


27 


skull of the head. The kneaded flours are verily the brain. This is like a single, limb 
of the sacrifice. (They think), “What is one, we shall put it together. Let us make 
it one (equal) Therefore, this is done simultaneously. He who puts the potsherds. 

2. He takes up the stirring stick (saying), “You are bold”. As he treats Agni boldly 
with this, therefore is it bold, indeed. And since they touch (the coals in the fire) 
with this, since he performs service with this, therefore is it (called) Upavesa 
(means of service). 

3. With it he shifts the cinders to the east (front) (chanting), “Oh AgniS Remove 
the fire that consumes the uncooked; check the flesh-eating (fire)". This is verily 
the fire, ‘that consumes raw (food) ’ the fire with which having cooked the food 
men eat. And this is the ‘flesh eater (corpse-eater) which burns the (dead body of 
a) man. Both these (fires) he drives away. He pulls the cinder (towards himself) 
saying, “Bring (the fire) the sacrificer to the gods”. (Then he thinks), “Let us cook 
the oblations on that (fire) which makes offerings to the gods; let us perform the 
sacrifice in that”. (So thinking) he places the central potsherd along with it. 

4. The gods who were performing sacrifice were afraid of con tact with the Asuras 
and Raksasas, lest the destructive Raksasas might rise up from below the sacrifice. 
Agni is indeed the repeller of the destructive Raksasas. 

5. He places (the potsherd) saying, “You are firm; make the earth firm” Thus 
verily he makes this (sacrifice) itself firm with this form of the earth. By this he 
drives away the hateful enemy. (He chants), “Oh favourer of Brahmins Oh favourer 
of Ksatra! Oh favourer of the kinsfolk (of the sacrificer)! I place you for the 
destruction of the enemy”. Manifold, indeed, is the prayer for blessing in the Yajus 
(chants). These two prayersfor blessings he utters (prays for) viz. for Brahmin and 
for Ksatra. (He says) “Oh favourer of kinsfolk”; kinsmen indeed are 'abundance’. 
Thus he prays verily for abundance (of prosperity’). If he may not exorcise, he 
should say, “I place (you) for the destruction of the enemy”. If he should exorcise, 
he should indicate (by name) (I place you) for the destruction of so and so. Then 
(thus) only is placed the finger of the left hand upon it. 



II. 1.4.13] 


TRANSLATION 


29 


6. Then he pulls a cinder (towards himself) lest (even) at the outset the 
destructive Raksasas should enter. The Brahmin verily is the repeller of the 
destructive Raksasas. 

7. He puts the cinder on it (chanting), “Oh Agni! Please receive the Brahman 
(the sacrifice/the priest/the chant)”, lest the destructive Raksasas should enter 
here verily at the outset. Indeed Agni is the repeller of the destructive Raksasas. 

8. Then he places (a potsherd) behind (to the west of the first one), saying, “You 
are the support (bearer). Make the aerial region firm”. Thus he makes this 
(sacrifice) firm in the form of the atmosphere itself, indeed. By this he afflicts the 
hateful enemy. (He chants) “Oh favourer of Brahmin! Oh favourer of Ksatra! Oh! 
favourer of kinsfolk! I place you for destroying the enemy”. 

9. Then (he places a potsherd) in front (to the east) (of the first potsherd) 
(chanting), ‘You are a prop. This (sacrifice), thus, is the form of the sky itself. By 
this he afflicts the hateful enemy”. (He chants) “Oh favourer of Brahmin! Oh 
favourer of Ksatra! Oh favourer of kinsfolk! I place you for destroying the enemy”. 

10. Then (he places a potsherd) to the right side (in the south), (chanting), T 
place you for all the directions (quarters), for the destruction of the enemy”. 
Whether there is a fourth (world) beyond these (three) worlds, by that, verily, does 
he thus drive away (afflicts) the hateful enemy. It is not certain that there is a fourth 
(world) beyond these (three) worlds or not. Hence says he, “I place (you) for all 
the quarters, for the destruction of the enemy”. The others (remaining potsherds) 
(he'places) either saying, “Accumulated are you” “Accumulated above, are you” or 
(he places them) verily silently, 

11. He places cinders on them (chanting), “Be heated with the heat of the 
Bhrgus and Angiras”. This is really the brightest brilliance, what belongs to the 
Bhrgus and Angiras. (He covers them with cinders) , so that they might be well 
heated. Then, he who puts the two millstones. 

12. He takes up the black antelope skin, saving, “You are bliss!” He shakes it 
saying, ‘The Raksas has been shaken off; the enemies have been shaken off”. He 
spreads with its neck towards the west, saying, “You are the skin of Aditi. May Aditi 
accept you back!” That (expression) is verily the explanation. Then, indeed, is the 
left palm placed on it. 

13. Then he takes up the lower millstone lest the destructive Raksasas should 
enter (even) at the beginning. Indeed, Brahmin is the repeller of the destructive 
Raksasas. 



in . 4 , i9j 


TRANSLATION 


31 


14. He takes it up saving, ‘You are the bowl, a hill (rock). May Aditi’s skin accept 
you! ” For, it is indeed a bowl; it is verily a rock. With “May Aditi’s skin accept you”. 
He merely speaks out the symbol (understanding) to the lower millstone and the 
black antelope skin, lest the two should hurt each other. In form, this (low T er 
millstone) is indeed the earth. 

15. Then (he fixes) the peg with its tip towards the north, saying, ‘You are the 
prop of the sky”. This (peg) is by its form verily the mid region ( antariksa }. Indeed 
these the earth and the sky are held up (kept apart) by the atmosphere (the mid 
region). 

16. Then (he places) the upper millstone, (chanting), ‘You are the bowl, born 
of the rock. May the rock (the lower millstone) accept you! This (upper stone) is, 
as it were, the younger one; this is, as it were, the daughter”. Therefore he says, 
“(You are) bom ofthe rock. May the rock (lower stone) acceptyou!” Thus he verily 
speaks out the symbol (the means of understanding) to the lower and upper 
millstones, lest they, the two, should hurt each other. Indeed, in form this (upper 
stone) is the sky. These two viz. the lower and upper millstones are verily the two 
jaws of the sacrifice; the peg is indeed the tongue. Therefore they beat with the 
wedge (peg). Indeed one talks with the tongue. 

17. Then he puts the (rice for the) oblation on (the lower stone), chanting, You 
are the grain. Delight the gods”. Indeed it is grain. They verily take up the oblation 
(thinking), “May this delight the gods!” Therefore he says, “Delight the gods”. 

18. Then hegrindsit, (chanting), “I have put you along the long stretch (ofthe 
antelope skin) forthesake of the vital (out breath) breath, for the inbreath, for all 
round breathing and for the (long) life (of the sacrificer). May the divine Savitr 
who has a golden hand receive you with a flawless (hole-less) hand; for the eye (of 
the sacrificer; may he receive) you”. 

19. (The reason) why he thus grinds is that the oblation is ‘live’, (it is) nectar 
(immortal food) for the immortals (the gods). Indeed, with mortar and pestle and 
with the two millstones they crush this offering of rice-oblation. What he says as, 
“For inbreathing (I have placed) you,” “For out-breathing, you”, bv that (thus) he 
puts in (upholds) the vital inbreath and the outbreath and by “You-for all 
pervading breath”, he maintains (imparts) the vyam the pervasive breath. By “For 
(long) life, I have put the long stretch”, he thus imparts life to it. By, “May the 
golden-handed divine Savitr receive you with flawless (tight) hand”, (he says) that 
the oblation may be well-received. By “For the eye, you”, he thus bestows eye on it. 
This indeed happens to one who is alive. Thus this oblation to the gods becomes 
‘living’ (it becomes nectar) (immortal food) to the immortals (the gods). The 
potsherds are heated up and the flours are kneaded (ground). 



II.1.4.20] 


TRANSLATION 


33 


20. Then he pours out ghee, saying, “You are the milk (essence) of the great”. If 
the oblation is either having a single deity or a double deity, he takes that up with 
a different Yajus (chant). Taking up this oblation for some (particular) deity, he 
does not announce (the name of the deity). (Now) (regarding) what is (known as) 
ghee, verily these are great ones (known) by one name viz. ‘cows’. This is their milk 
(essence). Verily that is taken up with a Yajus (chant). (Fourth Brahmana Ends) 


(Chapter One Ends) 



n.2.1.5] 


TRANSLATION 


35 


Chapter Two 

BRAHMANAI 

1. He pours (the ground rice) into (a vessel) what verily contains strainers 
(purifying blades of sacrificial grass), (chanting), “At the instance of the divine 
Savitr, I pour you with the two arms of the two Asvins, with the two hands of Pusan”. 
This is, indeed, the explanation (link) of this Yajus (chant). Then he sits either 
inside the altar or behind the Garhapatya. Then, (some) one brings the mixing- 
waters. With two strainers he receives them (waters) that are being brought. 

2. Then (there) he mutters, “May the waters well (mingle) with the plants'” 
Indeed the waters thus mingle with the plant viz. with these flours (of rice). (He 
says), “May the plants (mingle) with the sap!” Verily thus the plants viz. the flours 
unite with this sap viz. waters. (He chants), “May the wealthy ones (mix) with those 
that move! "The wealthy ones are the waters. The moving ones are the plants. These 
two thus come together. (He chants), “May the mellifluous be mixed with the 
mellifluous!” He verily says (means) this, “May the sweet (juicy) ones be mixed with 
the sweet (juicy) 

3. He mixes (them), there, (chanting), “(I mix) you for the sake of generation”. 
He verily mixes (them) thus wherefore it (this preparation of sacrificial offering) 
will bestow 7 these creatures (progeny) the sacrifieer for (his) wealth and (good) 
food. Indeed he thus mixes (them) in order to put (them) over (the fire) whereby 
thus it would, after being mixed, become placed (cooked) over (the fire). Either 
he divides it according to the deities (to whom it has to be offered), because he is 
not going to gather them (together), or 

4. He touches it (saying), “This is for Agni, this for Agni and Soma (together), 
or according to the deities”. They separately take this (rice for) sacrificial food, 
indeed from the cast. That they thresh together (they) and (it) together. That, 
verily thus becomes separate. This one (Adhvaryu) puts it on the fire here and one 
(the Agmdhra) heats (puts on the fire) the ghee there (yonder). Purodam is verily 
half of the sacrifice; the other oblations are half, that is the ghee. “What is this viz. 
half of the body (of the sacrifice) and what is that yonder—let us make them reach 
the fire simultaneously”—thus (they think). In that manner verily the body of the 
sacrifice is joined together. 

5. He who heats the ghee over the fire, he heats it over the fire (chanting) , “(I 
heat) you for sap”. When he says, “You for sap”, he says that for the sake of rain. 
He removes it saying, “(I remove) you for juice”. He says this verily for the sake of 
that juice, the sap which arises from rain. 



11.2.1.12] 


TRANSIATION 


37 


6. Then he puts the purodasa on (fire) (chanting), “You are the heat (you are 
the) life of all”. Thus he makes this verily into a sacrifice. He puts it upon (the fire) 
as one would put the cauldron on. By “the life of all”, he thus puts verily life into 
this (sacrificer). (He says), “Oh wide spreading one! (one with wide glory'), spread 
vastly”, (saying this) he verily spreads this {purodasa ) thus. He says, “May your 
master of the sacrifice spread widely (prosper)!”—this prayer for blessing he seeks 
for the sacrificer. 

7. He should not make it too (absolutely) wide. If he should make it too wide, 
he would be making it human. What is human is ruinous for the sacrificer. They 
(some) say, “He should make it of the size of a horse-hoof”. Who knows how much 
is the horse-hoof ? He may make it verily that way as he thinks it is not too wide. 

8. He touches it with water, once or thrice, for whatever of this (rice-offering) 
they either wear out or hurt, threshing with the pestle and mortar or grinding with 
the two millstones. Verily the waters are medicine, abatement (of evil). Therefore 
he removes it (that hurt) with the expiation, viz. water. Thus (therefore) he writes 
it (makes good) with water. 

9. He touches it, saying, “May Agni not hurt your skin?” For he is going to heat 
it (thus) now, (he is) going to cook (it). Thereby Agni indeed does not hurt its skin. 

10. Then he makes it skirted with fire (he takes a firebrand round it in 
pradaksina, way). Thus he encloses this, thus, continuously withouta gap. With fire, 
lest the destructive Raksasas, should touch it. Indeed Agni is the repeller of the 
Raksasas. 

11. He heats it with a firebrand (chanting), “May the divine Savitr, cook you in 
the highest heaven”. Man is not, indeed, the one who bakes (cooks) it. Therefore 
(he says), “May the divine Savitr himself cook this”. By “in the highest heaven” he 
says (means) this, “this is indeed at the disposal of the gods”. Then he touches it 
(thinking), “Let me know (if) it has been cooked”. 

12. He touches it saying, “Fear not, shrink not”. He verily says (means) this, “Do 
not be afraid, do not shrink that I, a human, touch you who are not human". 



II.2.1.19] 


TRAN SI ATI ON 


39 


13. Then he covers it, lest it should lie as though naked and robbed and lest 
further on the destructive Raksasas should look down upon (insult) it. 

14. He covers it (thinking), “May the sacrifice not be (prone to be) languied and 
may the progeny (offspring) of the sacrificer not be (prone to be) languied”. If not, 
if I do not cover this either sacrifice or the sacrificer may languish after now. 

15. Then he pours (the water) with which the fingers have been washed and with 
which the (sacrificial^vessel have been cleaned, for the Aptyas. (The reason) why 
he pours out for the Aptyas is (this)—at first, this fire was rendered fourfold. He 
(that fire) whom the gods at first chose for the function of a Hotr, passed away 
(became extinct). They chose a second. He too became extinct. They chose a third. 
He too passed away. Then this Agni went into hiding, out of fear. He verily entered 
into the waters. Having found him, the gods brought him out from the waters, by 
force as it were. He spat upon the waters (saying), “You are spat upon—you who 
are an unsafe (place of) refuge”. Thence sprung the Aptyas (deities sprung from 
water): trita, dvita and ekata. 

16. They verily followed Indra just as even now a Brahmin follows a Ksatriva 
blessing (praising) (him). Where (when) Indra killed Visvarupa, the son of Tvastr, 
they knew indeed of his going to be killed. Verily Trita himself quickly killed him. 
Thus, indeed, was Indra released from that (sin), for he is a god. 

17. Then they (the people) said, “May these (Aptyas ) themselves, who had known 
of this person (Visvarupa) going to be killed, get to sin”. They said, “So be it". “Let 
the sacrifice itself wipe it (clean it) upon these (Aptyas)”. Thus does the sacrificer 
wipe it upon these in that they pour that (water) with which the fingers have been 
washed and that with which the (sacrificial) (vessels) have been cleaned for these. 

18. These (Aptyas) then verily said, “Let us lead it (make it go) past beyond us”. 
Towards whom."' ‘Verily (towards him) who may perform a sacrifice without 
(paying to the priests) any fee”. Therefore one should not perform a sacrifice that 
contains no sacrificial fee. (The sin of) sacrifice that contains no sacrificial fee. 

19. Therefore, the gods fixed this fee, in the new moon and full moon sacrifices, 
viz. the anvaharya (remainder of rice-grains, cooked over the Dahinagni and meant 



II.2.1.22] 


TRANSLATION 


41 


for consumption by the priests). lest the offering should be without a fee. There¬ 
fore he pours out (the water with which the fingers and the vessels have been 
washed, in the sacrifice (to the Aptvas) individually. Thus he brings about absence 
of conflict between them. He heats it (that water) with a fire brand, so that it would 
reach them cooked. He pours (facing) towards the west—verily the sacrifice 
-remains eastward—(he pours the water towards the west). Lest he should be 
making (this) a sacrifice. 

20. He pours out, saying, “For Trita (I pour) you” “For Dvita (I pour) you" “For 
Ekata (I pour) you”. The purodasa (offering) means indeed, an animal is tied up 
(in sacrifice). Originally (in the beginning) the gods tied up verily a man as the 
sacrificial animal. As he was tied up (offered), his essence went out (of him). It then 
entered the horse. They tied up (offered) verily the horse. As it was offered (in 
sacrifice) its essence went out. It entered the bull. They indeed offered the bull. As 

it was offered, its essence went out. It entered a sheep.They verily offered the sheep. 

As it was offered, its essence went out. It entered the goat. They verily offered the 
goat. As it was offered, its essence went out. It entered this earth. The gods then 
searched for it, digging (the earth). They found it, it was these, the paddy and 
barley. Therefore, even now they (people) obtain paddy and barley by digging as 
it were. As much efficacy as all these sacrificial victims that are tied up (killed and 
offered ) will have, so much efficacy (vigour) indeed will this oblation of his have. 
He who knows this to be so verily becomes (efficacious as) the oblation. 

21. Here indeed is that wealth about which they say, “The animal (to be offered 
in the sacrifice) is five-fold”. Even w’hen the rice-flours come to be, then there are 
the hair. Even when he brings the waters, then the skin comes to be. Even when he 
mixes (them), then the flesh comes to be. He becomes then stretched, as it were. 
Indeed flesh is continuous, as it were. Even when he cooks it (over the tire), bone 
comes to be. Then it becomes hard-like. Indeed bone becomes hard-like. Wien, 
verily, he is going to remove it (i.e. before removing it) (from the fire) and sprinkles 
ghee (on it) then he puts marrow (into it). 

22. This is indeed that wealth. That man (person) whom they had tied up (had 
offered) (as sacrificial victim), became kimpuntsa (a despicable man). The horse 
and the bull which they had offered, they became (respectively) a Gaura (a kind 
of buffalo) and a Gavaya (Gayaf, a kind of ox). The sheep which they had offered 
that became the camel. The goat which they had off ered, that became a Sarabha, 
(a strange animal with eight legs, capable of killing even the lion). Therefore (the 
flesh) of these animals is unfit to be consumed. For these indeed have the sacrificial 
essence gone out (of them). (First Brahraana Ends) 




II.2.2.53 


TRANSLATION 


43 


BRAHMANAII 

1. Where Indra verily shot (with) the thunderbolt, that thunderbolt, which was 
shot (huffled), became fourfold. Its third part was the wooden sword, indeed, as 
much as there was the sacrificial post that was a third (part), as much as there was 
the chariot that was indeed a third (part); where (how much) he shot (with it) that 
became a splinter and that having fallen down, became the arrow (reed). It is 
called indeed ‘Sara’ because it broke up (disintegrated). Thus, that thunderbolt 
became verily four fold, of them, the Brahmins practice with two in the sacrifice and 
the Ksatriyas (the kinsmen of anointed kings) with two. The Brahmins, celebrate 
with the wooden sword and the sacrificial post (to which the victim is tethered) in 
the sacrifice and the kinsfolk of the Ksatriyas (relative of the anointed rulers) with 
the chariot and with the arrow in the battle. 

2. (The reason) why he takes up the wooden sword is that just as Indra lifted up 
this thunderbolt against Vrtra. Similarly this (sacrifker) lifts up this "thunder-bolt 
(viz. the wooden sword) against the hateful enemy, kills the hateful enemy and 
thereby attains victory 7 (becomes glorious). Hence this (sacrificer) takes up the 
wooden sword. 

3. He takes it up (chanting), "‘I take you up at the instance of Savitr, with the two 
arms of the two Asvins, with the two hands of Pusan,—you the performer of 
sacrifice to the gods”. Indeed, Savitr is the begetter (impeller) of the gods. 
Therefore he says, ‘You, at the instance of Savitr”, (he says) “With the two arms of 
the two Asvins". Verily the two Asvins are the two Adhvaiyus of the gods. He (the 
sacrificer) takes this (wooden sword) up verily with their two arms, not with his own. 
(He says), “With the two handsof Pusan”. Indeed Pusan is the collector (distributor) 
of the shares of the gods. He is the placer of food (for the gods), with his two hands. 
He (the sacrificer) takes up (the wooden sword) thus with his (Pusan’s) very hands 
and not with his own. For, man is not the bearer (i.e. man cannot bear) of th is; this 
is verily the thunderbolt.. Therefore he lifts it up only with the gods, bears it with 
the gods. Thus this thunderbolt does not harm this (sacrificer). 

4. (He says), “(You) the performer of the Adhvara to the gods”. The sacrifice 
( Yajna ) is verily Adhvara (that wherein there is no hurt). He verily, says (means) 
“sacrificer to the gods”. Holding it with his left hand (and then) having touched 
it with the right (palm), he mutters. (By that muttering) he verily sharpens it; he 
indeed puts its strength into this (wooden sword). 

5. He mutters, “You are the right arm of Indra”. The right arm of Indra is the 
most powerful thing, indeed. Its very 7 strength does he (the sacrificer) thus put into 
this (sword). When he says, “You are the right arm of Indra”. (He says), “A thousand 
spiked, hundred edged (having a hundredfold brilliance or heat)”. Verily, that 



IL2.2.8] 


TRANSLATION 


45 


vajra which he hurled at Vrtra was indeed thousand spiked, hundred edged. He 
(the sacrificer) makes this (sword) verily that (thunderbolt). (He mutters) “You 
are the wind, having sharp edges (sharp brilliance or heat) ’. This indeed is the 
sharpest edge viz., this (wind) that blows (purifies). This (\ ayu), it is that blows 
across these worlds. Thus he (the sacrificer) makes it sharp, indeed. Therefore 
does he say, You are Vayu, the sharp edged”. If he is not exorcising, he may say, 
“Killer of enemy”. Should he exorcise, he should indicate (by saying), “Killer of 
that yonder person (of such and such name)”. He does not touch himself or the 
earth with it (the sword), thinking, “If not, I might be hurting myself or the earth 
with this very sharp thunderbolt”. 

6. The Gods and Asuras, both of them sprung from Prajapati, contended. When 
the gods conquered the Asuras, then they (the Asuras) rose up again against them. 
They (the gods) said, “Though we conquer these (Asuras), they surely rise up 
against us even here. How shall we conquer them absolutely (so that we will not be 
vanquished later) ?” 

7. Agni indeed said, “They escape from us, verily having these (gods)”. (Agni 
said), “I shall go round to the north; then you will besiege them from here. Having 
besieged them we shall put them down by these (three ) worlds. Even if there is a 
fourth beyond these worlds, they (the Asuras) will not rise again”. Agni wen t round 
to the north, and here the gods shut them in. Having shut them up, they laid them 
down by these worlds. Even should there be a fourth (world) beyond these, they 
(the Asuras) did not rise up again. 

8. The stambciyajus (the use of the stumps of sacrificial grass with the chanting 
of particular Yajus chants) is with this primary reason (to put down the Asuras 
irrevocably) . Then, this Agnidh who moves to the north—he himself is the very' 
Agni, primarily. The Adhvaryu shuts them in from here. Thus, having confined 
those very Asuras whom the gods had put down, he (the sacrificer) puts them down 
too by these worlds and what fourth there is beyond these worlds, from that the 
Asuras do not again rise from this bondage for the Brahmins (pi tests). Keep these 
(Asuras) away during the sacrifice by the same means by which the gods kept them 
off. Moreover, whoever acts inimically towards the sacrificer and whom the 
sacrificer hates, him too does he (the sacrificer) put down by these worlds and what 



II.2.2.10] 


TRANSLATION 


47 


fourth (world) is beyond these (three worlds). Putting him (the enemy) down by 
these worlds and what fourth there is beyond these, he takes away everything from 
this earth. What could he be taking off, if he should take off (the bunch of sacrificial 
grass), saying, “I take away the aerial region; I take away the sky?" Everything is verily 
established on this (earth). Therefore, only from off the earth he takes everything. 
Then, placing a blade of grass in between, he strikes (it), thinking, “If not, I might 
be hurting the earth with this very sharp thunderbolt”. 

9. He strikes (chanting), “Oh earthl the place of sacrifice to the gods! May I not 
hurt the root of your plants”. Taking this (earth dug up) thus, he makes it (the 
plant), as it were, with roots upturned. Thereby (by thus chanting), he does not 
harm the roots of the plants of this earth. Even as he is about to place (the dug up 
earth) down, (chanting), “Go to the fold, the place of the cows. May the sky rain 
for your sake!” He makes it (stay here) not go away. What is within the fold (pen) 
if indeed what does not go away. (He says), “May the sky rain for you!” Whatever 
they dig of this earth, indeed water makes that grow up (fill up), the water quenches 
it. In that manner indeed does this (sacrificer) make it grow (fill up) with water 
what he digs up thus. He soothes it with water. Having taken it (the dug up earth) 
away, he places it (on the heap of rubbish), (chanting), “Oh divine Savin’ Find {the 
enemy) at the farthest (part of this earth) ”. When he says, “at the farthest (point 
of the) earth”, he verily says to the divine Savitr, “Bind (him) in blinding darkness”, 
(he says), “With a hundred nooses”. By that he says (means), “(The hundred) 
(bonds) that will not let him off”. If he may not exorcise, he should say, “He who 
hates us and whom we hate, him do not release from there”. Should he exorcise, 
he should indicate (by name) “such and such person.” 

10. Then he strikes a second (time) (chanting), “May I drive away Araru from 
the place of sacrifice to the gods, for the sake of the earth”. Indeed there was one 
Asura Raksas known as Araru. Tire gods, thus drove him away from this earth. 
Similarly does this (sacrificer) drive him away thus from this earth, (chanting), “Go 
to the pen, the place of cow's. May the sky rain for your sake. Oh divine Savitr! Bind 
with a hundred bonds at the farthest (point of the) earth, him who hates us and 
whom we hate. Do not release him from there”. Then the Agnidh places it upon 
(the heap of rubbish) saying, “Oh Araru! You shall not fly off to heaven". Wien the 
gods drove the Asura-Raksas-Araru from this earth, then he (Araru) wished to fly 
off to heaven from the (heap of) rubbish. Agni put him down saying, “Oh Araru! 
do not fly up to heaven”. Similarly, this Adhvaryu himself thus cuts him (.Araru) off 
from this world and the .Agnldh (cuts him off) from (the side of) heaven. 



II.2.3.4] 


TRANSLATION 


•41* 


11. Then, he strikes a third time (chanting), “Let not you drop off (spurt) to the 
skv”. This, indeed, is the drop of this (earth), which these creatures thus subsist on. 
He verily says (means) this “Let not that, your drop, fly off to the sky”. (He chants), 
“Go to the pen, the place of the cows. May the sky rain for you! Oh divine Savitr! 
Bind at the farthest (point of the) earth (my enemy) who hates us and whom we 
hate—(bind) with a hundred nooses. Do not release him from there’. 

12. He strikes thrice with the Yafiis chant. With these verily he puts down (the 
Asura), thus, with these worlds. These worlds are indeed certain. Verily Yajus is 
certain. He strikes a fourth time silently. Whether there is a fourth (world) beyond 
these worlds, by that too he puts down, thus, hateful enemy. It is not certain at all 
that there is or is not a fourth beyond these worlds. “What is silent" is indeed, 
uncertain. Therefore he strikes the fourth time silently. (Second Brahmana Ends ) 


BRAHMANA III 

1. The Devas and Asuras, both sprung from Prajapati, contended. Then the gods 
were, as it were, dependent. Those Asuras thought, “Indeed this world is ours”. 

2. They said, “Well, let us divide (share) this earth. Haring divided it, let us subsist 
on it". They went about dividing it with ox-hides from west to the east. The gods 
heard about it (thus): “The Asuras are verily dividing the earth . 

3. They said, “Come, we shall go there where the Asuras are partitioning this 
earth. What shall we be, if we cannot share of this (earth)?" They arrived (at where 
the Asuras were), placing Visnu, (who is) verily the sacrifice, at their head. 

4. They said, “Share in this earth with us. For us too let there lx* a (share) of this 
earth”. The Asuras spoke, as though being malicious, “We give you only so much 
as this Visnu lies-upon". 



IL2.3.10] 


TRANSITION 


5. Verily Visnu was dwarf, The gods did not mind (did not feel angry about) it. 
(They thought), “They gave us indeed much, for they gave to us what is equal to 
the sacrifice”. Then, having made that Visnu, the sacrifice, lie towards the east, they 
enclosed him on all sides with metres. 

6. On the south with, “I enclose you with the metre of Gavatra”, on the west with 
“I enclose you with the metre of Tristubh”, on the north with “I enclose you with 
the metre of Jagati”, thus having hemmed him in on all sides with the metres and 
then having placed Agni in the east. 

7. They (the gods) proceeded worshipping with it and striving. Verily in that 
manner they obtained this entire earth. Hence it is known as Vedl (altar). Because, 
by this they obtained the en tire earth, therefore they verily say, “As much as the altar 
is, so much is the earth”. He who knows this to be thus, “By this indeed they (the 
gods) obtained the entire earth”, obtains verily this entire (earth) of his inimical 
rival; thus he excludes his hateful rival from (a share of) this. 

8. That very sacrifice, Visnu, languished. He was on all sides enclosed by the 
metres. In the east there was the Agni. (So) he (the sacrifice; Visnu) could not move 
away. He verily disappeared nearby into the roots of plants. The gods searched for 
him (saying), “Where has the sacrifice been (gone)? Where has Visnu been 
(gone)?"” They said, “He has been enclosed on all sides with metres; there is Agni 
in the east (infront). His escape is not possible. Search for him here itself 1 . Digging 
up (a little) they searched for him. They found him in three fingers (depth). 
Therefore “the altar should be three fingers (deep) ”—so they say. Moreover Pand 
built up an altar three fingers (deep) for his Soma sacrifice. 

9. One need not favour that (practice). For, he disappeared nearby into the 
roots of plants. He (the sacrificer) should cut off only the roots of plants. As the 
gods found the sacrifice i.e. Visnu verily here, therefore is it known as Vedl Having 
found him, they enclosed him with a further enclosure. 

10. Chanting, “You are the productive earth (good earth) andyou are auspicious”, 
on the southern side. For having obtained this very earth they (the gods) thus m ade 
it productive (fine) (good) and auspicious. (They enclosed it) on the west 
(chanting), “You are a comfortable place and you are also pleasant to sit on”. For, 
having found this earth verily they (the gods) made it a comfortable house and also 
a pleasant place to sit upon. (They enclosed it) on the north, chanting, “You are 
the possessor of vigour (sap) and also the possessor of milk”. For, having obtained 
this earth thus, they made it verily juicy and fit to subsist on. 



II.2.3.17] 


TRANSLATION 


53 


11. He makes the first enclosure three-fold and the second one (too) three- fold. 
That (amounts to) six times. Verily the seasons of the year are six. The year is the 
sacrifice, (it is) Prajapati. How much is Prajapati and how much is his measure, 
verily with that much he (the sacrificer) thus encloses this (altar). He makes the 
first enclosure with six utterances and the second one with six. That makes twelve. 
Verily the months of the year are twelve. The year is the sacrifice, (it is) Prajapati. 
How ? much js Prajapati and how much is his measure, verily with that much does 
he (the sacrificer) enclose this (altar) thus. 

12. It (the altar) should be of the extent of the space between the tips of the two 
arms outstretched, at the west. For a man is indeed so much {of that size). Indeed 
this (altar) is of the measure of man. The east is three cubits. For the sacrifice is 
three fold. 

13. Oneneednotadoptit. The gods indeed won limitlessly (won unlimited gain) 
with this (altar), that w T as not of fixed measure. In that maimer, verily, this 
(sacrificer) wins unlimited (gains) (limitlessly) by this (altar) which is not of fixed 
measure. 

14. He raises the two shoulders of the altar on both sides of the fire. Verily the 
altar (vedi) is female; Agni is male. Indeed the female (woman) lies down having 
embraced the male (man) (encircling him). Therefore he raises the two shoulders 
of this (vedi) on both sides of the fire. 

15. It (the altar) should be broader at the west, (behind), contracted in the 
middle and again broader ahead (in the east); thus do they praise a woman "of 
broad hips’" “of shoulders drawn in” “slim at the waist”. Thus he makes it (the vedi) 
verily pleasing to the gods. 

16. It should be sloping towards the east. For east is the quarter of the gods. Then 
(it should be) sloping towards the manes. Should it be sloping towards the south, 
the sacrificer would reach that world soon (speedily). That way (fay making the altar 
in the prescribed way, the sacrificer lives for a long time. It (the altar) becomes 
provided with gravel (loose soil). Verily the loose soil is ‘cattle'. Thus he makes it 
(the vedi) verily possessed of cattle. 

17. Then he puts it together (smoothes it). Indeed, the gods, as they were going 
to prepare for the battle against the Asuras, said, “What imperishable place of 
worship for the gods there is on this earth, that let us place in the moon, so that if 
the Asuras and Raksasas, should overpower us and should drive us (trouble us). 



II.2.3.21] 


TRANSLATION 


55 


then, praising (worshipping) and striving we may overcome (them) again”. Then, 
what they considered the imperishable place of worship for the gods on this earth 
that they placed in the moon. It is this that (appears) blackish in the rnoon. 
Therefore, they say, “In the moon is the place of worship of the gods, of this earth”. 
This very' thing, he (the sacrificer) obtains thus with this (putting the altar 
together). He builds it up here. Moreover, the sacrifice performed bv him who 
knows it to be so, becomes verily performed in the (proper) place of worship of 
gods. 

18. He puts it together (smoothes it up), chanting “Oh full one! Before the 
moving away of the cruel (demon Aram)” “(Before the cruel flouring thing viz. 
battle) Verily the battle is fierce. Indeed in battle cruel deed is done; the horse 
lies slain, the man lies down killed. He (the sacrificer) says (means) verily this, 
“Before the battle”, in (saying), “Having lifted up the life-bestowing earth”. What 
they considered to be the life' of this earth, that they placed in the moon. (He 
chants), “What they by chants of Svadha made to go to the moon” (by this) he verily 
says (means) this—“What they placed in the moon by means of Brahman ( mantra) ”. 
(He chants), “The wise worship it pointing (referring) to it” thus. Moreover who 
knows it to be thus his worship (sacrifice), amounts to having been performed in 
this place of worship of gods. 

19. Then he calls (directs). “Place the sprinkling water (vessel) down”, “Wipe the 
spoons”, “Gird (get ready) the (sacrificer's) wife”, “Come up with ghee". This is 
verily direction, for, they are indeed going to perform this. That has he directed. 
If he wishes he may say it. If he (so) wishes, he need not favour (adopt) it. For the 
Adhvaryu himself knows that this is the (subsequent) action (to be done) after this 
(action). 

20. Then he places the (vessel of) sprinkling waters down. Formerly the 
thunderbolt which is verily the thunderbolt and the Brahmin (priest ) guarded this 
sacrifice. The waters indeed are the thunderbolt. He verily places the thunderbolt 
thus for protection (of the sacrifice). He takes up the wooden sword as the 
sprinkling waters (in the vessel) are held verily above and above. Thereby the two 
vajras (the wooden sword and the water) do not come into conflict; for if verily 
when the sword had been placed (i.e. is still on the ground) he should place the 
sprinkling waters down, the two vajras (thunderbolts) would come into conflict. 
Therefore, only when the sprinkling waters are being held verily above and above, 
he then takes up the wooden sword. 

21. Then he throw's the wooden sword northward saying, “I throw you, thunder¬ 
bolt, for (killing) so and so”, (naming) the person whom he may hate. Verily the 
wooden sword is the thunderbolt. Indeed he does kill verily with this. Then he 
washes (his hands). Thus he has removed what indeed has been cruel of this 



11.2.4.2} 


TRANSLATION 


r **> 

bs 


(altar). And those who performed sacrifices in former times, they performed the 
sacrifices touching (the altar and the oblations). They became greater sinners. 
Those who performed no sacrifices were better (greater) than these. {Thoughts 
of) unbelief found those very men (they thought), “He who performs a sacrifice 
becomes a greater sinner. He who does not perform a sacrifice is better (superior) 
With what desire should we perform a sacrifice? They resolved not to perform 
sacrifice. Oblation did not reach those gods from here (the earth). Verily the gods 
subsist on offering (made) here. 

22. The Gods indeed told Brhaspati Arigiras, ‘Verily unbelief has found (caught 
hold of) men. Prescribe a sacrifice for them’ 1 . He went to them and said, “Perform 
sacrifice. Why don’t you perform sacrifice?” They said, “With what desires shall we 
sacrifice? For, he who sacrifices becomes a worse sinner; he who does not sacrifice 
is better (superior). Desirous of what, shall we sacrifice?” 

23. He said, “We have heard that what has been pressed (prepared) for the gods 
that indeed becomes the sacrifice for the gods, viz. the cooked oblations and the 
built up altar. With that you have performed (but) touching (them ). Hence you 
became worse sinners. Perform the sacrifice without touching (them). Verily you 
will become better (superior)”. (They asked), “How long (till how much) should 
we not touch?” He replied, “Till the sacrificial grass (is spread on the altar). Verily 
the sacrificial grass will appease this (altar) therefrom”. Therefore, if a blade of 
grass or something else should fall (on the altar) before the sacrificial grass (is 
spread thereon) he should remove it only (along with) spreading the sacrificial 
grass. Thereafter they tread on it even with their foot. For it (the altar) becomes 
appeased (calm). He who knowing thus sacrifices without touching (the altar and 
the oblations) verily becomes better (more glorious). (Third Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMAN AIV 

!. He verily wipes clean the sacrificial spoons, (the reason) why he wipes clean 
the spoons (is this); the practice of (for) the gods indeed follow that of men. This 
is indeed (the practice) of men when serving food for them is arranged. 

2. Then, they wash the vessels; they serve with them that have been washed. Thus, 
verily, the sacrifice to the gods now comes to be, that the oblations have been 
cooked, the altar has been prepared. The sacrificial spoons—there are indeed the 
vessels of gods. Now he washes them, thinking, “We shall serve only with the washed 
(vessels) 



II.2.4.8] 


TRANSLATION 


59 


3. For the gods he washes with two (things), with only one for men. For gods (he 
washes the vessels) with water and Brahman (mantra ). What is done (washed) with 
the sacrificial grass that (is tantamount to being done) with water. What is done 
with (the utterance of) Yajus is what is done with Brahman (mantra). Verilv the 
sacrificial grass blades are the waters; the Yajus is Brahman. (He deans) only with 
water for men. Thereby, verily, it becomes different. 

4. Having taken up the dipping spoon, he heats it, chanting either "Scorched is 
the Raksas; scorched are the enemies” or "The Raksasas have been completely 
burnt, completely burnt are the enemies”. 

5. The gods who were performing sacrifice were verily afraid of contact with 
Asuras and Raksasas. Therefore he (the sacrificer) thus drives away the destructive 
Raksasas even from the commencement of the sacrifice. Chanting (as follows), he 
cleans ( the vessels) within, with the tips (of holy grass), "Not being sharp, (yet) you 
are the destroyer of rivals”. Thus, he says this so that it would, being ceaseless, 
destroy the rivals for the sake of the sacrificer. (He says), “I cleanse you, the 
possessor of good, for kindling of food”. (By this), he verily says (means), '1 cleanse 
you, the sacrifice, for the sake of the sacrifice”. Then he cleans thus the outside (of 
the vessels) with the bottoms (ends) (of the holy grass). Thus verilv lie cleanses all 
the spoons. He addresses then the offering spoon (mik) thus, “You, the possessor 
of food”. (He cleanses) the Prasitraharana (vessel) silently. (The reason) why he 
thus cleans the inside (of the vessel) with the tips (of the holy grass) and the outside 
(of the vessels) with the bottom ends (of the holy grass) is that in this way he verily’ 
bears the outward breath and the upward breath (prana and udand). Therefore 
indeed the hair are such and such. He gives (the vessels) having cleaned and haring 
heated each one. This is just as one, having (first) cleansed touching it would 
ultimately rinse it without touching it. 

6. He verily cleans the dipping spoon first. For, the dipping spoon is male and 
the offering spoons are female. Therefore, even though many women go together, 
if amidst them (only) a boy is the male, as it were, verily he ordv goes (is received) 

first. 

7. Having stepped out towards the east, he must so wash that he would not spatter 
towards the fire. Should he spatter towards the fire, it would be verily as one might 
spatter a person with the water with which vessels have been washed—the person 
for whom he is going to bring food. Therefore, he should cleanse (the vessels) 
stepping out, beyond towards the east. 

8 . Some put those (holy grass bits) materials used for cleaning the spoons into 
the fire, (thinking), “These have been (parts) of the bunch of sacred grass. They 
have cleaned the spoons with these. This is verily something belonging to the 
sacrifice. Let not this be outside our sacrifice”. One need not (should not) do it that 
way. For, it would verily be as one might make a person, for whom he is bringing 
food, drink the water with which the vessels have been cleaned Therefore one 
must only throw them away. 



II.2.4.16] 


TRANSLATION 


♦ il 


9. He (theAgmdhra) girds the wife (of the sacriftcer) (with a cord). Indeed, the 
wife (of the sacriftcer) is the hind part of the sacrifice. He verily yokes her (unites 
her with the cord), (thinking), “May my sacrifice that is being performed proceed 
eastward (before me)! Thus girt (united with the cord) mayshe sit by my sacrifice!” 
Therefore he fastens her with the yoking cord. For, verily they yoke the draft-animal 
with the yoking cord. 

10. Notv, (the reason) why he girds this (sacriftcer’s wife) is that verily impure 
(sacrificially) is what is below the navel of the wife; now she is goiiig to look at (face) 
the ghee. Therefore, indeed, does he thus conceal it with the yoking cord. Then she 
faces it (the ghee) with only her pure upper part (of her body). 

11. He girds (her) over the garment. The rope verily belongs to Vanina and the 
garment is of the plants. Therefore, he thus keeps (her) concealed by means of the 
plants from Varuna’s cord (noose). Thereby this cord of Varuna does not hurt her. 

12. He girds (chanting), “You are the girdle for Aditi”. This (earth) is indeed 
Aditi. She is the wife of the gods. Similarly indeed is this (woman) the wife of this 
(sacrificer ). For her he verily makes this a girdle and not a rope (noose). This band 
is verily a girdle. He indeed makes that so (a girdle) for this (wife). Thereby, this 
Varuna’s rope does not harm this (wife), 

13. He must not make a knot, for the knot is verily of Varuna. Should he make 
a knot then Varuna may take possession of her. Therefore, he only covers it over 
(clasps) upwards (chanting), “You are the pervading band of Visnu”. 

14. She should not sit behind (to the west). This (earth) is indeed Aditi. She is 
the wife of the gods. She sits behind (to the west of) the sacrifice, facing east. If she 
(the sacrificer’s wife) should sit behind facing east, she would rise up to (be equal 
to) her (Aditi). She (Aditi) would hurt her. She (the wife) would speedily reach the 
yonder world. Therefore, she must sit just behind, the right (south). Thus she 
conceals (herself) from her (Aditi). Thereby the wife lives long. 

15. Then she looks down into the ghee . Indeed the wife is female. The ghee is the 
semen. Thus a productive pair is formed. 

16. She looks down (into the ghee) (chanting), 'With an undamaged eye do i 
look at you”. When she says, “I look at you with an undamaged eye”, she says 
(means) verily this, “I look at you with an un-afflieted eye”. (She says), “You are the 
tongue of Agni”. For, when they offer up this (ghee) in the fire, then indeed the 
tongues of Agni rise up, as it were. Therefore she says, “You are the tongue of Agin”. 
(She says), “One who is well for the gods”. She verily says (mean) this, "You are 
good for the gods”. She says, “Be (present) for every abode (of the sacrifice), for 
every' ‘ Yetjus' (mantra)*. She verily says (means) this, “Be present lor the entire 
sacrifice, for the sake of the gods”. Having taken it (the ghee) up, he < the Agmdhra) 



II.2.4.19] 


TRAXSIATION 


m 


moves quickly forward. He heats it over the Ahavamya, of one over whose Ahavamya 
they cook the oblations, thinking, “May mv entire sacrifice (oblations) be cooked 
over the Ahavamya". (The reason ) why he first heats it is that he is going to make 
the wife see it. Verily it is not right that they should first take it to the west 
(backward) before the completion, thinking, “We are going to make the wife see 
it". Should they not make the wife look at it, they would be excluding the wife from 
the sacrifice. Therefore, having heated it at the north and then having made the 
wife look at it and along with it (immediately) having taken it to the east, he comes 
back fast (to his seat). Therefore, he who has no wife places it within the altar. 

17. About that, they say, “He should not place it within the altar. For, from that 
they make oblations to the wives of the gods. For whom (whose) they place within 
the altar, he excludes the wives of the gods from the company (of the gods) and his 
wife becomes distant from the man (her husband). About that, Yajnavalkyaverily 
said, “He may place it verily within the altar. Let it be as has been prescribed for the 
wife (what does it matter to him), What is her use if she is distant from (her) man 
(husband)?" So he.said, indeed, “The altar (is) the sacrifice; the ghee (is) the 
sacrifice; I build up the sacrifice from the sacrifice’’. Therefore he should place it 
only within the altar. 

18. Now, there are (to be) two strainers (purifying blades of grass) in the 
sprinkling waters. Having taken them up, he purifies (the ghee) (chanting), “At the 
instance of Savitr, with the blemishless purifier, with the rays of the sun. 1 purify 
you". This is verily the explanation of this Yajus (chant of worship). He purifies the 
sprinkling w r ater$, verily that way, with the two (strainers) that are smeared with 
ghee, (chanting), “With the flawless purifier, with the rays of the sun, 1 purify you, 
at the instance of Savitr". Thus he puts milk verily into the waters. Thus is milk put 
into the waters (the milk in the waters is wholesome). It is indeed thus, when it 
rains, then plants spring up. On (the cattle) having eaten the plants and drunk 
water, then this essence of both arises. Therefore he purifies the sprinkling waters 
with the two (purifying blades of holy grass) covered with ghee. Then he looks down 
into the ghee. 

19. There, some make the sacrificer look down (into the ghee ), thinking, “What 
prayerful wish is here that let him pray for by himself. About that ’Vajnavalkya said, 
“Why, then, does he not himself become (act like) an Adhvarvu? Why does he not 
recite (what is to be recited by the Hotr), wherein do they pray for abundant 
(more) blessing? ” “Whatever blessing the priests pray for in the sacrifice, they verily 
pray for them only for the sake of the sacrificer". So he said, “Therefore only the 
Adhvaryu need look down (into the ghee) 



II.2.4.21] 


TRANSLATION 


65 


20. (The reason) why he looks down (at th eghee) is that verily the eve is die truth. 
Indeed the eye is verily truth. Therefore when two people, having come up should 
say, It has happened thus, thus it has been’'. They will relieve only (the statement) 
of the one who would say, “I saw it”. Thinking, ‘This is the truth. This person has 
seen”. Thus he makes this (ghee) rich verily with truth. 

21. He looks down (into the ghee) (chanting), “You are lustrous, you are bright 
(pure), you are immortal . This chant is indeed true. For, this is lustrous indeed, 
verily this is bright (pure); this is verily immortal. Therefore, he enriches this (ghee) 
indeed with truth (viz. this chant). (Fourth Brahmana Ends) 


(Second Chapter Ends) 



1I.S.J.8] 


TRANSLATION 


67 


Chapter Three 


brAhmana I 


1. Indeed, the sacrifice is the man (purusa). The sacrifice is the man for the 

P ? rf ° rmS ? C SaCriflCe - Bdn S it is prescribed 

( f , } (l " Slze) 5 f much as 1S the man - in conformity verily with the form 

° 2 of'rhlf ti ere °th m i- G n j Sit that ^ tBe sacrif * ce is verily the man (purusa). 
2 '.° f th ^ this K&ejuhu (ladle), this is the upabhrt (ladle). Verily the trank 

(main, middle portion of the body) is the dhruva (ladle). Now (it is this); all the 

hmbs anse out of the trunk indeed. Therefore the whole sacrifice arises out of the 
ahniva. 


3. Verily prana (the vital breath) is the sruva (dipping spoon). It functions 

following all the hmbs. Hence the sruva follows (functions with) all the offering 
spoons. 6 


• 4 - Th ^> r °j lder f K y Its elf is the juhu. The mid region is the upabhrt. This (earth) 
itself is the dhruva. It is this verily that all these worlds originate from this (earth). 
Therefore, only from the dhruva } the entire sacrifice arises (proceeds) 

5. Verily this dipping spoon is this (wind) that blows (purifies). This (wind) 

indeed blows across all these worlds. Therefore the dipping spoon moves along to 
all the offering spoons. e 

6. That sacrifice which is being performed is indeed performed for the gods, the 
seasons and the metres (or Vedic chants). There, what oblation there is (offered) 
viz. King Soma, thepurodasa (sacrificial cake) and what offering there Ls, (all) that 
belongs to the gods. Then he (the sacrificed takes up (the offering) for them 
according to the deities, referring to them thus, “I take up you who are pleasing to 
such and such (a deity)”. Thus indeed (does it become) theirs. 

7. Now, what (offering of) ghee he takes up, that he takes up without reference 
(to the names of deities) , merely as ghee. This indeed (it becomes) theirs, 

8 . What he takes up in the jithu, that he takes up for the seasons. Verily the 
seasons are the fore-offerings. Therefore he takes without reference to (names of 
deities) in the form merely of ghee. Thus indeed (does it become) theirs. Should 
he take it up saying, “I take you up for the spring season”. “I take you up for the 
summer season” (etc.), he would certainly be committing a repetition. Therefore 
he takes up without reference, merely in the form of ghee. 



II.3.1.13] 


TRANSLATION 


69 


9. Then, what he takes up in the upabhrt, he takes up for the metres (Vedic 
chants). For he takes up for the after-offerings. The metres are the after-offerings. 
Therefore he takes up only without reference (to the names of the deities), in the 
form of mere ghee. Indeed he would be committing a repetition. Should he take up 
(chanting), I take you up for Gayatri”, “I take you up for Trstubh”. Therefore he 

merely takes it up in the form only of ghee, without reference (to the deities bv 
name). 

10. And then, what he takes up in the dhruva, he takes it up for the whole 
sacrifice; that he takes verily without reference, in the mere form of the ghee In 
so far as they cut it up for all the gods, for whom will he then announce (refer)? 
The sacrificer verily stands behind juhu, he who acts inimicallv towards him 
stands behind the upabhrt. The eater (remains) behind the juhu, the eater (fit to 

be eaten) behind the upabhrt, Thejuhuis the eater; the upabhrt is the one fit to be 
eaten. 

11. He takes four times in the juhu. Thus he makes the eater verily more limited 
and smaller. (And he takes) eight times in the upabhrt. Thus he makes this food (fit 
to be eaten) more abundant and more unlimited. That verily is prosperity where 
the consumer is smaller and the thing to be consumed is more abundant. 

12. Taking four times in the juhu, he takes more ghee. Thus making the eater 
verily more limited and smaller, he makes him stronger and more virile. Taking 
eight times in the upabhrt he takes lessgAe^. Thus making verily the thing to be eaten 
more abundant and more unlimited he renders it weaker and less virile. Therefore, 
the King, a Ksatriya, getting at limitless (numberless) people, subdues (them) .Just 
as one verily does what one wishes; with that same energy which he takes up more 
abundantly in the juhu. What he takes up in the juhu, he offers it up verily with the 
juhu itself what he takes up in the upabhrt, (even) that he offers up only with the 
juhu. 

13. About that, they say, If he does not offer up with this ( upabhrt), what for does 
he take it up in the upabhrt ? And if he should offer with the upabhrt, the subjects 
would be separate (from him). There would be neither an ‘eater’ nor an eaten. In 
so far as, having taken it up together (from the upabhrt ), he offers it with the juhu 
itself, thereby the subjects take offerings to the Ksatriya. And as he verily, takes it 
in the upabhrt, the cattle serve the Vaisya verily under the control of the Ksatriya. 
If he would not take up in the upabhrt, there won’t be cattle in the possession of the 



II.3.2.3] 


TRANSLATION 


71 


Vaisya (the common subject). And wherefore having brought it up in the juhu 
(from the upabhrt ) he offers it, therefore when the Ksatriya desires (anything) 
belonging to the “Vaisya, he causes it to be brought, having said to him, “Whatever 
of yours has been stacked away bring that (to me) ” These ghee portions are verily 
taken (for offering) for the metres. 

14. What he takes up in the juhu, he takes it up for Gayatri, what (he takes) in 
the upabhrt that (he takes) for Trstubh and Jagatl (and) what (he takes) in the 
dhruva that (he takes) for Anustubh. Verily speech is Anustubh. All this (universe) 
springs indeed from speech. Therefore, the entire sacrifice springs verilv from 
dhruva. This (eaith) is indeed Anustubh. From this verily do all these worlds 
originate. Therefore, vei ily from the dhruva. does the whole sacrifice arise. 

15. He takes up (chanting), ■‘You are the favourite abode of the gods, indeed” 
This thing viz. ghee is verily the favourite abode of the gods. Therefore savs he, “You 
are indeed the favourite abode of the gods, an unassailed place of worship of the 
gods. Indeed the ghee is the thunderbolt. Therefore says he, “An unassailed place 
of worship of the gods”. He takes only once in the juhu with the Yajus (chant) and 
thrice silently. In the juhu he takes only once with Yajus and seven times silently. 
In the dhruvdhe takes verily once with Yajusznd thrice silently. About this they say. 

He should take with }qjus thrice and thrice (i.e. thrice in each), for the sacrifice 
is threefold . That one need not favour. Verily here it becomes threefold. (First 
Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANAII 

^ 1. Verily having taken the sprinkling waters, he sprinkles only the firewood first. 
The explanation (import) of sprinkling is verily the same. Whatever he sprinkles 
(with the sanctified water), he thus indeed makes sacrificially worthy (pure). 

2. He sprinkles, (chanting), “You are the black (antelope) that remains in its 
hair. I sprinkle you who are pleasing to Agni” Thus he makes it (the firewood) fit 
for sacrifice (pure) for Agni. 

S, Then he sprinkles the altar (chanting), “You are the altar. 1 sprinkle you who 
are pleasing to the sacrificial grass seat”. Thus he makes it (the altar) sacrificially 
fit for the sacred grass seat. 



11 . 3 , 2 . 9 ] 


TRANSITION 


73 


4. Then they hand over the sacred grass to him. Having placed it (on the altar) 

grass' (fcotew snri ikl° he s P rinkles u (chanting), “You are the sacred 

grass {barhis). I sprinkle you who are pleasing to the sacrificial spoons’. Thus he 

makes this (sacred grass) sacrificially fit for the spoons. 

(bottom no« latS T i r k | inSWat T remain]rft0ver, “ ththemhe P 0urs0ntller »0“ 

for Adfi-" T h r n Sa " ed grass (chantin 8). “Vou are the moistening thing 
for Ad.h . This (earth) is indeed Aditi. The sacred grass is the plants. Thus he 

moistens venlv the rootsofthe plantsof this earth. Therefore, these plants are with 

ZTZ : T u "T th r gh theu PP er P olt * on dry, even thenfoevarever.lv 
wth moist roots. He, therefore, moistens the roots of the plants of this earth. ' 

. hen, having untied (the knot), he takes at first (from the front portion) the 

AfisnuMndted d graSS C r SlCr Spread out)l < cha!,tin g>. ‘You are the crest of 

He Oh ■ r S T‘f e lS ' V,?,UL This crest (clustei ' on top) is "hat is his tuft. 

from i h T fi! VCn > ’ ‘ c US piaces that 111 tl,e sacrifice. .As he takes it (the fmstara) 
om the fiont, hence is this crest (top-knot) in front. 

i T t h f “I haVmg 1 ® osened the bond > he arranges it (thereby is a female (child) 
e mitely born to him). Thereby his woman brings forth a well-formed (off¬ 
spring). He spreads it over the right hip (portion of the altar). Indeed this is the 
waist-knot (girdle-knot at the navel) of this (sacrifice! ). This waist-knot is verily to 
the light. Therefore he spreads it over the right hip (portion of the altar). He 
covers ,t up with sacrificial grass. For, this waist-knot is, as it were, concealed. 

8. The reason why he spreads the sacred grass on the altar is (this). This prastara 
is the crest (tied up tuft). And the sacred grass (barhis) is verily these very hair that 
slope down from it Thus he verily puts these in the sacrifice. Indeed, the altar (rmB 
is ^ ema e. o t e ng t (south) of it do the gods, as well as these human gods, the 

i ahmins, who have studied the Vedas and who teach them, sit down. When these 
iaye verily sat down around if thus, he (the sacrificer) makes her non-naked (dad) 
indeed for only (securing) absence of nudity. 

9. Now, (the reason) why he spreads this (altar) over (with barhis) is; as much 
as is the altar so much is the earth, indeed. Verily the sacred grass {blades) are 
plants. Thus he puts the very plants in this earth. These plants are firmly established 
m this earth. Therefore one should spread over (cover) this (altar) thickly (with 
sacred grass). Where, of this (earth) the plants are most dense (abundant) that is 
most fit to subsist upon. But that (instruction) isonly in the case of him who gathers 
them (the sacred grass blades). He spreads threefold, for verilv three fold is the 
sacrifice. Then they verily spread (the holy grass) plucking up (lifting up) (the 
tops). It has been .said by the Rsi (seer) too, “They spread the barhis continuously 



II.3.2.15] 


TRANSLATION 


75 


(each touching (following) the one before)”. What is ‘prabarha’ (plucking up) is 
that he spreads (the holy grass) continuously with the roots (placed) under. 
Indeed these plants are firmly established, as it were, with roots below. 

10, He spreads (it) chanting “I spread you who are soft as wool and who are on 
a comfortable seat for the gods”. In that he says, “Soft as wool”. He verily says 
(means), good (fine) for the gods’. By (saying), “Who remains in a comfortable 
seat for the gods , he verily says (means) this, “Provider of comfortable seat for the 
gods”. 

11. Now he arranges the fire. Indeed the Ahavaniya is the head of the sacrifice. 
Verily this is the fore-part of the sacrifice. Indeed the head is the fore-part (of the 
body).Thus he makes (arranges) the head verily of the sacrifice. He arranges it, 
holding the prastara (bunch of sacred grass) just over and above it. Thus prostata 
is the crest indeed. Thus he verily places this the top-knot on the head. 

12- Then he places the enclosing sticks around, where verily the gods at first 
chose Agni for the function of Hotr, (saying), “Here be our Hotr. Convey this our 
oblation”. 

13. He (Agni) said verily, “I am not capable in that I should be your Hotr and in 
that! should convey your oblation. You chose three prior (conveyers). Thev passed 
away. Make them too (available) for me. Thereby I shall be capable for you in that 
I should be your Hotr and that I should convey your oblation " (They said), “So (be 
it)” and they procured them for him (Agni). They (those three prior Agnis) are 
these enclosing sticks. 

14. He said, indeed, because the thunderbolt viz. Vasatkara hurt them. I am 
afraid of Vasatkara. Enclose me with these so that this thunderbolt, Vasatkara, will 
not hurt me”. (Saying), “So (be it)”, they enclosed it with these. Therefore 
Vasatkara, the thunderbolt did not hurt it. Thus does he (the sacrificer) bind (fix) 
this armour for Agni himself. 

15. Those (three prior Agnis) said, “If you thus employ us in the sacrifice, let 
there be a share verily for us in the sacrifice. Make us partake in the sacrifice”. “So 
(be it) ”, they (the gods) said, "What may spill outside the enclosure, that is indeed 
yours, what they will offer (pour) upon you, that will satisfy you”. What they offer 
(pour) upon these (enclosing sticks) that verily satisfies these. What they off er in 



II.3.2.22] 


TRANSIATION 


t / 


the Ahavamya and what spills outside the enclosure, that is theirs. Therefore, 
spilling, it (the oblation) may not be producing a sin as it were. Those whatever 
spills, that indeed remains stably in this very (earth). 

16. That (what has been spilt) he touches, (chanting). To the Lord of the 
earth svaha ”. To the Lord of the wor\d~svaM\ To the Lord of beings— ■svaha'. 
These viz. Bhupati (Lord of the earth), Bhuvanapati (Lord of the world), 
Bhutanampati (the Lord of the beings) are indeed the names of those fires. Thus, 
just as his offering (to the gods) would be made with svaha , similarly this (spilt 
oblation) becomes (duly) offered into these (three prior) Agnis. 

17. Some place verily those (sticks) of the firewood around (as enclosing sticks). 
One should not do it so. For indeed, unsuitable are these of this (firewood) an 
enclosing material (for this) (Agni). For, the firewood is indeed for only placing 
over (the fire). Only these (sticks) of that (material) of which they bring others 
(sticks other than firewood) (saying), “(These are) enclosing things”—“(these 
(sticks) of that (material) alone are suitable (proper). Therefore,"they should 
verily bring only others as enclosing materials”. 

18. They (the enclosing sticks) should be of the Palasa tree. Verily Palasa is 
Brahman, Brahman indeed is Agni. Therefore the fires (the three prior fires 
serring as enclosure) one of Palasa. Or (they may be, in the non-availability of 
Palasa),ofVikankata (tree),ofBilva (tree), ofKhadira (tree), ofLTdumbara (tree), 
of Karsmarya (tree) (in that order). These are indeed trees fit for sacrifice. They 
should be green (fresh), for that is their life. By that they are bright, they are virile. 
Therefore they should be fresh (moist). 

19. At first he puts the middle enclosing stick (chanting), “May the Gandharva 
Visvavasu put (hold) you around for the security of the universe (all ); you are the 
enclosure (fence) for the sacrificer. (You are) Agni, the invoked, worthy for 
invocation”. 

20. Then at the south (he puts the enclosing stick (chanting), “You are the 
dexterous (right) arm of Indra, for the security of the universe (all). You are the 
fence of the sacrificer. (You are) Agni the invoked, worthy of invocation*. 

21. Then, (he places the enclosing stick) at the north, (chanting), “May Mitra 
and Varuna (twin deities) hold you up (place you) at the north with firm Dkarman 
(Law) for the sake of the security of the universe (all); you are the fence of the 
sacrificer. You are Agni, the one worthy of praise, the one who is invoked 
(praised) ”, They (the enclosing sticks) are verily the fires. Therefore does he say, 
“Agni the praise-worthy, the praised”. 

22. Then he puts a samidh (kindling stick over the fire); he verily kindles this 
(fire). That way he indeed puts virility into it. He first touches the middle enclosing 
stick. Thus he kindles (symbolically) these (fires viz. the enclosing sticks). (The 



II.3.2.27] 


TRANSLATION 


79 


reason) why he puts (the kindling stick into Agni is that he directly (visibly) kindles 
the fire. He puts (the samidh) with this Gavatri (chant), “May we kindle you the big 
one who invite (the gods) for the feast and who are possessed of brilliance, in the 
Adhvara (sacrifice) Oh Agni”. Thus he, with this, verily enkindles Gavatri. That 
Gayatri, having been enkindled, enkindles other metres. The enkindled metres 
convey the sacrifice to the gods. 

23. Then, the second kindling stick which he puts, with that he verily kindles 
spring. The spring (season), having been kindled, kindles the other seasons. The 
kindled seasons produce the creatures (progeny) and ripen the (produce of the) 
plants. He places (it) (chanting), “You are the enkindler”. Indeed spring is the 
enkindler. Having placed (it), he mutters, “May the sun protect you in the east from 
any curse”. These enclosing sticks are placed around (on three sides) for protec¬ 
tion. He thus makes the very' sun the protector in the east, lest the destructive 
Raksasas should defile the sacrifice from the east. Verily the sun is the repeller of 
the destructive Raksasas. 

24. Then, the third one which he places in the after-offerings, with that he verily 
kindles the Brahmana (the Brahmin priest). Having been kindled, that Brahmin 
conveys the sacrifice to the gods. Then he (theAdhvaryu) returns to the altar which 
is strewn (with the holy grass). Having taken up two blades (of holy grass ) from that 
(altar), he places them (with their tips pointing) to the north (chanting), “You are 
the two arms of SavitrYThis prastara (cluster of holy grass) is indeed the top-knot 
(tuft) (of the sacrifice) and these two (blades of grass) are verily the two eye-brows. 
(The reason) why he places them obliquely is that these two brows are slanting. The 
prastarais indeed Ksatra (ruler) and the barhisi s vis (common subjects). These two 
(blades of grass) are those who hold up the Ksatra and vis separately. Hence they 
are known as Vidhrti (the two that hold separately). 

25. Then he spreads the prastara (over them) (chanting), “You, soft as wool, the 
one remaining in a fine seat for the gods, I spread”. (By) what he says “Soft like 
wool”, he verily says (means) this, “Good for the gods”. (By) “Remaining in fine seat 
for the gods”. He verily says (means) this, “One who provides a comfortable seat for 
the gods”. (He chants), “May theVasus, Rudras and Adilyas reach you (sit on you) 
These are verily three groups of gods viz. Vasus, Rudras an d Adilyas. He verily says 
(means), “May these sit upon you”. Only then (after chanting this) the left palm 
is placed upon (it). 

26. Then he takes up th ejuku (thinking), “If not, the destructive Raksasas may 
enter here even before (at the outset) The Brahmin is indeed the repeller of the 
destructive Raksasas. 

2 7. Hetakesup, (chanting), “Known as you are fond of ghee, indeed”. Verily 

it is fond of ghee and indeed it is known as juktL (He chants), “Such a one, you sit 
down here on your favourite seat, with a resort that is to your liking". And then (he 



II.3.3.3] 


TRANSLATION 


HI 


takes up) the upabhri (chanting), “Known as upabhri, you are fond of ghee, indeed". 
Verily it is fond of gheeand indeed it is known as upabhri . (He chants), “Such a one, 
you sit down here on your favourite seat, with a favourite resort’ 1 . And then (he takes 
up) the dhruva (chanting), Known as dhruva, you are fond of ghee indeed". Verily 
it is fond of ghee and indeed it is known as dhruva. (He chants), “Such a one, you 
sit down here on your favourite seat, With your favourite resort". He places the 
other items of sacrificial food, chanting merely, “With your favourite abode, sit 
down on your favourite seat . (The reason) why he places the juhii above and the 
othei spoons below is that the juhu is Ksalra (ruler) and the other spoons are vis 
(subjects). Thus he makes the Ksatra (ruler) above (superior to) the subjects. 
Therefore, these subjects, the vis (remaining lower down) below, wait upon the 
Ksatriya who is seated (higher up) above. 

28. Then he touches (chanting), “Firm they have cat”. Firm they have sat on the 
lap of truth”. Indeed the sacrifice is the lap (source) of truth. They have sat verily 
in the sacrifice. (He chants), “Oh Visnu! protect them; protect the sacrifice, protect 
the lord of the sacrifice”. That speaks of the sacrificer as, “Protect me the leader of 
the sacrifice”. Thus he does not separate himself (from the sacrifice ). Verily Visnu 
is the sacrifice. To him (Visnu) indeed does he thus hand over (these things) for 
protection (thinking), “May it be well protected”. (Second Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANA III 

1. The Adhvaryu indeed kindles the fire with a firewood. Therefore is it known 
as ‘idhma ’ (the kindling material). The Hotr verily well kindles, with the chants that 
kindle. Therefore are (those chants) called Sdmidhmyah (those that make the fire 
blaze). 

2. He indeed says (to the Hotr), “Recite (the invitation verses) for Agni that is 
being kindled”, for it is for the Agni that is being kindled that he recites. Regarding 
that some say, “Oh, Hotah! recite for the Agni that is being kindled"—-one need not 
say so. For this person is a non-Hotr now indeed. When he (the sacrificer ) chooses 
him then this person is (becomes) Hotr. Therefore he should only say “Recite for 
the Agni that is being kindled”. 

3. He recites (verses) addressed to Agni. Thus he kindles (the fire) with its own 
deity. He recites (the verses) in the Gayatri metre. Gayatri is the metre of Agni. He 
kindles this (fire) with its own metre. Gayatri is verily virility. Gayatri is Brahman. 
With virility' thus indeed does he kindle this (fire). 



11.33.93 


TRANSLATION 


83 


4. He recites eleven (chants). Verily Tristubh (metre) has eleven syllables (per 
metrical foot). Gayatri is indeed Brahman and Tristubh Ksatra. Thus he kindles 
this (fire) with both energies viz. with Brahman and with Ksatra. For Gayatri is 
Brahmin and Tristubh Ksatra. 

5. He recites the first (verse) thrice and thrice the last. For, sacrifices are of 
threefold beginning and are of threefold conclusion. They become fifteen (1x3 
+ 9 + 3x1). ‘Fifteen’ is verily the thunderbolt. Virility' is thunderbolt? He produces 
virility; thus, to the Samidhenls (the kindling chants). Therefore, while these are 
being recited, he may press (the ground) with his two great toes (saying or 
thinking), “Thus do I crush that yonder person”. He crushes him whom he may- 
hate thus with this thunderbolt consisting offifteen (verses) . Fifteen indeed are the 
nights of the half-months. By half-months does the year come to be, indeed. Thus 
verily he reaches the year. 

6. Of those fifteen (verses in) Gayatri (metre), the syllables are three hundred 
and sixty. The nights of the year verily are three hundred and sixty. Thus indeed 
does he obtain the year. 

7. They say, “One should recite seventeen Samidheni chants for an isti (a ritual 
performed for the fulfilment of a specific wish)”. “One should sacrifice in a low 
voice to that deity to whom he offers an istF. Verily the months of the year (are) 
twelve and the seasons five. This seventeenth (consisting of seventeen) is indeed 
Prajapati. Prajapati is everything (the ‘all’). With ‘all’ indeed he enriches (fulfils) 
without deficiency, that wish for which wish he offers the isti He sacrifices to the 
deity in a low voice, for, what is (uttered) in a low voice is indistinct. The ‘all’ is 
undistinguished. With ‘all’ indeed does he fulfil, faultlessly, that wish for which 
wish he offers the isti This is the practice of (practice with regard to) the isti 

8. They say, “One should recite twenty-one Samidheni chan ts also during the new 
moon and full moon sacrifices.Twelve, indeed (are) the months, five the seasons, 
three (are) these worlds; the yonder sun is the twenty-first. This is the resort 
(refuge), this is the firm base. Only the person who has acquired prosperity should 
perform this. He, for whom they recite thus, becomes neither better nor worse. 
This is indeed, a speculation. But they (the twenty-one) are not recited. 

9. (The reason) why he should recite the first thrice and the last (too) thrice and 
that (too) without abreak (without pausing for breath in the middle) is that these 
worlds are three and he thus spreads (makes continuous, these worlds, he gains 
three worlds. For, this vital breath has been made threefold indeed. Thus he places 
in this (sacrificer) the very life-breath, continuous and unbroken. Thus indeed is 
the recitation. He should recite (continuously) only as long as he has control (over 
his breath). “Let there be rejection of this (unbroken chanting). If he flags (in the 
middle), the ritual is uprooted (broken-up). Therefore he should recite only' one 



IL3.4.6] 


TRANSLATION 


85 


by one. Thus he obtains these worlds, by each chant (separately) one by one. Verily 
the life-breath is Gayatri. In that he recites the entire Gayatri, by that verily does he 
put in the entire life-breath (into the sacrifker). Then he recites the others 
stretching them out (making them continuous). Thus he verily makes continuous 
the days and nights of the year. These days and nights of the year revolve, being 
continuous and unbroken. He does not give scope (access) to the hateful rival. For, 
should he recite them without continuity, he would be giving scope verily to the 
spiteful rival. Therefore he recites, making it continuous. (Third Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANAIV 

1. Indeed he recites, after having uttered (the mystic syllable) 'Him. They' say 
that no sacrifice, indeed, is (performed) without Saman. Nor is Samar? sung without 
one having (first) uttered ‘Him’. It is as though the form of the utterance 'Him is 
produced along with its ‘body’. With the Pranava (the sacred syllable Vm .*), it 
attains the form of a Saman. He verily utters ‘Om’ ‘Oiri (the syllable being of three 
mantras). Thereby indeed the whole sacrifice becomes (endowed) with Saman. 

2. And (the reason) why he recites after uttering Him is that vital breath is the 
sound ‘ Him \ Indeed the vital breath is the utterance Him \ Hence, no one can utter 
Him 'after having closed both his nostrils. He verily recites the Rk (metrical chant ) 
orally. Voice and vital breath (prana) (make) a pair. Thus, prior to the (chanting 
of) Samidhenis, a productive couple is formed. 

3. He utters Him*in a low voice. Were he to utter 'Him* loudly, he would be 
making (uttering) one of the two only, and that, too a (mere ) voice. Therefore, he 
utters Him’ in a low voice. 

4. He verily recites with *5' (towards here) and * pra (away from here) . Thus he 
unites a Gayatri (chant) directed away (from oneself) and one directed towards 
(oneself) .The one that moves away conveys the sacrifice to the gods. The one that 
moves towards here protects men. 

5. Now, (the reason) why he recites verily *5’and *pra ’(is that) outgoing breath 
goes out and the upward breath comes in. Thus he verily places both the prana and 
the udana (in the sacrifice). Semen goes out (pra), it is poured out. It comes in, ‘S’; 
itisborn. Pra—the cattle disperse, ‘a—they return, together (everything). Ail this 

indeed, is thus‘pra'and‘a’. f 

6. He verily says, “Away, your viands, heavenward* There it is ‘pm’(away). (He 
recites), “Oh Agni come here for the feast". There it is ‘S’(towards here). About 
that, some say, Tn this it is verily *pm\ Thus both these come to be (are appropriate)". 



II.3.4.11] 


TRANSLATION 


87 


That passes one’s comprehension. (In) u (pra) away your viands' 1 that is only W 
(away). (In) “Oh Agni! come here (aydhi) for the feast” that is ‘a. 

7. He indeed says, “Away, your viands heavenward”. There it becomes 'pm\ (He 
says) “Viands .Indeed, Vdjah is food. Thus only food is referred to (here). (He 
says), ‘Heavenward’. Verily half-months (are those that) tend towards heaven. 
Thus it has been said indeed about half months (the reference is the half-month). 
(He says), “Possessed of havis”. Verily cattle are possessors of (abundant) havis 
(milk etc.). Thus this has been said only about cattle. 

8. He says, “With (the spoon) smeared with ghee*. Mathava of Videgha held the 
Agni Vaisvanara in his mouth. The Rsi Gotama Rahugana was his priest. Being 
addressed, he (Mathava) did not respond. Gotama Rahugana decided to invoke 
him with Bks (metrical chants), “Oh Wise one! Oh Agni! Oh Videgha! we kindle 
you in the sacrifice. \ou, who are the inviter (of the gods) to the (sacrificial) feast, 
who are possessed of lustre and who are big”. 

9. He did not respond, indeed. (The priest again chanted) , “Oh Agni! Oh 
Videgha! Your pure, bright rays, your flames rise up shining”. 

10. And indeed he did not at all respond. (The priest continued), “Oh, bathed 
in ghee ! We resort to you”. He said verily only so much. Then the fire blazed forth 
from his (Mathava’s) mouth. He was unable to holdit (back),He (Agni Vaisvanara) 
fell out of his mouth. It (the fire) reached this earth. Then Videgha Mathava was 
there in (the river) SarasvatL Then he (Agni) went about burning this earth. 

11. Videgha Mathava and Gotama Rahugana went after him. He burnt up all 
these rivers. (The river) called Sadanira (haring perennial water) issues forth from 
the northern mountain. Only that (river) did he not bum up. Therefore, indeed. 
Brahmins did not cross her formerly (thinking), “This (river) has not been burnt 
up by Agni Vaisvanara. 



11.3.4.18} 


TRANSLATION 


89 


12. But now there are many Brahmins to the east of it. That indeed was verv 
uninhabitable as it were, and very difficult of access, for it had not been tasted by 
Agni Vaisvanara. 

13. But that is very inhabitable, as it were, and easier (less difficult) of access. The 
Brahmins verily have made this delectable by means of sacrifices. That (river) 
causes rage even in the late summer. It is so much cold. It had not been, indeed, 
burnt up by Agni Vaisvanara. 

14. He (Videgha Mathava) said, “Where shall I remain?” He (Agni) said, “The 
region to the east of this, verily (is to be your firing place). That very (river ) is now 
the boundary of the Kosalas and Videhas, with the Kuru Pancalas. Both of them, 
indeed, are Mathavas (descendants of Mathava)”. 

15. He (Gotama Rahugana) then said (to Mathava), “How is it that you did not 
respond to me?” He said, “I was holding Agni Vaisvanara in my mouth; if not (if! 
opened my mouth to respond), he might get out of my mouth”. (Rahugana said), 
“How did it happen (that the Agni came out)?” (Mathava replied), “When verily 
you addressed (Agni) as with a spoon smeared with ghee. Then Agni blazed out of 
my mouth”. “I could not keep; he went out of my mouth” he said. 

16. Among the Sdmidhmls, that word in which (the word) ‘ghee' is inherent 
(hidden) is verily suitable for kindling. With that he indeed kindles this (Agni). 
With that he verily puts virility into this (Agni/sacrifice). 

17. That (expression) is “with the one (spoon) smeared with ghee”. “The one 
desirous of happiness reaches the gods”. Indeed, the sacrificer is the one wishing 
for happiness. He desires to win over the gods; he desires to go to the gods. Thus 
has it been said. This being addressed to Agni, is indistinct. ‘All’ is indeed 
undistinguished. He (the sacrificer) thus takes to this (sacrifice) verily with ‘AH’. 

18. (He recites) “Oh Agni! come for the feast! (for becoming separate)”. There 
it is ‘5’(towards here), ‘Viteiye' (for the feast; for becoming separate; for going out 
by and large). At first these worlds were as If very close indeed. The yonder sky was 
‘touchable’ (one could touch it by reaching ‘up’). Those gods desired, “How will 
this (heaven) of ours become vaster?" They separated (arranged) therm with these 
three syllables (vl-ta-ye). They made them apart. Thereby it (heaven) became wider 
for the gods. Indeed, it becomes more spacious for him for whom who knows thus 
they, recite this (Rk). 



II.3.4.22] 


TRANSLATION 


01 


19. (They recite), “Speaking for the bestower of oblations*’. The sacrifice!' 
indeed is the giver of oblations. Indeed he verily says (means) this, “Speaking for 
(in favour of) the sacrifice!'”. (They recite), “You, the Hotr sit well on the holy 
grass”. Indeed, Agni is the Hotr. This world is verily holy grass. He thus places the 
very Agni in this world. This Agni has been placed in this world. This /% has been 
recited about this very world. Therefore he recites, “For Agni". Verily Agni is this 
world. He conquers this world indeed with this (chant ), he f or whom who knows 


thus they recite this (Rk). 

20. (They recite) “Oh Angiras! You with samidhs For, they kindle this fire with 
samidhs (kindling sticks). (They say), “Oh Angiras!” Verily Agni is Angiras. (Recit¬ 
ing) “With ghee, we make you grow”, he verily kindles this (Agni ). By that (Rk) he 
verily puts virility into this (Agni/sacrificer). (They recite) “Oh youngest (the even 
young) one! shine greatly”. Having been kindled, this fire indeed shines greatly. 
(They say) “Oh youngest one!” Indeed this (Agni) is the youngest, 'f his <Rk> has 
been recited verily with reference to this very world of the mid-region. Therefore, 
being addressed to Agni, it is undistinguished. Verily this world is indistinct. With 
this (Rk), this very world, the world of the mid-region, he conquers—he who knows 
thus,—for whom they recite this (!&)• 

21. (They recite), “Such a one (you) , (obtain) for us the wide and praiseworthy 
(world)” Indeed the yonder (world) is wide wherein are the gods. That is 
praiseworthy wherein are the gods. (They recite) “Oh God you make it be towards 

(us)” (By) “Oh God! you make it be towards us”, he verily says (means) this, make 

us reach that (world). (They recite) “Oh Agni! the great and very virile one". The 
yonder one (world) is great, wherein the gods (dwell). The yonder ( world) is very 
virile wherein are the gods. This (Rk) has been recited with reference to that very- 
yonder world. He for whom who knows thus they recite this (Mh- he conquers thus 


very heavenly world, the very heaven. , . 

22 (They recite), “(He is) praiseworthy, adorable and beautiful to look at 
through the (columns of) smoke’. Indeed this (Agni) is praiseworthy indeed is lie 
adorable. “Through (across) the smokes, beautiful”. This (Agni) having been 

kindled was seen verily through the smokes. (They recite), “Agm the bull (showerer) 

is well lit". Well indeed is the showerer lit up. Agni is verily \na (bull / slmwet«I ■ 
■Is kindled' Well he is indeed kindled, the showerer. (They recite), \ enly the 
horse (asvo na) the vehicle of gods". For, this (Agni) having become a horse carries 
the sacrifice for the gods. What is as Win the Sfe that indeed is «»«'»)- 
(‘yes’ ‘verily’). “Him (that Agni) those that bear offerings praise Indeed min 
Offerings praise this (Agni). (They recite), ^h Vryttri <*''£'««> 
strong that we are, may we kindle you, the showerer! For they well lundi bun 
(They recite) “Oh Agni! you that greatly shine . Having been kindled, this 

will verily greatly shine. 



II. 3.4.28] 


TRANSLATION 


93 


23. He recites this triad of Rks containing the word ‘Vrsan \ He recites all these 
kindling verses addressed to Agni. Indra indeed is the deity of the sacrifice. Indra 
is (the strong, male) showerer, 'Vrsan'. That way, these his kindling verses become 
associated with Indra. Then he says, “We choose Agni the Hotr, the wise (the one 
of auspicious action), the all-knowing one as the messenger of this sacrifice". 

24. The God and the Asuras, both sprung from Prajapati contended. Gayatri as 
she was, stood between them who were verily competing. She W'as i ndeed this earth. 
Both of them understood (thus), ‘They of us of the two (groups), whom this one 
(Gayatri) will be with, will remain (victorious), the others will be vanquished”. Both 
of them invited her. That Agni himself was the messenger of the gods and 
Saharaksas, an Asura Raksas, (was the messenger) of the Asuras. She followed Agni 
with this chant, “We choose Agni as messenger, Agni the Hotr, the all-knowing 
one”, indeed he was the messenger of the Gods. 

25. In this matter some avoid it, saying, “He who is the Hotr, him the all-knowing 
one” thinking, “If not we will speak of ourselves as aram (enough) But one need 
not say so “the one of the auspicious actions of this sacrifice". She (Gayatri) came 
to the Gods therefore, the gods remain (victorious) and the Asuras were vanquished. 
He remains (victorious) by himself and his hateful enemy becomes vanquished,— 
he for whom who knows thus they recite this (Rk). 

(If he should say so he would be doing what is human. What is human is verily 
deficient. Therefore he should verily say (Hotaram the Hotr). 

26. He recites this eighth ( Samidhmi ). Verily Gayatri is of eight syllables (per 
foot) for that reason this (Rk) is indeed Gayatri. Therefore, he recites this eighth 
(Samidhenl). 

27. Here some people place two Dhaya verses before this (8th Samidhmi). But 
one should not do so. For this Gayatri looses its order. Indeed then it becomes the 
tenth. Therefore, one must place the two Dhaya verses only subsequently. 

28. (He recites), “Agni whois being kindled in the sacrifice is the purifier, worthy 
of adoration". Indeed this (Agni) is the purifier. Verily is thisone praiseworthy. (He 
recites), “This one has shining hairs; we approach him". The hair of this (Agni) who 
has been kindled shine as it were. (He recites) “Oh Agni! the invoked! you have 
been kindled”. Before this, he should place all the firewood (into the lire). 
Whatever remains here of the firewood, other than the kindling sticks. That indeed 
the Hotr finishes as it were. What is left over of the sacrifice is indeed what is in 



II.3.4.30] 


TRANSLATION 


yr> 


excess that remains towards the hateful enemy of this (sacrifker). Therefore, 
before this (the last verse) he should put all firewood (into fire). 

29. (He recites) “Oh! one of auspicious sacrifice! You adore the gods”. (By this) 
he verily says (means), “Oh! one associated with the auspicious sacrifice! worship 
the gods”. (He recites), “You are indeed the bearer of oblations”. For this (Agni) 
is indeed the bearer of oblations. (He recites), “Make the offerings. Worship 
(choose) Agni to be the bearer of your oblations as the sacrifice proceeds”. Just like 
the Sampraisa (invitation chant) is this, “Make offerings to this Agni. Worship him 
for (the fulfilment) of which desire you have kindled him”. 

30. He recites this group of three fflts containing the word Adhvara ’. The Asuras, 
the rivals, wished to hurt the gods who were performing a sacrifice. Desiring to hurt 
them, they were unable to hurt them. They failed. Therefore is a sacrifice called 
Adhvara. The hateful rival desiring to hurt this (sacrifice) fails for whom (sacrifice) 
who knows this they recite the triad of Rks containing the word Adhvara. He wins 
as much conquest (success) as one wins by means of the Soma sacrifice, (Fourth 
Brahmana Ends) 


(Third Chapter ends) 



II.4.1.5] 


TRANSLATION 


Chapter Four 

BRAHMANAI 

1. It was thus indeed. The gods employed Agni in the highest (office) viz. in the 
position of the Hotr, (saying), “Be thus (here) our Hotr. Convey this our offering’'. 
Having employed him thus in the highest (office), they exhilarated him, ‘Abu are 
indeed virile (heroic) .You are verily capable of this (task)”. “This isj ust as even now 
whomsoever among the kinsmen they appoint to the highest (office)", they cheer 
him up (saying), ‘You are indeed a heroic person. You are verily capable of this 
(job)”. What the Hotr recites after this, that verily cheers him, and thus puts virility' 
in him. 

2. He recites, “Oh Agni! you are the great, Oh Brahmana (priest) ! Oh Bharata 
(bearer) !” Indeed Agni is Brahman. Therefore he says, “Oh Brahman!” (He says) 
“Oh Bharata!” Indeed does this Agni bear the oblation for the gods. Therefore is 
it that they say, “Agni is Bharata (the bearer). Always, verily does this (Agni) himself 
maintain these creatures, having become their vital breath. Therefore he says, “Oh 
Bharata (bearer)”. 

3. Now, he chooses what belongs to the Rsis (the ancestors). Thus he reports 
about this (Agni) to the Rsis and the gods, ‘This (Agni) who has come to the 
sacrifice is one of great rigour”. He chooses (byname) from the remote (ancestor) 
downwards. For offspring are bom indeed downwards from the remote. [Thus 
verily does he remove (the progeny/generation} from the master of the elders]. 
Thus he propitiates the master of the elders (for the sake of the sacrificer). It is thus 
indeed, the father is (born) at first, then (is bom) the son and then the grandson. 

4. Haring chosen the (name) belonging to the Rsis he says, Abu are the one, who 
have been kindled by the Gods". Verily did the gods kindle this (Agni) formerly. 
( He says), “Kindled by Manu”. Indeed Manu kindled this (Agni) formerly. (He 
says), “Praised by the Rsis”. The Rsis praised him indeed. (He says), “Cheered up 
by the bards”. Those Rsis are indeed the ones who were the bards. They were the 
ones that cheered up this (Agni). Therefore he says, “Cheered up by the wise”. (He 
says) “Praised by the wise”. Those Rsis were, indeed the wise ones. They verily 
praised this (Agni). Therefore he says, “Praised by the wise”. (He says), “Sharpened 
by Vedic mantras (Brahman) For this (Agni) has been made keen by the Brahman 
(Vedic chant). (He says), “He in whom ghee is offered”. For this one is the one in 
whom ghee indeed is offered (poured as offering). 

5. (He says), “Great leader of the sacrifices”. Indeed by this (Agni) are all 
sacrifices led on (performed), those sacrifices which are with cooked offerings and 
which are others. Therefore he says, The great leader of sacrifices . 



II.4.1.10] 


TRANSLATION 


99 


6. (He says), “The carrier of the sacrifices”. Having verily become a chariot 
(cart) does this (Agni) convey the sacrifice (oblation) to the gods. Therefoie he 
savs, “Carrier of the sacrifices!” 

?! (He says), “The unobstructed Hotr”. Indeed the destructive Raksasas do not 
cross (catch up with) him. (He says), “The fast conveyer of oblation”. This (Agm) 
verilv gets over all evils. 

8. (He says), “(You are) the mouth vessel (drinking vessel), the offering spoon 
of the gods”. Indeed, this one viz. Agni is the vessel of the gods. Therefore, they 
offer into Agni for all the gods. He, who knows this to be so, verily obtains that 

person’s vessel whose vessel he wishes to secure. 

9. (He recites), “(You are) the cup of the gods, the one from which the gods 
drink”. With this (Agni) who has become a cup, the gods consume ( swjw ) • 
Therefore he says, “The cup of the gods, the one from which the gods drink . (He 
says) “Oh Agni! As the rim (of a wheel) encompasses the spokes, you encompass 
the gods”. He verily says (means) this, ‘Just as the felly encompasses the spokes all 
around, in this manner you encompass the gods all around. 

10. (He recites), “Bring here the gods for the sake of the sacrificer . By this he 
makes him (Agni) bring the gods for this sacrifice. (He recites), “Oh Agm! bring 
4jmi here”. Bv this he makes him bring Agni for the ghee portion consecrated to 
Agni. (He recites), “Bring Soma here”. By that he causes him to bring soma for the 
gL portion belonging to Soma. (He recites), “Bnng Agm here . By 

him to bring Agni for the purodasa (cake) consecrated for Agm, which (cake) is 

sure (unslipping) on both occasions (Dane »and Pumamdsa ). ^^Vthishe 
according to each deity, “Bring here the gods, the consumers of ghee . By this he 
makes him bring the gods of the fore offerings (prayajax) and the gods of the af 
offerings (anuydjas). For, it is the gods of the fore-offerings and the^after-offerings 

oner g ( yjt ,, , “Brine here Agni for the function of the 

that are consumers of ghee. {He rentes). Bring iiere.tg. , Hprecites i 

Hotr". Thus he causes him to bring Agm for functioning as Hotr. (He rcri - , 
“Brine here your own greatness. Voice is verily his (Agm s) own greatness. B> this 
he l Xt) makes him bring -speech’. (He recites). “Oh knower of all 
beings! Bring here (the gods). Oh fire worshipper (^rertrf^n^^er 
worship”. Thus with reference to these very deities he «tnl> »>s. Vru 1h 
deifies here straightaway and worship them. Sanding he recite* < 
recites this (thus), The yonder (sky) is the very verse of J(”“ tothe 

Having verilv become that (sky), he recites. He performs the sacrifice ( .make_th 
offerings) being seated. This earth is indeed ‘the offering piaycr (wjyahT 
bfcomfng this (earth) he makes the offering. Neither affliction nor nan (w 
blinff) occurs to him Therefore, no one pronounces 'Vamt standing, on any 
occlnX This indeed is the (offering prayer,. (Firs, 

Brahmana Ends) 



II.4.2.4] 


TRANSLATION 


101 


BRAHMANAII 

1. That very Agni they have kindled. The reason why they have kindled this fire 
is (the thought), “When this has been kindled, letus offer (oblations) to the gods'’. 
In that he offers these first two oblations for the manas (mind) and vac (speech). 
For, mind and voice (speech) having been united, convey the sacrifice to the gods. 
What is performed with a low voice, by that the mind conveys the sacrifice to the 
gods. And what is performed distinctly with (audible) speech, by that, the speech 
conveys the sacrifice to the gods. Thus is this ‘pair’ (diad) performed. Thus he 
verily propitiates these two thinking, “They having become satisfied and pleased 
may convey the sacrifice to the gods”. 

2. With the dipping spoon (sruva) he pours that (ghee) (into the fire) which he 
offers to the mind. Indeed the dipping spoon is male. The mind is male. What 
(ghee) he offers to speech, that he pours with the offering spoon (sruc). For, female 
is the sruk; female is speech. What he pours for the mind, that he pours silently not 
saying even ‘ svaha ’. Indeed what is silently performed is undefined. Undefined 
(indistinct) verily is the mind. What he pours for the speech, that he pours with (the 
utterance of) a chant. The chant is verily distinct, verily distinct is speech. What he 
pours for the mind, he pours it, remaining seated. What he pours for speech, that 
he pours standing. Indeed, the mind and speech, having been united, convey the 
sacrifice to the gods, which one of the two yoke-fellows is shorter, they make 
(provide) indeed a shoulder pad for that. Verily speech is shorter than the mind. 
It is as though the mind is more unlimited; the speech is, as it were, more limited. 
Thus he verily makes a shoulder pad for speech, so that, that way the two together 
convey the sacrifice to the gods. 

3. Performing a sacrifice, the gods were verily afraid of contact with (attack from) 
the Asuras and Raksasas from the south. Therefore they stood up high at the south, 
vigourously. Indeed vigour is, as it were, lofty (raised up). As he pours (ghee) on 
both sides, therefore, the mind and speech (both) being equal yet are as if 
different. Of these two pourings (of ghee) one is the head of the sacrifice and the 
other the root. 

4. What is the root of the sacrifice, that he pours with the dipping spoon; what 
is the head of the sacrifice, that he pours with the offering spoon. What is the root 
of the sacrifice, that he pours silently. Indeed the root is, as it were, silent. Verily 
speech does not ‘speak’ here. What is the head of the sacrifice, that he pours with 
(utterance of) chant. Indeed the chant is speech. Verily from the head does this 



II. 4.2.14] 


TRANSLATION 


105 


9. {He recites), “Oh Agni! May I resort to vour wealth—abounding shade”. By 
this he verily says (means), “Oh Agni, May I resort to your good (benign) shade!” 
(He says), ‘You are the place of Vi sou”. Indeed the sacrifice is Visim. Verily does 
he now remain near the sacrifice. Therefore, he says, “You are the place ofVisnu”. 
(He recites), “Here did Indra perform his heroic deed”. From here, indeed, Indra 
drove away the destructive Raksasas. (He recites), "The Adhvara (sacrifice)has 
stood upward”. Indeed, the yajna (worship) is the 'Adhvara ' (sacrifice). He verilv 
says (means) this, “May this sacrifice be upward”. 

10. (He recites), "Oh Agni! Take up the function of the Hotr; take up the 
function of a messenger". Verily Agni is to the gods, both a Hotr and a messenger. 
He verily says (means) this, “Know both (Hotr and messenger) which you are to the 
gods”. (He recites), “May heaven and earth guard you! May you guard the sky and 
the earth!” It is not as though (the meaning) is concealed here. (It is obvious). 

(He recites), “Indra, with the offering of ghee, has rendered the offering well 
(properly) made for the gods; svdhd". Indra is the deity of the sacrifice. Therefore 
he says, “Indra has become (Svistakrt), with the offering of ghee sv aha.". For speech, 
indeed, does he thus pour {ghee into the fire). “Indra is speech”, so they say. 
Therefore does he say “Indra has become Svistakrt with the ghee offering; n>aha'. 
Without making them (the two offering spoons) touch each other, he steps 
beyond. 

11. He smears it (the little gfcreleft in the juhu) in the dhruvd (offering spoon). 
What is the second libation (pouring of ghee), it is verily the head of the sacrifice. 
Thus he indeed puts back the head of the sacrifice on (its) body. The second 
libation is indeed the head of the sacrifice. Verily the head is auspicious (prosper¬ 
ity) . Indeed the head is prosperity’. Therefore, whoever is the best in a region, they 
say, ‘That one is the head of that region”. The sacrificer verily (stands ) behind the 
dhruvd. He who acts inimically towards him (stands behind) the upahhrt. If he 
should smear (the remnant of ghee in the juhu) with the upabhrt, he would be 
conferring prosperity on him, who is inimical to the sacrificer. (But) thus (by 
smearing the dhruvd ), he confers prosperity’ only on the sacrificer. 

12. He smears (reciting), “May light with light well (mix)!” Indeed the ghee in 
one (spoon) is light and light is the ghee in the other (spoon). The mind and 
speech, both said, “I am superior.” 

13. Then the mind said, “I am verily greater than you”. “For, what 1 understand 
that you speak. Verily, one who imitates what has been done is inferior to the 
superior (person) and he becomes a follower”. 

14. Then speech said, “ I am, indeed, superior to you; for what you know that 
I verily communicate; I make it known”. The two, not coming to a conclusion, went 



II.4.S.2J 


TRANSLATION 


107 


to Prajapati with the question. That one, Prajapati spoke in favour of mind only. He 
said, The mind is verily superior to you”, “One who imitates is inferior to the 
superior (person) and becomes a follower”. Speech who had been set aside was 
shocked and her foetus fell out (aborted). 

15. She verily said to Paijapati, “May I not be an oblation-bearer for you at all, for 
you spoke against me”. Therefore whatever dedicated to Prajapati is done, that is 
performed verily silently (in a low voice); for speech became non-oblation-bearer 
to him. Then, this seed (foetus) that had been poured out, the gods held in a (piece 
of) skin or in a small vessel. Then they asked, Ts it here? ” (It answered) “Verily here 
iatraf . Therefore it became Atri (from it Atri was born). Verily therefore, they sav, 
“One becomes a sinner (by intercourse) with an atreyi (a woman who has aborted). 
Indeed from thisfemaie, the deity ‘speech’ he (Atri) originated. (Second Brahmana 
Ends) 


BRAHMANA III 

1. He verily makes his call for choosing (the Hotr). Indeed, the sacrifice is a call 
(he thinks), “Having spoken of the sacrifice, let me choose tfieHotr’*. Having taken 
up the bundles of firewood, he makes the call. 

Should the Adhvaryu make the call without having commenc ed the sacrifice, he 
would tremble or he may meet with some other affliction, Therefore he makes the 
call after having taken up the bundles of fuel. 

2. In that matter, some people make the call after (first) having taken up (a blade 
of) sacred grass from the altar that has been covered (with holy grass) or after 
having broken off a piece of firewood and after taking it up, saying, "This is 
something of the sacrifice, let us make the call after having taken up this sacrifice” 
One should not do it that way. Improper verily is it that he should take away (a blade 
of) sacred grass from the altar that has been covered (strewn) (with sacred grass), 
or that he should break off a piece of the fuel. This is something of the sacrifice, 
indeed, viz. those things with which the fuel is bound up and those things with 
which they trim (dean) the fire. Therefore one should call only after having taken 
up the bundles of fuel. 



11.4,3.7] 


TRANSLATION 


109 


3. Having made the call he, at the outset, chooses Agni himself who is verily the 
Hotr of the gods. Thus he dissimulates (propitiates) for the sake of Agni and for 
the gods. In that he chooses Agni at the outset, by that he dissimulates for Agni, in 
that he first chooses him who is the Hotr of the gods, thereby he dissimulates for 
the gods. 

4. Having called, he says, “Agni the god is the Hotr of the gods”. This one viz. Agni 
is verily a god and he is the Hotr of the gods. Therefore he says, “God Agni is the 
Hotr of the gods”. He recites, “May he worship the gods, he who is wise, who knows” 
This one viz. Agni knows the gods. Therefore he (Adhvaryu) verily says (means) 
this, “May he (Agni) who knows the gods straightaway worship (them)”. (He 
recites), “Like Manu, like, Bharata”. Indeed formerly (at first) Manu performed a 
sacrifice. Immitating it, now these (his) progeny perform sacrifice. Therefore he 
says “Like Manu". (He says) “Like Bharata”. This (Agni) verily conveys the oblation 
to the gods. Therefore, indeed, they say “Agni is Bharata (the bearer) This (Agni) 
himself becoming the vital breath (energy) thus maintains these creatures con¬ 
stantly. Therefore he says, “Like Bharata (bearer)”. 

5. Then he chooses (Agni) the (ancestral) one belonging to the seers (Rsis), 
Thus he introduces him (Agni) to the Rsis and the gods. “This one (Agni) who has 
arrived at the sacrifice is of great strength”. He chooses from the remote (farther) 
(and names) downward. For, the later progenies spring up from the remote 
(ancestor). Thus, verily he dissimulates (propitiates?) for the sake of the lord of the 
elders. It is thus, indeed, that at the head (at first) is the father, then the son and 
then the grandson. 

6. Having chosen the ancestral line of Rsis, he says, “Like Brahman (Veda)”. 
Indeed Agni is Brahman. “May he bring (the gods) here. The Brahmins are the 
guardians of the sacrifice”. These Brahmins are verily the protectors of this 
sacrifice, the Brahmins who teach the Vedas, who perform this (sacrifice), who 
produce this. Therefore he dissimulates (propitiates) for them saying, “That one 
is human”. Thus he chooses this human Hotr. This person, is now indeed the Hotr, 
(but) before this he was verily non-Hotr. This human Hotr, becoming engaged (in 
his function) makes the meditative repetition (of chants), approaches the deities. 
He thus approaches the gods so that he could straightaway (in proper order) 
pronounce 'Vasal' so that he could straightaway (in proper order) convty tht 
oblation (to the gods). So that he could not deviate. 

7. (He now recites) thus, “Oh God Savitr! You they choose”. Indeed Savitr is the 
impeller (begetter) of the gods. (Savitr is the impeller of the faculties). Thus he 
approaches verily Savitr for impulsion. (He recites), "Agni for the fuction of the 
Hotr”. Thus he dissimulates for the sake of Agni and the gods. That he mentions 
Agni first, by that he dissimulates for Agni. That he first mentions him who is the 
very' Hotr of the gods, by that he dissimulates for the gods. 



11.4.3.11] 


TRANSLATION 


111 


8. (Herecites) “Alongwith (you) father Vaisvanara”. His fatheris Vaisvanara (of 
all men), Prajapati. By this he dissimulates for Prajapati viz. the year. (He recites), 
“Oh Agni, the nourisher (Pusan), Oh Brhaspati! Speak well; worship well”. He is 
going to offer (worship), he thus is going to speak up (the yajyas and anuyajyas ). 
Therefore he dissimulates for these gods, “You please recite, you offer (sacrifice) 
(He recites), “May we be in the (wealth of) grace (goodwill) of the Vasus; (may we 
be) in the vastness of the Rudras. May we have auspicious Adityas for the sake of 
non-injury for all time (so that there may be no rival) (for the sake of security) I” 

These indeed, are the three gods viz. the Vasus, Rudras and Adityas. He verily 
thus says (means) this, “May we be under the protection of these (gods)!" For him 
who is under the protection of these, there is no affliction, no wavering (no 
destruction). 

9. (He recites), “May I today speak what is pleasing to the gods!” By this he verily 
says (means), “May I recite what is pleasing to the gods”. That indeed is (plentiful) 
prosperous, (for him) who may recite what is pleasing to the gods. (He recites), 
“What is ple asing to the ‘Brahmans”. By this he verily say's (means) this, “May I speak 
whatis pleasing to the Brahmins (priests)That is verily prosperous (for him) who 
may speak what is pleasing to the Brahmins. (He say's), “What is pleasing to 
‘Narasariisa’. Indeed the creatures are ‘ Narah' . Thus he speaks for all these 
creatures. That indeed is prosperous, wherein he who knows and he who does not 
verily stay. (Saying), “Well has he recited, well has he recited!” (He recites), “What 
crookedness (defect) may skip the eye in the choice of the Hotr, may Agni the 
knower of all things born, the nimble one, bring back (set right) here . He verily 
say's, (means) this, ‘just as those (three Agnis) whom they first chose for the 
function of the Hotr perished, whatever of mine has been so destroyed {injured) 
by (mv) choice may that be made good again for me!” Thus indeed is that made 
good for him again. 

10. He then touches the Adhvaryu and Agnidh. Indeed, the Adhvaryu is the 
mind and the Hotr is the speech (voice). Thus he joins together these two. For, 
those two, joined and united, convey' the oblation for the gods. He touches the 
Agnidh for (securing) absence of impediment, 

11. Then he mutters (meditatively repeats), “May the six (vast) regions save me 
from sin!” These verily are the six regions viz. the fire, the earth, the water, the 
wind, the day and the night. He verily says (means) this, May these (six regions) 
protect me from all affliction, from all deviation (fell)". Certainly there is no 
affliction, no deviation (fall) for him whom these protect from affliction. 



n.4.4.2] 


TRANSLATION 


1 1 3 


\%. Then he throws away a (blade of) grass 1'rom the seat of Hotr, (saving), 
“Thrown away is Paravasu (one because of whom wealth goes away)!” Indeed, the 
Hotr of the Asuras was known as Paravasu. Him verily does he (the Hotr) thus cast 
away from the seat of the Hotr reciting, I (thus) sit here on the seat of Arvavasu 
(one towards whom wealth comes) ", he sits down. Indeed, the Hotr of the gods 
was known as ‘Arvavasu’. On this very seat does he (this Hotr) sit down thus. 

13. Then he mutters, “Oh Visvakarman! (maker of all things), you are protector 
of mv body. You two (the two fires Ahavanlya and Garhapatya ), please, do not 
scorch me, do not hurt me. This is your world”. (Having muttered this) he moves 
a little northward. Thus he remains (seated) in between the Ahavanlya and the 
Garhapatya. Thus he dissimulates (propitiates) for these two. Thereby these two 
do not scorch him, they do not hurt him. 

14. Then he mutters, “Oh All-gods! Please command me (as to) how and what, 
I, having been chosen Hotr and having seated myself here, should think. Please 
tell (me) my share (of sacrificial duties), how and by what path I shall convey your 
oblation”. This is just like this, as one would wish for instruction from them for 
whom (the food) has been cooked (asking), “Please instruct me in what maimer 
and what manner I should bring (it) to you". Thus verily he wishes for instruction 
in the matter of the gods (asking), “Please instruct me how I shall properly 
(straightaway) pronounce ‘Vasat ’for you and convey the oblation straightaway (in 
proper order) (to you) and I may not waver”. There is certainly no affliction, no 
deviation (fall) for him who acts according to instructions. (Third Brahmana 
Ends) 


BRAHMANA IV 

1. He verily says, “May Agni, the Hotr, accept (come to) Agni’s function of the 
Hotr !" He verily says (means) this, “May .Agni, the Hotr accept this”. (He says), 
“Agni’s function as Hotr”. For, his (Agni’s) is the function of the Hotr. (He says), 
“May he accept ‘high protectorship’!” Indeed the sacrificer is the means of 
protection (by granting desires). He verily says (means), “May (.Agni) accept the 
sacrifice!” (He recites), “Oh sacrificer! The deity (is) favourable to you”. As he 
chooses Agni as the Hotr of this (sacrificer), therefore he says thus, “Oh sacrificer! 

the deity is favourable to you whose Hotr is Agni”. 

2. (He says), “Oh Adhvaryu] Take up in hand the spoon that contains ghee, that 
is devoted to the gods and that encompasses (protects) the universe” Thus he 
urges the Adhvaryu. He speaks as if one spoon only. Verily this sacrificer (stands) 
behind the juhu. He who is inimical towards him (stands) behind the upahhn. If 
he should speak of two (spoons), he would be making the hateful enemy (of the 
sacrificer) march against the sacrificer. The eater (stands) verily behind th tjuku. 



IL4.4.4] 


TRANSLATION 


115 


The eaten (stands) behind the upabhrt. The thing to be eaten is for the sake of 
the eater. Therefore he speaks of one spoon only, as it were. (He recites), “That 
is devoted to the gods and that encompasses (protects) the universe”. Thus he 
verily adores this (spoon) and glorifies (it). (He recites), “Let us adore gods who 
are adorable; let us make obeisance to those that are worthy of worship”. He verily 
says (means) this, “May we adore those gods who are adorable; let us pay obeisance 
to them who are worthy of obeisance; let us worship them who are worthy of 
worship”. Indeed they are praiseworthy. The manes are fit to be offered obeisance. 
The gods are worthy of worship (sacrifice). As many creatures as are not given a 
share in the sacrifice, they are kept away (foiled) indeed. Behind the men are the 
beasts, behind the gods (are) the birds, the plants and the trees and whatever else 
there is. Thus he makes these creatures share in the sacrifice; these creatures which 
are (thus) not kept away. 

3. These indeed are the nine ‘utterances’. For nine are the vital energies 
(faculties) in the person (man). Those very nine vital energies he puts into this 
(sacrificer) in proper order. The sacrifice went away, indeed, from the gods. The 
gods appealed to (invited) it, “Pay heed to us, return to us”. Saving “so be it”, it 
returned. They performed the sacrifice with it (the sacrifice) that had returned. 
When the Adhvaryu makes the call, by this he verily invites the sacrifice, “Pay heed 
to us, return to us”. When the Agnidh makes the return call (responds), it is verily 
that the sacrifice now returns, saying “So be it”. He performs the sacrifice with it 
that has returned. The sacrificial priests proceed (according to tradition), with the 
sacrifice that has become a seed, handing it over (one to the other) imperceptibly 
with the sacrifice, just as they would proceed with a full vessel (vessel full of water 
or auspicious materials) handing it along. Verily, the sacrificer himself is the 
sacrifice. He indeed performs this; generates this; they proceed handing it down, 
indeed, by means of speech thus. Verily speech is the seed; speech is the sacrifice. 

4. Having said, “Recite” (to the Hotr). The Adhvaryu should not utter anything 
improper. The Hotr should not at all (say anything improper) before *Vasat' is 
pronounced. The Adhvaryu makes his call. Thereby the sacrifice comes back to 
die Agnidh. The Agnidh should not utter anything improper before making the 
responding call. Thus, only when the response is made, does the sacrifice come 
back to the Adhvaryu. The Adhvaryu should say “yaja “(recite the offering prayer); 
before that he should not utter anything improper. He verily hands it (the 
sacrifice) over to the Hotr saying, “Yaja The Hotr should utter nothing 
improper before 4 vasal ’is pronounced. Verily by means of the utterance of Vasal, 
the Hotr pours that (sacrifice) that has become the seed into the fire, the source 
(genitals). Indeed Agni is the source of the sacrifice. It (the sacrifice) is bom out 
of it. So is it at the new moon and full moon sacrifices. 



11.4.4.9} 


TRANSLATION 


117 


5. Now, at the Soma sacrifice, after having taken up the Soma (the somtijarf the 
Adhvarvu should not utter anything improper, before he should say, “Please 
return" (come near). He hands it (the sacrifice) over to the Udgatr (chanters of 
saman songs); indeed, saying “Come back" (come near). Those Udgatrsshould 
not utter anything improper before they should say, “This is the last one . They 
hand it over to the Hotr saying verily “This is the last one". That Hotr should not 
utter anything improper before the pronouncement of Vasal The Hotr pours that 
(sacrifice) that has become the seed into Agni, the source, only with the utterance 
of Vasal Indeed Agni is the source of the sacrifice. It (the sacrifice) originates from 


6. He whom the sacrifice may come to and who might utter verily anything 
improper will pour away (waste) the sacrificer just as he might pour away 
(wastefully) the vessel full of water. Where the sacrificial priests proceed knowing 
well thus, there everything verily shapes well and no confusion arises. 

7. These are those five (sacrificial) utterances, “O(m)! Call (the deity) (make 
the deity hear)!” “May it be! srausat (may he hear)!" “(Pronounce the offering 
prayer) worship!” “We are those who (utter the offering prayers) worship”. 

« Vausat" (may he bear the sacrifice to the gods). The sacrifice is verily fivefold. Five 
fold are the (sacrificial) animals. The seasons of the year are five. This one is 
indeed the extent of the sacrifice. This is consummation (fulfilment). Prajapati 
is the seventeenfold (seventeenth). Verily the sacrifice is Prajapati, This is one 
measure, indeed, of the sacrifice. This is the achievement (consummation). 

8. (Uttering) “O SravayaPThe gods verily created (sent forth) the eastern wmd.^ 
(Uttering) “ astu srausat ” they made the clouds float together. (Uttering) . **7® 
(they made) the lightening (flash). (Uttering) u yeyajmnahe " (they sen t forth) the 
thunder They made it rain with verily the utterance of Vasal When he (the 
sacrificer) may perform a sacrifice with a wish-yielding ritual, being desirous of 
rain he should sav to the Adhvaryu “Meditate, with your mind, on the eastern wind 
and the lightening”, (and say) to the Agnldh “Meditate on the clouds with your 
mind”, (and sav) to the Hotr “(Meditate in your mind on) the thunder and the 
rain”. Where (when) they (the sacrificial priests) knowing 

the sake of the one (sacrificer) who is desirous of ram, verily it rams there indeed. 

9 The gods called near the Viraf (much shining one, the cow), by uttering O 
Srivavat” (uttering) ^astu srausat " they left the calf near (the cow). (Uttering) 
W"they lifted ifup (to the udder). (Uttering) “yeyajamahe*they sat near (the 
cow). Verily with the utterance of ‘ Vosat ’they milked. This (earth) is indeed Vmzty 
These milkings’ (these things that have been extracted as by:* 5 
of this (earth). He who knows this (to be) thus, for him this earthtenh produces 

(fulfills) all wishes. (Fourth Brahmana Ends) 

(Fourth Chapter Ends) 



II.5.1.4] 


TRANS1ATION 


139 


Chapter Five 


BRAHMANAI 

1. The fore-offerings are indeed the seasons. Therefore thev are five, for the 
seasons are verily five. 

2. Then, the gods and the Asuras, both of them offsprings of Prajapaii, con¬ 
tended, indeed, in the matter of this very' sacrifice viz. Prajapati their father (who 
is himself) the year, (saying), “This (sacrifice) should be ours, this should be ours". 
Then the gods who were worshipping and toiling found these fore-offerings. They 
sacrificed with them. Having performed the sacrifice with them, they won the 
seasons, the year. They deprived their rivals of the seasons (and) of the year. 
Therefore they (those offerings) came to be known as Trayajah ’ (great victories) 
It is indeed Trayajdh 'that they called Tmydjah' (fore-offerings). Thereby indeed 
this (sacrificer) wins the seasons and the year with them. He deprives his rivals of 
the seasons (and) oftheyear. Therefore (is it that) he sacrifices verily with the fore- 
offerings. 

3. They (the fore-offerings) have ghee as the oblation. This thing viz. ghee is really 
the essence of the year itself. The gods made their own this (year ) thus by means 
ofits own essence. This (sacrificer) (too) thus with its own essence. The ghee is verily 
the thunderbolt. Certainly'with this thunderbolt viz. ghee the gods won the seasons, 
(won) the year. They 7 kept away their rivals from the seasons, (and) from the year. 
In the same manner does this (sacrificer) win the seasons, (the year, by this 
thunderbolt viz. ghee. He deprives his rivals of the seasons, (and) of the year. 
Therefore they (the Prayajds) have ghee as the obladon. 

4. He (the Adhvaryu) must not move away from that place standing where he 
may be making the call for the fore-offerings. He should verily move forward 
(towards the fire). The fact that one performs the sacrifice with fore-offerings, 
indeed is (that it means) that this is a battle that is brought about nearby. Of the 
two who are engaged in the fight, he who loses verily moves away; the conquering 
one moves forward indeed. Therefore he (the Adhvaryu) should move forward 
and (further) forward and should pour the offerings more and more forward and 
forward (in the fire). 



n.ru. io] 


TRANSLATION 


121 


5. One need not favour that (instruction). He should not indeed move away 
from that place standing where he is to make the call for the fore-offerings. He 
should pour the offerings only there (in the fire) where he considers it is most 
kindled (blazing). For the offering of the oblations, in the well-kindled (fire), is 
rich. 

6. Having made the call, he says (to the Hotr), “Worship (recite the offering 
prayers for) the samidh (kindlingstick) ”. Indeed the spring (season) is the kindling 
stick. Thus he verily kindles the spring. That spring that has been kindled, kindles 
the other seasons. The seasons, having been kindled, produce the creatures and 
make the plants ripe. Thus he indeed pronounces (by implication) the seasons. 
For the sake of non-repetition, he then says (about) the subsequent (offerings), 
only, “Worship (pronounce the offering prayers)”, “Worship!” If he would say, 
“Yaja ” (pronounce the offering prayers) for tanunapat, pronounce the offering 
prayers for the “ids', he would indeed be committing (the fault of) repetition. 
Therefore he says for the subsequent (offerings), only, “Yaja (worship), Yaja". 

7. Having made the call, he says, “Pronounce the offering prayers for samidh 
(the kindling sticks)” Indeed the spring (season) is the kindling stick. Verily the 
gods thus kept the spring and kept their rivals away from the spring. This one 
(sacrificer) thus keeps the spring and keeps his rivals away from (deprived of) the 
spring. Therefore he worships (pronounces the offering prayer for) the kindling 
sticks. 

8. Then he worships (pronounces the offering prayers for) tanunapat. Summer 
is verily tanunapat Verily summer scorches the bodies of these creatures. Thus the 
gods indeed kept the summer and kept their rivals away from summer. Thus this 
one (the sacrificer) keeps the summer and keeps his rivals away from summer. 
Therefore does he worship (pronounce the offering prayer for) tanunapat. 

9. Then he worships Ms ’(praises). The rainy season indeed is the MV The rainy 
season is of the form of M’for this reason that the low (vile) crawling creature 
which is left off (to suffer) by summer and snowy season, that moves about in the 
rainy season, as if prompted, wishing for food, Hence is the rainy season the form 
of M’(praise, prompting), Thus the gods kept the rainy season itself and kept their 
rivals away from the rainy season. Thus does this one (sacrificer) keep tire rainy 
season and keep away his rivals from the rainy season. Therefore he worships 
(pronounces the offering prayer for) 'ids. 

10. Then he worships the harhis (the sacred grass spread over the altar). Verily 
autumn is the (spread) holy grass. Autumn is the b&rkis for this reason that the 
plants are left off (uncared for) by summer and the snowy’ season and they grow up 
in the rainy season. They are of the form of bafkis in autumn and they lie about 
spread. Therefore autumn is barhis. The gods thus kept the very autumn and kept 



II.5.U7] 


translation 


12.1 


awa ) their rivals from autumn. Thus does this one (sacrificer) keep the autumn and 
keep his rivals away from autumn. Therefore he worships barhis. 
u Jl-Jhen he worships (pronounces the offering prayers) (uttering) “SvaJm!” 

Svahd! Indeed the utterance of Svaha is the conclusion of the sacrifice. Of the 
seasons the snowy season is the end. It is verily at the other (remote) end from 
spring. Thus the gods kept (reached) the end (of the year/seasons) by means of 
the very conclusion of the sacrifice. By the end (of the sacrifice) they (the gods) 
kept their rivals away from the end (of the seasons/year). Verily does this one 
(sacrificer) keep the end (of the seasons) by means of the end (of the sacrifice) thus 
and by the end keeps away his rivals from the end. Therefore he worships (with the 
offering prayer) ‘Svaha!’'Svaha!’ 

12. That very spring regains its life from the snowy season (winter). For it 
(spring) arises out of it. From that is it fixed (set up). He who knows thus, indeed 
is born again in this world and remains in this world again, 

13. He worships (uttering), “May (he) (it) accept! ” “May (they) accept!” for the 
sake of non-repetition. For he would be committing repetition (impropriety') 
should he worship (saying), “May (they) accept! May (they) accept! "or “May (he) 
(it) accept! May (he) (it) accept!” (By) “May they accept!” the females (are 
indicated) and (by) “May (he or it) accept!” the male (is indicated). 

14. He verily pours (ghee) together (in th ejuhu) in the fourth fore-offering in 
(for) the barhis. Indeed the barhis is the progeny, the ghee is the seed. Thus he 
pours the seed into the (creatures) progenies themselves. With that seed, these 
offering (creatures) are thus bom again with form. 

15. Then, that he pours (ghee) together (into ike juhu) (means) that, (when) one 
performs the fore-offerings, a battle indeed is brought about. Of the two who fight, 
he to whom a friend comes wins. Thus, here, a friend comes to the juhu from the 
upabhrt. 

16. Now, (the reason) why he pours together in the fourth fore-offering {is that) 
the sacrificer verily (stands) behind the juhu and he who is inimical towards him 
(stands) behind the upabhrt. Thus he verily makes the hateful enemy to bring 
tribute to the sacrificer. Indeed, the consumer (stands) behind juhu and the one 
to be consumed (stands behind) the upabhrt. He pours (the gfesp) together (into the 
juhu) without (the two spoons) touching (each other). Should he touch (one 
spoon with the other), he would be touching (hurting) the sacrificer by the hateful 
enemy; he would be touching (hurting) the eater by the thing to be eaten. He holds 
the juhu over (the upabhrt ). He thus indeed keeps the sacrificer above his hateful 
enemy and keeps the consumer above the thing to be consumed. 

17. Performing the sacrifice, the gods were afraid of contact with (attack by) the 
Asuras and Raksasas. Afraid of contact with the Asuras and Raksasas, they said, “Ah! 
If the Asuras and Raksasas contact (attack) us, then, after this conquest of the 



11 . 5 . 1 . 19 ] 


TRANSLATION 


125 


sacrifice, letus establish (complete) the entire sacrifice", "Our sacrifice would have 
been (then) verily established (completed) ”, They established (completed) the 
whole sacrifice with the utterance of ‘Svaha ’ in this very final fore-offering. 

18. With “Svaha! Agni” (they established) the ghee portion belonging to Agni; 
with “Svaha! Soma” (they established) the g^ce-portion belonging to Soma; with 
“Svaha! Agni” (they established) the purodasa (cake offering) belonging to Agni, 
which (offering) does not slip away (which is indispensable) in both (the full moon 
and new moon sacrifices). Then according to each deity, (they said Svaha .0 “ Svaha'. 
the final fore-offerings and after-offerings are the ghee -consuming gods. They estab¬ 
lished the Svistakrt (Agni who renders all the offerings well offered (flawless) (by 
chanting), “May they (the gods, consumers of ghee ), being pleased, accept the ghee, 
“Oh! Agni”. For, Agni is Svistakrt. Thus following this winning of the sacrifice, the 
gods established (completed) the entire sacrifice. This is verily done so (even) now. 
Therefore, as many oblations there are in the final fore-offering, he offers them 
(each) chanting only “ Svaha). ” “Svaha! ” Thus following the winning of the sacrifice, 
he establishes (completes) the entire sacrifice. Therefore, though to him it may 
seem to be reverse (contrary or out of order) further on in the sacrifice, it will not 
at all be a sin (flaw) of his. He may verily know, “My sacrifice has been established 
(completed) ”, Just as the sacrifice passed on (to its completion), with the offering 
made with the pronouncement of Vasa/and made with the utterance of ‘Svahal ' so 
is this. 

19, They, the gods, said, “Ah! Let us replenish this sacrifice and let us proceed 
with what (is fresh) has not become oldandstale. What ghee was leftover in ihejuhii 
(offering spoon) and with which they had established the sacrifice, with that they 
sprinkled the oblations as before, for, ghee is (always) fresh (not old and stale). 
Thus they set right this sacrifice again and made it fresh. Therefore, haring made 
the final fore-offering, he sprinkles (with ghee ), the oblations, as before. Ihus he 
verily makes the sacrifice itself full and makesitfresh. Therefore, for whatever deity 
he cuts off (a portion), he indeed sprinkles with ghee that from which the cutting 
has been made. Thus he verily makes it full again for Svistakrt and makes it fresh. 
Therefore, when he makes a cutting for Svistakrt, thereafter he does not smear 
(with ghee) that from which the cutting has been made. For he is not going to pour 
into the fire any (further) offeringfrom the sacrificial food, (h irst Brahman a Ends) 



11.5.2.6} 


TRANSITION 


127 


brahmana II 

1. He verily worships (pronounces the offering prayer for) samidhs (kindling 
sticks). Indeed the samidhs are the vital breath, for by the vital breaths is this person 
kindled (animated). Hence one (Adhvaryu) should say to him (thesacrificer) who 
is burning (with fear), after having touched him, “Behold!” (or “Touch yourself 
and then see! ) When he is warm, then he may hope, for he is indeed kindled bv 
the very vital breaths. Thus he kindles the very vital breaths (energies) in this 

(sacrificer). Thus he places the very vital energies in this one (sacrificer). There¬ 
fore he worships the samidhs. 

% Then he worships tanunapdt. Indeed tanunapat is the seed. When there is 
heat of the male and the female, then is the seed poured. He verily thus pours the 
seed. 

3. Then hewoiships ids - When the seed that has been poured is born (as a living 
being), then it moves about, as though praised (prompted), wishing for food 
Thus,indeed, the seed that has been poured produces (offspring). 

4. Then he woi ships barhis. Verily barhis is abundance'. Thus he produces these 
offspring (creatures) verily after ‘abundance’. These creatures arise after (follow¬ 
ing) abundance. 

5. Then he worships (chanting), “Svahal Svdhdl ”. Indeed the snowy season 
(winter) is the sound ‘Svahd\ (it is) Prajapad. The snowy season (winter) brings 
these creatui es undei its control, as it were, by force. Therefore, in winter the 
plants wither, the leaves of trees fall off, the beasts retreat (shrink) further (and 
further) and the birds fly lower (and lower) and man, as with hair fallen off, 
becomes of evil (dark) complexion. By force (suddenly), as it were, does the snowy 
season bring these creatures within its control. He who, knowing thus, worships 
(chanting), Svahdl Svdhal makes that region wherein he is, his own for (conducive 
to) wealth, (good) food and glory. 

6. The gods and the Asuras, both offspring of Prajapad, contended. They did not 
(could not) conquer by means of staves and bows. Now attaining victory, they’said, 
“Ah! May we desire to conquer verily in (by) speech, in (by) Brahman (Veda/ 
mantra) “He who may not follow one pronounced speech with a pair may he be 
worsted and lose everything to us and may the others win everything. They, the 
gods, said to Indra, “Speak”. 



II.5.2.17] 


TRANSLATION 


129 


7- He, indeed, said, “One (male) of me”. Then the Asuras (said), “One (female) 
of ours”. Thus they found a pair in it, for one (female) and one (male) certainly 
make a pair. 

8. Indra said, “Two (males) of me”. Then the Asuras (said) , “Two (females) of 
ours”. Thus they obtained a pair, for two males and two females are a pair indeed. 

9. Indra said, “Three (males) for me”. “Then three (females) for us” (said) the 
Asuras. Thus they got a pair, for three (males) and three (females) are a pair 
indeed. 

10. Indra said, “Four (males) for me”. “Then four (females) for us” (said) the 
Asuras. Thus they found a pair, for four (males) and four (females) are indeed a 
pair. 

11. “Five for me” said Indra verily. The others did not find a pair. For beyond this 
there is no pair for speech (male and female in numbers). Saying “ panca,, “ parted " 
(five,five) (in number), they were defeated and they lost everything. The gods won 
everything of everything they (the gods) deprived them (of share). Therefore, 
when the first fore-offering has been performed, he should say. 

12. “One (male) for me” and “One (female) for that person” (referring to by 
name) him whom he may hate. If there is none (whom he hates) (he should say), 
“One (male) for me, One (female) for him who hates us and whom we hate”. 

13. Then, when the second (fore-offering) (has been made) (he should sav), 
“Two (males ) for me, two (females) for him who hates us and whom we hate". 

14. Then, when the third (fore-offering) (has been made) (he should say), 
“Three (males) for me and three (females) for him who hates us and whom we 
hate”. 

15. Then, when the fourth (fore-offering) (has been made) (he should say), 
“Four (males) for me, four (females) for him who hates us and whom we hate”. 

16. Then, when the fifth (fore-offering) (has been made), (he should say), “Five 
for me, not even one (female) for him who hates us and whom we hate”. He who, 
knowing thus, meditatively repeats thus—he verily destroys the entire sacrifice 
indeed of his hateful rival. Thus he deprives his hateful rival of share from the 
entire sacrifice and keeps him out. 

17. When the gods said, “One for us” they verily then said (meant) ‘the mind'. 
And when the Asuras said, “One (female) for us”, they said (meant) ‘speech’, by 
that. They united the speech with their (gods) mind. When one may remain 



11.5,2.21] 


TRANSITION 


131 


without speaking, a person, verily has power over him and when one remains 
absent-minded a person has no power over him. 

18. Now, when the gods said, Two (males) for us by that they said (meant) prana 
(outgoing breath and udana (the upward breath) and when'the Asuras said two 
(females) for us, they said (meant) by that ‘jRAand Saman 

19. And when the gods said Three (males) for us" they said (meant) these three 
worlds and when the Asuras said “Three (females) for us” they, by that, said 
(meant) the three-fold knowledge. 

20. And when the gods said, “Four (males) for us”, by that thev said (meant) the 
cattle (beasts) and when the Asuras said “Four (females) for us”, by that they said 
(meant) the (four) directions. They united the quarters with their (gods) cattle 
(animals). Therefore whatever quarter a man possessed of cattle goes to, he 
reaches it which has been verily conquered (by him). 

21. Now, when the gods said, “Five for us” they said (meant) the seasons. The 
others (Asuras) did not find a pair, for beyond that {number four) there is no pair 
(masculine and feminine) for speech (word indicating number). This expression 
is divided into two. The gods conquered by means of one of the two and the Asuras 
were vanquished by means of one (the other) of the two. The sacrificer wins by 
means of that (speech) by which the gods won. His hateful enemy (gets defeated 
and) loses everything by that by which the Asuras lost (were defeated). (Second 
Brahmana Ends) 



II.5.3.5] 


TRANSLATION 


133 


BRAHMANA III 

1. The seasons verily desired a share in the sacrifice, amidst the gods (and said}, 
“Let there be a sacrifice for us. Let us share in the sacrifice”. The gods did not 
approve of it. When the gods did not approve (of it) they (the seasons) approached 
the Asuras. They (the Asuras) enjoyed such prosperity which they (the gods) heard 
of viz. that those (Asuras) who were ahead moved on ploughing and sowing and 
the others followed reaping and threshing. Indeed the plants (crops) ripened for 
them without (the need for the soil to be) tilled. 

2. But then it was not so for the gods. It was less (in importance) that an enemy 
(hateful person) should act inimically towards an enemy. Was it only so much then? 

3. They (the gods) said, “How will this be (become) otherwise from this 
(condition)?” They said, “Let us invite the very seasons”. They said. “How can we 
invite them?” (They said), “Let us tell them, we shall worship you with sacrifice 
verily first”. 

4. Agni said, “In that you sacrifice unto me first (so far) then where will be my 
portion (of oblation) ?” They said, “We shall not remove you from vour place”. He 
who knows it that they (the gods) calling for the portion (of oblation) of Agni did 
not remove him from his place—he indeed, does not slip down from his place. Agni 
verily invited them (seasons). They said, “What part (portion) shall we get?” 

5. He said, “We shall verily worship you first with the sacrifice”. They (the 
seasons) said, “So (be it) We shall share it among us with von who have found a 
share for us among the gods in the sacrifice”. This Agni has (thus) been given a 
share among the seasons, in such a manner that all the fore-offerings thus have (i.e . 
are related to) Agni, as “Oh Agni! The kindling sticks (may accept the ghee) “Oh 
Agni! Tanunapat..." “Oh Agni! The Ids ...He who knows this to be thus indeed 
becomes a sharer in that auspicious ritual wherein, one who sap he is equal (to 
him) performs the auspicious (ritual). This .Agni who is given a share among the 
seasons, he indeed ripens these plants which these seasons ripen. The seasons 
which are possessed of Agni cook (prepare), ripen the food for him who possesses 
Agni and who knows it to be thus. 




II.5.5U3] 


TRANSLATION 


6. About this, they say, “Why do they invoke the fore-offerings last (blit ) worship 
(make the offering prayers) first?” Indeed the gods took them last for a share in the 
sacrifice. Therefore they invoke the last. They said verily, “Let us worship you first". 
Therefore they worship them first. 

7. Then indeed in the fourth fore-offering the gods secured the sacrifice and at 
the last (fore-offering) they established it. And thereafter what was there (of the 
sacrifice), bv that they approached heaven. Reaching the world of Heaven, thev 
were afraid of contact with (attack by) the Asuras and Raksasas. 

8. They placed verily in front, Agni the killer of Raksasas, for driving the Raksasas 
away; they placed Agni the killer of Raksasas in the middle for driving the Raksasas 
away. At the back they placed Agni the killer of Raksasas for driving the Raksasas 
away. 

9. if the Raksasas assailed them (contacted them) in front, thev drove out these 
Raksasas by means of the very Agni the killer of Raksasas; (so also) if in the middle 
and if in the rear. Thus being surrounded by the Agnis all around and not being 
afraid, they (the gods) occupied (enjoyed) the world of Heaven. 

10. In the very same manner, the sacrificer now secures the sacrifice in the fourth 
fore-offering itself and in the last (fifth) he establishes it. What (ritual) there is alter 
that, by means of that he reaches the world of Heaven itself. 

11. What g/ireportion belonging to Agni is there at first, by that he (the 
sacrificer) places verily Agni the killer of Raksasas in the forefront for repelling the 
Raksasas; what purodasa (cake) belonging to Agni is there in the middle, by that he 
places verily Agni the killer of the Raksasas in the middle, for repelling the 
Raksasas. And then what (oblation) there is at last for Agni Smstakrt, by that he verily 
places Agni the killer of Raksasas in the rear for driving the Raksasas away. Thus 
having been surrounded by Agni all around, be, without being afraid, enjoys 
(occupies) the world of Heaven. 

12. Therefore, whoever may curse him before the sacrifice, to him he (the 
sacrificer) may say, “You will get facial affliction; you are going to become blind, you 
will become deaf, your life will leave you 1 **—these are facial afflictions. 

. 13, And then, whoever may curse him in the middle of the sacrifice, to him be 
(the sacrificer) may say, “You will die without cattle and without progeny* Indeed 
progeny and cattle are (in) the middle. 



11.5.4.2] 


TRANSLATION 


137 


14. And then, whoever may curse him at the end of the sacrifice, to him he (the 
sacrificer) may say, “You will die unstable and poor. Therefore one should not 
curse. Moreover, one who knows this (thus) becomes superior. 

15. The sacrificer verily wins the year by means of the fore-offerings. But he 
(alone) indeed, conquers i t, who knows its door (entrance). What is the use to him 
of those, his house, which are as if doorless (without an entrance)? He would know 
distinctly within (what is inside the house), as “There (is) spring within, (there is) 
the snowy season (winter) within". He reaches (them) by means of this door. The 
year passes indeed undecayed (full and permanent and underused indeed does 
this person’s (sacrificer’s) merit become for him who knows this (to be thus). 

16. About that, they (some) say, “Of what divinities are the ghees (ghee portions) 
taken up'. He (the sacrificer) should say, “They have Prajapati as their deity". For, 
the ‘ghees are taken up without specific mention (without being distinguished). 
Indeed Prajapati is indistinct. Verily the sacrificer is the Prajapati of the sacrifice. 
He indeed performs the sacrifice (elaborately). He certainly originates it. These 
(ghees) have the sacrificer verily as their deity. Whatever oblation they offer (pour 
into the fire), (they do so) only after having taken it up with ghee (smeared) on both 
sides, which (oblation) is therefore combined with the sacrificer. He who knows 
this to be so, does not depart from the sacrifice even though he leaves something 
undone (or, even though he does something that should not be done). (Ibird 
Brahmana Ends) 

RRAHMANA1V 

1, The gods, having made this conquest, which conquest is theirs, by means of 
the sacrifice, said, “Ah! We should do this in such a manner that this of ours may 
he unattainable for men! Having drunk completely the essence of the sacrifice as 
bees would completely consume (honey) and thus having emptied it (having 
drawn it out) and having concealed the sacrifice with the sacrificial post, they 
disappeared. It (the sacrificial post) is known as \upa ’because they covered (the 
sacrifice) with it. 

2. That was subsequently heard by the Rsis (thinking), “What conquest is theirs, 
having won that conquest by means of the sacrifice, and thus having emptied the 
sacrifice and having concealed it with the sacrificial post the gods have disap¬ 
peared. Let us search for it", they (the Rsis) went about praising and toiling. Indeed 
by exertion did the gods conquer what was conquerable for them and so did the 
Rsis. 



11,5.4.8] 


TRANSLATION 




3. Then, whether the gods made it (the sacrifice) alluring or whether they (the 
Rsis) took it up themselves, oblation did not reach the gods from here' {this earth). 
Indeed the gods subsist on what is given from here. 

4. They, (The Rsis) said, “Go. Then we shall come". (Thinking), ‘‘Wherefrom the 
gods enjoyed (occupied) the world of heaven, there perhaps something will be 
attractive for us”, they (the Rsis), haring arrived there, went about (asking), “What 
attracts? What attracts?” They said the pumdasa (sacrificial cake) that had become 
a tortoise and was crawling about. All of them indeed thought, ‘This verily is the 


sacrifice”. 

5. They said to it, “Stop (be) for the sake of the two Aswins (deities)!” (But) it 
indeed crept along. (They said) “Stop for the sake of Sarasvati”. “Stop for the sake 
of Indra”. (But) it verily crept along, (They said), “Stop for Agni”. It indeed 
stopped. For the reason that it stopped for Agni, they offered it as complete 
oblation in Agni itself. Then (therefore) the sacrifice was to their liking. They’ 
produced it and expanded it. This is communicated from the former to the latter 
as to how the Rsis found the sacrifice. Thus, does the father (communicate) to his 
son, the student (who observes Brahmacarya), 

6. It indeed bestowed first upon them, which made the sacrifice attractive to 
them. Therefore is it called 'purodasa *—so they say. This sacrificial cake for .Agni 
does not drop from both (new moon and full moon sacrifices). This is not (the 
sacrificial food) (that is offered) at full moon, and not (what is offered) at new 
moon. Only that purodasa (sacrificial cake) dedicated to Agni and Soma (together) 
(forms the sacrificial food) offered at full moon; only 's&nrwyya' (offered to indra 
and Agni together) at the newmoon. This (what is offered to Agni) (alone) is verily 
the sacrifice which is regularly fixed in both (full moon and new moon)»for, if not, 
(Agni would say) “Let me go away from the sacrifice*. For this reason onh it is done 
(offered) at the commencement of the full moon (sacrifice) and so (also at the 


beginning) of the new moon (sacrifice). 

7. If any one rushes to him (Adhvaryu) saying, “Please perform a sacrifice for me 
(make me perform a sacrifice) ” or if one may sacrifice with an M by himself, with 
this itself they should make him perform the sacrifice. With what desire the Rsis 
offered this oblation, that desire was made to become enriched (fulfilled) for 
them. Indeed that desire prospers (gets fulfilled) for him with which desire he (the 
sacrifice!') sacrifices with this sacrifice. To whatever deity they offer (die oblation), 
verily they offer it into Agni for that (deity). If one is going to offer verily into ..Agni, 
why should he take to another deity? Therefore onh to Agni (he announces the 

offering). 

8. Indeed Agni is all the gods. Verily into Agni do they offer (the oblation) for 
all the deities. This is because he rushes to all the deities, so is this. Therefore only 
to Agni (they announce the offering). 



II.5.4.11] 


TRANSIATION 


HI 


9. Agni, indeed, is tangible among the deities. One would approach him who is 
indeed tangible (straight forward). Therefore only to Agni (one announces the 
offering). 

10. Among the gods .Agni is verily the softest hearted towards men. One would 
approach him who may be most soft-hearted. Therefore only to Agni (does one 
announce the offering). 

11. Agni is indeed the nearest of the gods. One would approach him who is verily 
nearest. Therefore only to Agni (may one announce the offeringh If one should 
perform an Isti (ritual for the accomplishment of a wish), he should recite the 
seventeen kindling verses (Samidhtnis). He should worship (utter the offering 
prayers to) the deity in a low ! voice. The Yajyd (sacrificial text) and the anuvSkyfi 
(the invocation to accept the offering) should contain the word ‘ murdhan (Fourth 
Brahman a Ends) 


(Fifth Chapter Ends) 



II.fU.51- 


TRANSLATION 


343 


Chapter Six 


BRAHMAN AI 

1. To Tvastr there was a son three-headed and six-eyed. To him there were verilv 
three faces. As he was of this form, therefore he came to he known as \ isvarupa. 
Indeed one face of his was the consumer of 'soma , one (was consumer ) of 'sura 
(liquor) and one of other food. 

2. Him Indra hated verily and cut off those heads of his. What (face ) of him was 
the consumer of Soma (juice), that became a Kapihjala (bird). So it was brown— 
like, for King Soma (the Soma plant) is indeed brownish. And then, what was the 
consumer of liquor, that (face) became the sparrow. Therefore it (that bird) 
speaks (chirrups) like one tipsy. For, one who hasdrunk liquor speaks like one who 
is intoxicated. And then the one (face) which was for other food, that became the 
partridge. Therefore it is most multicoloured. It is as though these are verily drops 
of ghee and drops of honey fallen on its feathers. For, he consumed with it (that 
face) such food (of such colours). 

3. Tvastr was indeed enraged, “Has he killed my son?“—(thus thinking! he 
brought (for offering) Soma (he performed Soma sacrifice), from which Indra was 
excluded. It was indeed offered thus. Just as this (Soma) was 'produced with Indra 
excluded, in the very 1 same manner it was offered with Indra excluded. 

4. Indra observed, “Now (thus) they keep me verily away from the sacrifice". 
Assailing them suddenly (by force) asa strong person would (attack) weak persons, 
he consumed the price {soma) from the vessel, even without having been invited. 
It (Soma) hurt him. He verily flowed out through his vital airs (openings of 
seasons/organs) in all directons; only from the mouth it did not flow out but from 
all other vital airs (openings) . Then an hti 'SautrSmam ’ (was performed). In it, it 
is explained in what different ways the gods then treated (cured) him. 

5. Tvastr became furious, (thinking), “Has he consumed my ' 

He himself entered the proximity of die .sacrifice (destroyed the sacrifice.-) Vt hat 
pure (soma) was there left over in the vessel that he let flow (activated) (into the 

. sacrificial fire) saving, “Grow you,who have Indra for your foe!" Some say that it 
(the soma) became (originated) (with human shape) after having reached Agm. 
Some (others) say that it verily developed even in between (before reaching Agm;. 
He consumed (grew up by consuming) Agni and Soma (together), all knowledge, 
alt glorv, all food and all prosperity. As he originated remaining active, therefore 
he came to he known as Vrtra. As he came into being, footless, therefore he came 



11,6.1.10] 


TRANSLATION 


145 


to be* (known as) ‘A/u” (snake). Danu tuid Diinav! received him like a mother and 
a father. That is his (i.e. that accounts for his) ‘Danava-nessk 

6. For the reason that he (Tvastr) said, “Grow up, (you) Indra-iatru (one having 
Indi a as his killer) ”, Therefore verily Indra killed him. Indraoverpowered {Vrtra). 
But then if he had said, “Grow up you the slayer of Indra". Certainly would he 
(Vrtra) himself have overcome Indra. And (but) that lie said “grow up". Therefore, 
indeed he grew up merely bv the measure of an arrow (the distance an arrow would 
cover) forward and an arrow’s measure sideward. 

7. He verily covered the western ocean and the eastern. As much (in extent) as 
he became, he became the consumer of food. To him, indeed, the gods brought 
food in the forenoon and men brought (food) at midday and the manes in the 
afternoon. Thus verily having been pushed and moving along, Indra addressed 
Agni and Soma (together), “Oh Agni and Soma! You two belong to me, I am vours. 
This person (Vrtra) is certainly not yours. Why do you two nourish this my enemy 
(villain)? You two please come back to me A They, Agni and Soma said. “What 
(benefit) will there be for us out of that?" 

8. He (Indra) said, “I shall sacrifice to you with this fmrndma (cake) on eleven 
potsherds”. Saving, “So (be it) ” the two returned to him. After them followed all the 
gods, all branches of learning, all glory*, all food and all 'prosperity. Having 
sacrificed with this, Indra became this Indra (as he is now). This indeed is the 
explanation (link) of the full moon sacrifice. He who, knowing thus, sacrifices with 
the full moon sacrifice, he indeed gains this very* prosperity, becomes glorious and 
becomes consumer of food. 

9. Even then. Vrtra who had been struck lay collapsed just, as a leather bag that 
has been drunk dry (with all the water in it completely drunk) will be collapsed and 
just as a leather pouch with its flour emptied may lie collapsed. India rushed 
towards him. 

10. He (Vrtra) said. “You are now what 1 was before. Split me asunder (into 
two)—~let me not be with this (body) (thus as it is now) . 



11.6.1.17] 


TRANSLATION 


147 


11. He (Indra) said, “You be verily my food". (Vrtra said) “So (be it)”. He (Indra) 
cut him, who was continuous (one whole), later into two. Of him what was of Sonia, 
inherent, that he (Indra) made into the moon and what was demoniacal, with that, 
the belly, he pierced these creatures. Then the belly in these creatures was thrust 
back. Therefore they say, “Vrtra himself was the consumer of food then and Vrtra 
is (so) now”. It is this viz. when this (moon) fills up, it is made good only from this 
verv world. Moreover, it is that these creatures washing for food verily bring an 
offering (of food) only to the belly, viz. Vrtra. He who indeed knows this Vrtra as 
the consumer of food—he certainly becomes the consumer of food. 

12. These deities who accompanied Agni and Soma then said, “Oh Agni and 
Soma! Among us you are the two who get the largest part (of the sacrificial food) 
you two to whom this belongs. Please take us in for a share with you two” Those two, 
Agni and Soma said, “What (gain) will be there for the two of us from that?” They 
(the deities) said, “For whatever deity they may take out (offer) sacrificial food, 
then they shall offer to you two, at the outset, two portions of the ghee*. Therefore 
when they take out (offer) sacrificial food for whatever deity then they at first offer 
these two portions of ghee. This does not take place in the Soma sacrifice, not in the 
animal sacrifice, for they verily had said, “For whatever deity 

13 . Agni said, “For all of you, they shall offer (the oblation) only into me. Thus 
indeed I make you share in me”. Therefore they make the offerings for all the gods 
into Agni. Therefore they say “Agni is all the deities*'. 

14 Then did Soma say, “Let them offer roe verily for all of you. Thus indeed 1 
make you share in me”. Therefore they offer sma to all the deities. Therefore they' 

say “Soma is all the deities”. ... , , 

*15. And for the reason that all the gods were abiding in Indra, they therefore say, 

“Indra is all the deities”. Thus in three ways the gods come to have a single deity. 
He who knows these gods having a single deity in three ways—he becomes the best 
among his own (people), even in a single way (individually). 

16. Twofold (of two kinds) is this, there is no third Le. the moist and the dry; of 
them what is dry is related to Agni and what is moist is related to Soma* 

17. There (about that) they aay.Tfthb is only twofold, then why is so much done 
viz—the two ghee portions for Agni and Soma (together), (uttering) m a low 
voice (and offering) for Agni and Soma (together) the sacrificial cake (jmnriasa) 
for Agni and Soma (together). In that he obtains all this by' means of only (even j 



11.6.1.21] 


TRANSLATION 


141* 


any one of these, then why so much fall this) is performed?*’Yerih'so much power 
and (so much) procreation (procreative energy) Agni and Soma have. The sun is 
indeed related to Agni and the moon belongs to Soma: the dav-tirae belongs to 
Agni and the night is of Soma; this very fortnight that wears out (wanes) belongs 
to Agni and that which fills up (waxes) belongs to Soma. 

18. He (the sacrificer ) therefore obtains the sun and the moon verily by the two 
ghee portions, (he obtains) day and night by low-voiced offering. (He obtains) the 
two fortnights by means of the pumdasa —so some sav. About that Asuri said. “Onlv 
hv means of the two ghee portions does one obtain then any two deities (among the 
many); then he obtains any two (other) deities (among the many) only by means 
of offering with utterance in a low voice and he obtains why two (other) deities 
(among the many) only by means of the pumdasa. (He thinks), “All that lias been 
obtained, all has been conquered by me, with all (this) let me kill Yrtra; with all 
(this) let me kill, my hateful enemy”. Therefore it is that so much is performed. 

19. About that they say, “This is indeed done as a repetition in that there is the 
ghee portion for Agni and Soma (together) the utterance in a low voice (with an 
offering) and the sacrificial cake for Agni and Sonia (together). It is a repetition 
by that which is obvious (or which is not separated) ”. It becomes a non-repetitions 
thus; he makes one offering only of ghee and the other offering of pumdasa. 
Thereby itself one thing becomes different, as it were (from the other) and the 
other thing becomes as if different (from the earlier one). He makes the offer! ng 
of ghee with the word ‘jusdna' (accepting with pleasure) after first reciting a Rk: he 
makes the offering at'pumdasa with a Rk, after first reciting a Rk (an anumfaa, the 
prayer of invitation). Thereby itself one becomes as If different and the other {too) 
becomes different, as it were. By this, too, does it become a i ton-repetition in that 
he offers the gfawonly in a low voice and the pumdasa in a loud voice. What is in a 
low voice is the form belonging to Prajapati. 

20. Therefore he recites an anuvdkyaim anusuibh (verse). Indeed anustuhh is 
speech and speech is verily Prajapati. Whomsoever, of the Asuras, the gods want, 
they kill him with the thunderbolt vi i. — Vasatkara, having (first) crept towards him 
with a low voiced offering. In the same manner does this person (sacrificer ) kill 
him, the evil hateful enemy whom he wishes, by means of the thunderbolt viz. the 
utterance of Vasat, haring (first) crept towards him with the low voiced offering. 
There creatures spring up indeed after the coming into being (origin) of Agni and 
Soma (together). 

21. As he, after reciting aflfe(as anmmkya) , offers the ghee portion with the word 
Jumna*{Who accepts with pleasure), after that are bom creatures that have teeth 
on one side (i.e. in one jaw), For the Rki s the bone. The tooth is indeed bone. Thus 
he produces bone on one (either) side. As, after having recited l i, he makes an 



II.6.1.24]. 


TRANSLATION 


LAj 


offering of puroddsa. with a Fpi, following that are born creatures with teeth on bot h 
sides (i.e. in both of the jaws). For the Rk is bone, bone indeed is the tooth. Thus 
he produces bone on both sides (i.e. in both the jaws). These creatures are indeed 
of two kinds, those that have teeth on one side and those that have verilv teeth on 
both sides. He who knows indeed this origin of the creatures, indeed becomes great 
(numerous) with progeny and cattle. 

22. About to undertake the fast of the full moon ritual,he (thesacrificer) should 
not be as if satisfied (with food). Therefore he thus holds (that pan of) his belly 
belonging to the Asuras (unfed) and maintains (that part) which belongs to the 
gods with oblations in the morning. This is the practice of the full moon ceremony. 

23. He should even now enter upon the fast (at the time of full moon), thinking, 
“Let me now kill Vrtra, let me now kill my evil hateful enemy*’. “And now 1 , one may 
fast only on the following (day). For one who fasts now itself (at the verv time of the 
full moon)—he verily crosses (crashes with) (another). When two have met (in 
conflict}, it is indeed doubtful whether this one or the other one overpowers; on 
the other hand, he (who fasts on the second day only), indeed will crush him (his 
enemy) who has turned back and who does not counter attack. He strikes 
elsewhere”. Therefore they say, “One may fast on the subsequent day only"’. But 
then one may fast on (on the first day) itself. He who fasts later (on the second day) 
will be as one who may crush what has been struck down by another. He becomes 
only an imitator of what has (already) been done and (becomes) an attendant 
(only). Therefore he may fast verily now (on the first day) itself, thinking, “Now let 
me kill Vrtra, now 7 let me kill the evil hateful enemy”. 

24. The joints (of the limbs of the body) of Prajapati who had created the living 
beings became loose. The year itself is Prajapati. His joints, these, are the (time of) 
meeting of day and night (dawn and dusk), the full moon and the new moon and 
the beginnings of the seasons. With these loosened joints he could not move about 
well. The gods treated (cured) him with these hams (ghm and cooked food) 
sacrifices. The)' treated this joint of his viz., the meetingof day and night with verily 
Agnihoim ; they fixed it. The)- treated this joint viz., full moon and new moon toy 
means of the ceremony of full moon and the ceremony of the new moon; they set 
it right. (And they treated the joint viz.) the beginnings of the seasons with the 
caturmdsya rituals. With these joints that had been put together (set right), he 
(Prajapati) rose up towards this food which is Prajapati’s food. He thus became the 
consumer of food. He who knowing this (thus) fasts now (on the first day), verily 
treats (cures) now (appropriately) the joint of Prajapati. Prajapati (too) indeed 
protects him. Thus he (the sacriicer) becomes the consumer of food. 










II.6.2.2] 


TRANSLATION 


155 


25. These two things viz. the two ghee portions are verily the two eyes of the 
sacrifice. Therefore they offer these in front. He thus verily places the two eyes in 
front. Therefore are these two eyes indeed in front. 

26. There, some do offer the gAce-pordon of Agni in the north-eastern part (of 
the fire ) and the portion belonging to Soma (they offer) in the south-eastern part 
(of the fire), saying, ‘'Thus we hold (place) the two eyes in front. But that passes 
one’s comprehension. For the oblations are verily the soul of the sacrifice. That 
these two are offered before the havis oblations—that itself places the two eyes in 
front (at the outset). Therefore these two are the two eyes in front. Therefore he 
should pour the oblations only there. Where he may consider it (the fire) is most 
kindled (most blazing). For, verily the offering of oblations only in the most 
kindled part (of the fire) is rich (very 7 prosperous). 

27. As he offers the two ghee portions with the word "jumna' (one who accepts 
with pleasure) after having recited a Rk (as amwakya), thereby these two eyes that 
are boneless are fixed in the bone. Should he offer with a Rk after having recited 
a Rk (as amwakya) , he would be forming only a bone and not the eve. 

28. Such as are these two eyes, they 7 indeed take alter (depend upon) the forms 
of Agni and Soma only. What is verily white (in the eye), that is related to Agni; what 
is black, that is of Soma. If otherwise, what is indeed black that is of Agni and what 
is white that is of Soma. When one sees, then that is the form of Agni, For, the two 
eyes of one who sees are as if dry. What belongs to Agni is indeed as if dry. When 
one sleeps, that is the form of Soma. Indeed the two eyes of one who has slept well 
(who has had deep sleep) become moist as it were. For Soma is moist as it were. 
(First Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANAII 

1. When Indra hurled the thunderbolt at Vrtra, he hid himself thinking that he 
(Indra) was not strong and out of fear that he had not laid him (Vrtra) down. He 
indeed went away to the extreme distance (far far away). 

2. “They”, the gods said, “has Vrtra, verity, been killed", “Now Indra has hid 
himself, alas! let us search for him". .Agni among the deities, Hirauyastupa among 
the Rsis and Brhat among the metres resolved to search for him. Agni verily found 
him. Agni came back this night with him. He (Indra) indeed is the » (treasure) 
of the gods and their hero. 



11.6.2.7} 


TRANSLATION 


155 


3. They said, “Our Vasu who lived away from us lives now' indeed near us". 
Therefore, itis known as ‘amavasya ’(that in which one lives near) .Just as one would 
cook common food or a goat (in common) for two kinsmen or two friends who 
have arrived together—that is human; for the gods it is *havis’ (offering of ghee or 
cookedfood)—in the same way, they (the gods) prepared this common ‘herns’, the 
purodasa (sacrificial cake) for Indra and Agni (together) on twelve potsherds. 
Therefore, indeed, the purodasa for Indra and Agni (together) is one twelve 
potsherds. 

4. Indra said, ‘'When I hurled the vajra at Vrtra (to kill him). By that I was 
surprised”. And he said thus, “Therefore this ( purodasa offering) does not satisfy 
me. Do (prepare) for me that which will satisfy me". The gods said, “So (be It)”. 

5. The gods said, “Nothing other than soma will satisfy this person. Let us verily 
prepare soma for him”. This King Soma viz. the moon is indeed the food of the 
gods. This (whole) night it (the moon) is not seen in the east and is not seen in the 
west. It comes to this very' world now. .And in this world it enters the waters and the 
plants. It is verily the vasu (treasure) of the gods and indeed their food. 

6. As it resides in the waters and the plants together this (whole) night, therefore 
this is known as ‘ amavasya ’ (the time when one lives together or nearby). The gods 
now gathered it (Soma the moon) from the waters and from the plants by having 
made it enter into the cows (by the cows). They (the cow’s) gathered it from the 
plants in that they ate the plants. They gathered it from the water in that they drank 
the water. Haring thus gathered it from the water and from the plants; then having 
condensed it and haring made it strong, they (the gods) gave it to him (Indra). 

7. Indra said, “This verily satisfies me, but it does not stay in me (does not agree 
with me). Find out (some means) by which it may (agree with me) stay in me*. (The 
god said),“So (be it) 1" With cooked (milk) they made it remain within him (Indra). 
Being verily one, it is said to be many as it were. Being verify milk, it is both too. 
Wherefore Indra said, 'This indeed pleases (dhimtt) me, therefore this is (known 
as) ‘dadhi' (curd). Wherefore they made it remain within him with cooked (milk), 
therefore it is (known as) cooked 'Ma\ 



11,6.2.11] 


TRANSLATION 


3i 


8. fust as the soma plant will grow strong verily thus did Indr a grow (strong) with 
this (offering of cooked milk and curds) and destroyed the evil yellowness (disease 
marked by the body becoming yellow—Jaundice). This is the sense of ‘ amavasya ' 
(offering made in the ritual on amavasya) . He who knowing thus makes the 
sannayya (offering of curd and milk mixed together)—he verily prospers thus with 
progeny and cattle and detrovs evil. Therefore they say, “One who has not 
performed the Soma sacrifice shall not perform the ‘sannayya ’ for this ( Sannayya) 
is indeed like the offering of soma. This is not accepted (permitted) for one who 
is not a &ww-sacrificer , \ There, one (who has not performed the soma offering) 
may well perform the sannttyyaoffering. Indeed we have not heard it (said by Indra) 
about this (in this context) s “Surely sacrifice to me with soma. And then you will 
make the sannayya. offering to me”. He indeed said, “This does not please (satiate) 
me; prepare for me that which may satisfy me”. Therefore even one who has not 
performed the Soma sacrifice may verily offer sannayya. 

9. This ‘havis 'which is offered on the full moon day is indeed what belongs to the 
killer of Vrtra. For, Indra killed Vrtra with this. What is offered on the* new moon 
day is also for the slayer of Vrtra, for they prepared this invigorating thing thus for 
this one (Indra) who had slain Vrtra. 

10. This ( hams) which is offered on the new moon day is indeed for the slaver 
of Vrtra. It is this moon which indeed is Vrtra in that it was not seen in the east and 
was not seen in the west (on the new moon day). He {Indra) kills him (Vrtra) th us 
entirely and leaves over nothing of him. He who knows this to be thus verily destroys 
entire evil (sin) and leaves over nothing of the evil. 

11. There, some fast after having seen (the moon) (on the fourteenth day of the 
waning fortnight), thinking, “Yonder, verify yonder, the food of god is not com¬ 
pletely exhausted. And then we shall offer (food) from here . That surely is 
prosperity wherein more food arrives when the earlier (stock of) food has not been 
exhausted. He who performs so becomes indeed one with much food. But he 
becomes one who does not sacrifice with (offer) soma; (he is) only the (saerificer 
with) offerer of milk. Yonder (in heaven), that King Soma becomes the food of 
gods. But then this becomes just like this, verify as formerly (before the new moon 
day) (the cows), produce mere milk, after having eaten the mete plants (into 
which the moon—Soma had not entered) and having drunk mere waters (into 
which the moon-Soma had not entered). Therefore one may fast only when he may 
not see this (moon) in the east and not see it in the west For verity then this (moon) 
comes to this world; he enters the plants and the waters in this world. Having 
collected him (the moon™~Socna) thus (in the form of milk ) from the waters and 
the plants, he (the performer of the sacrifice ) produces him from the oblations 
(that have been offered. This (moon) who has arisen from the offering is seen, in 
the west. Then indeed does this food of the gods (the moon) that has not been 








II.6.2.15] 


TRANSLATION 




exhausted float about (in the sky). He who knows this thus, for him food in this 
world is not exhausted and his merit becomes inexhaustible in the yonder world. 

12. Then, this night (of the new moon) the food of the gods slips down, from 
yonder (heaven) and it reaches this world. Those gods observe, “How can it be 
(made) that this (our food) will not be away from us and how will it come back to 
us?” They have their hope only on those who offer the sannayya, thinking, “These 
(performers of sannayya) only will offer to us, having collected (it). He who knows 
this thus—in him do his own kinsmen and strangers have hope. They have hope 
in him who verily attains supremacy. 

13. And then, that he (the moon) is not seen this night in the east and is not seen 
in the west (is due to this); this one that blazes (viz. the sun), is indeed Indra and 
this one viz. the moon is verily Vrtra. He (the moon Vrtra) is a bom enemy of this 
(sun-Indra). Him does he (the sun) devour. Therefore, even though, earlier, he 
rises far away, this night he floats down near him and he (the moon Vrtra) reaches 
the open mouth of this (sun-Indra). He (the sun) rises, having devoured him. 
Therefore he (the moon) is not seen in the east and is not seen in the west.For, he 
(Indra-sun) indeed devours his hateful enemy. About him, who knows it thus, they 
say, “This person alone exists and not his hateful enemy”. 

14. Having sucked him completely, he (the sun) throws him out. This one (the 
moon) is (later) seen in the west like one who has been completly sucked out. He 
grows again verily for (serving as) the food of this very one (the sun). His hateful 
enemy who thrives by trade or any (other) (means) prospers only to be the food 
of this person who knows this to be so. 

15. There, some people make (offer) it as for ‘Mahendra’, (saying), “This one 
was Indra before the slaying of Vrtra. And then is killed Vrtra; like (a king 
becoming) a great king who has attained victory. (This one) thus is Mahendra (the 
great Indra) But one may make (offer) it for merely as for Indra. For this one was 
indeed Indra before killing Vrtra. Indra (it was that) killed Vrtra. Therefore one 
may make (offer) it merely as Tor Indra”, (Second Br&hrrtana Ends) 



11.6.3,4} 


TRANSLATION 


161 


BRAHMANA III 


1. He removes the calves with a (leafy) twig of the Palasa (tree). Why he drives 
the calves away with a Palasa twig is (this); when Gayatri flew towards Soma, as she 
was bringing it for the sake of the gods, a footless thrower (of arrows) (archer) cut 
off a feather of Gayatri or of King Soma with effort. Having fallen down, it became 
the pania (Palasa tree). Hence it came to be known as Pama (feather—Palasa). 
(Thinking) that something ofSoma may be hidden (inherent) here (in the Palasa) 
too, therefore he drives off the calves with the Palasa twig. 

2. He snaps it (the Palasa twig), chanting, “You (I take) for food (nourishment) * 
In that he says, "You, for nourishment” he says (means), “For rain”. He cleans it 
(makes it even) chanting, ‘You-for the sap”. What sap, essence, arises from the rain, 
for that he says thus. Therefore says he, “You for the sap”. And then he says, "Gather 
the calves with their mothers”, 

3. He touches the calf, chanting, “Ye are the winds”. This is the wind, indeed, that 
blows (purifies). This (wind) verily makes the rain that falls here grow. These 
(winds) indeed make these (cows) grow (fat). That is the ‘wind-ness’ {blowing 
nature) of these (winds). Therefore he says, “The winds ye are”. Indeed some say, 
“Ye are the appreachers”. One need not favour (adopt) it. 

4. Then he touches the cow, chanting, “May the god Savitr deliver you for the 
most glorious ritual!” Verily Savitr is the impeller of the gods. Thinking, May these 
(cows), haring been impelled by Savitr, prepare the sacrifice!" (He says), “For the 
most glorious ritual". Therefore he says for the sacrifice, “For the most glorious 
ritual”. (He chants), “Oh inviolable ones! Make the share increase for Indra”. Just 
as taking up that havis (sacrificial food) he announces it to that deity, in the very 
same manner he announces it thus to this deity when he says, “The share for I ndra . 
(He chants), ‘You that have (abundant) offspring and that are free from disease 
and free from consumption”. In this there is nothing that is obscure as it were, (He 
chants), “May the thief not have power over you, may not the illwisher!* (By this) 
he verily says (means), “May not any destructive beings have power over you”. (He 
chants) , “May you be firm ’(not going away) in the case of this lord of cattle and 
(mav you be) numerous”. He verify say's (means) this, “Not moving away may you 
be firm and (be) numerous in the case of this sacrificed. He conceals it in the fore¬ 
part (eastern part) of the Ahawn'm apartment or of the GSrkapatoa apartment; 
chanting “Protect the cattle of the sacrificed. Thus be makes over the saenheer s 
cattle for protection, verify' by means of the M&fitra (chant) verify on it (the twig) 
he puts, a 'pavitra ’(purifier-ring of sacred grass) chanting merely tins, “You are the 
purifier of the Vasu". Indeed the sacrifice isVasu. Thus he verify says (means), “You 
are the purifier of the sacrifice." 



II.6.S.9] 


TRANSLATION 


1(>H 


5. This night he performs the Agnihotramth rice-gruel. This thing viz., milk that 
is taken up as an oblation is what has (already) been announced for a (particular) 
deity. Should he make the offering with milk then it would be just as he might be 
offering to another deity the oblation that has been taken up for one (particular ) 
deity. Thus he would be creating a conflict. Therefore this night he performs the 
Agnihotra only with rice-gruel. The pot is got ready. Then he says, “Announce my 
(cow) as having been let near (the calf) ” 

6. He takes up the pot, chanting, “You are the sky, you are the earth*'. Thus he 
indeed praises it. He verily glorifies it, chanting, “You are the cauldron of 
Matarisvan ”. That way he makes sit the very sacrifice. He heats it on fire as he would 
heat a kettle, chanting, “Oh protector of all (universe); be firm with the supreme 
abode. Do not waver. May your lord of the sacrifice not waver (be not unstead})! * 
Thus he prays indeed for steadiness for the sacrificcr. 

7. Then he places (on the pot) a pavitra (purifying ring of sacred grass). He 
should place it eastward; for, the east is the quarter of the gods. Or, he may place 
it northward (with its tip towards the north). This (wind) that blows is indeed the 
purifying means. Verily this one (the wind) blows, as it were, across the worlds. 
Hence one should place it ( paxntra ) only towards the north, just as they then purify 
soma with the pavitra (with its tip towards the north), in that same manner he now 
purifies this with this ( pavitra ). Therefore, they indeed purify with it that has its 
fringe northward. Therefore, he should place it only northward. 

8. He places it down, chanting, “You are Vasu’s purifying means with a hundred 
streams; you are Vasu’s purifying means with a thousand streams* 1 . Verily Vasu is the 
sacrifice. He verily says (means), “You are the purifying means of the sacrifice”. He 
praises it indeed as “Having a hundred streams’', “Having a thousand streams”. He 
thus glorifies it indeed. Then he maintains silence to milk from three (cows) . 
Speech indeed is the sacrifice. (He mantains silence while milking) thinking, “May 
I perform the sacrifice undisturbed*’. 

9 . He sanctifies (the milk) which is brought, chanting, “May god Savitr purify you 
with Vasil’s purifying means that has a hundred streams (edges) and that cleanses 
well". Just as they then purify soma with a pamim, in the same manner does he now 
thus purify 1 (the milk). And then he asks, “Which (cow) have you milked?*' (The 
milker replies), "Thatyounder one”. He (the Adhvaryu says), “She is the life of all 



II.6.4.3J 


TRANSLATION 


16f> 


(Visvayus), “She has universal action” ( Visvakarman) , “The sustainer of all" 
( Visvadhaya) (about the three cows respectively). The reason why he asks thus is 
that thereby he puts energies into them. He verily milks three (cows). Indeed these 
worlds are three. From these worlds themselves he thus gathers (the milk). 

10. Thereafter he talks profusely (i.e. breaks his silence), at will. After having 
whirled a little water in it, he brings back the vessel in which they make the milking, 
thinking, “What little of the milk was left herein, may that too be here! This is 
indeed for (securing) the fulness of the milk. When it rains, then the plants come 
up. (On the cows) having eaten the plants and drunk the waters, this (the ir ; !k) 
arises as the essence of both. Therefore he brings back (the vessel) after having 
whirled a little water (in it). Removing it he coagulates it and thus makes it verily 
strong (sharp). 

11. He coagulates it, chanting “With soma, do I coagulate you who are Indra's 
share". Just as then (formerly) taking the havis (sacrificial food) for a deity he 
announces it, in the very same manner he announces for this deity. In that he say s, 
“You the share oflndra I coagulate with soma". Thereby he verily sweetens this (l.e. 
makes this delectable). Then he covers it with a cup or jug of water, which is made 
(of any material but) not of earth. Indeed water is the thunderbolt. Thus he verily 
makes the thunderbolt over it as its protector, lest the destructive Raksasas should 
touch this (defile this) from above. For, the thunderbolt is the dispeller of the 
destructive Raksasas. That (jug or cup) which has been placed (as a lid) he 
consecrates, chanting, “Oh Visnu ! Protect the oblation”. Indeed Visnu is the 
sacrifice. To him verily he thus hands it over for safeguarding, thinking, “May this 
be well protected". (Third Brahmana Ends) 

BRA.HMANA IV 

1. A person who exists, being born, indeed is born as (one owing) a debt to the 
gods, the Rsis and the manes. 

2. In that he should perform a sacrifice, by that arises (by that is redeemed ?) a 
debt to the gods, for, he performs it for the sake of the gods In that he sacrifices to 
(worships) the gods and in that he offers oblations to them, 

3. And in that he should recite (the Vedas), by that arises (is redeemed?) the debt 
to the Rsis. That he recites (the Vedas) he indeed performs it for them. Verily they 
call the person who has studied the Vedas ‘The guardian of the treasure of the Rsis’. 



11.6.4.10} 


TRANSLATION 


167 


4. And in that he should desire for progeny, thereby arises (is redeemed?) a debt 
to the manes. That he desires for progeny, he does that indeed for their sake. 
Thereby, their progeny becomes continuous and unbroken. 

5. And that he should provide shelter (to guests) , by that arises (the redemption 
of?) the debt to men. That he shelters them, that he offers food to them, that he 
indeed does for their sake. He who verily performs all these actions indeed is one 
who has done his duty. For him everything is certainly secured, everything is won. 

6. Wherefore there arises a debt towards the gods, he pays it off thus. What he 
sacrifices, what he offers into the fire that indeed he offers to these (gods). 
Therefore, whatever they offer into the fire is known as 'avad&na ’ (cutting off a 
portion and offering it). 

7. That verily contains four cuttings thus—the prayer of invitation {anuvnkyfil , 
then, the offering prayer (ydjya), then the utterance of ‘Vasat \and that deity for 
whom the oblation is made is the fourth. Thus the deities depend upon the divided 
sacrificial portions or the cuttings (depend on) the deities. What is the fifth cutting 
is certainly excessive. For what (of whom) would one cut it (and offer)? 

8. Also a fivefold current (of oblation} takes place. Indeed the sacrifice is 
fivefold; the animals are fivefold; the seasons of the year (are) five. This indeed is 
the richness of the fivefold cutting. He surely becomes abundant (numerous) with 
progeny and cattle—he for whom who knows thus the fivefold, cutting is made. 
The other thing (practice) viz., the fourfold cutting is known as belonging to the 
Kurupancalas. 

9. He should cut off only a limited (small) (prescribed) quantity. Should tie cut 
off large (quantity) he would be making it human. What is human is verily ruinous 
for a sacrifice. Therefore he should cut off only a limited (required) quantity. 

10. Having smeared (spread) ghee (at the inner bottom of the fitkm) and having 

made two cuttings of the ‘kavis’, he sprinkles ghee cm top. The reason that he puts 
ghee on both sides (bottom and top) is that these are indeed two offerings; the 
offering is different and the ghee offering is different, The mmm offering is an 
(individual) offering by itself. And what is the sacrifice with “teris’and the animal 
(offering) is (the same as) this offering. Therefore he puts ghmmi berth rides. 

Thus verily he makes it (the kavis) gkm. Indeed this thing vk., gsfearis pleasing to the 
gods. Thus he makes this pleasing to the gods. So (is it) with regard to the cuttings 
(of offerings). 



II.6.4.15] 


TRANSLATION 


169 


11. That is the prayer of invitation and this is the prayer of offering. These two, 
both of them, are females. With (in) Vasatkara' itself there is (formed) a pair of 
those two. (Each ofthem forms a pair with the ‘vasatkara ). This (sun) who scorches 
is himself the Vasatkara \ "When he rises, he rushes towards the yonder (sky). When 
he sets, then he rushes towards this (earth). With * Vasatkara ’the male, they (the two 
females viz. the sky and the earth) bring forth this offspring which is this offspring 
of these two. 

12. Having recited the prayer of invitation and having pronounced the offering 
prayer in sequence, thereafter he pronounces the Vasatkara. Indeed the male 
covers the female, having taken her from behind. Hence, he, placing these two 
{ anuvdkyaand ydjya) in front, causes them to be covered by the male viz. Vasatkara, 
He should pour the offering either along with the Vasatkara or after the Vasatkara 
has been uttered. Thus he pours into the genitals, the fire, what has become the 
semen (seed). Indeed Agni is the genitals (source) of the sacrifice. If (the sacrifice) 
is born out of it (Agni), should he, then, pour the offering before Vasatkara', it 
would be in this manner just as he might pour the semen in non-geni tals. It is 
indeed so. Therefore he may make the offering along with Vasatkara itself or after 
Vasatkara has been made. 

13. This thing namely Vasatkara is indeed the vessel of the gods. It is just as one 
would hand over after having taken (the food) in the vessel. Therefore one should 
pour the offering along with the Vasatkara itself or after the Vmatkdm has been 
made. Should he pour it before the utterance of Vasat^ it will be in this maimer that 
one may put it down on the earth before (taking it into) the vessel. It is indeed so. 
Therefore one may pour the offering along with Vasatkara itself or after Vasatkara 
has been made. 

14. The yonder one (the sky) is certainty the prayer of invitation {anmmfcyfi ). 
This (earth) is the offering prayer {ydjya} . This (earth) is Glvatrl; the yonder one 
(sky) is Tristubha. Reciting that prayer of imitation—for that yonder one (sky) is 
anuvdkyar— he verily recites this Gayairi; for this (earth) is GSvatri. Worshipping 
with (reciting) the offering prayer in— Tristubha’, he worships (recites the 
offering prayer) with this (Gayatri), for this (earth—Glyatri) is the offering prayer. 
Then he utters Vasat’for the yonder one (sky), for that one is Tristubha. Thus he 
makes these two to be of common union (to be together). Therefore these two eat 
together. Following the common feasting of these two, all these creatures consume 
food together. 

15. He should recite the anumkya (prayer of invitation), makingit move (gently) 
as it were; for its form is of ‘ brhat ’ (the big). The yonder one (sky) is indeed huge 
{brhat}. With the offering prayer he should hurry up qukkly as k were. For its form 
is of Rdth&ntara, This (earth) is indeed ‘ Ratkantar® . He verity' calls with the prayer 




II. 6.4.18] 


TRANSLATION 


171 


of invitation. Therefore, the form of (expression in) the anuvakya (prayer of 
invitation) is I call’, we call , ‘come here' ‘sit on the barhis ( seat of holy grass) ’; for 
he calls with the anuvakya. With the yajyd (offering prayer) he offers (gives away), 
indeed. So, the form of (expression in) the yajya is ‘accept’, ‘relish the havis 
(sacrificial food)’, ‘eat’, ‘drink’, ‘rejoice’, ‘act like a bull (fall to it with gusto)’, 
‘forward . For he offers indeed with the yajyd. The anuvakya should contain the 
name (distinctive feature) (of the deity) in the beginning. 

16. The yonder one (sky) is indeed the ‘anuvdkyd' of that yonder one, the 
distinctive mark below are the moon, the stars and the sun. The offering prayer 
(yajya) should have its distinctive mark further on (later on and not in the 
beginning) . This (earth) indeed is the yajyd. Of this, the distinctive mark on it 
(above it) are the plants, trees, water, fire and these creatures. That anuvakya is 
indeed rich (full and prosperous), uttering the first word, of which one utters the 
(name of the) deity. That yajya is indeed rich, from the last word of which, Vasat * 
is pronounced for the deity, for the deity is verily the vigour of the Eh (Vedic verse). 
Then, thus having enclosed it with vigour on both sides, he offers the sacrificial 
food to that deity for whom it is. 

Vl. He indeed utters ‘ vdh ’. Verily the Vasatkdra' is speech. Speech is certainly the 
seed. Thus he verily pours (deposits) the seed, saying jot" (six). The seasons are 
indeed six. Thus he deposits the seed in the seasons themselves. Then the seasons 
produce these creatures (out of) the seed thus deposited. 

18. Now, the gods and the Asuras, both sprung from Prajipati, acquired their 
share (of patrimony) from Prajapati, their father. They (their shares) are these two 
half-months (half moons) themselves. That one which fills up that the gods (got) 
and that one which wanes the Asuras (got). The gods then observed, “Hew shall 
we appropriate what belongs to the Asuras? ” How indeed will both these (shares) 
be for us? w Praising and toiling, they discovered this ‘hmmyajna' (sacrifice of food 
offerings) viz. the new moon and full moon sacrifices. They sacrificed with those 
two (sacrifices). Having sacrificed with them, they appropriate the other one 
too. When the two half-months (half moons) float round (revolve), the month 
occurs; the year comes to be with month by’ month. The year is ‘all’. They 
appropriated all that belonged to their rivals, the Asuras. They deprived these 
(Asuras) of share from everything. He (the sacrificer) who knows this thus 
appropriates all that belongs to his rivals and deprives his rivals of share from 
everything. 



II.6.4.19] 


TRANSLATION 


ITS 


19. That (half moon) which was of the gods, that is (called) 'yavtm ; for the gods 
united themselves within, indeed. And what was of the Asuras, that is (called) 

‘ayavan ’for the .Asuras did not at all unite with it. And they also say (of it) differently. 
“What verily is of the gods, that is ‘ ayavan ’ for the Asuras did not indeed unite with 
it". “And what belongs to the Asuras, that is (called) *yavan\ For, the gods united 
with it (got it)”. Day (day-time) is (called) 'sabda\ the night 'sagara', the months 
'yavya \ the year 'sumeka * What is 4 sumeka ’is verily \wekn. So they say, since it is that 
‘yaims’and ‘ayavas are (both called) 'yavyas and since one becomes the Hotr of 
these only, they call it (the function of the Hotr) ‘ Yavihotram ’. (Fourth Brahmana 
Ends) 


(Sixth Chapter Ends) 



II.7.1.7] 


1RANSIATION 


375 


Chapter Seven 
BRAHMANAI 

1. It was by means of sacrifice that the gods rose to heaven. And this god who has 
power over cattle was left here itself. Therefore they call (him) ‘Vastavya’ (the one 
who is at the site). For, he was left behind then at the site (living place). 

2. The gods went about praising and toiling with the same sacrifice by which they 
had ascended to heaven. And then, this god who rules over cattle ... 

3. He saw (and thought), “I have been abandoned, indeed. They verily keep me 
away from the sacrifice”. He rose up after them. At this very time which was the time 
of (performance of) Siristakrt he approached at the north with a raised (weapon). 
The gods said, “Do not throw (the weapon)” 

4 . He said, thus, “You (who are such) do not exclude me from the sacrifice. You 
provide an oblation for me in the sacrifice”. The gods said indeed, “So (be it) *\ He 
withdrew it; he did not hurl (it). 

5. They said “Find out. All the oblations that were taken up for as many deities 
of us (as there are), (all of them) have been offered. How can we provide oblation 
for this one? Think out”, 

6. They verily told the Adhvaryu, “Sprinkle the sacrificial dishes with gk$e as 
before (in order). Replenish them for a single cutting. Make them fresh (that they 
may not become stale)* He sprinkled gfaein proper order and replenished them 
for a single (additional) cutting and made diem fresh and cut off each cutting 
(portion). Therefore they said (of him) ‘Vistawa’. For, he got that which remained 
of the sacrifice (vastu —what remains) when the oblations had been offered. 
Hence, if for any deity they take up oblation (for offering), in everything 
(everywhere) ‘Svistakrt’ is given a share. In this manner, indeed, did the gods take 
him in for a share in the sacrifice. That Is made (offered) as ‘To Agni*. 

7. For, indeed, Agni is that God, His are these names: as the easterners call him 
‘Sarva’ (all), Bahlkas (call him) ‘Dhava’ (one who shakes), ‘Rudra’ (one who 
causes weeping), ‘Paiunampatih’ (the Lord, or protector of beasts), Agni (the first 
leader, he who was there at the outset). All other names of his are inauspicious. 
Only ‘Agni’ is the most auspicious (name) of his. Therefore is it (the offering) 
made as ‘To Agni’, ‘To Svistakrt’. 



II.7.1.I3] 


TRANSLATION 


177 


8. They, the gods, said, “What we had offered while you moved in yonder 
(world), please make that of us well (properly) offered!'” He said, “So (be it)". I 
make that of yours well offered! Therefore does it become (offered I “To Svistakrt ’. 

9. Having recited the prayer of invitation (anuvakya ) he then observes (enumer¬ 
ates) these, “May Agni offer Agni’s favourite abodes (things/wealth)!" “May he 
offer Soma’s favourite abodes!” “May he offer Agni's favourite abodes!” And 
according to the deity- {he observes), “May he offer to the gods, consumers of ghee, 
their favourite abodes!” Thus he speaks of the fore-offerings and the after— 
offerings ( prayaja and anuyaja). For, the ghee —consuming gods are indeed (i.e. 
they represent) the fore-offerings and after-offerings, ( He says), “May he (Agni) 
offer the favourite things of Agni the Hoir!” Thus he notes (enumerates) those— 
as many of the oblations of the deities as have been offered. The reason he observes- 
so is that they (those deities) propitiated him (Agni) again, having arranged for an 
oblation to him, and that they invited him to his favourite thing. 

10. About this, some say, “May he offer of Soma!” “May he offer of Agni!"' After 
( first) having said, “May Agni offer the favourite things of Agni!” One should not 
say so. Verily they do contrarily (in reverse order) to the sacrifice—those who, first 
haring uttered, ‘aydt ’(May he offer!) then say, “Of Soma may he offer!” “Of Agni 
may he offer !” Therefore one must utter 'ayat'at first, as, “May he offer (mail the 
favourite things of Soma”. 

11. (He recites) “May he sacrifice, worshipping his own greatness! “When on that 
occasion he makes (Agni) bring the gods (when he invokes the gods) then he is 
really invoking liis own greatness. Therefore, before this, nothing is done (offered) 
to his own greatness. With this he propitiates him (Agni) and by this does his. 
unfailing (greatness) become established. 

12. “May he produce (gather) food items worthy of sacrifice!” indeed the 
creatures are ‘food items’. Thus he verily makes the creatures devoted to perform 
sacrifice. These creatures worshipping remain (become) sacrificers. (He recites), 
“May "Jatavedm ’ (Agni who knows all things horn I bike to the offering with i 'dish ; 
Thus he indeed prays for the enrichment (completion) of the sacrifice for his 
(sacrificers) sake. In that the gods accept the oblation (with pleasure), thereby he 
wins much (great things). 

IB. Now, the reason why these two, the offering prayer and the prayer of 
invitation become most corresponding (to each other) is that 'Svistakrt is verily 
(equivalent to) the evening (libation). The evening libation indeed 

belongs to Vtsvedevas (the All-gods). (He recites), “Satisfy' the longing gods, Oh 
Youngest one!” This, of the prayer of invitation, refers to the Vmxttevm. "Oh Agni! 
Of the sacrifice! Today (you come to) the men”. This, of the offering prater, refers 
to the Vihtedevas. These two are the form of foe evening hhatiem. Therefore, these 
two, the yajyamd anuvaky<\ become most corresponding here (on this occasion). 



II.7.1.20] 


TRANSLATION 


179 


14. Those who are Tristubh (verses in Tristubh metre). Lacking in vigour, 
indeed, and residual (of the sacrifice) is Svistakrt. Tristubh is, (itself) verily virility, 
energy. Thus he places virility, energy, indeed, in the residue viz. Svistakrt 

15. Some perform it with Anustubh (verses in the Anustubh metre), thinking, 
“The Svistakrt is the residue; the Anustubh is residue. Let us put the residue in the 
residue”. The residue (the sacrificial site) is prone to extend. He, for whom who 
knows thus, they make the two Anustubh verses (one for anuxmkya and the other 
for ydjyd ), verily prospers with progeny and cattle. 

16. In that matter, Indradyumna Bhallaveya made (use of) an Anustubh (verse) 
as prayer of invitation and a Tristubh (verse) as the offering prayer, thinking, “Let 
me thus enclose on both sides (or let me obtain from both)”. He fell down from 
his chariot. Having fallen from the chariot he broke (dislocated) his arm, 

17. He observed (thought), “I have done something whence such a danger (has 
befallen me)”. He concluded only this, “What I did verily in reverse order 
(wrongly) in sacrifice (has brought me this disaster)”. Therefore one should not 
violate (sequence) in the sacrifice. Both (the anuvakyd and the ydjya) should be 
verily (of the) Anustubh (metre) or both should be (of the) Tristubh (metre); 
(both should be) only of the same metre. 

18. He cuts (the portions of oblation for Agni Svistakrt), verily from the northern 
part (of the sacrificial dishes); he offers (them) in the northern part (of the fire). 
This (north) indeed is the direction of that god. From here did he verily arise. They 
appeased him with this portion. Therefore he cuts from the northern portion and 
offers in the northern portion. From the other oblations, he offers near by (in the 
fire). Following the other oblations, cattle are born. This thing viz. Svistakrt is, 
then, what belongs to Rudra. Should he mix-up (bring into contact, the Svistakrt). 
With the other offerings, he would verily bring the cattle into contact with Rudra*s 
power. They, his homes and his cattle would be destroyed. Therefore nearby (in 
the fire) does he pour from the other oblations, thinking, “If not, I shall be bringing 
the cattle into contact with Rudra’s power”. 

19. This viz. Ahmmniya then, indeed, is that sacrifice by means of which the gods 
ascended to heaven. And that which was abandoned is the Gkfimpwiy®. Therefore 
they take out the Ahmmmya from the C&rkepatya* to be the one in the east (to be 
before it). Thus itself does he rise to heaven, 

20. One should establish it (Ahavunzya) at (a distance of) eight steps (from the 
Gdrhapatya) . For Gayatri is of eight syllables (per foot). He rises to heaven, thus, by 
means of Gayatri itself or (he may establish it) at eleven steps. For, Tristubh is of 
eleven syllables (per foot). Thus he ascends to heaven by means of Tristubh itself. 
Or (he may establish it) at twelve steps. Forjagatl (metre) Is of twelve syllables (per 
foot). Thus he ascends to heaven by means of jagati itself 




II.7.2.2] 


translation 


181 


_ 21. One need not favour thatjview) • How far and how much they take out the 
Ahavamya to (be to) the east, from the Garhapatya, that, then, is only so much (it 
is of this measure). By that alone one ascends to heaven. Therefore, where one 
thinks with his mind, by himself (that he jnay put it), there he may establish it. Then 
they cook the sacrificial dishes on the Ahavamya . 

22. This thing viz. Ahavamya is indeed the sacrifice by means of which the gods 
rose to heaven. They moved about praising and exerting themselves by that. The 
reason why they cook the sacrificial dishes over the Ahavamya is (that they think). 

Let us perform the sacrifice in the sacrifice”. For, the Garhapxitya is, for the 
sacrificial food, outside the threshing floor (for, the Garhapatya is what spurts off 
of the sacrificial food) as it were. Or they cook (the sacrificial food) over the 
Garhapatya. This ( Garhapatya ) is (itself) the Ahavamya indeed. For, this ( Garhapatya] 
is for it, (the Ahavamya) that they would offer into it what has been cooked. Indeed 
this is not for it that they should cook uncooked (food) over it. Therefore they 
should cook on the Garhapatya itself. Then both are verilv done. (Cooking on the 
Ahavamya and cooking on the Garhapatya both are done i.e. are permitted). 

23. The sacrifice indeed said, “I am verily afraid of nudity”. (They asked) “What 
(constitutes) non-nakedness for you?” (The sacrifice said), “They should strew 
(holy grass) all around me”. Therefore he should speak for strewing (holy grass ) 
all around (the fire) for (securing) the non-nakedness of the sacrifice itself. And 
then (the sacrifice) said, “I am indeed afraid of thirst”. (They' asked), “What is your 
satisfaction (what will satisfy you)”. (The sacrifice said), “I shall be satisfied 
following the satisfaction of the Brahmin”. Therefore when the sacrifice is completed 
one should order to satisfy the Brahmin. Thus he satisfies the sacrifice itself. (First 
Brahman a Ends) 


BRAHMANAII 

1. Prajapari, indeed, thought of his daughter either the sky or the dawn 
(amorously). Thinking, “May I mate with her!” he united with her. 

2- That appeared to the gods (that it should not be so) as if it were wrong. (They 
thought), “When he acts in this manner towards his own daughter, our sister, (it 
is wrong) ”, They said to this god who rules over beasts, “This person who behaves 
thus towards his own daughter, our sister, really acts transgressing bis vow (of 
righteousness). Pierce him!” (Rudra) said, “So (be it)”. Having gone up to him, 
he pierced him. Half the seed of him who had been pierced fell down (was ejected). 
Indeed it was verily so. 



11.7.2.9] 


TRANSLATION 


m 


3. And this has been said (repeated) by the Rsi (Veda), “The father coveted his 
daughter; uniting with her, he dropped his seed on the earth’’. That (chant) was 
said to be l Agnivmruta ’ (the chant of Agni and Marut). In it is it explained, how the 
gods went on making the split seed generate. When their anger went out (abated), 
then they treated (cured) him. They cut off that dart of that (Rudra). That sacrifice 
itself is indeed Prajapati. 

4. They said, “Find out!” “Find out how this may not be, like this, indeed inferior 
to the oblation (the lesser part of the oblation) 

5. They said, “Take it round to Bhaga himself who is seated on the south, Bhaga 
will consume it. It will thus become as if it has been offered (into the sacrificial 
fire) ”. They brought it round to Bhaga who was seated on the south. Bhaga looked 
at it. It burnt out his two eyes. It was indeed verily so. Therefore they say ‘Bhaga is 
blind’. 

6. They said, “It has not abated here Take it round to Pusan”. ‘They took i t round 
to Pusan. Pusan consumed it Then, it completely destroyed his teeth. It was indeed 
verily so. Then they said, “Pusan is toothless”. Therefore they cook the sacrificial 
food (of boiled rice) sanctified for Pusan, out of flour in the same manner as for 
a toothless person. 

7. They said, “Indeed it has not abated here. Take it round to Brhaspati”. They 
took it round to Brhaspati. Brhaspati approached Savitr himself for impulsion, 
(saying), “Impel this for me”. “Haring been impelled by you, may this not hurt me; 
Savita impelled it for him, saying “So (be it)”. Thus impelled by Savitr, it did not 
hurt him. After that it became tranquil (abated). 

8. This is, on this account, what is prasitm (the foreportion of the offering). The 
reason why he cutsoffthe foreportion is that he builds up this that has been pierced 

' (injured) that is of the sacrifice and that belongs to Rudra. Thus haring built that 
which has been injured in the sacrifice and that belongs to Rudra, he touches water. 
For the waters are ‘tranquility’. Therefore he soothes it down by means of water 
(which is itself) tranquility. And there he cuts up the 'ida ’(which represents) cattle. 

9. He may cut up so much only such that the dart, slips out. On one of the (two) 
sides he puts ghee. Having made an underlayer of ghermd haring cut up twice (two 
pieces) of the 'havis* (oblation), he does not sprinkle gfeeori top. Or, without 
having made an underlayer of gjkee and having twice cut up of the oblation, he 
sprinkles ghee on top (of the cuttings). That way it (the cut off portion) comes out 



II.7.2.13] 


TRANSLATION 


1H5 


Firmly (easily). It has such an out-flow. But one should not do it that way. Only after 
having made an underlayer oi ghee and having cut off twice of the oblation, then 
he should sprinkle ghee on top. That verily is like the cutting for the sacrifice. He 
should not carry it around along the front side. Indeed, in front (in the east), the 
cattle stared facing westward near the sacrificer. Should he take it round in front, 
he would be making the cattle come into contact with Rudra’s power. His homes 
and cattle would go perishing near him. Therefore he should go beyond, only 
across. Thereby indeed he does not bring the cattle into contact with Rudra’s 
power. For, he verily builds it up only across. 

10. The Brahman accepts (chanting), “I receive you, at the impulsion of the god 
Savitr, with the two arms of the two Asvins and with the two hands of Pusan’‘.just 
as then (on the former occasion) Brhaspati approached Savitr for (securing) 
impulsion, in the same manner, now this (Brahman) thus rushes towards Savitr for 
impulsion. Then Savitr, impels it for him. Then, impelled by Savitr, it does not 
harm this person. 

11. He eats it (the prasitm , the fore-portion) (chanting), “I eat you with the 
mouth of Agni”. Indeed nothing harms Agrii. In the same manner it ( tine fore¬ 
portion) does not harm this person (Brahman). He should not eat (biting) it with 
his teeth, (thinking), u lf not (if I eat biting it with my teeth), then, this belonging 
to Rudra, may injure my teeth”. And then he ceremoniously sips water. For water 
is (purification) ‘tranquillity’. Therefore he soothes it down with tranquillity 
(purification) viz. water. 

12. Having raised the vessel completely, he brings around the portion (of food) 
of Brahman. Brahman the protector (of the sacrifice) remains verily to the righ t 
side (south) of the sacrifice. He remains thinking of (looking for) this share. What 
is pmsitra (the fore-portion of the oblation)»that they have now brought to him and 
he has eaten it. And then, having had this share ( Brahmi^wga ). he guards 
henceforth that (part ) of the sacrifice which has not been completed. 

13. When he (Adhvami) says, “Oh Brahman! We are going to start", from (the 
time of) this expression. Brahman should maintain silence. Those who, in the 
middle of the sacrifice, perform the 'ida ’which hoi'p&kafafm ’(sacrifice of cooked 
offerings), destroy this sacrifice, injure it. Brahman is indeed the best physician of 
the priests. Brahman puts it together. If he were to be talking lie could not put if 
together. Speech is verily the sacrifice. Thus he mends the sacrifice. 



11.7,3.2] 


TRANSLATION 


187 


14. When he says, “Oh! Brahman! We are going to start”. Then Brahman mutters 
(meditatively), “Oh god Savitr! Thus they call (announce) your sacrifice". Savitr is 
indeed the impeller of gods.Thus he rushes to Savitr himself for impulsion. (He 
says), “For Brhaspati, for Brahman” For, Brhaspati is the Brahman (chief priest) 
of the gods. 

Thus he conceals this, for him who is indeed the Brahman of the gods (saying), 
“Therefore protect the sacrifice, therefore (protect) the lord of the sacrifice”. 
Thus he refers to the sacrificer (saying), “Protect me”, he does not keep himself 
apart. (He mutters), “May the mind delight in the lustre of the gftee”. All this 
(universe) is obtained (pervaded) verily by the mind. Therefore he puts together 
(mends), by means of the mind itself, all this—-whatever of the sacrifice that has 
been destroyed. Then the sacrifice surely becomes prosperous. (He mutters), “May 
Brhaspati vasdy perform (spread) this sacrifice”. “May he mend (put together) this 
sacrifice in such a manner that there is no injury". Thus he mends this. (He 
mutters), “May the Visvedmas (All-gods) rejoice here!” The Visvedevm are ‘all’ 
(everything). He puts together (mends) thus by means of ‘eventhing' (or with 
everything)—whatever of the sacrifice that might have been destroyed. And then 
the sacrifice certainly becomes prosperous. “Firm establishment/it has been well 
established”—so he may say if he wishes. If he should so wish he need not adopt it 
(say so). (Second Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANA III 

1. They brought to Manu water for the morning wash, just as they bring now for 
the washing of hands. When he was washing, indeed, a fish came into his hand. It. 
spoke to him the word, “Keep me I shall surely saw you”. 

2. He said, “From what are you going to save me?” It said, “A flood will cany away 
all these creatures. From that (then) 1 shall save you”. He said, “How are you to lie 
maintained?” It said, “Till (as long as) we are small, till then their arises great 
(numerous) destruction for us”. It (further) said, “Moreover, fish itself eats fish,. 
Therefore, first keep me in a small jar, when I outgrow that, keep me (in a pit) 
having dug a pit. When I outgrow that, then take me to the ocean So it said. “Then 
I shall be surely out of destruction (danger) ”. Soon it became a jhasa ( big fish) for, 
that grows largest (in size). 



11.7.3.7] 


TRANSI .ATION 


1S9 

3. It said, “Such and such a year, the flood will come. Then, having built (having 
got ready) a ship, you shall wait upon me. When that flood has risen, you shall take 
to the ship. Then I shall save you”. He (Mann) , having reared k in that maimer, 
took it to the sea, the year it had indicated, then having got a ship ready, he waited 
upon it (remained near it). When the flood had risen he reached the ship. Then 
the fish floated up to him. He fastened the rope (noose) of the ship on its horn. 
With it, it (the fish) moved fast towards this northern mountain. 

4. It said, “I have verily taken you across. Leave me. Fasten the ship to this tree. 
But let not the water cut off you who are on the mountain. Mav it not leave vou (cut 
off). As and when the water subsides, then (step by step) vou shall move down”. 
Manu descended in that manner. Therefore, even now there is (the name) “The 
descent of Manu” for this northern mountain. Then (thus! the flood carried a wav 
all the creatures and now Manu, the one person alone., remained, 

5. He who was desirous of progeny, performed rituals, worshipping and strain¬ 
ing himself (in austerities). Then he also sacrificed with 'Pakenajna’i a sacrifice with 
cooked offerings). Ghee, curds, whey and sour milk he then offered in the waters 
for a year. Then, in a year there arose a woman. She rose up, as if become solid. In 
her footprint, gteremained. Mitra and Varuna met her. The two said so her, “Who 
are vou?” 

j 

6. She said “Manu’s daughter”. They said to her. “Say (that vou are) ours only”. 
She said “No”. “ I belong only to him who begot me”. The two desired a share in 
her. That she understood or not. But she went past them. She then came to Manu, 
Manu indeed said to her, “Who are you?”. 

7. She said, “Your daughter”. He said, “Venerable lady! How (are vou) my 
daughter?” She said, “These oblations which vou poured in the waters for a year— 
viz. ghee, curds, whey and sour milk, from them you produced me*. She said verily, 
“I am the blessing. Me, who am such, make use of in the sacrifice, if vou will use me 
verily in the sacrifice, you will become numerous (much ) with progeny and cattle. 
Whatever blessing you are going to seek with me, I shall fulfil that of yours*. He put 
(used) her indeed in the middle of the sacrifice. What is in between the fore- 
offerings and after-offerings is verily the middle of the sacrifice. 



11 . 7 . 3 . 13 } 


TRANSLATION 


W1 


8. Worshipping and straining himself (with austerities) with her, he produced 
this race (offspring) which is the offspring of Many. Whatever blessing he sought 
with her, she fulfilled it for him. This is by its very 'source', 'ida He who knowing 
thus performs (the ritual) with Ida ’—he verily produces this very offspring that is 
the offspring of Mann. Whatever blessing he seeks with her (ida) that is fulfilled for 
him. 

9. It is cut fivefold. Ida is indeed cattle. Cattle are fivefold. Therefore it is cut 
fivefold. Haring cut it (ida), having broken the fore-part of the purodmn (sacrificial 
cake), having put it down before the dkruvd (spoon) and having handed it over to 
the Hotr, he goes beyond towards the south. Here he then smears it on the Hotr. 
The Hotr indeed smears it on (his own) lips, (chanting), “I eat of you who have 
been offered by the lord of the mind, for (securing) essence". And a second time 
(he chants), “I eat of von who have been offered by the lord of speech, for the sake 
of strength and for upward breathing". Then he thus smears on his two lips. 

10. Manu was verily afraid of this, thinking, “This (fact) that this ida is related to 
the pakayajna (ritual of cooked offerings) is the weakest (point) of the sacrifice''. 
“The destructive Raksasas should not destroy my sacrifice here". Thus (saving), 
“Before the Raksasas (come), before the Raksasas came" he made her reach ( a safe 
place). In the same manner now this (Brahman) makes her (ida) reach ( a sale 
place), saying verily, “Before the Raksasas, before the Raksasas”. The reason why he 
does not consume it (now) is that (he thinks), “If not (i.e. ifl consume ida now), 
I shall be consuming it when it has not been invoked". Thus verily he makes it reach 
( a safe place) when, he smears (it) on his two lips. 

11. Then he cuts up (the ida) into the palm of the Hotr. Then, this that remains 
verily cutup—he makes it en ter directly (visibly) into the Hotr. With that which has 
entered into himself, the Hotr pravs for blessings for the sacrificer. 

12. Now he calls (ida) in a low voice. Of this indeed was Mann afraid {thinking), 
“This is verily the weakest (point) of my sacrifice that this ida is ul'pfiktmjm (ritual 
of cooked offerings). The Raksasas should not destroy her . He thus called her 
near in a low voice (saying), “(Come) before the Raksasas (come)! ( Come) before 
the Raksasas!" In the same manner, verily, does this person, now call her Odd) near 
in a low voice (saying), “Before the Raksasas, before the -Raksasas . 

13. He calls, “The ‘ Rathantard (Sdman chant) has been called here, along with 
the earth. May the Rathmitam , along with the earth, call me near! “ “The VSmadnya 
(Sdman chant) has been called here, along w ith the aerial region. May Vamadevya* 



0.7.3.17] 


TRANSLATION 


S'i:l 


along with the aerial region, call me near!" "Brhat (Sam/tn chant) has been called 
here, along with the sky. May Brhat, along with the sky, call me near!" Then calling; 
verily this (ida) he calls these Sdman chants and these worlds. 

14. Then he calls her (ida) near indirectly thus. “The cows along with the bulls, 
have been called here. May the cows, along with the bulls call me near*. Indeed the 
cattle are ‘ida ’. He calls her along with her mate tints, (by saving), '’Along with the 
bull". (He chants), 'The seven who perform the function of Hotr have been called 
here. May the seven who perform the function of the Hotr call me neat ". Tims he 
calls this one (ida) with the Soma sacrifice performed by Seven Hotrs. “Ida the 
victorious (who crosses) has been called here". Thus he calls her near directly. ( He 
says), “The victorious” (the one who crosses). For this (ida) crosses (overcomes) all 
evils. (He says), “Here has been called the friend, the food. Indeed the vital breath 
is the friend, the food”. Thus he calls here the vital breath. (He says), “ifo has been 
called here". This he calls the body. Thus, then, he calls near the whole 04a) with 
her body. 

15. Then “ida has been called here! Here hits been called ida. May ida call us 
near! Ida has been called here”. Thus he calls near directly this one lida* who has 
already been verily called. He indeed calls four times. What she was, was the cow 
indeed. The cow is verily four-footed. Therefore he calls (her) near four times. 
This, then being only one, appears as if it were many, for the sake of non-repetition. 

16. He would indeed be committing a repetition if he were to call (her) only 
thus, “Ida has been called here, ida has been called here" or "Here has been called 
ida, here has been called ida'. Then (saying), “Ida has been called here he calk 
her who is away front him, (Saying), “May ida cal! us near (her) . Thus he does not 
keep himself away. It (the expression) too becomes as if it were different. “Ida has 
been called here” by this he calls her who is towards him. Then, thus he calls her 
hither and thither (who is towards him and who is away fs om hitu) - 

17. She is called Manu’s daughter, the gkm footed and the one who is of Mitra 
and Vanina. Manu indeed begot her formerly (at first). Therefore he says. Matm s 
daughter’. (He calls her) ‘gfaefooted’ because gh& remained in her foot print. 
And (he calls her) ‘one of Mitra and Vanina’ because she met Mitra-Varuna. 1 He 
savs) “The one of Mitra and Vanina the lesser Brahman, she who was created by 
the gods has been called here". Indeed this one M) is Brahman and he has been 



II.7.3.19] 


TRANSIATION 


19?) 


created by the gods and has been (now) called here. (He says), “The divine 
Adhvaryus have been called here”. “The men have been called here". Thus he calls 
near the divine Adhvaryus and these who are human. The calves indeed are the 
divine Adhvaiyus and those other Adhvaryus are the men. (He says), “Who may 
protect this sacrifice and who may prosper the lord of the sacrifice!" For, surely 
these protect the sacrifice—these who are Brahmins who teach the Vedas and who 
perform this (sacrifice) (elaborately) and who produce this (sacrifice). The calves 
indeed make one prosper. That lord of sacrifice prospers for whom these (calves) 
are most abundant (He chants), “Here have been called Heaven and Earth who 
are the primeval ones, keepers of law, divine and whose sons are the gods". Thus 
he calls here these two viz. Heaven and Earth to whom all this (universe) belongs. 
(He says), “Here is called the sacrificer”. 

18. He does not mention his name. Here the prayer for blessing is indirect- If he 
should mention the name he would be making it human indeed. What is human 
is certainly decline (misfortune) for the sacrifice. Therefore he does not mention 
the names. (He says), “In the subsequent worship of the gods". Thus he indeed 
indirectly prays for the blessing of progeny for this (sacrificer). He (the sacrifice!) 
goes to the yonder world by himself. And then his offspring performs the sacrifice 
here. Thus (therefore) worship of the gods (sacrifice ) has the progeny as subse¬ 
quent (for its performance). Thus he indirectly prays for the blessing of life for this 
(sacrificer). After having performed the sacrifice before he who lives, performs 
sacrifice later (too). Thus he prays indirectly for the blessing of cattle for this 
person (the sacrificer). He who has cattle performs sacrifice later (too*, aftei 

having performed the sacrifice formerly. w 

19. (He chants), “He has been called here for more abundant ferns offering ' „ 
Thus he indirectly prays for the blessing of progeny itself for this person sacri¬ 
ficer). By himself one is certainly alone (only one). And then when there is 
progeny, (in progeny) hams is offered tenfold. Therefore progeny is (progeny 
means) offering of more ‘ havis * Thus he indirectly prays for the Messing of life for 
this person (sacrificer). He who lives having first performed the sacrifice-—then 
offers ‘ferns’more and more (again and again). Thus he verily prays indirectly for 
the blessing of cattle for this person (sacrificer). He who has cattle, having first 
performed the sacrifice, later offers 4 hmxs ’more and more (again and again). Hus 
indeed is the prayer ‘for blessing (or benediction) viz., “May I live! May there be 
progeny for me! May I attain wealths (prosperity)!” Indeed cattle are ‘prosperity . 
Thus by these two (benedictions) he obtains it in full Therefore he pray s only tor 
these two blessings. (He says). “May the gods accept this my offering, with 
pleasure”. (He says), “He has been called in it (the sacrifice)”. He thus prays lot 
the fulfilment verily of the sacrifice for the sake of this person (the sacrificer). By 
that he conquers much in that the gods gladly accept the hmm. 



II.7.3.23] 


TRANSLATION 


197 


20. Then they eat (the ida). They do not offer this into the lire—verily ida is the 
cattle—thinking, “If not (i.e. if we offer it into the fire), vve would be giving up the 
cattle into the fire”. It is offered into these very vital breaths (life), into the Hotr, 
only once, into the Adhvaryu, into the Brahman (Chief Priest i, into the Agnidh 
and the sacrifices He offers that into the sacrificer which he puts before the dhmvn 
(spoon). For the dhruvd is the sacrificer. And the reason why the sacrificer does not 
eat it directly is that (he thinks), “If not (If I eat it), I would be (committing the 
mistake of) eating before it (the sacrifice) is concluded”. He eats only what he 
places before the dhruvd (spoon). For dkmvd is the sacrificer. All eat (He says/ 
thinks), “Into all may my (ida) be offered!” Five eat (it). The cattle are indeed ida. 
The cattle are verily fivefold. Therefore, five eat (it). 

21. Wien this person (Hotr) calls ida thus, he (the Adhvaryu) having made the 
pumddsa (sacrificial cake) into four (parts) places it on the barkia (holy grass— 
covering the altar). This is indeed here in the place of the manes. The intermediate 
quarters are indeed the manes. Verily four are the intermediate quarters. There¬ 
fore, having made the puroddsa into four (parts) he places it on the Imrhh, When 
he says, “The Heaven and Earth have been asked here". Then the Agnidh ap¬ 
proaches. He gives it to him (Agnidh). 

22. He eats it (chanting), “Mother Earth has been called here. May Mother Earth 
call me near”. (I am) Agni because of (my) function as "Agnidkra — svdkS." (He 
eats) the second (piece) (chanting), “Father Heaven has been called here”. “May- 
Father Heaven call me near! ” (I am) Agni because of (my) function as Agrudhm— 
svaha”. For, Agnidh is verily Heaven and Earth. Therefore he eats thus, when he 
thus prays for the blessing (makes the benediction). 

23. Then the sacrificer mutters (meditatively), “May Indra now place in nie 
vitality (the power of Indra)! May bountiful riches accrue to us! May there be 
blessing for us! May there be true blessings for us! "Thus this is verily the acceptance 
of the blessings (benedictions). Therefore, what blessingsthese priests pray for, for 
this (sacrificer) those very things (blessings) he, having thus received then, takes 
into himself. .And then they cleanse (themselves) in (water) containing a purif ier 
(ring of holy grass). For they’ have now performed with id3 which is of pMkciy&f%a 
(ritual of cooked offerings)! (They think), “Having been purified by the jmntm 
(purifying holy grass) let us perform here after what (part) of the sacrifice has not 
(vet) been completed”. (Third Brahmana Ends) 



II.7.4.6] 


TRANSLATION 


199 


BRAHMANAIV 

1. They take out two burning sticks for the sake of after-offerings. Why they take 
out these two burning sticks is that (they think), “This fire becomes, as it were, 
spent out in time; for it had conveyed the sacrifice (offerings) to the gods. 
Therefore, let us perform the after-offerings in this (fire) that is fresh (which has 
not become stale with the passing of time)”. Therefore do they take out the two fire¬ 
brands. They make them touch (the fire) again. This makes the fire grow again, it 
makes it fresh. Therefore they make them, (the fire-brands) touch (the fire) again . 

2. Then, he (Agnldhraj puts the kindling stick over (the fire). He verily kindles 
this (fire) (thinking), “What of the sacrifice is (yet) unfinished. Let us perform that 
in (the fire) that has been kindled with that (kindling stick)". 

3. The Hotr consecrates it (with chants), “Oh Agni! This is the kindling stick for 
you. Grow and increase with it. May we too grow and increase!” He recites this now 
just as formerly he recited (it) for .Agni that was being kindled. This is the function 
of the Hotr. But if the saerificer should think, ‘The Hotr does not know this". Then 
he himself may consecrate (the kindling stick). 

4. Then, he (Agnidhra) trims (the fire). Thus he yokes up the very' Agni, 
thinking, “(This Agni who has been) yoked, may he convey, from now on, that 
(part) of the sacrifice which has not been completed”. He trims (the fire) once 
each time. Indeed for gods he trims it thrice each time. (He thinks), “If not, I would 
be doing as for the gods’’just for non-repetition. Should he trim (sweep) thrice first 
and thrice later, he would indeed be committing repetition. 

5. He cleanses (sweeps, trims) chanting, “Oh Agni* Winner of food! I cleanse 
you w’ho have moved towards food and who have won the food . At fi rst (formerly) 
he indeed said, “(You) who are going to move (towards food)”. Then he verily is 
as if about to move. And then now he says, “Who have moved” For now he is as if 

he has moved. 

6. Then he offers the after-offerings. Why he offers the after-offerings is (that) 
what gods he invokes by this sacrifice and for whom this sacrifice is performed, all 
of them, indeed become the object of sacrifice thus. As he offers subsequently aftei 
all of them have been sacrificed to, they are called after-offerings. 



II. 7,4.12] 


TRANSIATJON 


201 


7. And why he makes the after-offerings is (this): Cattle indeed are the metres 
of the gods. Therefore just as here the yoked cattle carry (burdens) for men, in this 
same manner, the metres, having been yoked, convey the sacrifice to the gods. 
That the metres thus propitiated the gods and then the gods pleased the metres in 
the after-offerings was before this when the metres conveyed the sacrifice to the 
gods by which they satisfied them. And now he (the sacriflcer) pleases the verv 
rnetres in that he makes the after-offerings. Therefore, by what vehicle (vehicular 
animal) one may move on having unyoked it, he should say, “Give it drink, give it 
food”. That is the dissimulation for the vehicle (draft animal). 

8. First he verily sacrifices to (worships) the barkis (holy grass). Being the 
(youngest) smallest metre, Gayatri is verily employed first. Then she (Gayatri) is 
united with rigour, indeed, as having become a falcon. She brought Soma from 
heaven, because of that strength. That they consider it improper (that it should not 
be so) that, (though) being the smallest metre, she was employed first. But then, 
here the gods arranged the metres properly in the after-offerings, thinking, “If not, 
there would he inversion (confusion)'”. Therefore he worships (offers to) barhis 
first. The plants indeed are the barhis. They are established in this. Thus this entire 
world is in this ( barhis). Therefore this (is called) Jagatl. Hence they placed Jagatl 
(metre) first. 

9. Then (he offers) to narasamsa. ‘Nam ’ are indeed “creatures'. These move 
about the aerial region, being garrulous. Of him who verily talks, they say (he) 
chants. The ‘ antanksa (aerial region) is indeed ‘narasamsa' (the region of the 
chanting(chattering of creatures). The aerial region is Tristubh. Thus (then) they 
made Tristubh to follow (in the second place). 

10. And then (he offers) to Agni, lastly Gayatri is indeed, Agni. Therefore they 
made Gayatri the last. Thus verily do the metres remain stable, having been 
arranged in proper order. Therefore, this is without inversion (confusion), 

11. Then, the Adhvaryu, having passed beyond and having called attention, says 
(to the Hotr), “Utter the offering prayers for the gods*. The Hour says the offering 
prayers for all as ‘the gods’. ‘The gods’ the metres themselves are the gods, indeed 
of the gods and are verily their cattle. Cattle are surely the home. The homes are 
a place of stable existence. The after-offerings are indeed the metres.Therefore, 
the Adhvaryu merely says, “Pronounce the offering prayer for gods*. The Hotr 
pronounces the offering prayer to all as ‘die gods’, ‘the gods’. 

12. Now, (the reason) why he offers (chanting), “May he accept the offering of 
wealth for the sake of the one who desires wealth”, is that verily for the deity is the 
sacrificial food taken up (for offering), the utterance of Vamth made for the deity, 
there is indeed no deity here in the case of the after-offerings. (In the expression), 
‘the divine barhis —that is not Agni, not Indra, not Soma. The divine nmmama'-- 



n.7.4.13] 


TRANSLATION 


203 


there is not (a deity) in this, there is not another thing. What ‘Agni’ is h ere ( in the 
third offering), (that is indeed) Gayatri. Thus, by reason, only Indra and Agni are 
the two deities of them (metres). Agni, himself is 'vasumm (the seeker ofwealth). 
Indra is i vasudheya > (giver of wealth). Thus his utterance of Vasal is Tor deity’ and 
the offering is ‘for deity’. Therefore, in all after-offerings, he offers (chanting) 
“May he accept of the gift of wealth for the sake of the seeker of wealth”. 

13. Having made the final after-offering and then having brought together (the 
remaining ghee in the upabhrt spoon with what remains in th ejuhu) he offers it. 
These are indeed the fore-offerings and after-offerings. Just as formerly in the fore¬ 
offerings he makes the hateful enemy (of the sacrificer) bring the first tribute 
(presents), in the very same manner here now he makes the hateful enemy bring 
the first tribute (presents) for the sacrificer in the after-offerings. (Fourth Brahmana 
Ends) 


(Seventh Chapter Ends) 



II.8.1.5) 


TRANSLATION 


203 


Chapter Eight 

BRAHMANAI 

1. He verily separates the two spoons (chanting), "May I conquer after the 
conquest of Agni and Soma! With the impulsion of the (sacrificial) food I urge 
myself on”. He removes th ejuhu (spoon) to the east with his right hand (chanting), 
“May Agni and Soma drive him away who hates us and whom we hate! I drive him 
away with the impulsion of the (sacrificial) food”, he moves the upahhrt (spoon) to 
the west with his left hand; (he does this) if he is the sacrifker. 

2. If he is the Adhvaryu (who verily does it) (he chants), “May this sacrifker 
conquer after the conquest of Agni and Soma! I urge him on with the impulsion 
of the (sacrificial) food. May Agni and Soma drive him away whom this sacrifker 
hates and who hates this sacrifker! I drive him away with the impulsion of the 
(sacrificial) food”. The full moon oblation verily is for Agni and Soma. 

3. If he is himself the sacrificer, (he chants) then at the new moon (sacrifice), 
“May I conquer after the conquest of Indra and Agni! I urge myself on with the 
impulsion of the (sacrificial) food. May Indra and Agni drive him away who hates 
us and whom we hate! I drive him away with the impulsion of the (sacrificial) food”. 

4. If it is the Adhvaryu (who does it), (he chants), “May this sacrificer conquer 
after the conquest of Indra and Agni! I urge him on with the impulsion of the 
(sacrificial) food. May Indra and Agni drive him away whom this sacrifker hates 
and who hates this sacrificer! I remove him away with the impulsion of the 
(sacrificial) food”. Indeed the oblation at the new moon (sacrifice) is for Indra and 
Agni. Thus he separates (the spoons) according to the deities. 

5. (The reason) why he separates the two spoons thus is (this). Verily the 
sacrificer (stands) behind theju/m; he who is inimical towards him (stands) behind 
the upabhrt. Thus he moves the sacrificer verily on to the east and removes him away 
((to the west) who acts inimically towards the sacrificer. ‘The eater' verify (stands) 
behind the juhu and ‘the eaten' (stands) behind the tqfoMfo Verify he moves cm 
‘the eater’ to the east (front) and pushes back to the west (behind) ‘the eaten'. 
Thus this is performed in one and the same action. Therefore from the same 
(common) person ‘the eater’ (enjoyer) and ‘the eaten’ (the enjoyed) are bom. 
Well, indeed, people remain sporting and rejoicing (saying), “We unite (in 
marriage) in the third generation,we unite (in marriage) in the fourth generation. 
We are of his class”. 



IL8.I.12] 


TRANSLATION 


207 


6 . Then he (the Adhvaryu) anoints (with ghee) the enclosing sticks. With that 
very’ thing (spoon) with which he has offered to the gods, with which he has 
concluded the sacrifice—(with that very spoon) he now pleases the enclosing 
sticks. 

7. He anoints (chanting), “You—for the Vasus”, “You—for the Rudras”, “You— 
for the Adityas (I anoint) ”, These are the three groups of gods viz, Vasus, Rudras 
and Adityas. Therefore he anoints them (the enclosing sticks) for them. 

8. Then, having touched (reached) the enclosing sticks, he causes (theAgnidhra) 
to give the call (for the gods to listen). Indeed, he thus makes (the gods) listen for 
the sake of the enclosing sticks. The call to listen is Indeed the sacrifice. Therefore 
he propitiates these (enclosing sticks) directly with the sacrifice. 

9. Haring had the call made, he says, “The divine Hotrs are sent for pronouncing 
auspiciousness. The human (Hotr) has been verily sent for chanting the hymns*. 
These divine Hotrs indeed are the enclosing sticks, verily' the fires. He tells them 
(means) thus, indeed thus, “The divine Hotrs are wished for”, when he says, “The 
divine Hotrs have been sent”. (He says), “For pronouncing auspiciousness”, by 
themselves have the gods engaged in that they should do what is good and that they' 
would speak what is good Therefore does h e say “for pronouncing the auspicious*. 
(He says), “The human (Hotr) has been sent for reciting the hymns”. Thus he now 
urges the human Hotr for reciting the hymns. 

10. Then, he throws the 'prastara -—bunch (bunch of holy grass) into the fire 
subsequently. Indeed the 'prastara' is the sacrificer. Wherever his sacrifice goes 
now, there itself it now bids this sacrificer welcome. Verily his sacrifice goes to the 
world of gods. He leads him too on to heaven itself. 

11. He takes it (the prastara) up (prior to throwing it into the fire). (He chants), 
“May Heaven and Earth — you two be in harmony (with each other)!” If he is 
desirous of rain. When Heaven and Earth are in harmony it rains. (He chants), 
“May Mitra and Vanina please you with rain!’ 1 Verily prana (the exhaled and 
inhaled breath) are Mitra and Varuna. This one (v&yu) who blows (purifies) rules 
over the rain. This one blows as if he is only one. Entering into man (%myu) forward 
and backward (as ) prana and udana (outward and inward breathing). He says 
merely this, “He who has power of rain—may he please you with rain! * Therefore 
it (the prastara) should be taken up only with this (chant), wherever (he desires) 
happiness in (by means of) rain. 

12. Then he anoints it (with ghee). He thus makes it verily into an oblation 
(thinking), “Becoming an oblation, may it go to the world of gods!" He anoints its 
tip in the juhu (spoon), its middle in the upabkft (spoon) and its bottom in the 
dhruva (spoon). For, the juhu (is) the top (tip), as it were, the upakkrt (is) the 
middle as it were and the dhruva (is) the root (bottom) as it were. 



11,8.1.18] 


TRANSLATION 


13. He anoints (it) (chanting), “May the birds go licking the smeared one 
(prastara ) ”, Thus, having made it now verily into a bird he makes it go up towards 
the world of gods from this world of men. 

14. He throws it into the fire (chanting), “Go to the spotted doe of the Manus". 
He merely says (means) this, “The world of gods itself is the spotted antelope of the 
Maruts. Go to it”. He moves (the prastara) down twice. The reason whv he then 
brings it down is (this). The earth is verily the firm basis. From this firm basis he does 
not throw this (sacrificer) up. He controls (or he provides much) rain indeed in 
this (earth). 

15. He throws (it) into the fire (chanting), “Haring become a spotted tow. go 
to heaven and from there bring rain for us. This (earth) is (called) spotted cow 
(Prim) for the reason that there are on this both the rooted and rootless (food). He 
merely says (means) this, “ Having become this (spotted cow) go to the world of 
gods and from there bring us rain”. From the rain arises vigour, sap, well being. 

16. Then he removes a single (blade of) grass (from the prastara) . If he were to 
put the entire thing into the fire, the sacrificer would quickly reach the yonder 
world. (The reason) why he removes a blade of grass is that for how much is his (the 
sacrificer’s) (ordained) human life-span here, for only that (for preserving that 
extent of life) he thus takes himself away. Therefore, having held it (the 'prastara) 
for a short time, he puts it into the fire. If he would not put it into the fire, he would 
be keeping the sacrificer away from the world of gods. 

17. He throws it (with its tip pointing) to the east (into the fire), for the east is 
the quarter of the gods. Or, (he throws it, its top pointing) to the north, for the 
north is the quarter of men. He makes it uniform with his fingers only and not with 
(pieces of) wood. For, they convey an ordinary corpse with (wooden) sticks (he 
thinks), “If not (if I smoothen the pmstara with pieces of wood), I would be doing 
as (they would be doing) with an ordinary' corpse". 

18. Then the Agnldh says, ‘Throw into the fire (the single blade of grass, after 
the prastara)”. He says (means) merely this, “Where verily his (the sacrificer *s) 
other self went, there itself make this (self) of his go”. Having thrown it into the fire 
(the Adhvaryu) touches himself (chanting), “You are the protector of the eye. 
Protect my eyes” That way, indeed he does not destroy (injure) himself. 



II.8.1.24] 


TRANSITION 


21? 


19. Then, Agnldh says, “Talk (cordially) (be like)”. He verily says, (means) this, 
“Make this person (sacrificer) talk (cordially) wi th the gods”. (Make him be like the 
gods). (The Adhvaryu asks), “Oh Agnldh! Has he (the sacrificer) gone (to the 
gods)?” He verily says (means), “Has he (really) gone?” (He says), “Make (the gods) 
hear! ” He verily says (means), “Make the gods hear about him. (Report to the gods 
about him)! ” “Make him be known (to the gods)! ” (Agnldh pronounces) “ Smusaf. 
Thus he only says, “They hear this (sacrificer)” or “They know this (sacrificer) 
Thus conversing the Adhvaryu and Agnldh lead the sacrificer to the world of gods. 

20. Then he utters, “Go (at will) to your place!” To the enclosing sticks. (He 
chants), “Movement to their own places—for the divine Hotrs!” “Auspiciousness 
(well-being) for the humans!” Thus he prays for (unfailing) steadiness for the 
human Hotr. 

21. Now he throws into the fire the middle enclosing stick (chanting), “Oh 
Agni! (OhgoodAgni) that enclosing stick which you laid around (yourself), you 
being concealed by the Panis, (by divine hands)—that I bring to you with pleasure” 
(with the thought), “If not (If I do not bring it to you), it may amount to thinking 
badly about you (it may be unfaithful to you)”. He throws the other two (kindling 
sticks) (together) (chanting) , “You two—go to the favourite place, of Agni!” He 
verily says (means) this, “Go, you two, to the abode which is dear to Agni!’' 

22. Then he takes up the two spoons (together). And he makes verify this 

offering when he anoints (with ghee) (the prastara —the sacrifice) (thinking), “May 
he (the sacrificer), having become an oblation, go to the world of gods’'. Then he 
takes it up for (offering to) the ‘All gods!’ ( Vihfdevas).. Whatever ‘havis ’is taken up 
without having been announced for (any particular) deity, all the gods, indeed, 
consider (themselves) as sharers in it Now taking up this (residual) gkma& ‘‘hams , 
he does not announce it for any (particular) deity. Therefore, those very deities 
who consider (themselves) to be sharers in this (offering of the residual he 

makes them thus have a share in this. 

23. He takes hold of them (spoons) (chanting) “Sharers in the remains (residual 
ghee) l The stable (firm, strong) ones! great ones”. This residue indeed is what has 
remained over. (He says), “Oh gods (seated) on the pmtmrd Ob enclosing ones!” 
The , pr&stara > and the enclosing sticks have been thrown into the fire. (He 
chants) ,“(You) who applaud this speech”. 'That applies to all the gods (All gods). 
(He chants), “Having arrived (having been seated) on this covering of holy grass 
(barhis), rejoice— Svaha l Vat . Thus this becomes just like what has been offered 
(having been sanctified) with the utterance .of Svaha and Vasa*. 

’ ' 24. For whomsoever they- take from the cart (the sacrificial food material? at its 
yoke they unyoke for him (saying), “Wherefrom we may yoke, there may we 
unyoke (release) ”, For whom he takes then the wooden sword from the small vessel 



II.,8.2.3] 


TRANSIATIOX 


21:1 


(jai ) (chanting), Where we yoke, there we leave off (unyoke), (for him he unvokes 
the spoons). These two things viz. the spoons are indeed ‘yoke-fellows', for the 
sacrifice. He yokes them thus in that he performs (the rituals with them). 
Therefore he should cutoff (the sacrificial food) verily holding them (spoons). If 
he should cut off, having placed them down, it would be just as the draf t animal 
would fall down. Then they attain release at the Simtakrt. Then he places those two 
down. He employs those two for the after-offerings. They attain release (again). In 
that he takes hold of the two (again now). Having traversed that wav towards which 
he yokes them, finally releases (unyokes) them. Indeed following the sacrifice (in 
the manner of the sacrifice) offspring (are born). Therefore this person (man) 
unites (yokes) and then releases (unvokes) and again unites (yokes). Having 
covered that way towards which he yokes (the draft-animal), finally he releases 
(unyokes) (it). He releases (lays down) (the two spoons), (chanting), “You two are 
full of ghee (smeared with ghee). Protect the two yoke-fellows (draft-animals). You 
two are gracious. Keep me in happiness". (First Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANAII 

1. When the Adhvaryu verily says thus, *The divine Hairs have been sent for 
pronouncing auspiciousness, the human (Hotr) has been sent for reciting the 
hymns (of praise of gods) ” when hence the Hotr recites, he says verily the hymns 
(good expressions). Then he indeed invokes the blessing for the sacrifice r him self . 
He indeed invokes a blessing after the sacrifice. The reason is twofold wherefore 
he invokes the blessing after the sacrifice. 

2. This (sacrificer) verily propitiates the gods by means of this sacrifice, as with 
Rk (chants), as with Yajus (prose-chants), as with oblations. Thus having propiti¬ 
ated them, thereafter he invokes the blessings. Hie gods fulfil that (blessing) for 
him—the blessing which he invokes, (the gods) thinking, “He who has propitiated 
us! ” He who sacrifices, this person indeed-produces the sacrifice. Verily told (or¬ 
dered) by this (sacrificer) the priests perform elaborately, produce it (the sacri¬ 
fice), And then he (the Hotr) invokes a blessing. The sacrifice fulfils that blessing 
for this (sacrificer) thinking, “It is he who produced me”—-that blessing which he 
invokes. These are the two reasons for which he invokes the blessing after the 
sacrifice. 

3. He says, “This has become auspicious, Oh Heaven and Earth!* Indeed it has 
become auspicious (for him) who has reached the completion of the sacrifice. “We 
have completed the recitation of the hymns and utterance of (the Vedk chants 
expressing) respect. Indeed the two viz. the recitation of the hymns arid utterance 



II.8.2.5] 


TRAVKI ATImv 



of respect from the sacrifice. He verily says (means) this only. “We have gained the 
sacrifice, we have accomplished (the sacrifice)’’. (He chants), "Oh Agni! You are 
the mouth (expiession) of the hymns (fine sayings), the two ears (listening) of 
Heaven and Earth . He says (means to say) to Agni himself thus, “You are the one 
expressing praise (fine things) while heaven and earth listen’. (He savsj, "Oh 
saci ificei! May heaven and Earth be helpful (Om annvati] to you in this sacrifice!” 
Indeed food is “Om”. He verily says (means) only this, “Oh sacrificed. In this 
saci iflce, may Heaven and Earth be possessors of (abundant) food for von”. 

4. (He says), “Two bringers of weal to cattle, two givers of'quick gifts".' He verity 
says (means) only this, “May those two be producers of well-being for cattle and 
givers of quick gifts!” (He says), “Two fearless ones, two incomprehensible 
( uncommunicative) ones”. He verily says (means) thisonlv, “Do not be af raid of 
anv one; let not any one find out (obtain) this prosperity of yours". (He savs), "Two 
possessing vast pasture gtound, two afforders of freedom from fear (providers of 
security) . He verily says (means) only this, “May those two have wide pasture- 
ground and (may the) two (be) fearless!” (He says), “Poorer of rain from the skv, 
pioducer of satisfaction . He merely says (means) this, “Mav the two be possessors 
of (abundant) rain! (He says), “The two sources of happiness, the two sources of 
welfare”. He verily says (means) this only, “May those two be the sources of 
happiness, the sources of welfare!” (He says), “Having (abundant) sap. having 
(abundant) milk”. He verily says (means) only this, “May the two be possessed of 
(abundant) sap (may the two be) fit to be depended upon for subsistence!" (He 
says), “Easy of access, easy to walk on”. He verify says (means) only this, “May the 
yonder (sky) be accessible to you (the sacrifice!')—(the sky) which you serve from 
below! May this (earth) be easy to tread upon for you—(the earth) which you walk 
upon! ( He says), “In their knowledge”. In that, he says, “In their knowledge 
(awareness)”, he verily says (means) only this, “When they approve”. 

5. (He says), “Agni has with pleasure accepted this oblation, fie has greatly 
grown, he has made (acquired) greater power (lustre)”. Thus he speaks of the 
Agio's share of gkee, (He says), “Some has with pleasure accepted this oblation, he 
has greatly grown, he has made (acquired) greater power (lustre) F Tims he says 
of Soma’s share of ghee. (He .says), “Agni has with pleasure accepted this oblation, 
he has greatly grown, he has made (acquired) greater power (lustre)”. Thus he 
verily speaks of the .pumdma (sacrificial cake) for Agni—(the cake) which is 
inevitable in both places (thefull moon and new moon sacrifices. And then (it is 
said) according to the (respective) deities. (He says),‘The gods who consume fjkm 
have with pleasure accepted the g$m, they have greatly grown, they have made 
(acquired) greater power (lustre)Thus he says of the foredferingswd the after- 
offerings. For the fore-offerings and the after-offerings are the gods who consume 
ghee. (He says), “Agni, by his function as Hotr, has with pleasure accepted this 




il.8.2.8] 


TRANSLATION 


21 : 


oblation, he has greatly grown, he has made (acquired) greater power (lustre}*. 
Thus he speaks of Ago i by his function as Hotr. Thus, as many deities as have been 
worshipped (sacrificed to), them he considers (enumerates) the reason why he 
considers (enumerates } as. That (deity) with pleasure accepted the oblation*. 

That one accepted the oblation with pleasure* is that he thus prays for the 
fulfilment (richness) of the very sacrifice. In that thegods accept the oblation with 
pleasure, thereby indeed does he (the sacrificer) win the great (benefit). 

6. Now (the reason) why he says, “They have grown greatly* is that what the gods 
relish, even though it is only a little, even a single offering (poured into the fire)— 
that they make it grow to the size of a mountain and verily they make it grow 
limitlessly. Therefore he says, “They have grown (increased/ greatly". They have 
made (acquired) greater power (lustre)*. Verily the sacrifice is the power (lustre) 
of the gods. Indeed they now make this greater. Therefore he says. They have 
made (acquired) greater power (lustre). (He says) “I n this sacrifice that goes to the 
gods, may he prosper!” He verily says (means) only this, “May he succeed in this 
sacrifice that goes to the Gods” ‘This sacrifices pray (thus)*. 

7. He mentions the name (of the sacrificer). The prayer for blessing is indeed 
direct here. Thus he directly makes this (sacrificer) successful by means of the 
prayer (saying), “He prays for longevity”. What then (on the former occasion) was 
“subsequent sacrifice to (worship of) the gods”, that is now direct here (as), “He 
prays for long life”. And what was there, “More {abundant) offering of kmds 
(sacrificial food) ”, that is here now direct as, “possession of fine progeny*. He who 
would say this, would rule over (others). He may verily say, Tie prays for 
subsequent worship of gods*. Even thus (he secures) (long) life and then progeny 
and then cattle, “Abundant (more) offering (preparation) of farts he prays for 
(when he says this) even then he prays for ail this. (He says*, “He prays for a wish 
to rule over Kinsmen*. Indeed the vital breaths are krostoek (of common birth).’ 
Verily one is born with the vital breaths (faculties). Therefore he prays for the vital 
breaths. (He says), “He prays for a divine abode*. He who sacrifices, verily sacrifices 
(with the thought), “May there be* (a place) for me too in the worldof gods! * Thus 
he makes him a sharer in the world of gods. (He says), “May he enjoy' (obtain) what 
he prays for, by means of this sacrificial food (offering}”.. By this be verily says 
(means) only this. “What thing he prays for by' this ‘faw’(oiiening), may that be 
fulfilled (produced richly) for this sacrificer!” 

8. Such are these five prayers for blessings; three at the tim. They become eight. 
Gayatti (metre) is of eight syllables. Gayatri is virility. Thus he achieves vigour thus 
for the prayer for blessing. Therefore they should lye only so much f so many ). What 
is in excess of the sacrifice, that indeed is excessive for the (benefit of the) hateful' 
enemy. Therefore they should be only so many. They may even be less but one 
should not make them excessive. (He says), “May the gods about for this (sacri- 



11.8.2.11] 


TRANSLATION 


219 


fker)!" Then he verily says (means) only this, “May the gods appr ove Urn for this 
person (sacrificer.) Then (he chants), “God Agni seeks among (from) the gods, 
we men (seek) around from Agni”. Thus he verily says (means) only this, “Thus 
indeed god Agni seeks among the gods, we men (seek) around from Agni”. (He 
says). It ('he sacrifice) has been sought, it has been obtained*. Thcv indeed had 
searched for the sacrifice thus and theyfound it. Therefore he saw “it has been 
searched for-andfound*. (He chants)“May the two, Heaven andEanh protect this 
(sacnficer) from sm (evil) ”. Thus he verily says (means) only this, “Heaven and 
Earth may both protect this (sacrificer) from affliction!" 

, 9 ; th f ’ *° me veril >' sa >> both Heaven and Earth protect us from sin 

(evil); Thus the Hotr indeed does not keep himself away (from (he benediction). 
But surely, he should not say so. The benediction iscertaiiUy for the sacrificer. What 
is there for the priests (to be secured) by means of the blessing- He who savs “Both 
(Heaven and Earth)-us” does not at all establish this prayer anywhere. Therefore 
he should only say, May both Heaven and Earth protect this (sacrificer) from sin 
(evil)!” (He says), “Here is the course of what is wished for. (Here is the course of 
you two —Heaven and Earth for this person (the sacrificer) ”, Thus he places in this 
(sacrificer) only what is good for the sacrifice. (He says). “And this adoration is for 

the gods”. Thus, having reached the completion of the sacrifice, he performs 
obeisance to the gods. 


, 10 * then he recites the Player 'Samyoh (well-being and happiness), indeed 
Samyu Barhaspatya truly understood the proper conduct (completion) of the 
sacrifice. He went to the world of the gods. That (knowledge of the proper 
conduct) of the sacrifice then became hidden from men. It was heard bv the Rsis 
that Samyu Barhaspatya had indeed truly known the proper conduct (completion) 
of the sacrifice and that he had gone to the world of gods. Now, the Rsis, attained 
the same completion (conduct) of the sacrifice correctly as they pronounced. 
"Sathyoh ^that completion of the sacrifice which Samyu BMaspatya had truly 
known. Now, this (sacrificer) too reaches truly that completion of the sacrifice as 
he pronounce s Sarny oh , which completion of the sacrifice Saikyu Barhaspatya had 
truly found. Therefore he pronounces 'Samyuk (Happiness and well-being), 

11. He says, “We choose (wish for) that 'Samyoh\. He verily says, (means) only this, 
“We, choose (wish to know) truly that consummation of the sacrifice whic h Samyu 
Barhaspatya truly knew. (He says), “Progress for the sacrifice, progress for the lord 
of the sacrifice”. He who wishes for the consummation of the sacrifice surely wishes 
for progress for the sacrifice and progress for the sacrificer. (He says). “Mav there 
be for us welfare produced by the gods, welfare to man!” He merely says (means) 
verily this, “May there be welfare for us among gods, welfare among men!" (He 
says), “May the medicine (cure) go up!” He verily says (means) only this, “May this 
sacrifice of ours, which is upwards, be victorious! * (May this sacrifice lead m upward 





H.8.3.5] 


TRANSLATION 


221 


(to heaven !) (He says), “May there be happiness for us, to the bipeds! May there 
be happiness for the quadrupeds! ” So much is this, the biped and the quadruped. 
Therefore, thus having reached the completion of the sacrifice, he produces 
(pronounces) ‘Happiness’ verily to him (the sacrificer). 

12. Then, he touches the earth with his little finger. Now he becomes, as it were, 
non-human (super human) in that he has been chosen for priesthood. This earth 
indeed is the firm resting place. Therefore ultimately he firmly rests only on this 
resting place. Thereby indeed he becomes human. (Second Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA III 


1. The Adhvaryu takes up the ‘smc’and "sruva' (spoons), the Hotr the veda (a 
bunch of holy grass) and the Agnldh the vessel wherein the ghee is melted. About 
to perform worship of the wives (of gods) (about to perform Patnkamyaja ), they 
return (to the Garhapatya). 

2. According to some, the Adhvaryu moves in front ( to the east) of the 
Ahavaniya. But he should not go that way. Should he go that way, he would verily 
be outside the sacrifice. Therefore he should not go that way. 

3. According to some, he goes behind the (sacrifker’s) wife. That way he should 
not go at all. Verily the Adhvaryu is the fore-part of the sacrifice, the hind part is 
the (sacrificer’s) wife. It would indeed be as if he would be putting his bead behind 
his hips, if he should go that way and he would verily be outside the sacrifice. 
Therefore he should not go that way. 

4. According to some, he goes between the (sacrificer’s) wife (and the 
Garhapatya). He should not go that way at all. If he should go that way, he would 
be verily keeping the wife away from the sacrifice. Therefore he should not go that 
way. He should pass only to the east (front) of the Garhapatya. That way, he 
certainly is not outside the sacrifice. That very same movement that was there 
formerly (when he moved to the Ahavaniya) suits for him now (as he moves back 
to the Garhapatya). 

5. Then they perform the patnuamyaja (the worship of the wives of the gods). 
Why they perform the worship of the wives (of the gods) is (this): Creatures 
(offspring) are bora verily from the sacrifice. (Those that are) born from the 
couple (of male and female). (Those that are) born from the couple are born of 



11,8.3.13] 


translation 


i£23 


the couple at the completion of the sacrifice. Thus, then, at the end (completion) 
of the sacrifice, the production out ot the couple is made. Therefore these 

cs eatm es (offspi ing) ai e born at the end of the sacrifice from out of the productive 
couple. 

6. He worships (sacrifices to) four deities, for four indeed make a couple. A 
couple is verily 'dvandva ’ (two and two). Thus verily a productive couple isformed. 
Thei efoi e fiom the productive couple, these creatures are born at the end of the 
sacrifice. 

7. Those (deities) have ghee offerings. Indeed, ghee is seed (semen). He thus 
deposits the seed itself. They perform with this (ghee) silently. Verily they* perform 
union secretly as it were. Indeed this thing viz. silent (what is done silently) is 
certainly secret-like. 

8. Then indeed he makes the offering to Soma. Soma is verily the seed. Thus he 
deposits the seed itself. 

9. Then he offers to Tvastr. Indeed Tvastr transforms the deposited seed. Thus, 
then, Tvastr transforms that seed which has been deposited. 

10. Then he worships (sacrifices to) the wives of the gods. Indeed in the wives, 
the females, the seed (semen) that is deposited (poured) into the genitals (womb) 
remains firm. Then there it springs up (is born). Thus he pours the .seed into the 
womb, into only the wives, the females. Thus thence he produces (offspring). 

11. When he offers to the wives of the gods, they hide it out. Indeed the gods are 
waiting (nearby) (thinking), ‘They do not (yet) offer to us this ‘samistayajm' 
(mantra that would make the sacrifice (offerings) good and properly completed J. 
They are going to make the offerings for us”. From those very deities he conceals 
this (patmsamyaja). Therefore these women (human females) too wish to eat verily 
hidden, as it were, from men. 

12. Then he worships (offers to) Agni the Lord of the house. This is indeed the 
earth. Agni produces these creatures (offspring) verily upon this firm resting 
place. These creatures, which are such, are born upon this firm basis (the earth), 

13. That should verily be upto the end of idd (it should end with id®. Here there 
are indeed no enclosing sticks, no prastam (bunch of holy grass). It is, as it were, 
an extension upto the end of ‘samyu' (pronouncement of saw?yu (happiness and 
well-being). Indeed the wife is after the husband. Just as he bids godspeed (‘may 
your going be well’) in the same manner he (now) bids godspeed to the wife (of 
the sacrificer) too. Moreover a form of (substitute for) pm&tara is (now) made. 
Having then plucked out a blade (of grass) from the veda ( a bunch of 'darbha ' 
grass) he anoints its tip in the juhu (spoon), its middle in the aruva (spoon) audits 



II.8.3.18] 


TRAXSI ATI ON 


225 


bottom in the pan. Thus he makes verily an offering (thinking), “May this go to the 
world of the gods, having become an offering!’' Just as formerly he bids godspeed 
to the sacrificer with the prastnra ’in the same manner now he bids godspeed to his 
wife. 

14. Then, Agnldh says, “Throw it into the fire”. Having thrown it into the fire, 
he (Adhvaryu) touches himself chanting, ‘You are the protector of the eye. Protect 
my eye”. 

15. Then Agnldh says, “Converse cordially”. (The Adhvaryu says) “Oh Agnldh! 
Has he gone?” (Agnldh replies), “He has gone”. (Adhvaryu says), “Make* the gods 
hear”. (Agnldh says), “Srausat (May they hear)!” “Godspeed to the divine Hours! 
Well-being to the humans!” This is verily the relationship. 

16. Then he catches hold of the Arc/hand \%ruva’ (spoons). Formerly he makes 
(has made) this offering in that he anoints (the prastam) (chanting), “Having 
become an oblation, may he (the sacrificed go to the world of gods”. Therefore he 
(now) grabs (the two spoons) for Agni, (chanting), “Oh Agnil one of unimpaired 
vigour! Best pervader! (greatest consumer)”. Verily Agni is immortal. Hence he 
says, “Oh one of unimpaired vigour!” (He says), “Most pervasive one!” (“The 
greatest of consumers!”) Indeed Agni is the most pervasive (greatest consumer). 
(He says), “Protect me from the blazing (missile); protect me from the bond; 
protect me from defective sacrificial ritual; protect me from bad food”. He verily 
says (means) only this, “Protect me from all afflictions”. (He says), “Make our 
nourishment (drink) free from poison”. Indeed food is nourishment. He verity 
says (means) thus, “Make our food free from disease and free from evil”. (He says), 
“Of pleasing perch on the lap (in the source)”. Thereby he says (means), “In 
yourself". (He says), “Svahal VM just as a thing is offered after (it has been 
sanctified with) the utterance of ‘Svaha'md the utterance of Taya)’. So does this 
become (offered with consecration)”. 

17. Then, the wife (of the sacrificed unites the * veda * (bunch of darkha 
grass).Indeed the wife is female, the “veda*is male. Thus a productive ample is 
verily formed. It is for union that this thing viz. veda is male. Why he touches (the 
altar) with this (veda) in the sacrifice is that thereby a productive pair is formed. 

18. She unites it (chanting) “Oh god! Since you ‘know’, you became veda for the 
gods. Therefore be ‘ veda ’for me (too) **. She may do it (the untying) verily with this 
(chant) if she would do it with a 'Yojus' (prose text). Then the (sacrificer’s) wife 
takes up a (blade of) grass of the ‘uerfa’ (bunch) (thinking), “If not, I might be cut 
off from the union”. Then she places it between her thighs. For union occurs verily 
between the thighs. 



II.8.3.24] 


TRANSLATION 


19. The Hotr strews it (the veda ) upto the altar. Indeed the altar is female, the 
veda is male. The male mounts the female, having approached her verily from 

behind. Therefore, hav ing placed it (the altar) in front, he causes it to be mounted 
(approached) by the male ‘veda’. 

20. Then he (Adhvaryu) makes the ‘Samistayajus ’offering. Whv he does not offer 
(it) before is because (he thinks), “If not, the sacrifice may be completed (may 
remain) behind (against me)”. Certainly his sacrifice would end behind (in the 
west), if, having (first) offered ‘Samistayajus' he were to perform the Patmsamydja 
(worship of the wives of the gods) thereafter. Thereby (byperforming 'Samistayajus 
at the end) it (the sacrifice) is before (to the east of) him. Therefore he offers 
Samistayajus ’ now. 

21. And then, why he verily offers Samistayajus' is (this): Those deities whom he 
invokes through this sacrifice and for whom this sacrifice is (elaborately) per¬ 
formed, all of them become well (sacrificed to) worshipped thus. Because he 
makes the offering after all of them have been well worshipped, this is called 
Samistayajus ’ (worships of the deities who have been well sacrificed to) . 

22. Now (the reason) why he performs Samistayajus'{h this): Whatever deities 
he invokes by this sacrifice and for whom this sacrifice is performed (elaborately ), 
those gods remain nearby (waiting) (thinking), “They do not offer to us this 
‘ Samistayajus \ they are going to offer to us”. Those very deities he thus sends away. 
He thus establishes the sacrifice where there is firm establishment of it-—the 
sacrifice wherein there is the due treatment (performance) of these deities and 
which he elaborately has performed and which he has produced. Therefore does 
he verily offer 1 Samistayajus ’. 

23. He makes the offering (chanting), ‘The gods who know ‘going' (i.e. how to 
go, where to go and when to go) (who know the way)Indeed the gods are 
‘Knowers of ways’ (by saying), “Having reached the path” he verily says (means) 
only this, “Having reached the sacrifice!" (Saying) “Go to the Path" thus he sends 
them away. When there is the spiritual practice regarding them (deities), following 
it (he says), “Oh Lord of mind! Oh god! This sacrifice— Svdhd ’! You have placed 
it in the mind”. So he utters Svdhd later to the supreme deity. This sacrifice h 
indeed this (wind) which blows (purifies). Thus, having prepared the sacrifice he 
establishes it firmlv in this sacrifice. Therefore he makes this later utterance of 
‘Svdhd’to the supreme deity. 

24. Then he offers up the ‘ barhis' (the holy grass spread on the altar ). He verily 
offers this as oblation to the herbs (plants). For, the ‘barhP Is plant Thus he places 
the plants themselves in this earth. These plants, which are such, have been 
established in this earth. He indeed offers this which is additional. When he offers 
Samistayajus ’ thereafter he offers this. Therefore these plants unlimited and 
immeasurable, spring up: 



11,8.3.27] 


TRANSLATION 


22V* 


25. He offers (the barhis) (chanting), “May the “barhis 'well mix with the 'hmls ’ 
(sacrificial food), with ghee. May Indra combine well with Adityas and (combine) 
well with the Maruts and (combine) well with all the gods (the all-gods) what (has 
been offered with) 'Svaha, may that reach the celestial sky!" 

26. Then, having w alked round to the south, he pours the “pranita waters on the 
ground (on the altar). Thereby they remain northward (on the altar). The reason 
why he pours down the pranita waters (is this): He who performs this (sacrifice) 
verily yokes the sacrifice. Having reached that goal towards which he yokes it, 
finally he unyokes it. If he were not to unyoke (release) it, the sacrifice being 
unreleased, would surely hurt him behind. He pleases it (pours down the water). 
(Chanting), “Who unyokes you? He unyokes you. For whom does he release you? 
For him does he release you, for prosperity 1 ’. Thereby he announces the highest 
posperity for the sacrificer. With the very thing (vessel) in which he (first) brings 
(the water) with that (vessel) he pours it out. He unyokes with that yoking cord with 
which verily they yoke that (draft animal) which is fit to be yoked. Indeed they yoke 
the draft animal by means of the yoking cord. They release (it) with the yoking 
cord. Then, he knows the refuse (chaff) under the black antelope skin (chanting), 
“You are the share of the Raksasas”. 

27. The gods and the Asuras, both sprung from Prajapati, contended. They 
contended in the matter of this very sacrifice, (which is itself) Prajapati (saying ) 
“This should be ours! This should be ours!"The gods, having secured it, deprived 
the Asuras of (due) share, (giving them) merely the worst part, with the blood of 
the (sacrificial) animal and with the refuse (chaff) of the “Havinajitu (thinking), 
“May they he completely deprived of their share!” He indeed becomes fully 
deprived whom, though he has (taken) a share, they deprive. He is verity not well 
deprived—whom, as he takes no share, they deprive. Moreover, gaining a little 
control, he goes up (to them) and says, “What share have you given me?” What 
share the gods allotted to them (Asuras) in the sacrifice, that very thing this 
(sacrificer) has now given to these. He throw’s the refuse (chaff) under the black 
antelope skin (chanting), “You are the share of the Raksasas*. Thus he puts it verily 
into the fireless blinding darkness; in that very' manner he pours out the blood (of 
the sacrificial animal) (saying), “You, are the share of the Raksasas .Thus lie makes 
it enter verily into fireless, blinding darkness, for them (Raksasas), Therefore no 
one makes a ladle for the animal, for thus it (the blood) belongs to these Raksasas, 
as share. (Third Brahmana Ends) 



II.8.4.5] 


translation 


2 ‘ 3 \ 


brahmana IV 

1 . When the sacrifice has ended, having moved around to the south he pours out 
the pumapatra (the vessel full of water). Thereby it becomes (poured) northward. 

he reason) why he pours out the ‘purnapatra 'is (that) he who sacrifices verilv 
performs the sacrifice (with the thought), "May there be (a place) forme too in the 
world of the gods!’' This sacrifice, then, moves ahead towards the gods. Following 
the saeiifice, (goes forth) the sacrificial fee which fee he gives (to the preists)■ 
following the fee the sacrificer (goes forth). That path leads to the gods or leads 
to the manes. On both sides of it are two flames of fire burning. Thev burn him who 
is fit to be burnt and they permit him (to pass) who is fit to be permitted. That very 
path he now cools down with water, for, water indeed is ‘alleviation*. 

2. He pours down that full (vessel of water), indeed. Surely, ‘all* is ‘full*. He thus 
quietens it verily with ‘all*. He pours out continuously and without break. Thus he 
appeases this verily with the continuous and unbroken (pouring). What is done 
wrongly at the sacrifice, they tear it out, hurt it indeed. Verily water is the medicine, 
the (means of) appeasement. Therefore he quietens it with water, the (means of) 
appeasement. Thus he sets it right (fixes it). 

3. He pours down that full (vessel of water)—indeed ‘all’ is ‘full*. Thus he sets 
this (fixes) right verily with ‘all 1 . He pours continuously and in an unbroken 
manner. Thus he fixes it by means of this (pouring) which is continuous and 
unbroken. He receives them (waters) as they are being brought, with his open 
hands held together. 

4. Then he mutters (meditatively), “We have united with lustre, with sap, with 
bodies and with auspicious mind. May Tavastr the giver of good gifts bestow riches 
and clean up what has been injured in (our) body". Thus, whatever had been 
injured, that he fixes up (sets right). Then he touches his face (with the water in 
his hands). (The reason) why he touches his face is twofold. Water is nectar 
(immortalizing drink). He verily thus touches (his face) with ambrosia. Thus also 
he indeed takes within himself this very work (sacrifice). 

5. Then he strides the strides of Visnu. (The reason) Why he strides the Visnu- 
strides (is that) he perforins the sacrifice (thinking), “May there be (aplace) in the 
world of gods for me too". He who sacrifices, he verily propitiates the gods with this 
sacrifice, as by Rks (metrical chants) once, as by Yajus (prose chants) once and as 
with oblations once. .And having once pleased them, he considers himself a sharer 
among them. Having become a sharer among them he goes to them. Indeed Visnu 
is the sacrifice. He strode these strides for the sake of the gods. By first step he won 



11.8.4.9} 


TRANSLATION 


2W 


this very' (earth), and then (by the second step) this aerial region and indeed the 
sky by the third. Now this sacrifice, Visnu, strides indeed that very' stride for this 
(sacrificer). Therefore, most (beings) go away from here (the earth). So is it. 

6. “On the earth, Visnu strode wi th the Gavatri metre. He who hates us and whom 
we hate, he has been excluded from it” (so saying he takes the first stride), ■Visnu 
strode in the aerial region by means of the metre of Tristubh : thereby has been 
excluded that person who hates us and whom we hate”. (So saying he takes the 
second stride), Visnu strode in the sky with the metre of Jagati; he who hates us 
and whom we hate is excluded therefrom”. Thus his having ascended these worlds 
then this is the goal, this is the firm resting place. This one (sun) who burns and 
those which are his rays they are the righteous ones (that do good ). And what shines 
beyond, that is verily Prajapati, the world of Heaven. Thus he indeed readies the 
goal, this stable resting place. It is thus, therefore, that one should stride (from) 
here. He who would give instructions here must stride down from yonder. (The 
reason) why he should move downwards from yonder is twofold. 

7. At first the conquering gods conquered because of the moving away (of their 
enemies). At first (they conquered) the sky itself, then the aerial region and then 
they pushed away their rivals from this (earth), without (allowing them to ) escape. 
In that same manner this conquering (sacrificer) now conquers at first by the 
moving away (of his rivals). (He conquers) the very sky at first, then die aerial 
region and then he pushes out his rivals from this (earth). The firm basis of the 
sacrifice, as long as is his human life-span here—to him it is so then. 

8. (He recites), Visnu strode in the sky by means of the metre of Jagati. 
Therefrom is excluded he who hates us and whom we hate”. Visnu strode in the 
aerial region with the metre of Tristubh. Therefrom is excluded he who hates us 
and whom we hate”. ‘Visnu strode on the earth with the metre of Gavatri. 
Therefrom is excluded he who hates us and whom we hate”. (He says), “From this 
food, for this (earth), the firm resting place”. Indeed this food is in this (earth). 
This (earth) is verily the firm basis. Then he looks towards the east. Indeed the east 
is the quarter of the gods. 

9. He looks (chanting), “We have reached Heaven". He verihsays (means) only 
this, “We have reached the gods”. When he says, "We haw reached Heaven!” (He 
says), “We have united with light”. He verily says (means) this only, "We have united 
with the gods". And then he looks up at the sun. Then (thus) he reaches this goal, 
this established condition. 





II.8.4.13] 


TRANSLATION 


2S*i 


10. He looks up (chanting), You are the self-existent one, the best ray of light”. 
This one viz. the sun is indeed the best ray oflight. Therefore does he say, “You are 
the self-existent one, the most excellent ray 7 oflight’ 1 . Yajhavalkya said, “I verily say 
only this, you are the bestower of lustre. Give me lustre’. That thing, indeed, viz. 
Brahman lustre should be sought by the Brahmin”. “Oh giver of cows. Give me 
cows! only thus do I say. Said, TuminjaAupoditeya Vaiyaghrapadya,, for he himself 
is going to give me cows. In this manner, one may say whatever desire one mavwish 
for. Then, he says, “I turn round following the turning of the sun”. Thus, having 
attained this goal and this firm place of rest, he turns round following the turn 
(movement) of this very (sun). 

If - Then he worships the Garhapatya (with chants). Indeed the Garhapatya is 
the home. The home is a stable place of dwelling. Ultimately he (the sacrificcr) 
firmly rests thus in the very home, the firm place of rest of the sacrifice, for that 
duration of human life-span as is for him. 

12. He chants the mantra, “Oh Agrti! the master of the home!” “With you the 
master of the house, may I be a good master of the home! With me the* master of 
the house, may you be a good master of the house!” It is not as though (the 
meaning) is obscure here. (He says), “May the dudes of the master of the 
household not be like a chariot with a single horse (may they not be unstable) (may 
they not be sapless)! n Thus he verily says (means) only this, “May our dudes of the 
householder be without trouble!” (He saw), “A hundred snowy seasons (winters/ 
years) ”. He thus merely says (means), “May I live a hundred years! ” In that he says, 

A hundred snowy seasons”. He need not refer to that. For, indeed men live more 
than a hundred years. Then he says, “I turn round (proceed) following the course 
(movement) of the sun”. Thus having reached this goal and this established state, 
he (the sacrificer) follows verily the course of this (sun). 

13. Then, moving up eastward (ahead), he utters the name of (his) son (saying), 
“May the son carry on continuously this my work and this (my) vigour”. Thus verily 
the son continues this work and this vigour of hh. If there is no son, he may indeed 
utter his own (name). Then he approaches (worships) the Ahmmmya only silently 
(thinking), “May my work (sacrifice) become complete in the east”. Verily thus 
does his work (sacrifice) come to an end in the east. Then he leaves off (ceremo¬ 
niously) the vow (chanting), “Now I am verily that (person) who indeed! am”. Its 
(relationship) explanation has been said (before) . (Fourth Brihmana Ends) 


(Eighth Chapter Ends) 

(HAVIRYAJNA KANDA ENDS) 



III.1.1.5) 


UDDHARIKANDA 

l * 

Chapter One 


BRVHMANA I 

1. When this (fire) blazes well, first having produced much smoke, then surely 
itis Varuna. And when itbecomes greatly blazing (but) blowing downward, (having 
been well kindled, it grows less) as it were, then surely it is Rudra. And when it 
blazes strongest, then verily it is Indra. And when the flames are much, then it is 
indeed Miua. And when the live cinders seem to glisten, then it is surely Brahman. 

2. If he should desire, “Just as now Varuna seizes these creatures bv force arid 
strikes them down, may I be so! ” He may make the offering at the time when Varuna 
may be there. Just as Varuna verily seizes these creatures by force and strikes 
them down, indeed he becomes so; he wins verily intimate union with and 
(residence in) the same world as Varuna. 

3. And should he desire, ‘Just as these creatures are afraid of Rudra, may they 
be afraid of me!” He may offer the oblation at the time when Rudra may be there. 
Just as these creatures are afraid of Rudra, so indeed are they afraid of this 
(sacrificer). He verily wins intimate union with and (residence in) the same world 

as Rudra, 

4 . And should he desire, “Just as Indra is the overlord and the most excellent of 
the gods, may I become so! ” He may make the offering at that time when Indra may¬ 
be there. He verily becomes so, just as Indra is indeed the overlord and the test 
of the gods. He surely wins intimate union with and (residence in) the same world 

as Indra. . 

5. And then, if he may desire, “May I be a friend, a passage (refuge) (to the good), 

a deadly weapon (to the evil) (a saviour of the good from death)*, he may make 
the offering at the time when Mitra may be there. He verily becomes a friend, a 
passage (refuge) and saviour from death (for the good) (or a weapon causing 
death to the evil). He indeed wins intimate union with and (residence in) the same 
world as Mitra. 



IIU .2.13 


TRANSLATION 


239 


6. And should he desire, “May I be one with spiritual lustre!” He should make 
the offering at the time when there is Brahman. He verily becomes one with 
spiritual lustre. He wins intimate union with and (residence in) the same world as 
Brahman. 

7. Hence, in-the matter any one desire, which desire he may entertain (vdth the 
thought), “May this, my desire, be fulfilled!” He should pour the offering in that 
(in the matter of that desire) verily continuously. He who may dig here and there 
(sporadically), even in watering place of this earth, may not find water, but he who 
may dig continuously in (one place) in the highest ground of this (earth) will verily 
find water. In the same manner, that desire, for which one makes the offering 
continuously, gets fulfilled for him. What, desire he may entertain, (thinking), 
“May this desire of mine prosper (get fulfilled)!" With regard to that, he must offer 
(the oblation) continuously indeed. That desire, for which desire he continuously 
makes the offering, indeed succeeds. (First Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANA II 

L This first offering which he pours (into the fire)—they are the gods (it 
represents the gods); the second which (he offers)—they are the men (it 
represents the men); and what remains left over in the ladle—the} are the cattle 
(it represents the cattle/animals). Therefore, he should offer first only measured ly, 
for the gods, are, as it were, limited (in number). In the subsequent oblation he 
should offer more. For, indeed, men are more numerous than gods. He should 
keep much (most) left over in the ladle; for cattle (animals) are indeed more 
numerous than men. More numerous than his dependants, verily, are the cattle 
of this person (sacrificer), the master, who knows this to be so arid for whom (on 
whose behalf) they make the offerings in this manner. Indeed that is prosperity for 
him, the master, whose cattle maybe more numerous than his dependants and who 
knows this oblation to be superior (to have subsequence). Indeed the son becomes 
greater than this (sacrificer) and the grandson (becomes greater) than the son. 
His welfare (progress) verily becomes superior (greater and greater subsequently). 
This is the oblation that is really superior (that becomes greater and greater 
subsequently) which he first offers Hmitedly (within measure), then (offers) more 
and then leaves over very' much (most) in the ladle. (Second Brahmana Ends) 



HI.1.4.1] 


TRANSLATION 


241 


BRAHMANA III 

1. He verily takes out in the evening what good deed he performs by day. That 
he takes out by the night. He certainly takes out in the morning what good deed 
he does at night. That he takes out by the day-time. Therefore he should merely 
pronounce, “Take out”. He indeed takes out the good deed (the sacrifice). As he 
does not request for water for the honoured guest, after the Agni has been lifted 
up, verily his former good deed (sacrifice) becomes ‘not-done’ (as good as not 
having been done at all). (But) Being about to perform it, he does not perish. And 
with regard to these two things they think, 'That sacrifice (good deed) of this 
(sacrificer) is not at all diminished (destroyed) by evil action, for that (the 
sacrifice) of this (sacrificer) has been verily lifted tip (alreadyf 

2. In the evening he utters “I shall raise”. He offers this Arkya Sastm (a particular 
chant) thus to Agni himself. Then Agni declares it by the night. Then the vital 
energy 7 , reasons (responds), (saying) “Food, Food". 

3. In the morning he says, “I am raising". Now he offers verily to the sun the 
praise of Asvins. Then Aditva praises if by the day. Then speech reassures 
(responds), “Life-span, Life-span". His evening offering is indeed with the Arkya 
Sastm in honour of (the sun); the morning offering is with the Sastm of the Asvins. 
Therefore, just as one would conquer the world by means of the string of the songs 
of praise of the laudable one (the sun) and of the Asvins, so much indeed does one 
conquer by means of the two oblations of the morning and evening. 

4. When he makes the offering in the evening, he offers Agni himself thus, 
alongwith ail this (universe) into the sun. All this is indeed what is after (follows) 
Agni. Therefore, just as having sacrificed once with all this, one would conquer the 
world, so much (of) .the world does he conquer by the evening oblation. 

5. And, when he makes the offerings in the morning, he verily offers to the sun. 
Thus, with all this universe into Agni. Verily all this follows the sun. Therefore, just 
as one would acquire the world by a sacrificing with all this, by the morning offering 
itself, one, verily acquires so much (of) the world. By sacrificing to Agni and sun 
in this manner, one does not commit the mistake of binding himself (to these two 
deities), because he is virtually doing it for all the demifts* (Third Brah^nanaLnds) 

BRAHMANA IV 

1. Speech indeed is the cow (yielding milk etc. for the worship of the tire Hot 
this Ajmihotra (worship of the fire). The mind itself k the calf; for, by the mind do 
they verily milk the very fat speech. Therefore they mik the fat mother (cow) with 



iin.5.1] 


TRANSLATION 


24.1 

the calf. Then verily is this mind in front behind which follows speech. Therefore 
the mother (cow) follows behind the calf which goes ahead. 

2. Verily prana (the vital energy) is the tether; for by the vital energy have the 
mind and speech been tied. Therefore, they tie up the mother (cow) and the calf 
with the rope. The heart itself is the post(to which the cow is tied for milking) and 
the milking vessel, faith is the heat (fire) indeed. Truth is the gheeiajya}; for by truth 
have these worlds to be conquered. 

3. About that (then) Janaka, King of the Videha, thus asked Yajriavalkva, “Oh 
YajnavaJkya! Do you know Agnihotra (Fire-worship) t" “Oh Paramount Sovereign! 
I know", so he (Yajnavaikya) said indeed. “It is verily milk. For, if there had been 
no milk, with what would you have made the offering?” He (the king) said, “With 
rice (paddy) and barley (would 1 have offered)”, (Yajnavaikya asked), “If there 
were no rice and barley, with what would you have offered?" (The king replied), 
“With wild plants (herbs) ”. (Yajiiavalkva asked) “If the wild plants were not there, 
with what would you have offered?” (The king said), “With the fruits of trees". 
(Yajnavaikya asked) “If there were no fruits of trees, with what would you have 
offered?” (The king replied) “With water”. “If there were no water, with what 
would you have offered?" (Asked YSjnavalkya). (Yajiiavalkya said), “Oh Sovereign! 
there was nothing ahead. And yet this ( Agnihotra ) was verily offered. Truth (was 
offered) into faith”. 

4. He (Janaka of Videha) said verily, “Oh Yajnavaikya! Salutation to you. You 
know Agnihotra. I give you a thousand (cows)". About that, there is this verse, 
“Knowing what (to be the form of Agnihotra) does the Agnihotrin (constant 
performer of Agnihotra) stay away from his house? How is his wisdom (then) ? How 
is he constantly kept (in touch) by the fires?" “He who is swiftest in the worlds i in 
matters to be attended to), who lives away (for a time) for gain (for knowledge)— 
he is the knowledgeable person. Thatway then is his wisdom. Thus is he continuously 
kept up (in touch) by the fires”. That ultimately comes about only by means of the 
mind. When, having gone far away, he is inattentive (to his duty of performing 
Agnihotra) there, wherein is his offering poured, which offering the)' at home off er 
for him?” He who keeps awake in the worlds (and) who maintains all forms 
(beings) in him is his offering offered (and) in him (isoffered) the offering which 
they offer in his house. Thus they make this offering into the vital energy itself. 
Therefore do they indeed say, “prana (vital energy ) is itself verily Apu&otna* 
(Fourth Rrahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANAV 

1. As he reaches the fire that has to be piled up, he places this kindling stick. He 
puts this, the very brick itself. That, too, in the evening thus, (chanting) *1 place 



III. 1.8.2] 


TRANSLATION 


!-*r» 


you for (the attainment of) heaven, you who are Agni’s light, possessor of air and 
possessor of vital energy', conducive to heaven and possessor of brilliance"*, and 
(chanting) in the morning “1 place you, for (attaining) heaven—you the sun's 
light, possessor of air, possessor of vital energy (breath), conducive to heaven and 
possessor of brilliance". When he makes the offering into this, it is verilvjust as he 
would be making the offering in the piled up (fire-altar)*’. In the morning and 
evening he thus places seven hundred and twenty kindling sticks (saptav'miati 
sat am). “These many are the bricks of the fire of the piled up (altar)So say some. 
Verily these many are the days and nights of the year itself. The y ear indeed is 
Prajapati. Prajapati is surely the fire. Year after year, he gains the fire of the piled 
up (altar), so much world would one win year after year (even vear). (Fifth 
Brahman a Ends) 

BRAHMAN A VI 

1. As he obtains the great chant ( mahaduktha) , he makes this offering ( AgmkMm). 
Seven hundred and twenty (saptmnmsati satam) morning and evening offering he 
makes. What verily is the first (of the oblations), that indeed do we notice. The 
subsequent (offering) is what serves ‘ mistakri ' and (forms) a pair. Those 'nine- 
eighties’ which the Hotr recites (as sasira ), they are seven hundred and twenty. 
(They are seven-twenty hundreds (Sapta tani inmsati satani). Every year he obtains 
this great chant. Therefore, as one would conquer the world by the chant ( uktka) 
that is recited (as sastra), so much world does he conquer indeed in every year. 
(Sixth Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMAN A VII 

I. Now, how these fires are related to the soul (body) (of the sacrifice) (is thus): 
Ahavaniya is verily its mouth. The Garhapatya is the northern (left) nostril; the 
southern (right) (nostril) is the Anvakaryapamm (DaksinSgni). This (earth) itself 
is the ladle. For them, food itself is (their) brightness (splendour), He who knows 
it thus obtains full (span of) life. (Seventh Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANA VII! 

1. How he acquires the horse fit for sacrifice (is this). This one (sun) who burns 
is the sacrificial horse. This one, who is such, setting (as he sets) enters the very fire. 

2. When he (the sacrificer) offers in the evening, thereby he offers verily into its 
fore hoof prints. And when he offers in the morning, he offers verily into the hind 




m.i.9.1] 


1 RANSIATK )N 


247 

hoof prints. When the sacrificial horse moves out then are the oblations offered. 
He offers indeed four evening and morning offerings, for the sacrificial horse is 
four-footed. Thus does he obtain the horse worthy of sacrifice. Therefore, as one 
would conquer the world by having sacrificed with a sacrificial horse, so ranch 
world does one conquer by means of the evening and morning offerings. Thus 
indeed is there the obtainment of the horse-sacrifice in the Agnihotra. And in the 
new moon and full moon sacrifices too now 7 they seize and tie up (kill and offer) 
the sacrificial horse for the gods. 

3. About this they say, “It is the original Asvamedha (horse-sacrifice)". Really the 
other one is original (Asvamedha). This one viz., the moon is verily the sacrificial 
horse. This sacrificial horse does he thus tie up (kill) (in the sacrifice) in that he 
sacrifices with the full moon sacrifice. Having been seized and tied up, this (horse 
viz., the moon) moves on till the new moon sacrifice. Now, he (the sacrific er) makes 
the offering in every hoof-print of his in that he performs the Agmhnim offering. 
Verily offerings are made into every hoof-print (as even step) of the sacrificial 
horse. 

4. And now, when he sacrifices with the new' moon ritual, the moon enter s the 
sun. The sun, setting, enters the fire. This night, his (the sac rific ers) fires stay 
together. This sacrificial horse of this (sacrificer) stays (rolls) verily this night in 
the fires. When the sacrificial horse (rolls) stays then they sacrifice with an hp 
(ritual to fulfil a desire). 

5. When he sacrifices with the new moon ritual in the morning, he thus sacrifices 
at the very turning back of this (sacrificial horse idz., moon). Haring sacrificed with 
the new moon ritual he lets it off. Haring been left, it moves on till full moon. He 
offers (offering) verily at every hoof-print (step) of this (horse viz., moon) in that 
he makes the Agnihotra offering. For, offerings are offered at every step erf the 
sacrifical horse. Then, again at the full moon ritual they kill it He (the Agnihotrin) 
kills die sacrificial horse every month. Therefore, just as one would conquer the 
world, by having sacrificed with the sacrificial horse, so much world does he (the 
Agnihotrin) conquer every 7 month. (Eighth Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMAN AIX 

1. This one who burns (the sun) is indeed death. Hence, those creatures which 
are hitherward are mortal and those which are away (on the farther side) are 
immortal. These creatures are immortal. These creatures are tied up in their vital 
airs by means of the rays of this death, in this manner just as a horse would be 
fastened by the rein. 



IH. 1.9.5] 


TRANSLATION 


24« 


As the victorious king does not wish to acquire anything, in the same wav this 
(sun-death) does not wish for anything. He sets along with the life energy of that 
(creature) whose (life- energy 7 ) he likes and rises with the life energy of that 
(creative) whose (life energy ) he likes. This one (sun), setting, indeed enters Agni 
itself. 

2. When he makes the offering in the evening, he remains firm cm this (death) 
with his two fore-feet, along with that entire (good deed) which good deed he 
performs by day. And when he makes the offering in the morning, w hat good deed 
he performs at night with that in full hereniains (establishes himself) firmly on this 
(death ) with his two hind feet. Just as one would remain firm in a chariot or in any 
(other) vehicle that has four feet (wheels or props), verily in this manner does this 
(sacrificer) remain firm on this four-footed one. 

3. This one (sun-death) rises, haying taken him up. He purifies the soul of this 
person subsequently (with excellence). When he goes to the yonder world, then 
this (sun-death) rises, having taken up this person. This (his) self of the form of 
oblation and of the form of merit <arising out of good deeds) calls him up (saving) 

Com e-up! This is your self (soul)’. Because it calls up ( akvaxati) therefore, they 
are known as ahutis (ac costings).! hus they are ahuth (accostings) which thev call 
dhutis (oblations). From there on this side indeed are day and night. Indeed, day 
and nigh t, revolving, destroy the merit (of the good deed) of a person. Just as one 
riding in a chariot may look down at the two revohing wheels of the chariot, in this 
manner, indeed, he (the sacrificer) looks down at the revolving day and night. Day 
and night do not destory his merit (arising out of righteous deeds). He who knows 
this thus verily wins what is indestructible. 

4. Then, thus, the thing viz., Agnihotrals the head of the sacrifice. By what (path) 
the head of the arrow passes, by that itself the whole arrow passes. Therefore, by 
this {Agnihotra) verily the entire sacrifice passes (proceeds). By this ( Agnihotra) the 
whole sacrifice is freed (from destruction). 

5. He who offers the Agnihotra, this person ( sacrificer ) reaches the yonder world, 
as one who verily exclaims approval (pronounces SfgStrS) . Indeed, having made the 
offering in the evening, he is going to offer in the morning. Having offered in the 
morning, he is going to offer in the evening, (it is) thus that he is one who is not 
resolute (who has not pronounced approval). What is verily his first offering in the 
evening, that very thing is his evening offering. Therefore he offers it with a chant. 
Indeed what is a chant is true (dear). Verily true (clear) is what has occurred. Then 
this (offering) becomes a fact. And then that second (offering) which he offers, 
that very thing is his morning offering. Therefore he offers it silently. Verily 
unclear ( uncertain) is that which is (done) silently. Indeed, what is going to 
happen is not certain. Then, this (morning offering) is indeed futuristic. 



m.i.10.43 


TRANSLATION 


251 


6. In the same manner, what is his very first mor ning'ofFering in the morning is 
his morning offering. Therefore, he offers it with a chant. Indeed the thing viz., 
chant is clear (certain). Verily, certain is what has happened. This (first morning- 
offering) is indeed what has happened. And then, the second (offering) which he 
offers, that itself is his evening offering. Therefore he offers it silently. Verily 
unclear (uncertain) is that which is (done) silently. Indeed the future is uncertain. 
This (the second offering), then, is indeed futuristic. Thus these two offerings of 
this (Agnihotra) are offered in the evening and two in the morning. That way, he 
becomes one who has not pronounced agur, [exclamation of (final) land]. (Ninth 
Rrahmana Ends) 

BRAHMAN A X 

1. Prajapati indeed created the creatures. Then he created this Agni too. Having 
been created, that Agni decided to burn these creatures. He went about burning 
these creatures. These creatures, being burnt, resolved to extinguish and to crush 
him. 

2. Being extinguished, he (.Agni), said to man, “I (shall) enter you. Having 
reproduced such (asl have entered you), you (please) maintain me.Justasvou will, 
having reproduced me, maintain me, verily in that manner I shall, having 
reproduced you, maintain you in the yonder world”. (Man said), “So (be it)". 
(Agni) Entered him. Therefore, they say, “Every man is possessed of fire". Indeed 
Agni had entered man. Therefore only man (re) produces this (Agni) and no 
other animal (does). 

3. When he establishes the two fires, then, he produces this (Agni) and when he 
offers into this (Agni) and when he sacrifices, then he (Agnihotrin), having 
reproduced this (Agni) maintains (him). Thus Agni becomes the son of man. For 
he indeed is born from man. Hence, having established the two fires he (the 
Agnihotrin) should not remove them (from the hearth). As long as he (the 
Agnihotrin), has maintained them (here) and then removes them, so long verily 
does this (Agni) maintain him in the yonder world and then remove him, thinking 
“So long indeed did he maintain us". And he who maintains this (Agni) young, 
indeed as long as he (the Agnihotrin) lives, this (Agni), having reproduced hi m in 
the yonder world, maintains him young, verily as long as is the life-span of Agni. 
Agni’s life-span is infinite. He (the Agnihotrin) comes to be without ok! age and 
becomes immortal. 

4. When he reaches the yonder world he verily enters .Agni, Agni, having 
produced him there, maintains him . Then the man {Agnihotrin) becomes the son 


HI.1.11.5] 


TRANSLATION 


253 


> ndeed - For indeed is born from Agni. Therefore, having established 

removes dienTso^onx T* "T??' 6 thc ! T1 ‘ As lon g as hc mail1 tains them and then 

removes him (thinking “s'* , th " S (Ag , nl1 mainlains hint in the yonder world and 
removes him (thinking). So long indeed he has maintained us’. And he who 

mam ins is (Agni) indeed, young as long as he verilv lives —him does this 

(Agn„ reproduce in the yonder world and maintain him young, so long as i‘s the 

, e ^P an ° Ag ni - nfinite (immortal) is the life-span of Agni, indeed He (the 

^ds^otnn COmes to he without old age and becomes immortal. (Tenth Brah,liana 


BRAHMANAXI 

1. Having gone around in from (ahead) of the Ahavanm and behind the 
Garhapatya Hie goes and sits in between them. (The reason) whv he sits having 
gone up in between (the two fires) (is this): Gods do not indeed know the man (Jf 

Sr^hT * T r hiS ’- The> ' Verily k,K>whiin * h “ P**** between 
(them) thus This person belongs to us; we are his’. To him indeed does he fulfil 

that desire, foi the sake of which desire he sits in between. 

2. And (die reason) why he sits in between (the two fires) (is this): Indeed the 

fhe this r m “ not have thdr —<*• 

him. He becomes C f^efrom °r VeS *““ doesrcach <“»**> 

4o ?‘.^ d (treason) why he sits in between (thetwofires) (isthis): This thing viz., 
Agmhotra is indeed the ship that leads to heaven. Of this ship that would lead to 

heaven the offerer of milk (the Agnihotrin) himself is the helmsman. Thence he 
heboardTher Thereforc - is the boarding of that (ship) (done). Hence 

4. ff he should sit (after entering) from the .south, it would be indeed as a ship 
might leave for the other shore. And as he returns after the offering has been made, 
b> that he establishes himself m the world of heaven. This is indeed the gateway to 
t e heavenly world. In that he sits after having gone in between (the two fires), bv 
that he reaches the world of heaven. 

5. And, if he were to sit (entering) from the south, it would be as one would wish 
to reach it through the gate. And by (the fact) that he returns after the offering has 
been made, he remains established in the world of heaven. 



m.i.12.5} 


TRANSLATION 


255 


6. Agni hotra in deed is this Prajapati, the sacrifice. The sacrificer himself is the life- 
energy (prana) of this Prajapati, the sacrifice. As long verily as the sacrificer breathes 
with his life-energy, till then he makes the offerings. And when life departs, then 
it (the offering/ Agnihotm) is cut off. When he sits after reaching in between (the 
two fires), then becoming vital energy' he enters it. And when he returns after the 
offering has been made, then he returns verily after-having become uddna (the 
inward breathing). This person indeed desires ‘absence of affliction’ for this life 
(of the sacrificer). Thus, these gods desire freedom from affliction for this 
(sacrificer). He who knows this to be thus, does not fail in faculties; he indeed 
conquers fully (undiminishinglv). When he departs from this world, then these 
very' fires become his vital energies (breaths). What does not diminish is indeed 
immortal. He who knows this to be so, his merit becomes undiminished and he 
conquers indeed fully (undiminishinglv), (Eleventh Brahman a Ends) 

BRAHMANA XII 

1. Verily in the beginning here were the waters, a mere sea. They (the waters) 
desired, “How indeed shall we multiply' (be reproduced)?” They toiled, they 
performed austerities. Within them a golden egg came to be. At that time, ‘year’ 
had not been born (had not come to be computed). As long as was the time of the 
year, so long, this golden egg floated in these very waters. 

2. Within that came to be a ‘person’. He was Prajapati. When that person was 
born, then this egg broke into two. 

3. Then indeed he was bom. Therefore, verily in a year. a woman, a cow ora mare 
brings forth (its offspring). For, in a year indeed was Prajapati bom. Then the year 
was verily unborn. As much as is the time of the year, so long this (Prajapati) floated 
on these very waters, carrying these two covering parts (shells). 



m.i.12.9] 


TRANSLATION 


2 . 


M 


4. In a year, he desired to speak. He uttered, U bhuh* From that (utterance) he 
produced this world (earth). (He uttered) the second (word) * bhuvah * Thus (he 
produced) this aerial region. (He uttered) the third (word), ‘svaAZ Thereby (he 
produced) the yonder world of gods. Thus he produced these worlds. Having 
brought them forth, then he stood up in a year itself. He stands up in a year. In a 
year he (tries) wishes to speak. In a year he speaks. For, Prajapati did indeed do so. 

5. Prajapati, thus speaking first, uttered (word) of a single syllable and of two 
syllables. Therefore, this child that is bora, speaking first, speaks (word of) one 
syllable and two syllables. 

6. These are indeed five syllables. He made those seasons (of these syllables). 
Therefore, they, say, “Five (are) seasons", because he made these seasons. Indeed 
he (Prajapati) was bom for (to be of) a thousand (years of) life span. Just as one 
would see in the distance the (other) bank of the river, in this manner, indeed did 
he behold from a far the other end (shore) of his own life span. 

7. He produced praising (worshipping) and toiling, desirous of progeny. He 
placed within himself the power of reproduction. He desired to create. With his 
very' mouth he produced the gods. Those gods were produced on entering the skv. 
Because they were born on reaching the sky, therefore they came to be called Devas 
(gods). To Prajapati who had created the gods, it was like day time. Verily they are 
called Devas, since to him who created the gods, it was like day-time. (He created) 
the Asuras by means of the downward breathing. On reaching this very earth, did 
the Asuras were born. 

8. He said, “Ah! In these have I attained (fulfilment) Therefore they are known 
as ‘Asuras’. To Prajapati, indeed, who had created the Asuras, it was like darkness, 

9. Prajapati indeed observed, “I who have created these (Asuras) have really 
created evil”. Even then, he struck them with evil and made them be overcome. 
Therefore they say, “There is no such thing as concerning (a fight between) the 
gods and Asuras. For, this Prajapati, their father, even on having created them, 
made them be defeated. 




111.1.12.15} 


TRANSLATION 


259 


10. Therefore, too about this it has thus been said (repeated) by the Rsi ( Veda) 
Oh Indra! Growing (immense) with your body, what deeds of strength you 

performed, proclaiming among men, what they call your fights. That is verily 
(supernatural) illusion. Neither now nor formerly did you indeed find (wish to 
find) a foe . Having just created them (the Asuras), their father, Prajapati made 
them be defeated”. And then, he created these creatures only bv procreation— 
these creatures, which are bom by procreation. Therefore, these creatures are 
verily born by procreation. 

11. He indeed said, “Alas! It is as if they have robbed me of my mind. Therefore 
they came to be called Manusyas (men). Thus Prajapati created these creatures. 
What was to him who had created the gods as day that he made the day-time. And 
what was like darkness to him who had created the Asuras, that he made into night. 
Thus he created both, day and night. 

12. He, Prajapati, observed, “I have approached all this by stealth, I who have 
created these gods”. Therefore, it came to be known as Sarvatsara (stealer of all). 
It is indeed Sarvatsara that they call Samvatsara. He the evil (person) who 
stealthily approahces this (sacrifices:) with his magic, he himself is defeated. He 
who knows that the Sarvatsara nature of Samvatsara verily overcomes him whom he 
stealthily approaches and whom he wishes to strike down. 

13. He, Prajapati, observed, “I have created this replica of myself, vk, 5 the year’’’. 
Therefore it is said “The year is Prajapati’’. The (word) ‘Samvatsara’ is four- 
syllabled. The (word) ‘Prajapati’ is four syllabled. Thereby, verily, it is his replica. 

14. These gods were indeed created; Agni* Indra, Soma, Paramesthin-Prajapatya. 
They were bom to live a life span of a thousand (years) . Just as they might see the 
distant (other) bank of the river, verily thus did they’ see the shore (end) of their 
own life-span. 

15. They proceeded, praising (worshipping) and toiling. Then Paramefthin- 
Frajapatya discovered this sacrifice, m, the new moon and full moon rituals. He 
sacrificed with them. Having sacrificed with them; he desired, “May I myself be all 
this (here)! ” He became the waters. Therefore they sav, “All this is very waters”. For, 
he (Prajapati) became everything. And now (the reason) why he is called 
Paramesthin (is this) . He who may dig here (in this earth) will find these (waters) 
only in the ultimate place (farthest down). It is from the farthest place (the sky) that 
it rains. Therefore he is called Paramesthin. 



III.1.12.21] 


translation 


261 


16. He said to Prajapati, indeed, “I have discovered a sacrifice that will fulfil 
desires. Let me make you perform that”. (Prajapati said), “So (be it) ". Paramesthin 
ma e him perform the sacrifice with that. Having performed this sacrifice, 
Prajapati desired, May I myself be all this!” He became prana (the vital air). 
Therefoie, they say, All this is verily vital energy, for he (Prajapati) became, 
indeed, everything . This one is indeed prana (vital energy, breath), the one which 
blows (purifies), When one knows this (Prajapati -prana) as “Here it blows", that is 
t e sight (eve) of this Prajapati), That becomes indirect (invisible) as it were. “What 
one really breathes, that is prana (vital breath) ”. He who knows this to be the eve 
(vision) of Prajapati, he verily appears (directly visible) as it were, 

17. He said to Indra, “I shall make you sacrifice with that sacrifice with which this 
Paramesthin made me perform". (Indra said) “So (be it}". With that (sacrifice) 
(Prajapati) made him perform the sacrifice. Indra, having sacrificed with that, 
desired, May I myself be all this (here)!” He became speech. Therefore they sav 

Indra is speech . Therefore they say, “All this is verilv speech. For, he (Indra) 
became everything”. 

18. He said to Agni and Soma, “Let me make you sacrifice with that sacrifice with 
which Prajapati made me perform”. Agni and Soma said, “So (be it)!” He made 
them sacrifice with that. Those two, Agni and Soma, having sacrificed with this 
desired, “May we two oursleves be all this (here)!” Of the two one became verily the 
food and the other the consumer of food. Soma indeed became food and Agni the 
cater of food. So much (about) food and the eater of food. 

19. This is the wish-fulfilling sacrifice. Therefore, with what desire, indeed, these 
deities performed this sacrifice that desire was fulfilled for them . With what desire, 
verily, one performs this sacrifice, that desire is fulfilled for him. 

20. To those gods who had sacrificed, this eastern quarter appeared (was to their 
liking). They made it the front quarter. Therefore this is called ‘the eastern 
Quarter’ (The quarter that is in front). Thinking “May we help this (quarter) 
here! ( May we bring this here, near!") (“May we resorting to this quarter perform 
further rituals from here!)". They made it into ‘nourishment’. Indeed they made 
the eastern quarter nourishment 1 . Therefore Is it that these creatures move verily 
eastward (forward), thinking, “May we see this nourishment (vigour)!” They (the 
gods) made the yonder world of gods. Therefore, they (the creatures) subsist on 
the nourishment (rain) that comes down from yonder (sky). 

21. Then to them appeared this southern quarter to these (gods). (It was 
pleasing to them). They made itthe (sacrificial) fee. Hence, nearby at die south do 



III.1J2.271 


TRANSLATION 


263 


the (sacrificial) fees (the cows) not stand by? From the south they move towards 
(the priests). This indeed they made the south (the fee). (They thought), “Mavwe 
help this (quarter) here! “May we (resorting to this quarter) perform (further 
rituals from here!)'’ (“May we bring this here, nearby!"). They made that world 
(with the thought ) Let us look at this world”. They made this aerial (mid ) region. 
When they say about it, “The yonder world is invisible, as it were”, it is because they 
think of that worid as unsupported and uncontrolled from this world. 

Just as this world (the earth) is visible, as it were, and seems a firm resting place 
here m this world, in die same way, this world (the aerial region) is like a firm 
resting place and is as if visible ( manifest) in the yonder world. 

22. Then, this western quarter appeared to them (was to their liking). They 
made it into Hope . They indeed made this quarter into 'Hope*. Therefore, 
whoever here obtains (his object) first (by the first quarter, the east ) gets (back) 
to this very quarter (west), (They thought), “Let us bring this here, near”. [“May 
we (reaching) here perform (further rituals)!. They mack* it into ‘prosperity-’. 
(Thinking), “May we see this prosperity! "They’made this earth. They verily made 
this (earth) into ‘prosperity'. Therefore he who obtains most of this (earth) he gets 
greatest prosperity- (the best position). 

23. Then this northern quarter appeared (was pleasing) to them. They made it 
into ‘waters’. Thinking, “May we bring this here, near!” “May we perform here 
(further rituals) , they made it into Dharma (maintaining agency’ of ‘Law’). 
Therefore, when waters arrive here (from the sky) (i.e. when it rains), then 
(everything) is according to ‘Law’. And when the waters do not arrive (when it 
does not rain, when there is drought), the stronger person takes on (overcomes) 
the weaker ones. The Law does not come (operate) here then. 

24. Indeed these eleven deities were created. Eleven verily are these offerings—* 
five foreofferings, two gfoeportions, three after-offerings and the Svistakrt. Bv 
means of these eleven offerings the gods conquered these quarters and these 
worlds. In that manner, indeed, this (sacrificer) conquers these quarters and these 
worlds by- means of these eleven offerings. 

25. Now, the ida. The gods won food itself by this, lit that manner, indeed, this 
(sacrificer) wins the very- food by means of this (ida). 

26. Now, there are four ‘ Patmsamjajas . Indeed four are the intermediate 
quarters. The gods verily conquered the intermediate quarters by means of these. 
Similarly this (sacrificer) indeed conouers the verv in termed bspnuartmKvm^anc 








III. 1.12.29] 


TRANSLATION 


26S 


is the main male organ. Therefore one most offer it without taking breath 
{continuously, without a pause)—thus his organ remains unhurt"—so they say. 
But then one may verily breathe once. Then, if he should offer without breathing, 
it would stand erect or hang down if he should breathe once only. One indeed is 
its joint. Thus he puts verily that into this. Therefore this stands upward and also 
hangs down. 

28. This breath which (acts) is downward, is this Svistakrt , when he cuts up for 
Svistakrl of (each of) what has (already’) been cut up, thereby whatever reaches 
these vital energies verily reaches this vital breath. And (the reason) why he offers 
this offering apart from the other offerings is that thereby these vital breaths shrink 
from this vital breath. Now (about) the ‘ida -— This is, indeed, the indistinct vital 
energy’. (The reason) Why he does not offer this offering, into the fire, (though) 
it is an offering, is that this is offered into the vital energies.Therefore, (while) this 
is a vital energy’, it is not discarded. 

29. Now, the four Patnisamyajas, are these firm bases viz,, the two arms and the 
two thighs. The prayers of offering and the prayersof invitation are the bones. The 
oblation is itself the flesh. The things viz,, the offering pravers and prayers of 
imitation are these measured (limited) metres indeed. Now, the very limitless 
oblation becomes just a little or (becomes) much; therefore the very flesh of a 
person who becomes emaciated becomes thin and the flesh of a person who 
becomes fat swells up. Verily of what measure (how much or how many) are the 
bones of a strong (fat) person, so (of that measure) are they also of a lean person. 
He sacrifices to that deity’ whom he likes, with this sacrifice. He does not take away 
(omit) even a single offering from these (offerings). If he were to take away (omit) 
even a single offering, it would be just as if he would tear away a limb or strike down 
(drive away) the vital energy, (Of other oblations), he either brings in (another) 
oblation or takes away (omit) an oblation . A person has sixteen parts. The sacrifice 
is a ‘person’. Therefore these sixteen offerings are fixed, For the sacrifice is a 
‘person’. (Twelfth Brahmana Ends) 


(Chapter One Ends) 



HI. 2.1.8] 


translation 


as: 


Chapter Two 


BRAHMANAI 

1. Now, when they thus perform this sacrifice (elaborately), they kill it indeed. 
WTien they press the King (Soma) (for extraction of juice), then they kill him. And 
when they kill the sacrificial animal and when they cut. it up, they kill it. They kill 
the Haviryajna (sacrifice with offerings of grain-preparations) with mortar and 
pestle and the two millstones. Having thus killed it (the sacrifice), he pours it that 
has become the seed into the womb uA, Agni, for Agni is the source of the sacrifice. 
It is born from it (Agni). 

2. He should make those ten oblations for which Vasat is uttered. Indeed this 
which blows (purifies) (the wind) is the sacrifice. It blows as if it were verily one. 
Haying entered into man (a person) it is made into ten (parts). Thus with the vital 
energies thus arranged, it is born from its source, Agni. It is verily Virat of ten 
syllables. It is verily perfection (prosperity'). It is verily the sacrifice 

3. Now, there may be nine (oblations). Thus he makes the Ymlt defective (less) 
for the sake of its birth. Indeed these creatures are bom from the lesser (lower) 
(part). This is indeed perfection (prosperity'), indeed the sacrifice. 

4. And, also it may be excessive by one (oblation). It is excessive verily with regard 
to Prajapati. This is indeed perfection, verily the sacrifice. 

5. And also there may be two additional (oblations). A pair is a productive 
couple. This is indeed perfection, verily the sacrifice. 

6. And also there may be three (oblations) in excess. A pair is a productive 
couple. What is born is the third. This is verily perfection (prosperity'), indeed the 
sacrifice. 

7. And also there may be four (oblations) in excess. As is one so are four. These 
worlds are three. The fourth passes beyond Prajapati himself. It verily surpasses 
Prajapati. This is verily perfection (prosperity), indeed the sacrifice. What is 
deficient by two (oblations) is indeed defective. What is excessive, by five (obla¬ 
tions) is verily excessive. Verily thus is the perfection of oblations in tens (ten 
oblations), from twenty upto a thousand. 

8. Those who sacrifice with the new moon and full moon rituals verily run a 
race. One should perform that sacrifice for fifteen years. Of the fifteen years, there 
are three hundred and sixty' full moons and three hundred and sixty new moons. 



III.2.2.3] 


TRANSLATION 


2 m 


The nights of the year are verily three hundred and sixty. He thus gains tire nights. 
And then he should perform the sacrifice for another fifteen years. Of the fifteen 
years there are three hundred and sixty full moons and new moons. Three 
hundred and sixty verily are the days of a year. Thus he obtains the days. When 
he sacrifices for thirty years, then he obtains the year. When the gods obtained the 
year, then they became immortal. Before then they were indeed mortal. The year 
is ‘all’. ‘Alf is undiminishing (indestructible). Thereby his merit (of good deeds) 
verily becomes indestructible for him who, knowing thus, sacrifices for thirty years. 
One who has performed the Ddksayana sacrifice, sacrifices for only fifteen years. 
That perfection (prosperity’) is verily in this, for he performs two full moon 
sacrifices and two new 7 moon sacrifices. (First Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA II 

1. After having sacrificed with the full moon ritual, he offers to India, the 
destroyer of enemies. They proceed with it as with an fcti (ritual performed for the 
fulfilment of a desire). After having sacrificed with the new moon ritual, he of fers 
a cam (sacrificial food) to Aditi. They proceed with it as with an hti. 

2. The reason why he offers indeed to Indra, the destroyer of enemies, after 
having sacrificed with the full moon ritual is (that) Indra is verily the deity of the 
sacrifice. This oblation of the full moon ritual certainty belongs to Agni and Soma. 
In this nothing is done as ‘for Indra’. By that this oblation of this (full moon ritual ) 
comes to be (united) with Indra and the sacrifice (comes tote united) with Indra. 
.And why (he offers) to the destroyer of enemies ( Vtmrdh) ) is (that), Indradestrovs 
the enemies by means of the full moon ritual. Therefore (is it offered) to the 
destroyer of enemies. 

3. Now, (the reason) why he offers a cam (boiled rice or barley) to Aditi, after 
having performed the new moon sacrifice is (that) this one viz ., the moon is King 
Soma and is the food of the gods. This (new moon) night, he has not been in front 
(in the east) nor behind (in the west) Therefore the oblation to him as if unsecured 
and as if not firmly established. This (earth) is indeed Aditi. She is certain and she 
is well established. By this, then, the oblation to him (to the .moon) thus becomes 
certain; it becomes well established by this. Therefore, after having sacrificed with 
the new moon ritual, he offers a cam for Aditi. This is indeed as to why he should 
offer (an oblation) after and as to why he should not offer afterwards. 



III.2.3.1] 


TRANSLATION 


271 


4. Now, when after having sacrificed with the full moon ritual, he subsequently 
offers to Indra the destroyer of enemies, (he does so) thinking, “May my oblation 
be united with Indra!” Whatever sacrifice is performed, it verily belongs to Indra. 
Therefore it is indeed (united) with Indra. Therefore one need not favour (that 
practice of offering an additional oblation to Indra). 

5. Now, when after having sacrificed with the new moon ritual, he subsequently 
offers a cam (cooked rice etc.) for Aditi, the very new moon sacrifice is a 
subsequent offering. Verily Indra killed Vrtra by means of the full moon sacrifice. 
To him did they (the gods) prepare this filling up (replenishment). Why then 
should one make a subsequent offering in the matter of an (already) additional 
(subsequent) offering? Therefore one need not favour (that practice of offering 
an additional oblation to Aditi). 

6. Now, he who, after having sacrificed with the full moon ritual prepares (and 
offers) some other offering and after having sacrificed with the new' moon ritual 
prepared (and offers) some other offering,—he verily raises (makes powerful) his 
hateful enemy, makes him march against (himself) . 

7. And, he who sacrifices at the full moon with the full moon sacrifice itself and 
at the new moon with the new moon sacrifice,— he quickly dispels evil and quickly 
is born. The gods, sacrificing indeed at the full moon with the full moon sacrifice 
and at the new moon with the new moon sacrifice quickly drove away evil and 
quickly were reproduced (were born). He who, knowing thus, sacrifices at full 
moon with the full moon sacrifice itself and at new moon with the new moon 
sacrifice—he quickly dispels evil and quickly is born. This indeed is why he should 
not make a subsequent offering. But if he should offer a subsequent offering, he 
should give a (sacrificial) fee. This is the (sacrificial) fee for the new moon and full 
moon sacrifices viz ., Anvakarya (cooked rice etc. given to priests). “The oblation 
should not be without a fee” so indeed they say. Therefore, if he should make a 
subsequent offering, he must present a (sacrificial)fee. (Second Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANA ill 

1. (On the matter of the new moon and full moon sacrifices) some people do 
take up fasting after having seen (the moon on the fourteenth day of the dark fort¬ 
night), (thinking) “Tomorrow it (the moon) may not rise” or on account of the 
cloud they do not know (the tithi) definitely. And then (the moon) rises over 
(towards) him.Then, if he (the moon) should rise when the (material for) oblation 
has not been taken out, then surely' it is well-known that the same (usual) ceremon¬ 
ial observance of restraints would (obtain ). They would unite (gather) the calves 
(with their mothers). In the afternoon they would drive away the calves with a leafy 



I3I.2.4.2] 


TRANSLATION 


273 


branch (a twig of Palasa). Then this sour milk (curd) from the milk of the previous 
day will be the coagulating agent for the sacrificial food, in its entirety. It is certainly 
well-known. If he may not wish for observance of the vow or (the moon) may rise 
over the (material for) oblation already taken up, then he should do otherwise. 

2. He should separate the rice grains into two, (grouping) together those that 
are smallest (small) and (putting) together those that are biggest (big). Then, 
those that are smallest (small), then they should cook into (purodasa) sacrificial 
cake on eight potsherds for Agni the bestower. And this thing viz. , curds (made of) 
milk of the previous day—should be for Indra the great bestower. And t hen these 
rice grains that are thickest (thick)—them they should cook as cam in boiled milk 
for Visnu Sipivista , ‘the defective one’. Whether they put rice grains (into milk etc.), 
all that is indeed caru. 

3. (The reason) why he sacrifices, thus, with this is that this thing viz, the moon 
is verily King Soma, the food of the gods. Now he (the sacrificer) has wished to 
secure but has missed him. Only Agni the giver gives it to him (the sacrifice) and 
Indra the bestower bestows it (on him). Thus his sacrifice becomes bestowed by 
Indra and Agni. And then, (the reason) why (it is offered) to Visnu Sipivista is that 
indeed, the sacrifice is Visnu the pervader of all living beings. That he desired to 
acquire it and missed it is like what has moved (out of place), (what is defective). 
Therefore it (the oblation) is “for Sipivista (the defective one)". With that they 
proceed as with an Isti ritual. In that one should give (as fee) what he could afford. 
Therefore, only after having seen the moon, then itself should one undertake the 
fast. (Third Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMAN AIV 

1. He (the Hotr) recites these eleven kindling chants. Indeed the person (man) 
is the eleventh, (man has eleven factors). There are the ten vital faculties and the 
mind is the eleventh. Thus he verily generates this (sacrificer) (Purusa) . And the 
loud recitation (of prayer, command etc.) beyond this, that itself is the firm 
establishment of this (Purusa). Thus he establishes this (sacrificer - Purusa ) by 
means of that. Then (he chants), “May Agni the Hotr accept Agni's function of the 
Hotr”. Those are the nine (holy ) utterances. Indeed nine are the vital faculties in 
man (person). Thus he verily generates him thus. His establishment (firm base) 
are indeed the ‘calf and the response’. And now, as in former creation, in that 
manner does he now create this (person). The Tatnlsamyapis’ are his firm basis. 

2. Man is verily born thrice. It is his one (first) birth that he is of his mother and 
father. This very world (earth) is his firm basis (resting place). And then when he 
is born from the sacrifice, then is he verily born thus. The aerial region is itself his 



I1I.2.5.3] 


TRANSLATION 


, i i'l 


firm base. And then, when they place him yonder in fire, then he is born from the 
source viz., Agni. The world of Heaven is itself his firm resting place. He who knows 
this to be thus is born (in) all the three births. He who attains the supreme position 
is bom (in) all these births. 

3. About that they say, “These verses (prayers) of invitation are the kindling 
verses and the offering verses”. He may say, “The prayer for invitation (may be 
pronounced) ’’“What is the oblation for them and what is the offering prayer?” 
(They are) “Two sprinkling (offerings) of ghee , the five fore-offerings, the three 
after-offerings, ida and prastava (the spread bunch of holy grass); when formerly 
having offered into the fire the enclosing sticks he takes up the two {sink) spoons 
and when formerly having performed Patnlmmyajas he takes hold of the sink and 
sruva (spoons), and Samistayajus. For these oblations, these are the prayers of 
invitation. That oblation indeed is prosperous which has a prayer of invitation. 
That prayer of invitation is prosperous (successful) which has an offering formula. 
Thus these his prayer ofinvitation become possessed of‘offering prayers’. Th us the 
offering prayers have the prayers of invitation. Thus both (anuvakym and yajya .%) 
these of his become enriched, (Fourth Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANAV 

1. In the beginning, this (universe) was verily Brahman (the Big /Cosmic Abso¬ 
lute) . It desired, “How shall I indeed be born ? (How shall I reproduce myself?} 
Then, it wandered about, then performed austerities and then created the deities. 
Having created those deities, it made them ascend to their respective worlds; (it 
put) Agni himself in this world (earth), this one which blows (the winch in the mid- 
region and the sun in the sky itself and those other deities in those other worlds 
which are above it. Thus, just (as are) these deities in these worlds, in the same 
manner those deities (are) in those worlds. Thus Brahman went round to the 
utmost limit. Therefore, whoever knows this whosoever does not, then say (about 
him), “Brahman is above it (it has Brahman above it) 

2. Then, it (Brahman), observed, “How indeed can I descend towards these 
worlds? By what means can I make them continuous.' It came down (to these 
worlds) by means of these two, by name and by form. So much indeed is this name 
and the form. That to which there is a name is of that ‘name . That to which in deed 
there is a name has a ‘form’. Of the two, one viz ., form is better. That which has a 
name and that to which there is a form, both indeed are ‘forms . He who knows thus 
and who wishes to become greater than a (particular) person verily becomes 
greater than him. 

3. These two (name and form) are the two great powers (forms) of Brahman. He 
who knows these two great powers that belong to Brahman surely secures great 



m.2.6.2] 


TRANSLATION 


power. These tvv’o are the great secrets (mysteries) (worshippable forms) of 
Brahman. He who knows these two great secrets (adorable forms) of Brahman 
attains surely great adoration. When he attains supremacy, then they say, “He has 
certainly acquired great power, great worship”. When the gods obtained these two 
things of Brahman, then they became immortal. Before then, they had indeed 
been mortal. Verily the mind is ‘form’. For one understands form bv the mind as, 
“This form, this is form”. He first pours the offering of ghee for the mind indeed. 
Thereby he obtains ‘form’. Verily speech is ‘name’. For, one verily utters name by 
speech. He pours the subsequent offering of ghee indeed for ‘speech’. Thereby he 
obtains ‘name’. Those gods won immortality after having these two things (form 
and name) of Brahman. They won (residence in) the same world as Brahman. He 
who thus obtains these two things of Brahman, he verily attains the full life-span in 
this world and wins in the yonder world undwindling immortality and wins 
(residence in) the same world of gods and of Brahman. (Fifth Brahman a Ends) 

BRAHMANA VI 

1. He recites a formula of imitation, a Gayatri of three feet. Indeed these worlds 
are three. Thus he verily establishes these worlds. The offering prayer is Tristuhha 
of four feet. For, cattle are quadrupeds. Thus he establishes cattle (animals), after 
these worlds have (first) been established. There is the utterance of ‘Vasaf of the 
two syllables. The sacrificer is a biped. When the cattle have thus been established, 
he establishes the sacrificer. Verily, these worlds remain firm for the sake of this 
(sacrificer) and the cattle (remain firm) for (the sacrifice); who knows thus (with 
his mind) by himself. 

2. That (former) one is the prayer of invitation, that one is the offering prayer 
and this verily is the Vasatkara which is this one (sun) that bums. This (sun) is 
indeed death. Therefore, those creatures which are on this side from there are 
mortal. And those which are beyond (away from it, on the other side) are immortal 
What sacrifice they thus consecrate, they'verily sacrifice this body of the sacrificer, 
(the body) oftheform of oblations and of the form of merits (of good deeds). (The 
reason) why he makes the offering when Vasalhzs been pronounced is that he thus 
establishes in this sound Vasal the sacrificer’s body which is of the form of oblations 
and of the form of merits (of good deeds). 



111,2.7.3} 


TRANSLATION 


279 


3. This (sun) rises, having taken him up. He consecrates this soul of this 
(sacrificer), high above (beyond) when he (the sacrificer) reaches the yonder 
world. Then this one rises, having taken him up. This body of the form of oblations 
and of the form of merits invites him, (saying), “Come! This is your body” “As it 
invites, therefore are they' known as ahutis. What they say are ahutis , are really 
ahutis ”, so they say. From here indeed day and night are on this side (below). Day 
and night do not destroy his unperishable merit (of good deeds); he verily 
conquers. (Sixth Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMAN A VII 

1. The gods and the Asuras, both offsprings of Prajapati, contended. They con¬ 
tended with regard to this very sacrifice (which is) Prajapati (thinking), “This 
should be ours. May this be ours!" Then the Asuras with arrogance (thought) 
“Wherein shall we offer?" They went on offering into their own mouths. Offering 
that way, they were vanquished. They (people) say, “Therefore, one should not be 
arrogant at all". This thing viz., arrogance is the mouth (entry) of defeat. 

2. Then, the gods were indeed without arrogance. They proceeded offering into 
each other. Prajapati bestowed himself upon them who were thus offering (into 
each other). Verily Prajapati is the sacrifice. He became their food. The sacrifice 
is indeed the food of the gods. 

3. Having got up a sacrifice of that measure, as much as was his measure and as 
much as he himself was, Prajapati handed it over to the gods. By that he redeemed 
himself. He redeemed himself by the sacrificial dish itself, the sacrificial dish (he 
redeemed) bv the formula of invitation, the formula of imitation by the offering 
prayer, the offering prayer by the utterance of Vasal and the Vasalkara by the 
oblation. This oblation of his alone was unredeemed. And all else had been 
redeemed. That, (oblation) of his there was like the broken top of a tree or of a 
bamboo. He brought it back (redeemed it) by means of the anvaharya (the mass 
of rice for the priests). That is known as anvakatya because he brought it 
(redeemed it) back. Then be became entire and full-bodied (all-bodied). 



m.2.8.3] 


TRANSLATION 


281 


4. That way, indeed, this person (the sacrificer) becoming the oblation gives 
himself up to the gods this night of fasting. Therefore, they should guard him and 
keep him well-protected this night just as they would protect the oblation. Thus he 
verily redeems himself by means of the sacrificial dish itself; the sacrificial food (he 
redeems) by means of the prayer of invitation; the p raver of invitation by means of 
the offering prayer, the offering prayer by means of the utterance of Vasal and the 
Vasatkara by means of the oblation. That oblation of his alone remains unre¬ 
deemed. And all else has been redeemed. Thus, then, this (sac rificial ri tual) of his 
becomes as if the top of a tree or of a bamboo has been broken off. lie restores it 
by means of the anvaharya (rice food for the priests). Since he brings it back 
(anvdharati ), therefore is it known as ‘ anvaharya'. He who knows this to be thus 
becomes entire and full-bodied (all bodied) and he secures the full life-span in this 
world; he is born in the yonder world entire and full-bodied (all bodied); he wins 
intimate association with and (residence in) the same world as Prajapati. (Seventh 
Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANA VIII 

1. The gods, having attained by means of the sacrifice this victory, which victory 
is theirs, said, "Ah! Now let us conduct this in such a manner that it may he 
unattainable for men". Having thoroughly sucked the essence of the sacrifice and 
having exhausted it just as bees would drink up {the honev) completely and having 
concealed it with the sacrificial post, they disappeared. 

2. It verily came to be heard by the Rsis. (Thinking), "Having attained by means 
of the sacrifice a conquest, which conquest is theirs, and having emptied the 
sacrifice and having covered it up with the sacrificial post, the gods have verily 
disappeared. Let us seek it". They proceeded, praising and toiling, for, the gods 
conquered by toil indeed w hat was conquerable for them and ( m did) t he Rsis too. 

3. These Gandhatvas mrpa (winnowing basket), yavamat (possessor of foariev), 
dhana (fried corn), aniawata (one having something within), krsi (agriculture), 
snlhald (she who has the tail up) came neat those Rsis who were performing the 
sacrifice (and sat near them). What indeed they (the Rsis) performed in excess* 
that they (the Gandharvas) observed, "This is excessive; what became deficient, 
that they observed" —what was not complete, that (became) complete. 



III. 2.0.1] 


TRANSLATION 


4. When the sacrifice was completed, they (Gandharvas) said. “You have 
performed the sacrifice with excess and deficiency". They (Rsis) said, "Do show us 
that . 1 hey showed them that—what was excessive, that was indeed like mountains, 
like deserts. What was deficient, that was verily like a chasm, crevices, cavities. 

а. Flie) (Rsis) said, You have verily shown us this. Please do tell us the expiation 
for this . They (Gandharvas) said these vyahrfis (mystic syllables that are uttered) 
to them. He (the sacrificed when the sacrifice has ended,holds his palms together 
with the purnapatra (vessel full of water) within the sacrificial ground, (chanting) 

Oh sacrifice! (May) Welfare (completeness) and proximity (to success) be to 
you! What is excessive, that he sets right by tittering ‘Sam \ By chanting "proximate 
to you, too", he sets right ( puts together) what is deficient. (He chants), “Abide in 
my w elfare . Thus he makes this (sacrifice) auspicious and powerful, (He chants), 
"Abide in my security (absence of hurt)". Thus he makes this (sacrifice) secure 
(free from harm). (He chants), “Abide in my ‘right offering'. Thus he makes this 
(sacrifice), ‘Properly offered”. Thus this sacrifice of his comes to be without excess 
and without deficiency (and becomes) full and enriched (prosperous). 

б, About that they say, “Certainly there is no deficiency (decline) for the 
sacrifice; for, all sacrifice is prosperous (successful)". What is.deficient in the 
sacrifice, therefrom does he (the sacrifice!) originate, what is non-fullness (ab¬ 
sence of prosperity) by means of that he conquers that world of the gods. And what 
is excessive, thereby his food itself becomes abundant, thus verily his good food 
increases. Thus his sacrifice becomes Full and prosperous without being excessive 
or deficient. (Eighth Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMAN AIX 

1. This sun indeed is Daria (now moon day) (The thing that is seen). For this 
one is verily seen every day. The moon itself is the ‘full moon'; for, following the 
filling up of this (moon) it is called full moon day (or night); and also they sav 
otherwise, “The sun itself is the full moon. For, this one is indeed full even day. The 
moon itself is the Darsa. For, there arises (subsequently ) the appearance of this 
(moon ) ”, Differen t from this, ( they say) “The day-time itself is (term. For, this day, 
indeed is seen as it were. The night itself is the full moon; for. all this, is filled up 
by night. The yonder sky itself is Daria, for this verily is seen. This (earth) itself is 
the ‘full moon’. All this is indeed filled by this (earth). So is it with regard to the 
gods (in the matter of new moon and full moon). 



III.2.9.6] 


TRANSLATION 


m*. 


2. Now, with reference to the body; the vital energy (breath) itself is Harm. 
Indeed this out-breathing is perceived as it were. The upward (inward) breathing 
itself is the full moon; for all this (body) is filled by the inward breath. These two 
deities are (the one) consumer of food and (the other one) the giver of food. The 
outward breath itself is the taker (consumer) of food. Indeed, the food is eaten up 
by the outward breath. The upward (inward) breath is the bestower of food. For. 
food is delivered by the inward (upward) breath. He who knows these two deities 
to be the taker of food and the bestower of food becomes verily the consumer of 
food. To him indeed is food given (abundantly). 

3. That he eats that previous day (the day of fasting) what is suitable for his 
approach to the vow, by that he thus propitiates those very Dana and Purnamam 
(new moon and full moon) which are indeed related to his body. His eye itself is 
Darsa (the new moon); for it is this eye that is seen, as it were. The ear itself is the 
full moon. Indeed, all this is filled with the ear. Speech, verily, is Dana. Indeed, this 
speech is perceived, as it were. The mind is itself the full moon; for all this is filled 
by the mind indeed. 

4. About that they say, When they say “He performs the sacrifices Daria and 
Purnamasa, they do not say on the full moon day (ritual) ‘Make the call of imitation 
for the full moon 1 . ‘Say the offering prayer to the full moon'. And they do n ot sa\ 
on the new moon day ‘Make the call for the new moon 1 ‘Recite the offering prayer 
for the new moon 1 . How then do the new moon and full moon sacrifices that have 
been performed become satisfied (propitiated) ?“. Howthev, of this (sacrificer), 
are performed is thus—The mind, indeed, is the full moon. Verily all this is filled 
by the mind. First he pours the g/we-oblation for the mind. By that he pleases the 
full moon. Verily speech is Dana (the new moon). For, this speech is perceived as 
it were. It is for speech that he pours the subsequent gfav-lihation. By that he pleases 
the new moon. Thus are his Daria and Pumamasa sacrifices performed and then 
become pleased. 

5. In that matter, some prepare these two offerings, (one) on full moon day 
indeed for &zra.««r/and (one) on new moon day for Sanmmtl, saying “The mind is 
Sarasvat and speech is Sarasvatl Thus we satisfy both these visibly (directly ) with 
oblation”. But one need not do so. When there are these two ghee portions, there 
itself does he please these two (new moon and full moon) directly with oblation. 
Therefore there need be only the two ghee- portions. 

6. This (sacrificer) who sacrifices with the two Dariapuma (sacrifices) is an 
agurtin (one who makes a vow to commence something) and he reaches thevonder 
world (heaven). Indeed having sacrificed with the full moon ritual, he becomes 
one who is going to sacrifice with the new moon ritual. Having sacrificed with the 
new moon ritual, he becomes one who is going to sacrifice with the full moon 



III.2.10.53 


TRANSLATION 


2S7 


ritual. Then, so that he does not (merely) become an agurlin lie completes both 
verily in one and both verily in one (the other). If he prepares these two oblations 
he would be (merely) an dgurtin. Therefore there should be merely two ghee 
portions. (Ninth Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMAN A X 

1. What are the Pramtas (the waters ceremoniously brought) are the head, 
indeed, of the sacrifice. When he takes forward the Pmnitaw aters, then (therein ) 
he verily moulds the head of the sacrifice. He should understand, "Thus the verv 
head of my sacrifice is moulded”. 

2. The fuel indeed is its breath (vital energy); for, all this that has life, that winks 
and that moves is kindled verily by prana (breath/vital energy). He {the sac rificer) 
should understand, “I am myself this fuel”. 

3. The kindling verses themselves are its back-bone. Therefore he should sav 
(about) them (to the Hotr), “Recite, for my sake, making (them) continuous as it 
were”. Indeed this spine, is continuous, as it were. The two ghee libations are its 
mind and speech, Sarasvat and Sarasvatl He should understand, “The two ghee 
pourings are my mind and speech, Sarasvat and SarasvatV. 

4 . These five fore-offerings are the very five faculties (vital energies) situated in 
the head of this (sacrifice). The first fore-offering itself is its mouth, the second 
(fore-offering) is the right nostril, the third is the left nostril the fourth is the right 
ear and the fifth is the left ear. At the fourth fore-offering he pours together (the 
ghee ). Therefore the ear is verily pierced (with a hole) in the middle. The two ghee 
portions are its two eyes indeed. He should understand, “These two are my verv 
eyes”. 

5. Now, the sacrificial cake which is consecrated for Agni Is itself the right pan 
(of the body of the sacrifice). And the low-voiced offering to Agni and Soma 
(together) is indeed its heart. Since they perform it in a low voice, therefore this 
is verily the heart, a cave (secret). And since he makes the offering with the word 
Jusdna (one who accepts with pleasure) after having recited a M, therefore which 
is verily boneless (is set) is bone. And the sacrificial cake belonging to Agni and 
Soma (together), that itself or the Sdnndyya offered to Indra is the left part (of the 
body) of it (the sacrifice). The Svistakrt (the offering that is intended to make the 
whole sacrifice ‘properly offered’) is verily the part between the shoulders. The 
Prasitra (fore portion of the haxnscut up to be eaten by the Brahman of the sacrifice) 
is indeed its (of the sacrifice) poison. 


m.2.10.11] 


TRANSLATION 


289 


6. When he cuts up (lit* Prdsitro, just as they formerly extracted the splinter (of 
missile) (cut off and removed the injured part) from Prajapati (Prajapati’s bodv), 
in the very same manner they extract, of this (sacrificer), what is eneoiied and what 
is knotted and what is affected by Varuna. He should understand thus, ‘just as 
formerly they cut off and removed Prajapati’s injured part, in the very same 
manner they now cut off and remove what of me, here, is coiled up, what is knotted 
and rvhat is affected by Varuna' 1 . 

7. Ida is indeed the belly of this (sacrifice). Just as there (as ido is invoked), 
they cutup together (portions) of the idd, in the very same manner now food of 
all forms is put together in the belly. 

8. These three after-offerings verily are these three downward breathings (vital 
energies). The Suktavaka (recitation of the hymns) and Srmyuvdka {recitation of 
the Samyu chant invoking happiness and welfare ) are indeed the two arms of this 
(sacrifice). 

9. The four Patnisamyajas (worship of the wives of the gods) are verily the four 
firm supports, (viz.,) the two thighs and the two knees. The Samistayajas (mantra 
meant for proper sacrifice) is itself the two feet of this (sacrifice). 

10. They are indeed these twenty-one offerings; the two pourings (of ghee) the 
five-offerings, two ghee portions (ajyabhdgas) the sacrificial cake for Agni; that 
amoun ts to ten. The low-voiced offering to Agni and Soma (together), the Svistakrt, 
the three after-offerings, the four Patnisamyajas, Samislayajus. The twelve months 
too, the five seasons, these three worlds; the yonder sun is the twenty-first. With this, 
indeed, did Aruni then said, ‘By half-months (every half-month), verily, do 1 
become one with (residence in) the same world with the yonder sun. I know that 
to be the wealth (fulfilment) of the (two) new moon and full moon sacrifices*’. 

11. About that they say, “Is the sacrificer of the self the better one (or) is the 
sacrificer to the gods (the better one)?” One should say, “The self-offerer (is the 
better one) ”, He indeed is a ‘self-offerer’ who knows, “This, my body, is moulded 
by this (sacrifice). By this is my body brought forth”. Just as a snake would lx* freed 
from its slough thus is this (sacrificer) freed from this mortal-body, from evil (sin). 
He becomes (originates as) one who is made of(verses of praise), made of Yaj us 
(sacrificial formula) made of the offerings (dhutis) and made of the Vedas, Surely' 
he becomes one of these deities. And now, he is a sacrificer to the gods, indeed, who 
knows, “I thus (now) worship (sacrifice to) the gods only. 1 serve verily th-e gods thus 
(now) . Just as an inferior person would bring tribute (respectful offering) to (his) 



I1I.2.10.1I] 


TRANSLATION 


291 


superior or as a subject would bring tribute to the king, in this very manner does 
he (the sacrificer} convey his offering (to the gods). Surely he does not conquer 
so much world, (heaven), as much as the other (self-offerer). (Tenth Brahmana 
Ends) 

(Chapter Second Ends) 


(UDDHARI KANDA ENDS) 



ADHVARA KANDA 

♦ • 


Chapter One 
BRAHMANAI 

1. Then they look for a place for the worship (sacrifice) to the gods. There 
(that place) which is highest and above which no other part of the ground 
rises that should verily be the place of sacrifice to the gods; for, from here did the 
gods ascend. Thus does he (the sacrificer) ascend to the vicinity of the gods. He 
sacrifices in a place of divine worship where the gods are. And he who sacrifices in 
a place, above which some other part of the ground rises he becomes lower, as it 
were, having sacrificed there. Therefore only that place where the ground of the 
earth is highest should be the place of sacrifice to the gods. It should be highest 
and should also be even. That which is very even indeed becomes well established 
and it does not fall off. 

2. It should slope down towards the east; for the east is the quarter of the gods. 
And it may incline towards the north; for the north is the quarter of men. It should 
be high (raised up) at the south. This (south) is indeed the quarter of the manes. 
If it should slope down towards the south, the sacrificer would soon reach the 
yonder world. Thereby (by making it incline towards the east or north) the 
sacrificer lives long. Then, the measure of the sacrificial ground to the east of the 
sacrificial post should not be excessive. If it should exceed, it would be 
(favourable) towards the hateful enemy. It may well be so in the north and well so 
in the south. Thatsacrificial ground indeed prospers where in the west the measure 
of the sacrificial ground is excessive. Towards him (that sacrificer) does the 
superior (subsequent) worship of the gods incline (become favourable). 

3. About this, Yajhavalkya said, “We went to look for a place for him for 
sacrifice as this Varsna intended to sacrifice”. Satyayajni said, “This whole earth is 
divine. Wherever, having enclosed a place with Yajus (chant), one sacrifices, that 
is a sacrificial place”. This is indeed that he thought. But surely itis the priests who 
constitute the sacrificial ground. Where verily the learned (priests) straightaway 
help one to perform a sacrifice, that (part of the earth) is faultless. This is indeed 
the form of the place of sacrifice to the gods. 

4. Now they make this (sacrificial hall) such that the beam is turned eastward; 
for, east is the quarter of the gods. In front (the east) are the gods and behind (in 
the west) are men. Therefore one offers to these (gods), standing facing east. 
Therefore, too, one should not lie down (with his head) towards the west, lest he 
should be lying down stretching (his legs) towards the gods. This quarter, viz., 
south belongs to the manes. This, which is west, —it indeed is the quarter of the 
snakes. When the gods ascended (to heaven) eastward, then this (west) verily 
became low (deficient). The north is indeed deficient; the north belongs to men. 
Therefore, in human practice, the hall is rectangular or squarish, with its beam 
pointing only northward; for the north is the quarter of men. Therefore, when 



IVL2 - 2 3 TRANSLATION 

5 

one is about to undertake the vow, he makes it with the beam eastward. Indeed 
he who enters upon the vow approaches the gods and he verily becomes one of the 
go s themselves. Therefore, only the person who is about to undertake the vow 
makes it such that its beam points eastward. 

5. They enclose it lest it become cold (freeze) in the snowy season, lest it get 
sprayed (pour) during the rainy season, and lest there should be the sun (sun's 
heat and light) during summer. Verily he who undertakes the vow approaches 
the gods and he indeed becomes one of the gods themselves. The gods are as it 
were, concealed from men. Concealed, as it were, does this (sacrificial hall) become 
(being enclosed). 

6. Not every one should go to it, indeed the gods do not unite with every one. 
Only a noble person who is either a Brahmana or Ksatriya or a Vaisya (may enter 
it). These indeed are fit to sacrifice. Not also should he converse with everyone The 
godsdo not converse verily with everyone, but only with one who is noble, whether 
a Brahmana, Ksatriya or Vaisya. These indeed are fit to sacrifice. If conversation 
with a Sudra should come about for him, he should address somebody else (who 
is not a Sudra), ‘Thus tell this person”. This is the customary practice of one who 
has to enter upon the vow (rule of conduct). 

7. Then he decides (the place to be the place of worship of the gods). 
Reaching that post of the hall, which (post) is the chiefone (andwhichis) thefore- 
part (of the hall), he mutters, “We have arrived at this divine place of worship on 
the earth. “One (the sacrificer) arrives here where all the gods have delighted”. 
Thus he sacrifices in that place of sacrifices that has been with pleasure resorted to 
by all the gods. In that these human-gods, the Brahmanas who have studied the Vedas 
and who teachthe Vedas look at it with pleasure with their eyes, thereby it becomes 
accepted with pleasure by them. When he says, “Where all the gods delighted "then 
it becomes accepted with pleasure by all the gods. Thus he sacrifices in the 
sacnficial ground that is resorted to by both (the gods and the human gods). (He 
chants), Crossing by means of Rk and Saman and by means of the Yams (chants) ’V 

ndeed they reach the end of the sacrifice with the Rk, with the Saman with the Yarns 
Therefore says, he, “Crossing by means of Rk and Saman and by means of Yajus 
(chants). (He chants), “May we rejoice with increase of wealth and with fine sap!” 
Abundance .is indeed increase in wealth. Abundance verily is prosperity. He prays 
for a blessing indeed thus, May I attain prosperity(He chants), “May we rejoice 
with fine sap!” Of him who attains prosperity they say, “He rejoices in sap”. 
Therefore does he say “May we rejoice with good sap!” (First Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANA II 

1* He undertakes the vow in the afternoon. He may eat what he likes or what 
S e h only before shaving off his hair and beard and before paring his nails. 
If he may not like to eat, he need not eat. Nothing other than the vow (itself) 
serves as food for him thereafter. Thereafter only the vow becomes his food. 
Therefore it is that, (before entering upon the vow), if he wishes to eat he may eat. 

2. North of the hall, a place is enclosed. There he shaves off his hair and beard 
and pares his nails. That part of man where water does not reach, that is indeed 



IV. 1.2,8] 


TRANSLATION 


7 

impure. In the hairs and the nails water does not reach him. The consecration 
(vow) occurs after his becoming pure (fit to sacrifice). Therefore, too, he should 
shave entirely. Then he shaves off his hair and beard too and pares his nails. There 
is no ritual by means of the nails. 

3. First he should cut only the right nails (nails of the right hand) and then 
the left. In human (affairs) he cuts off the left (nails) first. And (but) with reference 
to the gods (it is) in this manner. He should cut off (the nails) first of the two thumbs 
and then of the two little fingers. In human (practice) he cuts off (the nails) of the 
little fingers first. And (but) it is like this with regard to the gods. 

4. Seated facing east, he moistens his moustache, (chanting) ‘These divine 
waters—may they be for my happiness (good)! ” Verily water is thunderbolt; indeed 
water is thunderbolt. Therefore that (path) by which they flow, that becomes a 
depression; where they approach that they destroy (burn out). Thus, this 
thunderbolt (water) does not hurt this person. He first shaves off only the right 
(moustache) and then the left. Indeed in human (practice) he shaves off first the 
left. (But) then it is thus with reference to the gods. 

5. He places (on the moustache) the (cut off) tip of sacrificial grass, 
(chanting), “Oh plant! Protect (me). The razor indeed is thunderbolt. Thus he 
verily conceals (separates) this (thunderbolt) with the very plants. Thereby this 
thunderbolt does not harm this person. “Oh Knife! Do not hurt this person”, so 
saying he cuts off (the moustache). This thing viz., the razor is indeed the 
thunderbolt. Thereby this thunderbolt does not hurt this person. He puts it (the) 
tip of the sacred grass and then cuts off (hair of moustache) in a vessel of water. 
Either with this Yajus (chant) or silently he cuts off the left (hair of the 
moustache) and places it into the vessel of water. 

6. Then he gives (the razor) to the barber. When he (the barber) shaves. He 
then bathes. The reason why he bathes is that man is impure (unfit to sacrifice). 
Man is impure because he speaks untruth. By that he becomes sour within and 
putrid. Verily the waters are the sacrifice. (He thinks) “May I take up the vow after 
having become pure (worthy of sacrifice)!” (It means), ‘The waters are pure; 
having become purified, let me undertake the vow”. 

7. He bathes (with the chant) “May the waters, the mothers, cleanse us! ” Thus 
they really cleanse him. The reason why he bathes (chanting) “May the purifiers 
of ghee purify us” is that indeed becomes well cleansed which is purified by ghee. 
(He chants), “Indeed they, the divine, carry away all impurity (sin etc.) ”. ‘All’ really 
means ‘every’ what is unfit for sacrifice (impure) that is 'ripra (dirt). All this 
defilement of this person they carry away. Having bathed, he steps out (comes up), 
(chanting), “From these (waters) I emerge clean, having been purified”. Indeed 
he thus emerges purified and dean, from these (waters). 

8. Then he puts on the garment of the vow (prescribed for the vow) for the 
sake of completeness indeed; he puts on the garment for the vow for Fullness. 
This skin (hide) which is on the cow was formerly on man. 



IV. 1.2.12] 


TRANSLATION 


9 

9. They, the gods, said, “Verily this one, the cow, supports every thing. This 
skin which is on man—taking it off let us put it on the cow. With that she will endure 
the heat and with that (she will endure) the pouring rain and with that the cold. 
(Saying) “So be it”, having taken it off, they put it on the cow. With that this one (the 
cow) endures the heat, (endures) the pouring rain with that and the cold (snow) 
(she endures) with that. And this man has been flayed; indeed man was flayed. 
Therefore wherever the ‘ Kusa’ grass cuts him, from there blood gets out. They 
put on this skin viz., garment on him. This indeed is the skin of man. Therefore no 
other animal wears this. Therefore one should wish to have fine garment. Then 
(thus) alone he becomes rich with his own skin. Therefore, too, people verily desire 
to see even an ugly person (to be) clad in fine raiment. He becomes enriched with 
his own skin. Therefore in the presence of a cow one should not remain naked; for 
the cow knows, “I bear this skin”. She may get afraid of him , thinking “Will he (May 
he) not take my skin?” Therefore cows indeed resort to one who is finely clad. 

10. The woof of his cloth belongs to Agni, the warp belongs to Vayu, the 
thrum (ends and hem) belongs to the manes, the thick-set part belongs to the 
snakes and the threads belong to the- Visvedevas (All-Gods) and the meshes to the 
stars. So is it indeed that all the gods are involved in it. Therefore, this is (the 
garment) fit for the vow. They say that it may be unwashed (new, fresh from the 
loom). It may be both (washed or unwashed). We ask (the Pratiprasthatr) to 
squeeze it (and wash it). What of this (cloth) an unclean woman cuts orweaves, that 
very thing (part) of this thus they make pure with the waters. Or it (the garment to 
be worn at the commencement of the vow) may be the cloth set aside to be worn 
after bathing or one which has not been put into washing materials. 

11. He puts it on, chanting, “You are the body of consecration and penance”. 
Originally this is the skin of the man indeed and then (now) itis of the consecration 
and penance as it is of the person who has undertaken the vow. Therefore he says, 
“You are the body of consecration and penance”. (He chants), “I wear you who are 
such, who are mighty and auspicious”. He verily says (means) this, “I wear you who 
are such and who are good”. (He chants), “nourishing auspicious colour”. Formerly 
this is evil (sinful) as it were, having been flayed. Then (Now) thus he nourishes 
auspicious complexion viz., his own skin. Therefore does he say, “Nothing auspicious 
colour”. 

12. About this, they say, “He should not enjoy (milk etc., and the labour etc.) 
of the cow and of the ox. Indeed the cow and the ox support all this. They, the gods, 
said verily, “These two viz., the cow and the ox indeed bear all this. Ah, Well! We 
shall put into these two what is the vigour of the other beasts and birds. By that these 
two are going to maintain all this”...what is the vigour of the other birds and of the 
other animals, that they put into these two. By that these two now bear all this. 
Therefore, he should not (enjoy) eat of these two; for that (using; their products 
andstrength) would be like, ‘eatingeverything’ and ‘reaching the end (destruction) \ 
He would be born strangely or he would have aborted the pregnancy of his wife. 



IV. 1.3.5] 


TRANSLATION 


11 


About this Yajnavalkya said, “I surely may consume it (make use of it) if it would 
be strong (if it would make me strong)”. (Second Brahmana Ends) 


brAhmanaiii 

1. He offers a purodasa (sacrificial cake) on eleven potsherds, dedicated to 
Agni and Visnu (together), connected with the diksa (consecration). The reason 
why this oblation is connected with the consecration and is dedicated to Agni and 
Visnu is that Agni is verily all the gods. Indeed they offer for all the gods into the 
fire. Agni is the lower part of the sacrifice and Visnu the upper part. In that are all 
the deities. Therefore, the consecration takes place after encompassing the whole 
sacrifice. Therefore is it (the purodasa) dedicated to Agni and Visnu. 

2. About it they say, “He should offer 4 caru’ (rice-pap) to the Adityas too. It is 
thus. Eight were the sons who were born to Aditi from (around) her body. She 
approached the gods with seven. She castaway (the eighth) Martanda”. Indeed the 
sons of Aditi were eight. Among them there were seven who were gods and who 
were connected with the gods. Then she produced the eighth called Martandawho 
was, as it were, not well formed (without the formation of limbs) and also as if all 
round of body. He (Martanda) was of only the size of a person (man) in height and 
of the size of a person (man) across. 

3. They, these gods, said, ‘This one should not be in this manner. Ah! Let us 
cut him (to shape) as he would be a person. Let us thus fashion him”. Him did they 
cut and him did they mould so that he became a person. What was thus cut off of 
him, that they put together. That became the elephant. They say that therefore the 
elephant is unacceptable (asagift) likeaman. He who accepts an elephant (would 
be) as if making a man acceptable (as a gift). He whom they cut and fashioned—he 
(became) Vivasvan, Aditya (the Sun). These and whatever is are his progeny, the 
creatures, Vaivasvatya (bom ofVivasvat). 

4. He said, “May sacrifice come to my progeny! And may he verily prosper 
(among the progeny) who may offer the 'caru 7 (rice-pap) to the Adityas!” Indeed 
does he prosper who, knowing thus, offers the ‘cam’ to the Adityas. Only the other 
thing is well known (approved) which is the oblation of consecration, dedicated to 
Agni and Visnu. 

5. Its process is verily this viz., the one for the New-moon and the Full-moon 
rituals. Therefore, they perform as with an Isti (ritual for fulfilling a wish). He 
recites seventeen kindling verses (Samidhenis) , for the sake of completeness. He 
offers to the deity in a low voice. They make him perform the ‘ Patnlsamydjas ’ 
(worship of the wives of the gods). Only they do not offer the Samistayajus , (as he 
thinks), “if not (i.e. if I now offer Samistayajus ), having put on the garment of 
consecration, with this intent about the sacrifice, I might reach the end of the 



IV.1.3.11J 


TRANSLATION 


13 

sacrifice even before its completion”. Verily the Samistayajus is the end of the 
sacrifice. 

6. Then he anoints (with ghee) him (the sacrificer) who stands in thefore-part 
(eastern part) of the rectangular hall or of the squarish hall. The reason why he 
anoints him is that man (a person) is indeed wounded. Man is wounded because 
he has been flayed. That (anointing), thus, makes him verily free from wound. 
Then they (the gods) put his skin indeed on the cow. This (ghee) is also of the cow. 
Thus he enriches him (the sacrificer) with his own skin (and) makes him whole. 
Therefore does he anoint him. 

7. It is fresh butter. Indeed ghee is of gods and creamless ( nispanta ) ghee is of 
men. And now it is fresh butter; for the fresh butter is not stale. If he so wishes, he 
makes it (uses) ghee. If he wishes anointing with what is not stale in time, this (fresh 
butter) makes him, thus, fresh. Therefore he anoints him (the sacrificer). 

8. He anoints (chanting), “You are the essence of the great ones”. These viz., 
the cows are one with the earth by name (both being called ‘go’). This {gkeeetc.) 
is their essence. Therefore does he say, “You are the essence of the great”. (He 
chants). “You are the bestower of vigour (brilliance); give me vigour (brilliance) ”. 
It is not as if it (the meaning) is concealed (obsecure) here. First he anoints him 
from the head in regular order (in the same direction as the hairs on the body) for, 
as he is bom, he is born from the head (head first). 

9. Then he anoints his two eyes. Yajnavalkya said, "My two sore eyes are (i.e. 
have become) sound”. He was (formerly) as if defective eyed. The secretion of his 
eyes was like pus. It (the anointment) made these (two eyes) indeed free from the 
wound. Where, the gods killed the Asuras and Raksasas their susma the Danava 
(Demon) entered into the eyes of creatures. He is this one that looks like a young 
boy in the pupil of the eye. Reaching this sacrifice for him (against him), he (the 
sacrificer) builds a rampart of stones, for the ointment is (produced from) stone. 

10. It should be derived from (the mountain) Trikakud where Indra killed 
Vrtra. What was his (Vrtra’s) pupil of the eye and what was his eye that he (Indra) 
made into this mountain Trikakud. (The reason) why it is from Trikakud is that 
thereby he puts the eye into the eye itself. If he may not obtain what is of Tirkakud, 
then (he may use) whatever there may be. 

11. Then he anoints (the eyes) with a reed-stalk; for the reed is thunderbolt 
For driving away ‘Raksasas’ (he anoints) with (the reed-stalks) that has a tuft and 
the tip of which is not shattered. Thereby he drives away (afflicts) the ‘Raksasas’. 
Just like a man who moves about (continously) in the aerial region, remaining 
rootless and hemmed in on both sides (up and down), in this very manner the evil 



IV. 1.3.15] 


TRANSLATION 


15 

spirits (Raksasas) move about (constantly) rootless and hemmed in on both sides 
in the mid-region. Therefore he anoints with what has a tuft. 

12. He first anoints only the right (eye) and then the left. In human (practice) 
one anoints the left (eye) first. And now with reference to the gods it is thus. He 
anoints the right (eye) twice and the other (left) thrice. Thus he makes the left 
(eye) superior. That itself verily becomes five times. The sacrifice indeed is five¬ 
fold, five-fold the creatures, five the seasons of the year. With five he obtains that 
(year). Therefore he anoints five times. 

13. He anoints (chanting), “You are the pupil of the eye ofVrtra”. Indeed 
what is ointment is the pupil of the eye ofVrtra. Therefore does he say, “You are the 
pupil of the eye ofVrtra”. (He chants) “You are the bestower of eye. Give me eye”. 
It is not as though in this it (the meaning) is concealed (obscure). He anoints the 
right (eye) only once with a Yajus (chant), the second time silently; only once he 
anoints the other (left eye) with a Yajus (chant) and twice silently. 

14. Then he purifies him (the sacrificer) with the tips of sacred grass. “Indeed 
holy is the sacrifice, holy (are) the sacred grass (stalks). Let me undertake the vow 
being sacrifice worthy; after having been purified. It may be a single stalk. This one 
who blows (the wind) is indeed the purifier. That one (the wind) which is this 
(which blows and is felt) blows as if it were one only. It enters into a person (man) 
before and after. They are the out-breathing and the in-breathing (upward 
breathing). Therefore only in accordance with his very measure (should it, the 
cleanser, be). Therefore it may be only one. "Or there may be three (stalks for 
cleansing)”, so they say, “For this vital breath (energy) that has entered into man 
is made three-fold. Thereforeit, the cleanser, should be only in accordance with its 
measure”. Therefore there may be three. Then they become seven indeed; for 
seven are these vital energies (faculties) in the head. Then they are also thrice 
seven. 

15. He purifies him, (chanting), “May the Lord of thought (consciousness) 
purify me! May the Lord of speech purify me!” Prajapati is indeed the Lord of 
thought; for he has power over the minds. Thus Prajapati purifies this one 
(sacrificer). (He chants) ” May the Lord of speech purify me! ”. This one that blows 
(the wind) is verily the Lord of speech. Thus he protects this one (sacrificer). (He 
chants) “May the divine Savitr purify me! ” Indeed Savitr is the prompter (impeller) 
of the gods. Thus the very good Savitr protects this (sacrificer). ( He says), “With 
the flawless cleanser”. This one that blows (the wind) is indeed a flawless purifier. 
Therefore does he say, “With the flawless cleanser”. (He says), “With the rays of the 
Sun”. These viz., the rays of the sun are cleansers indeed. Therefore does he say, 
“With the rays of the Sun”. (He says) “Of you. Oh Lord of Pavitra (purifiers), who 
have been purified by the cleanser”. This one who undertakes the vow becomes 
indeed the ‘Lord of pavitra'. (The expression) “Of the one who has been purified 
by the ‘pavitra 7 (cleanser). (He chants) “With what desire I purify myself, may I be 



IV. 1.3.19] 


TRANSLATION 


17 


capable of it!” He verily says (means) thus, “May I enjoy the completion of the 
sacrifice !” He who undertakes the consecration does indeed desire, “May I reach 
(enjoy) the end of the sacrifice! ” Therefore does he say, “With what desire I purify 
myself, may I be capable of it! ” He verily says (means) thus, “May I enioy the 
completion of the sacrifice!” He who undertakes the consecration does indeed 
desire, May I reach (enjoy) the end of the sacrifice! ” Therefore does he say “With 
what desire I purify myself, may I be capable of it!" He cleanses thrice with this very 
thing (chant). That becomes nine times. Indeed vital energies are nine. The very 
vital energies are pure. Therefore he cleanses nine times. 

16. He then makes him recite this beginning of the prayer for blessings, “We 
approach you Oh gods? as the sacrifice proceeds well, we invoke you, Oh Gods! for 
blessing arising from the sacrifice”. This is the very commencement of the prayers 
for blessings. This indeed commences the prayers for blessings. The sacrificial 
priests invoke (pray for) these blessings which are their own and which have been 
commenced for the sake of this (sacrificer). They (the blessings) get fulfilled for 
this person (the sacrificer). 

17. Then he bends his fingers down; two fingers (chanting), “Svahdl the 
sacrifice (I take hold of) from the mind”, two (fingers) (chanting), “Svahdl from the 
vast aerial (mid) region”, two, (chanting), “Svakal from the heaven and the earth” 
and two (chanting) “Svakal I commence (take hold of) from the wind”. 

18. (One reason) why he thus bends his fingers is (that he thinks) “I do not 
m this manner commence (take hold tangibly) in the sacrifice as (in the manner) 
this cloth or staff or any other thing in human practice”. Verily the gods are the 
sacnfice. The gods are invisible, as itwere. Thus (by bending his fingers) he indeed 
commences (takes hold of) the invisible sacrifice itself (chanting) “Svahdl (I take 
hold of) the sacrifice from the mind”. Thus he takes hold of this'from the mind 

Svakal from the vast mid-region. Thus he takes hold (of the sacrifice) from the vast 
mid-region. “Svahdl from the heaven and the earth”—thus he takes hold of this 
from these two viz., heaven and earth on which all this (universe) rests. “Svahdl 
from the wind I take hold ,—-This which blows (the wind) is indeed the sacrifice. 
Thus he visibly (directly) takes hold of this. Why he says ‘Svdhd’, ‘Svakd’ (each 
time) is that he thus verily accepts this (sacrifice) ashis own. Thus he takes this into 
fnmself. (He thinks) “Having taken the sacrifice into myself, let me undertake the 
vow . Now he restrains his speech (undertakes the vow of silence). Indeed speech 

is sacnfice, (He thinks), ‘Having taken the sacrifice into myself, let me undertake 
the vow”. 


^ Then (the Adhvaryu) makes him (the sacrificer) enter (the sacrificial 
hall). His movement is between the Ahavanlya^nd Gdrhapatya . (The reason) why 
his movement is thus is that Agni is verily the source of the sacrifice. Here, he (the 
sacrificer) who undertakes the vow becomes the sacrifice. He (the sacrificer) 
indeed performs this (elaborately). He indeed generates it. The foetus moves 
about within the womb. As he (the sacrificer) moves about there (in the sacrificial 
hall between the fires) , moves round and turns back, therefore these embryos too 

move about, move around and turn back (return). (Third Brahmana Ends) 



IV. 1.4,8] 


TRANSLATION 
BRAHMAN AIV 


19 


I. All the ) ajus chants of consecration at the undertaking of the vow are 
elevators. This (sacrificer) who undertakes thevow surely elevates himself from this 
world ofmen to theworld ofgods. Thus he raises (himself) up with these very ‘Yajus' 
chants with which he undertakes the vow. Therefore all the ‘Yajus’ chants of 
consecration at the undertaking of the vow are elevators. That these intermediate 
ones ( Yajtis) are called elevators’ is because these are verily oblations; indeed the 
oblation itself is the sacrifice. That he mutters the ‘Yajus’ is as if it (the sacrifice) is 
invisible. Hence by means of this sacrifice he elevates (himself). 

._ . 2 '.?i ose three (libations) which he offers with the sruva are called ‘Adhita 
yajumsi .The fourth (libation) is offered for the wishforwealth (fullness) Andthen 
that which he offers with an ‘Anustubh’ (chant in the Anustubh metre), with the 
sruk, that very thing (libation) is the direct elevator, for he makes it with an 
Anustubh. Indeed ‘Anustubh’ is speech and speech is verily the sacrifice. Therefore 
is it the direct (visible) elevator. Then he makes all the offerings. 

3. The gods, having won by means of the sacrifice this victory, which victory is 
theirs, said. Ah! Let us make this (sacrifice) such that it would be unattainable by 
men . Having (completely) sucked the essence of the sacrifice, as bees would 
(completely) suck (honey), and thus having emptied the sacrifice and having 
obliterated it with the sacrificial post, they disappeared. Since they obliterated it 
{ayopayan) by means of this (post), therefore it is known as ‘Yupa’. 

came to b e heard by the Rsis. This (sacrifice) came to be collected 
(prepared) in the very different manners in which the Rsis collected the sacrifice 
In the very same manner in which the Rsis collected (prepared) the sacrifice then^ 

this (sacrificer) who undertakes the vow (consecration) collects (prepares) this 
sacrifice now. r r 


.... 5 * T ^ ls Jf realI y that sac nfice viz., these oblations. Therefore he offers five 

(libations The sacrifice is of the measure of the year. The seasons of the year are 

rive, that (the year) he obtains by means of the five (oblations). Therefore he offers 
five (oblations). 


A • 6 C * (Ranting) “To ‘akutV (intention), to ‘prayuj’ (gain,purpose), to 

Agm Svaha \ Indeed he intends (makes up his mind) “May I sacrifice!” In that he 
performs this, he employs this. What verily is the form of the sacrifice that very thing 
he thus (now) collects with this. That (then) he takes into himself (his mind). 

7. (He chants), “To wisdom (insight), to the mind, to Agni— Svakdl” for 

he reaches with his wisdom, with his mind (the resolution) “May I sacrifice!” 
Therefore what is venly the form of the sacrifice, that very thing he collects with 
his. I hat (then) he takes into himself (his mind). They merely recite, “To ‘diksS 
(consecration for the vow), to penance (discipline), to Agni—Svahdl " but they do 
not now make an offering. 1 

8. (He chants) “To Sarasvatl, to Pusan, to Agni—Svaha!” Speech indeed is 
Sarasvati, for it is with speech that he says, “I am going to sacrifice”. The cattle are. 



IV - L ‘ U4 J translation 9 

I A 

indeed ‘Pusan’ for nourishment (prosperity) is Pusan. Cattle verilv are 
nourishment. When he nurtures cattle, then he attains the sacrifice Therefore 
what is verily the form of the sacrifice that very thing he now gathers thus—with this' 
He takes it into himself (his mind). (The reason) why he, in all these cases, offers 
saying agnaye svahal” (To Agni— Svahal) is (this) these offerings are offered as it 
were, indefinitely (not straight) and are unestablished as it were. They are not 
ottered to any particular deity at all. 

C , chants >> ' To intention, to purpose! It is not Agni, not Indra and not 

Soma. (He chants) “To wisdom, to the mind”. There is no other deitvfrom this too. 
So is it in all (these chants) that Agni is indeed definite. Agni is established With 
this Agm) his (the sacrificed) offerings are thus made; by this (are they) 
established. Therefore, m all he offers saying, ‘To Agni— Svahal”. And the reason 
why they are called Adhitayajus’— these deities are thought of (meditated upon) 
within himself, (they are) established in himself (his mind). 

10. (He chants), ‘To intention, to purpose, to Agni— Svahal” He really 
intends with his mind, “May I sacrifice!” When he performs this (sacrifice) he 

employs it from his own mind (from himself). These two deities are meditated upon 
(thought of) in his own mind. v 

11. (He chants) “To wisdom, to mind, to Agni— Svahd”. With wisdom, with the 
mmd, indeed does he think “May I sacrifice!” These two are only in himself viz 
wisdom and mmd. Those two are in this person. Both the deities are meditated 
upon (thought of) in himself (in his own mind). 

12. (He chants) “To Sarasvati, to Pusan, to Agni—SudAa!”. Speech is indeed 
Sarasvam It is with speech that he says, “1 shall sacrifice”. This is in himself (his own 
mind) Pusan indeed is cattle. Nourishment (prosperity') is certainly Pusan. Cattle 
indeed are prosperity. When he nurtures cattle, then he obtains the sacrifice. Those 
two are in his own self (mind). These two deities are meditated upon in his own 
mind. Verily thus are these deities of his meditated upon (thought of) in his mind- 

they are established in himself (his own mind). Therefore are they called 
Adhitayajumsi . 7 

13. He then offers (chanting) “Oh waters, divine, vast and productive of 
universal welfare! Heaven and Earth! Wide mid-region! May we offer oblations to 
Brhaspati. Svahd. . This (libation) is indeed nearest to the sacrifice, for here he 
praises the waters. Verily the waters are the sacrifice. He praises thus these three 
worlds as Heaven and Earth! Oh vast mid-region!” Thus he gathers (prepares) 
rom these three worlds. (He chants) “To Brhaspati may we perform (offering) 

with oblation! Svahal ” Brhaspati indeed is Brahman. Brahman is die sacrifice. By 
this is this (offering) nearest to the sacrifice. And that which then he offers with the 
sndi and with ’Anustubh ’ (chant in the Anustubh metre)—that verilv is the visible 
sacrifice; for he offers it with ‘Anustubh’ and speech indeed is Anustubh and verilv 
speech is the sacrifice. Therefore is it that (libation ) is the visible sacrifice. 

_ ,1 T j e ^’ what S heetilG re is in the ‘Dhruva’ spoon, all that he takes into the 
Ju u . And then, having ladled out twice with the ‘sruva’ from the pot (into the 
Juhu) what remains left over in the pot he takes into the 1 sruxm 9 . That he pours 



IV. 1.4.15] TRANSLATION 23 

(offers) (chanting), “May every mortal (man) choose the friendship of the divine 
leader. Every one wishes for wealth. Let him choose splendour for thriving! 
Svdhal ”. 

15. About it they say, “He should pour at least this one (libation) What they 
(others) say “The sacrifice is of the measure of the year; the seasons of the year are 
five, even by this (single oblation) he secures it”. 

“Every one—of the divine”. That is the connection of this (oblation) with all 
the gods (the ‘All-gods’). 

“Of the leader (guide)—that belongs to Savitr Mortal”—that belongs to 
Mitra. “Eveiy one—splendour”— that belongs to Brhaspati; for indeed Brhaspati 
is splendour. “For thriving (nourishment)” — that belongs to Pusan. This 
(libation) is a row (group) of five with the deities. That indeed he obtains by that 
(single oblation) itself as the sacrifice is of the measure of the year and the seasons 
of the year are five. He verily offers with ( a chant in ) Anustubh (metre). Indeed 
‘Anustubh’ is speech. Speech is indeed the sacrifice. Thus verily does he gather 
(prepare) the sacrifice. If he offers this one only, then he would have (in effect) 
offered the full. This, then becomes the all. All is indeed ‘full’. This is merely a 
discussion. They offer all (the libations). Thus ‘Anustubh’, as it is, has thirty-one 
syllables. The thirty-second is this person (the sacrificer). Ten are these fingers of 
the hand, ten are those of the feet. Ten are these vital breaths (energies, faculties). 
The self (soul) is the thirty-first. The sacrifice is a person indeed. Therefore he 
offers with the ‘Anustubh’ that has thirty-one syllables, for the sacrifice is the person 
(man). (Fourth BrahmanaEnds) 


(Chapter One Ends) 



IV.2.L4] TRANSLATION 25 

Chapter Two 

BRAHMANAI 

1. He spreads these two black antelope-skins, with their neck-parts towards the 
east. On them does he consecrate this (sacrificer). If they are two, he verilv 
consecrates him thus on these two worlds (heaven and earth). Those two should be 
such that their edges are well connected—these two worlds are, as it were, with their 
edges well connected—and at the hind part they should be well fastened together 
through holes. Thus having made these two worlds into a pair, on them does he 
consecrate this (sacrificer). Therefore those two (skins) should be in the hind part 
fastened together through holes. 

2. But if there is onlyone (skin), that is the form of these very worlds (the three 
worlds). Those (hairs on the skin) which are white they are the form of this (earth); 
those which are black—they are (the form) of heaven. Or (it may be) otherwise 
Those which are black are (of the form) of this (earth). Those which are white, they 
are of (the form of) heaven. Those which are in the middle, tawny or yellow, they 
are (the form) of the mid-region. Thus he consecrates this person (the sacrificer) 
on these (three) worlds indeed. Then he tucks (folds) the hind and underneath. 
Thus uniting into apair these two worlds, upon them he consecrates this (sacrificer). 
Therefore he folds the hind and underneath. 

3. Then he sits with bent knee, behind (the skins). Having touched the place 
where the white hairs and black hairs meet, he mutters, ‘Ton two are the image of 
Rk and Saman”. What is an image is a replica. He verily says (means) “You two are 
replicas of ‘Ms’and ' Sdmans'. (He chants) “Such as you two are, I take hold ofyou. 
Such as you are, you two please protect me”. He verily says (means) this, “I enter 
you two \ When he says, “I take hold of you two, such as you are”. (In saying) “You 
two, as you are such, please protect me”. (In saying) ‘Till the end of this sacrifice”, 
he merely says (means) this, “upto the completion of this sacrifice”. This person 
who undertakes the consecration for the vow indeed enters into the metres, having 
become an embryo. Therefore he is as ii with closed fingers, for the embryo has its 
fingers closed (curled up) as it were. 

4. Then he mounts on it, on his thighs, (chanting), “You are the refuge. Give 
me happiness. May Obeisance be to you! Do not hurt me”. This is indeed the skin 
( carman) of the black antelope. This is its name (Carman) among men. Among 
gods it is sarman (happiness). What is prevalent among the gods that verily he 
adopts. Therefore he says, “You are the refuge: give me happiness”, (He chants), 

May obeisance be to you. Do not hurt me”. He who being a man approaches the 
sacrifice indeed approaches a superior (better) person. Indeed the black antelope 
skin is the sacrifice. Therefore he thus (now) offers obeisance to it. He conceals it 
from it (the skin). Thereby this sacrifice does not harm this (sacrificer). Therefore 
says he, “May obeisance be to you. Do not hurt me”. 



IV-2-1-11] TRANSLATION 27 

5. First he should sit at the very end (of the skin). If he should enter the mid 
part ofthe skin even atfirst, whoever might curse him (saying) “He will fall (because 
of pride) ” or “He will die” or “He will fall absolutely”, it could indeed happen like 
that. Therefore at first he should sit only at the extreme end. 

6. He then girds himself with the zone. (One reason) why he wears the girdle 
around (his waist) is (this)i When the Angirasas were consecrated (for the vow), 
they attained debility. Then they wanted to know, “How indeed may we get 
(strength)?” They did not find any food other than (what was allowed for) the vow. 
They found only this (means of) strength viz., this girdle. They wore it at the waist 
for well acquiring (strength). By means of that they got (strength). Therefore is it 
that this (sacrificer) wears this (means of) (strength) thus at the waist for the sake 
of acquisition (of strength). He acquires (strength) by that. Therefore he wears the 
girdle. 

7. It is made of hemp that it might be soft. Therefore is it made of hemp. Now, 
when Prajapati, first having become embryo was born, what was nearest him, viz., 
the amnion, was hemp fibres. Therefore the hemp plants are foul-smelling. And 
what was the outer (membrane), the placenta, that became the garment ofthe 
consecrated person. As Prajapati, first having become an embryo, was born, in the 
same manner indeed is this person (the sacrificer) bom, first having become, an 
embryo. Therefore the hempen girdle is (worn) within the garment of the 
consecrated person; for, the amnion is under the placenta (the outer-membrane). 
Therefore it ( the girdle) is made of hemp. 

8. It Is triple (of three rounds), for, indeed, food is three-fold. Food is indeed 
cattle. (There is) the father, there is (the mother). What is bom (the child) is the 
third. Therefore it (the girdle) is triple. 

9. A ' munja ’ (reed) shoot is placed within that—indeed the reed is 
thunderbolt—for driving away the evil spirits. It is made (twisted) in the manner of 
a braid (or tuft) of hair. If it would be twisted thus like (an ordinary) cord, then it 
would be verily human. If it were twisted from right to left (in the anti-clockwise 
direction), then it would be sacred to the deities, the manes. And then, thus (left 
to right) it would be related to the gods. Therefore it is made (twisted) in the 
manner the braid (tuft) of hair is made (twisted). 

10. He girds it around (his waist) chanting, ‘You are the strength of Anginas”. 
Indeed the Angirasas discovered this (means of) strength. Therefore does he say, 

of Arigiras". (He says) “wool-soft”. He verily says (means) only “soft like wool”. (He 
says) “Bestow strength on me”. He verily says this, “Give me strength”. 

11. Then he tucks up (inserts) the end of his (nether) garment, (chanting) 
“You are the tuck of Soma”. First his (the sacrificer’s) tuck (before consecration) 
is indeed of a (mere) human. Then this tuck of the consecrated person becomes 
the tuck of Soma. Therefore says he, ‘You are Soma’s tuck”. 



IV - 2 - 117 ] TRANSLATION 2Q 

12. Then he covers him (the consecrated person)—Indeed this person who 
undertakes the vow becomes an embryo. The embryo is verily covered as it were bv 
the amnion, by the placenta. Thus he makes this (sacrificer) indeed have the form 
of an embryo. 

13. He covers (him), (chanting) "You are the refuge ofVisnu, the refuge of 
the sacrificer”. Thus this person who undertakes consecration becomes both, Visnu 
and the sacrificer. Therefore does he say, You are the refuge ofVisnu, the refuge 
of the sacrificer . And then he ties a horn of a black antelope to the upper hem of 
the sacrificer s garment ( or to the hem of the sacrificer’s upper garment). 

14. The gods and the Asuras, both offspring of Prajapati, acquired theirfather 
Prajapati’s bequest; the gods verily (got) the sacrifice and the Asuras (got) speech. 
Thus the gods indeed got the mind, the Asuras the speech. The gods then got the 
yonder Heaven, and the Asuras this (Earth). This ‘Yajna’ was either, told by the 
gods or ‘he’ thought by himself, “Well! Let me solicit this ‘Vak’. Or perhaps the 
gods said to him, ‘This Vak’ is a female. Oh venerable one! solicit her. She will 
surely call you (to her) 

15. He solicited her, indeed. At First she disdained him afar. Therefore is it that 
a female who is solicited for the first time disdains from afar, as it were. He (Yajna) 
said, (to the gods) “She surely disdained me from afar”. They said, “Do solicit her. 
She will certainly call you”. 

16. A second time he called her near. She spoke to him (softly), softer than the 
fall of a leaf. Therefore is it that a female, beckoned a second time, speaks softer 
than the (sound of the) fall ofa leaf. He (Yajna) said, “Indeed she spoke to me softer 
than the fall of a leaf”. They said, “Oh venerable one! Do invite her near (yourself). 
She will surely call you.” 

17. He beckoned her a third time. She called him indeed. Therefore a female 
ultimately calls (to herself) the person (male) who invites her near (himself). He 
(Yajna) said ( to the gods), "She has called me”. They, the gods, were afraid, 
thinking, “This one is indeed a female. Rather may she not allure this (Yajna)?” 
They said, “Oh venerable one! Tell her, ‘Come to me here itself. When she has 
come, report to us”. He (Yajna) said to ‘Vak’, “Come to me here itself 5 . Therefore, 
a female (woman) herselfgoestothemale (man) in a decorated place. He (Yajna) 
reported (to the gods) about her who had come, This one has indeed come”. The 
gods separated her from the Asuras. They appropriated her who belonged to them 
(Asuras). They offered her into Agni completely (as an oblation). For gods it is an 
offering ( huta ) (that is made). This ‘Vak], which is such, was bound—which 
formerly one offers with (a chant in) Anustubh (metre) in the ‘ audgrabhanas 5 
(chants that raise one up)—That is the ‘Vak’ by binding. 



IV.2.L213 


TRANSLATION 


31 


18. They, the Asuras from whom speech (vdk) had been taken away were 
vanquished, as they were saying this utterance “Haifa, Hailah , \ Then too, they 
wished to know (thinking), “I wish to know another speech”. He (who utters such 
speech) is a mleccha (a barbarian). Therefore a Brahmana should not behave 
barbarously (in speech). For this (barbarous) ‘vak' belongs to the Asuras. He who 
knows thus—he thus takes up, indeed, the speech of the hateful rival and his rivals, 
their speech taken away, are defeated. 

19 . That pair was with the gods, speech and sacrifice. That sacrifice thought 
(lustfully) about this speech, (thinking), “May I pair with her! ” He mated with her. 
He deposited his seed in her. Indra was afraid of it (thinking) “Among the gods has 
come this great pairing of the sacrifice and of speech. What maybe born out of this, 
will it not be very much against me? Well! Let me myself enter this (union), having 
become an embryo”. Having become an embryo, he entered it (the union). Thus 
what was going to be born from that union and Indra, both were born as ‘Indra’. 
Therefore they say, Only Indra is the most virile of the gods, for from this union 
(couple) indeed he was born”. 

20. Being born in a year, he observed, “This womb that bore me is verily of 
great strength. Some strange thing may be bom of this after me”. Having felt it (the 
womb) around and having covered it well, he cut it off. Therefore it is covered 
around, as it were. It was this covering that tore it off. He put it on the head of the 
sacrifice. That it is verily this thing viz. , the black antelope skin that is the sacrifice. 
This thing viz ., the horn of the black antelope is indeed that womb Just as then 
Indra, having become an embryo, entered thisunion (pair) and was bom from this 
union (pair), in this same manner indeed does this (saerificer) enter this union, 
having become an embryo and he is bom of this union. Therefore theysay, “He who 
performs the sacrifice is the most virile of his kinsfolk; for, from this union is he 
boro . Therefore he should bind this (horn) with its face (top part) upward. 

21. He touches it with the head (chanting), “You are the womb (source) of 
Indra . Indeed, is this the source (womb) of Indra, for verily from this was Indra 
boro. Therefore he says, “You are Indra s womb (source). (The reason) why he 
touches with the head is that therewith he enters it (the womb) first entering thus. 
And he who is bom is indeed born therewith (with the head) first. Therefore he 
touches it with the head. He scratches (draws a line on) the earth (with the horn), 
chanting, “Make the ploughed grounds have (plentiful) good crops” Thus he 
produces the sacrifice itself. When the plants ripen (grow) with good ripening, 
then they perform sacrifice. In a bad year they are not capable of (taking care of)' 
themselves. Therefore he says, Make the tilled earth have good crops”. 



IV.2.1.27] 


TRANSLATION 


33 


22. He who has undertaken the vow (and consecrated himself) shall not 
scratch (himself) with the nail or with ( a piece of) wood. For he who has 
undertaken the vow becomes an embryo. When he would scratch the embryo with 
the nail or ( a piece of) wood, that would be its untimely death. Thereby the 
consecrated peison ( dtksita ) could become scabby. Indeed the seeds (offspring) 
follow him. Those (future) embryos (children) could be born scabby. Therefore 
he scratches (himself) only with this (antelope horn). Surely one’s own womb does 
not harm its (own) embryo (offspring). 

23. Then he (the Adhvaryu) gives to him ( a staff) of ‘Udumbara’ (ficus 
Glomerata) tree. Yajnavalkya said, ‘The Udumbara (staff) is verily for holding (for 
support). If not one, the ‘ upasad’ ritual may transgress”. The staff is really the 
thunderbolt, for driving away evil forces. It is of the Udumbara tree. Udumbara is 
food, strength. Therefore is it (the staff) made of ‘Udumbara’wood. It is upto the 
mouth (measured up to the mouth) (in length). For this strength is upto die 
mouth. 

24. He gives (the staff to the sacrificer) (chanting) “Oh tree! Rise tall, erect, 
save me from sin (harm); till the completion of this sacrifice” He verily says 
(means) this, “(standing) erect, protect me till the completion of this sacrifice”. 

25. Here (now) indeed, some bend their fingers and now they restrain their 
speech (thinking), “Hereafter only he is not going to mutter “ Yajus ” (chant) and 
he is not going to talk irrelevantly from now on till the end of the sacrifice and he 
commences (obtains) the sacrifice”. 

26. What they do formerly in that they make him (the sacrificer) bend his 
fingers and control his speech, saying, ‘The sacrifice of that person, who either 
mutters a yajus or says any other thing irrelevantly, disintegrates”—one need not 
do so (here) .Just as one who may desire to grasp a person, (but) haring let him off 
is desirous of getting him back may not obtain (him) again, may not secure (him) 
again at all, thus indeed he does not secure the sacrifice. Therefore only formerly 
he may bend his fingers and on that occasion restrain his speech. Thus he obtains 
the sacrifice, just as one who may wish to grab a person may secure him by getting 
up towards him as he comes. (The reason) why he mutters ‘ Yajus ’ then or pours the 
oblation (into the fire) is that, indeed, ‘yajus’ or the oblation is the sacrifice. Thus 
he obtains (commences) a very firm and a very stable sacrifice. If formerly he 
should have uttered any human irrelevant speech, then he should mutter a ‘Yajus’ 
related to Visnu or Rk (related to Visnu). For Visnu indeed is the sacrifice. Thus he 
gets back the sacrifice. 

27. Then they say of him, ‘This Brahmana has taken the vow (has been 
consecrated). Him who has been thus announced, he (the Adhvaryu) announces 
to the gods again, “This person belongs to you”. “Protect this person”. “Know this 
person”. For, he who undertakes die vow (and is consecrated) indeed goes to the 



IV.2.2.5] 


TRANSLATION 


35 


gods; he becomes verily one of the gods themsleves. Why he says, “Brahmana” (is 
this): This person who is born for the sacrifice, from the metres, is now born of the 
Brahmana. First, he indeed is bom of mucus, wherefore, who knows it even though 
the evil spirits contact (copulate with) a woman? And then, now indeed, he who is 
bom of the sacrifice, of the metres, is bom of ‘Brahmana’. Therefore, when even 
though one other than a Brahmana, whether he be a Ksatriya ( Rdjanya ) or a Vaisya, 
undertakes the vow (gets consecrated), they say of him only Brahmin. For, now 
indeed he is bom of‘Brahmana’. Therefore they say, “One who performs ‘Savana ' 
(the pressing of Soma / the Soma sacrifice) should not be killed. For, because of the 
performer of the Soma sacrifice, he (the killer) verily becomes a sinner thereby. 
(First Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANA II 

1. He restrains his speech (remains silent) till the sun sets; why he maintains 
silence dll the sun sets (is because of this)— 

2. Having made this conquest, which conquest is theirs, verily by means of the 
sacrifice, they, the gods, said, “Well! Let us make this in such a manner that this of 
ours may be inaccessible to men”. Having completely sucked the essence of the 
sacrifice and having emptied the sacrifice, just as bees would completely suck 
(honey), and having obliterated it with the sacrificial post. They disappeared. 
Because they obliterated (concealed) it with this, therefore is this (sacrificial post) 
known as ‘Yitpa’ (means of obliteration). 

3. That indeed was heard by the Rsis. In such and such manner as the Rsis 
collected the sacrifice, that way the sacrifice was gathered (prepared). This person 
(the sacrificer) who undertakes now in the very same manner as the Rsis then 
(formerly) prepared the sacrifice. 

4. Speech is verily the sacrifice. Having gathered (prepared) it and having 
placed it within himself, he remians with control (of speech) till sunset. When the 
sun has set, he lets out speech, (The reason) why he lets out speech (breaks his 
silence) when the Sun has set (is this). The year is indeed the sacrifice. Prajapati is 
verily the year. Prajapati is certainly the sacrifice. Indeed day and night (together) 
are the year. For these two, revolving, bring about the year. He (the sacrificer) has 
now taken the vow (consecration) during day time. He has reached the night. Thus 
haring secured the endre sacrifice, thereafter he lets out speech (breaks his 
silence). 

5. In this matter, some make him give up (silence) after pointing out the stars 
saying, “Now (the sun) has straightway set”. One need not do so, for, where would 
they be if there should be a cloud? Therefore, let him (give up silence) let out 
speech only when he may consider the sun as haring set. 



rv.2.2.12] 


TRANSLATION 


37 

6. He lets out speech (speaks), looking at the fire, “Prepare the Vrata( foodfor 
the Vrata) ”! “Prepare the Vratal “Prepare the Vrata!” For, it is his ‘hairs’ (oblation, 
food). What is Vrata (food for the Vrata), this is the sacrifice, as was the Agnihotra 
to him formerly. Thus having gathered this sacrifice, he establishes it in this 
sacrifice. He continues the sacrifice by means of the sacrifice. Thus does his sacrifice 
become drawn out (continuously) till the pressing of the soma. Indeed thus his Vrata 
(food for Vrata) becomes continuous. 

7. In that matter, some make him break his silence, verily (with the utterance), 
“Bhuh”, (Earth), “Bhuvah” (midregion), “Svah” (Heaven, sky) or with some thing 
else. They do not put the sacrifice together. He indeed pronounces thrice, for the 
sacrifice is threefold. 

8. Then he says, “Agni is the Brahman. Agni is the sacrifice. The tree is fit for 
the sacrifice”. Thus he first utters with his speech, verily the truth now. For, Agni is 
‘Brahman’ and Agni is indeed the sacrifice and the trees are verily fit for the 
sacrifice. If there were no trees, men could not sacrifice at all. Therefore does he 
say, “The tree is Fit for sacrifice”. 

9. Thereafter he speaks profusely as he likes. Now this indeed ( viz. the Vrata) 
(food for Vrata) is his ‘hair’ (oblation), and this is the sacrifice, just as Agnihotraws 
formerly to him. Therefore they cook it, for the cooked (food) is for the gods. Then 
he himself consumes it (as food for Vrata ). They do not offer it in the fire. (The 
reason) Why he himself eats it (for Vrata) and they do not offer it into die fire (is 
this)— 

10. The gods, having indeed won by means of the sacrifice this conquest, 
which is their conquest, said, “Well! Let us make this in such a manner that this 
(sacrifice) of ours would not be accessible to men” Having completely sucked the 
essence of the sacrifice, as bees would suck completely, and having thus emptied the 
sacrifice and then having obliterated it with the sacrificial post, they disappeared. 
Since they obliterated it by means of this, hence this (sacrificial post) is known as 
‘Yiipa\ 

11. But that was heard by the Rsis. In just what manner and how the Rsis 
collected that sacrifice, in that way has this sacrifice been prepared. This person 
who undertakes the vow is himself indeed the sacrifice. For it is he who perforins 
it; he indeed produces it. What verily, then, of the sacrifice had been completely 
sucked by the gods, what had been emptied, that very thing does he replenish (fill 
up) by means of this ‘havis’ (oblation, food), by means of this essence. If he should 
offer it into the fire, he would not be replenishing it (filling it up). Therefore 
indeed does he himself eat it (as food for Vrata) and they do not offer it into the fire. 

12. Then, he should think (in his mind) verily that he is offering, “These vital 
airs (energies/faculties) are born of die mind, united with the mind and of 
dexterous functions. Agni verily is speech, Mitra and Vanina are the (two breaths) 
prana and the Sun is the eye and the ‘Visvadevas’ are the ear”. Thus, it becomes 
such that it is properly offered into these deities. Therefore he should indeed think 
that he is making the offering. 



IV.2.2.16] 


TRANSLATION 


39 


13. In that matter, some mix both rice and barley in the first Vrata (food for 
the Vrata), (thinking), “What, of the sacrifice, has been sucked completely and 
what has been emptied, that we shall fill up (replenish) by means of these two 
essences (things with essence) “And if more over, the cow fails (to yield milk), of 
these whichever he may like they should cook (that as) his food for the vow; they 
should make porridge for him”. “Thenjustas (the material for) his ‘havis’ (food for 
consecration) is taken thus does it (the sacrifice) then become for him”. But he 
need not do it so. These two things viz., rice and barley are indeed sacrificial food. 
Milk is sacrificial food. If therefore these two (rice and barley) have been taken as 
(material for) ‘havis ’for him, even with that they may mix (milk); only any one of 
the two. Should he (so desire) he may take merely milk as food (for the consecration). 

14. Now, some mix (with the ‘ Vrato’milk) all vegetable and fragrant (season- 
mg substances) (thinking), “Perhaps affliction befalls (may befall) thispersonwho 
has undei taken the vow. Then, with that, by which they think he will become free 
from disease, they treat (cure) him. This isjust like that he may (cure) treat himself 
with the ‘havis’ (the Vrata food) that has been taken (by him)”. 

He should not, however, do so. For, if he should do so, he would indeed be 
doing a human act. What is human—that indeed is the decline (ruin) of the 
sacrifice. Therefore he should not do so. With what, they think, he will by himself 
free from disease,—with that they treat (cure) him, if affliction befalls him. For 
verily the completion (of the sacrifice) is desired (is holy). Therefore, they give 
(thatfood) to him, passing over the (usual) timewhenmeneati.e.in thelatterpart 
of the night( the milk of the afternoon), and (give him) the morning milk in the 

afternoon. By thathe (Adhvaryu) treats this (consecrated) personin anon-human, 
in a verily divine, way. 

15. When, he is about to hand over the food of ‘ Vrata’ to this (sacrificer) he 
makes him wash himself. He (the sacrificer) washes himself, (chanting) ‘We 
meditate on the divine ‘Intelligence’ which is very merciful (which produces 
happiness), for the sake of help—the ‘Intelligence’which bears (bestows) brilliance 
and which sustains all (the Universe). May it which is (provider of) a good food (to 
cross over) be in our power”. Thus, formerly he washed himself for a human (food). 
And now it is for the sake of the divine ‘Intelligence’ that he who has undertaken 
the vow (washes himself). Therefore he says, “We think of (meditate upon) the 
divine Intelligence”. 

16. Then, they give him the Vrata food. Then he ceremoniously sips water, 
(chanting) “Those gods who are bom of the mind, who unite with (who employ) 
the mind, who are of dexterous action may they protect us, may they guard us!" To 
them Svdhal ” These vital airs (energies) are indeed the mind-bom ones, which 
yoke the mind and which are of dexterous action. Therefore, thus it becomes such 
that it is offered, with the utterance of ‘SvahaV into these vital airs (energies) of 
this person (sacrificer). 



IV.2.2.21} TRANSLATION 41 

17. Having consumed the ‘ Vrata' food, and (then) having touched water, he 
strokes his belly (chanting) “Oh extensive waters! Having been drunk, you please 
become friendly within our belly! May they (the waters) be tasty to us, without 
disease (without consumption), without illness, and without sin—they, the divine, 
the immortal and the holy (fosterers of Truth) 

18. And verily the Vrata food is strong. He sprinkles it so that it would become 
lighter. Or it (the food) is little. He sprinkles it with a desire to make it more (in 
quantity). Indeed he who undertakes the vow approaches the gods. He verily 
becomes one of the gods themselves. The food of the gods (the ‘ havis’) is not 
sprinkled (not added to). When he sprinkles, he makes it wrongly and violates the 
vow 7 . Thereby (by chanting) this (vow) of his does not become ‘wrongly done’ and 
thereby he does not violate the vow. This (chant) is indeed the atonement. 
Therefore it (the belly) should be certainly stroked. Who, indeed, knows whether 
the giver of the Vrata food sprinkles (increases) and how (he sprinkles)?" 

19. And, then, where he is going to urinate, he strikes with the black antelope 
horn either the dust or the place around or the ground (chanting) ‘This is your 
body, fit for (the performance of) sacrifice”. This whole earth is certainly divine and 
itis the place ofworship of the gods. Such aone, this (earth) should not be urinated 
upon by the person who has taken up the vow. What is sacrifice-worthy of that very 
eai th that he takes away thus and he urinates upon only what body of this (earth) 
is unfit for sacrifice. I release the waters (of urine) and not progeny (the seed) 

So (chanting) he urinates. Indeed from this (passage of urine) semen (too) issues. 
Thus (by chanting) he retains the progeny (seed) within himself and lets out only 
urine. Therefore does he say, “I release the waters, not progeny”. (He chants) 
“Deliverers from trouble, (sanctified) with the utterance of ‘Svdhd\ (you Oh 
waters!) enter the earth! These (waters of urine) indeed release from trouble what 
is pressed here (in his body). Therefore he says, “Release from trouble”. (By saying) 
“Having been sanctified by (the utterance of) ‘Svaha\ enter the earth he makes 
them reach the earth after haring thus made them verily into an offering and after 
having appeased them. Hence says he, “Enter the earth”. 

20. Having urinated, he replaces (the earth taken away formerly) (chanting) 
“Unite with the earth”. Thus, haring taken up (away) what is sacrifice-worthy of this 
(earth) and having urinated upon that part (body) unfitfor sacrifice, he puts back 
again on it the sacrifice-worthy part. Therefore says he, “Unite with the earth”. 

21. Now, where he is going to sleep, having, given it (that place) to Agni (for 
protection)? Indeed he who undertakes the vow approaches the gods. He verily 
becomes one of the gods themselves. The gods surely do not sleep. Sleeplessness 
is for this (saci ifice) not apportioned indeed. Agni is verily the lord of vows to the 
gods. Thus, having handed over (the place) to him who himself is the lord of vows 
to the gods, he sleeps. 



IV.2.2.26] 


TRANSLATION 


43 


22. He says, “Oh Agni! You please wake up (be alert), well. May we well sleep 
(rejoice)!” He verily says (means) this, ‘You be awake, we shall sleep”. (He chants), 
“Protect us, being attentive (not inattentive)”. He verily says (means) this only, 
“Not being inattentive, guard us”. (He says), “Make us wake up again”. He verily 
says (means) only this “Do so for us that we may wake up again”. As, having woken 
up he is not going to sleep again. 

23. Then he mutters meditatively, “My mind has come back to me; my life 
again (has come back to me). My eye has come back to me, my ear again (has come 
back to me). My breath has come back to me, my soul again (has come back to me) ”. 
Indeed all these deities (faculties) go away from this person who sleeps. Only his 
vital energy does not depart from him. Thus these deities (faculties) enter this 
person again. Therefore is it that he mutters thus. (He chants) “May Agni 
Vaisvanara, the unhurt one, the protector of bodies (beings), protect me from evil 
and censure”. He verily says (means) only this, “May Agni himselfsaveusfrom that 
viz., what wrong doing has been (done) here and from the fact that we have slept”. 
Thus, thereby that (action) of his does not become ‘wrong-doing’, thereby he does 
not violate the vow. This indeed is the atonement here. 

24. And, if being angry or inadvertent, he should utter some irrelevant 
expression unworthy of the vow, then he should mutter, “Oh Agni! You are the 
protector of the vow, Oh god! among men. You are fit to be praised in sacrifices”. 
Indeed, Agni is the Lord of vows to gods. Thus he (the sacrificer) approaches 
(rushes to) him. Thereby his action does not become inconsistent with the vow. 
Thus he does not violate the vow. This indeed is the atonement here. 

25. And if they (people) should bring to this person who has taken up the vow 
either garment or cow, then he should consecrate it with the mantra, “Oh Soma! 
Bestow this much. Bring More”. Verily Soma unites with (appropriates) what they 
bring (as offering) to this (sacrificer) who is going to sacrifice with Soma (the soma 
juice). Therefore he says, “Oh Soma! Bestow so much”. “Bringmore”. He verily says 
(means) “Bring more to us”. (He chants), “The divine Savitr, the giver of wealth, 
has bestowed wealth on us”. Indeed Savitr is the impeller of the gods. That way, this 
(gift), verily impelled by Savitr to this (sacrificer) conduces to (further) gift. 

26. He (Adhvaryu) says before sunset, “Oh consecrated person (who have 
taken up the vow)! Restrain your speech”. Before sun-rise he says “Oh consecrated 
person! Restrain your speech”. Verily for the purpose of continuity. Thus he 
continues the night with the day and again the day with night. May not the Sun set 
on him (the sacrificer) who is moving elsewhere. For thereby he (the Sun) would 
be cutting him (the sacrificer) off from the night. Certainly let not he (the Sun) 
rise on him who is sleeping. Thereby verily he would be cutting him off from the 
day-time. Therefore here, it (going out and sleep) must be guarded against. There 
is indeed no atonement in this matter. Prior to the concluding purificatory bath he 



45 


IV - 2 - 3 - 2J translation 

, n0t enter . (g ° t u OWards) water ’ nor shouId * rain on him who loves himself. 

enterwamrorEh “if.^P urificatoI 7bath (avabhrtha) he should 

speeclTand not the ”7 ram Wh ° haS hiS °™ desire ' He s P eaks refined 

speech and not * e widespread human (speech), wherefore he speaks refined 

speech (of the gods) and not the widespread human (speech). 

27. Having made this conquest, which conquest is theirs, by means of the 

sacnf.ce, they, the gods, said, “Ah! Let us make this (sacrifice) of ours now in uch 

' 11 "7 be T CeSSibIe t0 men ”- Ha ""* -ked the 

ssence of the sacrifice, as bees would completely suck (honev) and having 

emptied it thus having concealed (obliterated) it with the sacrificial post, they 
disappeared. Therefore it is well-known as ‘Yiipa’. ^ ^ 

that s!aific e at inTho eard ^ ^ “ (in different "*>•> P?is collected 

t sacrifice, in the same manner was this sacrifice collected Just as then the Rsis 

efe . 1 f sacnfi ^ e ’ thus mdeed does this person who undertakes the vow now 
gathers (collects and performs) the sacrifice. 

w Venly speech itself is the sacrifice. What was then (formerly) sucked 
completely and what was emptied of the sacrifice by the gods, that verwthing he 
( e sacnficer) now replenishes by means of this sacrificial food and tymeans of 

spread^umantpeech*** ^ “ U P> lfhe “ »«•« the wide- 

„ a 3 f\ N °'u (thC reaS ° n ^ wh y he is ^ 0 ™ as ‘Diksita ’ (the one who has 
ndertaken the vow) is that this (sacrifice) now anoints himself thus for the sake of 

speech. He venly anoints himself for the sacrifice. The sacrifice is indeed speech 

sa kn °T X m?Ua ' (thC anolnted ) •is verily this (Diksita) that they 
y Diksita (one who has undertaken the vow). (Second Brahmana Ends) 7 

brAhmanaiii 

1. He prepares indeed this ‘caru’ (rice-pap) for ‘Prayanha’ (the preliminary 
Tan rT H- " amb A e ! n ^ dedicated to Aditi. The reason why this ‘Prlyaniy a'rice- 

on^this T 1C *m p°^r lti iS The gods performed the sacrifice (elaborately) 
on this (earth). Performing it (elaborately) on this (earth) they kept her away 
(separated her) from the sacrifice. y rept ner awa> 

„ . f 2 ' Thls one who wa « such, observed (by Aditi) “Ah! (1 shall) confound the 
sacrifice of these (gods) who verily performing (the sacrifice) on me have kept me 

wfoerfo H Those gods rushed to her only (and said), “NoUM) 

^ne foXdoe TV T ily ° n y ° U - H ° W iS U that our sacrifi « does not 
ne forth (does not please), how did (that of) ours get confounded?” 



IV.2.3.10] 


TRANSLATION 


47 


. . 3 * She ( theearth ) said, “I myselfconfounded your sacrifice. Because, perform- 

mgit on me, you separated me from the sacrifice, therefore I indeed confounded 
your sacrifice Make (provide for) a share for me. Then will your sacrifice shine (be 
p easing) . They said, So (be it). The Prayaniya (oblation) is verily yours, yours is 
the Udayaniya ’ (oblation)". Then, this (ear*) is Aditi indeed. Therefore *^5 
nce-pap of die Prayaniya is dedicated to Aditi only and the Udayanlyais dedicated 
to (ts of) Aditi .Thereafter the sacrifice shone forth (was pleasing) for them (gods). 

hey created that (sacnfice); they performed it (elaborately). The reason why this 
cam (nce-pap) dedicated to Aditi is (offered in) the Prayaniya’is (that it is) for 

toh, n f Th ‘ fiCe ltSeIf ' He (the sacnflcer > wrily sees the sacrifice by means of this 
(oblation). Having seen it (the sacrifice) and having purchased (the soma) he 

performs tt ( the sacrifice) elaborately. Therefore indeed is this cam dedicated to 

t , ‘ ‘ re , d m * e) Pra y a fy a - That sacrificial food had verily been cooked. But 
the deity had not been sacrificed to. 

4. Then, Pathya-Svasti’ (welfare for the road-journey) shone before them 
They sacrificed to her. Speech indeed is ' Pathya-Svasti Speech is certainly the 

T-ru the >' found the they created it; theyperformed itelaborately. 

5 - Then. “ *ese (gods) there appeared Agni. They sacrificed to him. Then 
what was Agni s part of the sacrifice, that they perceived. What is dry. That is what 

15 s' c ha ‘ C3n te bUmt by fire ' That the f created and that they spread 

6 And then Soma appeared to them. They worshipped (sacrificed to) him 
Thereby they perceived what is sacrifice was related to Soma. Whatever is moist- 
that is related to Soma. That they created and that they spread 

f A " d then ' to 01,5,11 ^ ods ) there appeared Savitr. They worshipped him and 
hereby they perceived what was related to Savitr in the sacrifice. Indeed cattle 
(animals) are of Savitr. Cattle are verily the sacrifice. Thus they perceived the 
sacrifice, they created it and they spread it. 

I? ereafter * ey “ed to Aditi.'Then the sacrifice appeared to these 
(gods). They created it, they spread it. 

- , 9 ‘ He (°’ e sacrificer) sacrifices to these five deities. Indeed that sacrifice was 

fdeiriS a r ° JeCt of ' conAlsi °n. That (sacrifice) they recognized by these five 

(den es). The five seasons were confused (objects of confusion). Then they (the 

gods) recognized only by these five (deities). The five quarters were confounded 
(object of confusion) . By these very five (deities) they (gods) recognized them. 

, , 1 .°; bym r nS<L ! r Pat, V a ^ vasti ' (*ey knew) the north. Verily speech is Pathya, 

*, Tp re ’ the, ' sa )'’ “ Here s P eech sounds in the north in the ‘Kurupancaja’ 
country and Kuru mahavrsa’. By means of that (speech) they knew this quarter". 
This quarter (north) has been known as of that (speech). 


i 



,V - 2 ' 3 ' 16J translation 

takenAgnifrombehind h (from'theSrto 0 /1 Sni ' TBerefore *ey worship, having 
They indeed knew this quarter bv “^^tflefrontteast) (Ahamnvfa). 

known verily as his (Agni’s). ^ ° S ° 11121 ( A S n1 )-This quarter has been 

has the Piers^as thecheties^ Therefore if?™*' ™ erefore the >’ sa T Soma 

knew this quarter by means of that (SomI) Th s Sde,^ TT S ° Uth ' The ’ r 
quarter of that (Soma). ' ‘ mde ed, has been known as the 

indeed is Therefore thfe (&LTdT ft Th “ °" e (Sun > who bu ™s 

means of him (the Sun) they knew tkis Vanefinde^TWs" 1 ^ By 

indeed known as his (Savitr’s) " ^ 1S ^ uarter has been 

is Aditi. Therefore from ° f Adili ’ This (earth » indeed 

of this (earth) verily they knew this matter T™ T Var<1 B >" means 

been known as its direction. ^ is (upward direction) indeed has 

offeriS: “? ‘U&ayamya’ (the closing 

these two oblations occur on both sides of (before and aftert'hT ‘Tu Therefore ' 
For, these two arms are on both sides of the head r fter [ hos P ltable reception, 
ro) five deities in the Pray.nlyalZ five L*e k Orifices 

,h, S^‘-‘-H5,“dSe P J°"(h" l>Ud 

stirred (the pap) ”f “He should nlnr^ a ^ u Wn ^ stlrnn S spoon after having 

both). Therefore these^A^aw- ^ tThus he P erf °rms similarly (in 

Onio [ h.fire) n ifc s hould a S^o^ r ^™ ld ^*^( hr ' w lfies,irr '‘‘S spoon 

TOofthesacrificrUe wo ^ Udajan^a are the tvo 

sacrificer) sanctifies the forepart of the " crL^ThM BrdhXa ^ 



IV.2.4.6] 


TRANSLATION 


51 


BRAHMANA IV 

1. Soma was indeed in the sky and the gods (were) here (on earth). The gods 
desired, “May Soma come to us”. “With him come here, may we perform sacrifice! ” 
Then they created these two illusions viz., Suparnl and Kadru. Indeed speech is 
Suparnl. This (earth) is Kadru. That (story) is described in the explanatory section 
(Brahmana) of the hearths as ‘Sauparnikadravam’ (the story of the Suparnl and 
Kadru) as to in what different ways it was and then for the sake of these gods Gayatri 
flew up to Soma and as she was bringing (Soma) the Gandharva Visvavasu stole it 
in the middle. 

2. They, the gods, said, “Soma has fallen from beyond. In between, the 
Gandharvas stole him. Find out (a way) as to how he may come to us. 

S. They said, “The Gandharvas are indeed fond of women. Therefore let us 
send ‘Speech’ herself to them. She will indeed bring this (Soma) to us”. They then 
sent speech. She came to them verily along with Soma. The Gandharvas come 
following her. 

4. They (Gandharvas) said, “Soma is for you and Speech for us— (Speech) 
with whom you purchased (Soma) from us”. They (the gods) said, “If she would 
come here (to us), do not at all lead away by force this ( Vdk) of ours having bartered. 
Let us only solicit her!” Saying “So (be it)” they solicited her. The Gandharvas 
proclaimed to her the sacrifice itself to be the Veda, (saying) “Thus do we know the 
sacrifice, thus do we know. We are virile”. Then the gods understood that women 
were indeed vain. Having created the ‘Vma’ (the stringed musical instrument) and 
having produced it they sangwith it (they played upon it and sang) for her (saying), 
“Thus indeed shall we sing for you, thus shall we exhilarate you. Come to us”. Then 
she turned (to them). She indeed turned in vain—who turned to dance and song 
from one who prayed and from one who praised. Therefore, whoever indeed is 
attached to vain things, who dances, who sings to him only is a woman most 
attached. Thus, formerly turned speech whom women take after. 

5. Thus, Speech and Soma both were with the gods, (the reason) why he (the 
sacrificer) purchased Soma is indeed for its arrival (acquisition), (with the 
thought) “With Soma that has come, may I sacrifice!” Therefore is it that he 
purchases Soma. 

6. Then, what ghee remians in the ‘Dhruva’ spoon, that he takes in the ‘juhu 
dividing it into four parts. Then, having tied (a piece of) gold with ( a blade of) 
sacred grass, he puts it down (into th ejuhu), (thinking), “Gold and milk are indeed 
of common origin. Both are verily the seed of Agni. Let me offer with complete 
milk”. Therefore he puts the gold piece down. 



IV.2.4.12] TRANSLATION 53 

7. He says it (chanting) “Oh resplendent one (Agni)! This is your body. This 
is your lustre”. This thing viz., gold is indeed ‘lustre!’ (He says) “Unite with that ”. 
He verily says (means) this. “Mingle with that” ( He says) “Get splendour”. Soma is 
certainly ‘splendour’. When he says, “Get splendour”, he merely says (means) this, 
“Get Soma for whom we send you”. 

8. Then he offers. When he offers, he sends her (speech) thusnow, as the gods 
formerly sent her. It is this speech that is primarily (in true form) the purchaser of 
Soma. With this offering he (the sacrificer) gratifies her (thinking), “With her 
gratified, let me purchase Soma”. Therefore does he indeed offer. 

9. He offers (chanting) ‘You are the {Jur) one who goes with” this Jur' is 
indeed one name of speech. Therefore he says ‘You are/uf. (He says) “Held by the 
mind”. Verily by the mind is speech held. For, now the mind moves before the 
speech as in say thus , don t say thus’, if mind were not there, speech would 
indeed talk incoherently and indistinctly. Therefore does he say, “Held by the 
mind”. (He says) “Pleasing to the pervasive one (Visnu) Really Soma is the 
pervasive one (Visnu). When he says, “Pleasing to Visnu’, he verily says (means) 
only this, “Pleasing to Soma for whom we send you”. (He says) “On the impulsion 
of yourself who have the true permission (of the gods)”. He verily says (means) 
thereby “Be of true impulsion to us. Please go to Soma for our sake”. (He says) “May 
I get a support for the body!— Svetka”. He verily says (means) this, “May I enjoy the 
completion of the sacrifice!” Indeed he who undertakes the vow desires, “May I 
enjoy the completion of the sacrifice! "Therefore says he “May I enjoy asupport for 
the body”. 

10. Then he takes up the gold (from th ejuhu ). Should he offer the gold (into 
the fire), surely. Gold would turn away from men. In that he takes up the gold, 
therefore indeed is this gold among men. 

11. He takes it up (chanting), You are shining (delighting), you are lustrous, 
you are immortal. You are the one belonging to all the gods”. Haring thus offered 
with the entire milk, when this (gold) alone remains, he keeps it, “you are thus 
indeed shining (delighting), thus indeed lustrous, thus indeed immortal and thus 
indeed belonging to all the gods” for it is really of all the gods. 

12. Then, haring taken up ghee in four parts a second time, he says, “Oh 
sacrificer! Go”. Then in front there is present the cow with which Soma is pur¬ 
chased. They throw the door open. They address her. “Go beyond to the north”. 
As she is moving beyond to the north, he sanctifies her (by chanting mantras). The 
reason why he sanctifies her is that they now thus send her again—her who has 
already been sent (placed in front). In true form this one (cow) with which the 
Soma is purchased is indeed speech. Having gratified her with this oblation thus, 
he now sends her first, just as formerly (yonder) the gods sent her. 



IV.2.4.18] 


TRANSLATION 


55 

13. He sanctifies her (chanting) “you are the thought, you are the mind”. 
Speech indeed speaks according to the thought of the mind. Therefore he says, 
“You are the thought, you are the mind”. (He chants) ‘You are the intelligence”. 
Speech indeed is intelligence. For, by means of speech, by means of intelligence, 
men live, with the Veda that is recited and (or) by felicitous talk. Therefore he says 
‘You are the intelligence”. (He says), ‘You are the sacrificial fee (you are the 
curteous one) . Indeed speech is the sacrificial fee, for with speech does he give the 
sacrificial fee. Therefore says he, You are the sacrificial fee”. (He says) “You are 
‘Ksatriya’ (the powerful one), you are worthy of sacrifice (worship) Indeed this 
one (cow-speech) is the dominating one and this one is indeed sacrifice-worthy. 
(He says) ‘You are Aditi, having heads on both sides”. As he speaks contrarily with 
speech what (comes) first (that he puts) later and what (conies) later (he puts 
that) first, therefore he says “having heads on both sides”. 

14. (He says) ‘You who are such, please be of good forward (movement) and 
good backward (return) (movement) for our sake”. He verily says (means) this 
only, “Be of good forward (movement) for us; for our sake go to Soma”. (In saying), 
“Be of good backward (movement) ” he verily says (means) only this, “come (back) 
to us with good backward (movement); bring Soma for us”, when he says “you, who 
are such, be of good forward (movement) and of good backward (movement)". 

15. (They chant) “May Mitra bind (you) by the foot”. They do not bind her 
(the cow) at all, for the rope belongs to Varuna. If she were bound Varuna would 
catch hold of her. Not bound, she would be unrestrained. What is of Mitra-that 
certainly is not under the power of Varuna. That way (this cow) becomes indeed 
restrained and that way Varuna too does not capture this one. Therefore he says, 
“May Mitra bind you in the foot”. 

16. (He chants) “Let Pusan guard (your) paths! "This (earth) is indeed Pusan. 
Thus he makes this one herself‘guardian’ on the way for this person’s (sacrificer’s) 
sake. There is no affliction, no stumbling for him who this (earth) protects on the 
path. Therefore he says, “May Pusan protect the paths”. 

17. (He says) “For Indra, the (supreme) overseer” for the reason that she may 
have a (supreme) good overseer, he says “for Indra the (Supreme) overseer”. (He 
says) “May (your) mother permit you, may (your) father (permit) ”. For she is bom 
of the father and of the mother. (He says) “May your brother bom of the same 
womb (mother) (permit you)! (May your) friend who belongs to the same group 
(permit you)!” (thinking) “This is then about her birth. Therefore, with her who 
has been permitted (by all her kin) let me purchase soma”. 

18. (He says) “Oh goddess! you (who are such) go to the god”, indeed this 
(speech,) a goddess, thus goes to the god Soma for the sake of Indra. Therefore 
does he say, “Oh goddess! you, who are such, please go to the god”. (He says) ‘To 
Soma for the sake of Indra”. Indra is the deity of the sacrifice. Therefore he says, 
“To Soma, for the sake of Indra”. 



IV-2.4.20] TRANSLATION 5? 

19. (He says) “May Rudra make you turn back (and return)! ” Indeed Rudra 

has power over these (cows). Cattle (animals) do not go beyond him. That way, (this 
one too) does not pass beyond (Rudra). Therefore he says, “May Rudra make you 
turn back . 7 

20. (He chants) “(May) welfare ! Come back with Soma as your friend 

(companion) ” He verily says (means) this, “May welfare be to us! Come back with 
Soma . Thus indeed has he (the sacrificer) sent her now, in the same manner as 
formerly the gods sent her. Just as she came with Soma, so does it come to be now. 
Just as the gods then (formerly) solicited her (speech) with the Gandharvas, so does 
the sacrificer now solicit this one. Just as she turned to the gods from the 
Gandharva, so does she now turn to the sacrificer. Verily the north is the quarter 
of men. That is (the quarter) of the sacrificer. (In that) she turns to his direction, 
by that she turns to the sacrificer. Thus he now leaves her off in his own quarter’ 
(Fourth Rrahmana Ends) 4 


(Chapter Two Ends) 



rv.3.1.5] 


translation 

Chapter Three 


59 


BRAHMANAI 

seven footprint. fodeed he goes oufwith “% 

you W >'^-A d ih, 

sacrifice is verily^pt^VH^Z^ays^mea^) merXthri “M^lTh * 

he sprJdsfolsfoShinthe" 5532,^ 1)16 ‘ hUnderboIt - 

*! ^aB gsgeiift i^yr ■»•*»».«. 

SWS332S2" “ •“■—<«« 

eTfo" 0 He“ d e offersthuffofoi wo "k ^ ^ "^P^ ^nd! ofie 
“You are the footprim "f*rc„w^t 7 h f, gr ° m ’ d *** ^ < Hech “«> 

Therefore he savV “L?, ,1 7 ^ .' 1 eed the C0W1S '&■ This is herfootprint 
. he sa)s, k>u are the footpnnt of Ida”. fHe chanu^ “Ah n na . rn a • 

fee the offering mad e) ”. Having offered, haviL^moted thewf 

sword. The 8 w d ’ d he <draWS by scratc hing) around with the wooden 

theU of thetcliZr o S P “ He Verilysays (means > ** «* 



IV.3.1.14J 


TRANSLATION 


61 


or scl™ en uo h r U h r ate , r (in u he foot Pri«), where drawing lines around 
ot scraping up they have reduced it or hurt it. Water indeed is medicine (a means 

of) soothing water; he puts it together (heals it) With water 1 

7 Then he gives it (the scraped earth) to the sacrifice^ (saying) “wealth” He 

indeed says (means) this only “(there are) cattle in you". The sLrfficer accept 

h T“care wealth. He verily says (means Znfy 

4Hh 1 U U ' 51118 May we not be se P arate d from prosperity 1 " he 

(Adhvaryu) touches himself. Thereby the Adhva^i does not exclude himself 
from (possession of) cattle. exclude nimseli 

S.Then.theygive (earthfrom) the footprint of (the cow) with which Soma is 

bought. Indeed wife is die home. The footprint of (the cow) with which Soma U 
purchased means cattle. Thus he establishes the cattle in the house itself 

. , ' e ha " ds 11 over - saying “In you, in you (are) riches”. Indeed cattle are 

In £ Z ^ (mean$) these ° n,y - “ In you - in 5™ are cattle". 

10 Then he causes the (sacrificer's) wife to be looked at by (the cow) with 

which Soma is purchased. This (cow) really becomes Soma, (the cow) bywWch 

hey purchase Soma. Soma is indeed male. The (sacrificer’s) wife is female Thus 
is produced venly a productive union (pair). 

11. He shows her (to the cow) (as she chants), “I am being seen bv divine 
intel igence by ‘ Daksind ’! (the sacrificial fee) which has avast vision. Do not rob 
me of my life-span I too shall not (take away your life). Oh goddess! With vour 

beniVn T^' S ° nS! ” He ^ thus for *e blessing, “In you 

benign sight, may I obtain sons! ” y 

■ j~, l ^^ tone ( cow ) whichisbrownandwhichhastawnyeyes—that (is the one) 

wth which Soma is bought. When Indra and Visnu divided a thousand (cows) into 
three pare, then one was left over. Therefore, even now when they (people may 
lvide a thousand into three parts, one only would be left over. They (ItTdra and 
Visnu) made her into three varieties, produced in three ways. ' 

■ Tyierefore . too has been recited by the Rsi (Veda), “Both of you 

conquered; (you) were not vanquished. Of the two, neither was defeated. Wiat 

Indra and Visnu contended for, that one thousand, the two divided into three 
pares . 

cow- rowTwnh° rl h ' (C i?c ) WhiCh is brOW1 ar,d tavvny eyed < that they make) the Soma 
cow, cow (with which Soma is purchased); and what is red and does not have black 

whTrh'' e ii, ^T ' te * at (they make) Indra ’ s (U ” of *e killer ofVrtra), 

batrie H t, ng killer ° f V ftf a they let off for the Ksatriya who wins the 

” hat , IS l ed An,i black e y ed that (they make) the one to follow (the 
Mstta) who dies (who goes to the world of manes). Thereforethat one which alone 
is brown and tawny eyed, that indeed should be (the cow) for Soma purchase. If 

they may not be able to find that (such a one), what is raddish may serve (as the one 



IV.3.2.4] 


TRANSLATION 


63 


to pm chase Soma with), for that is its nearer colour. If they may not get even that 
then what is red and what does not have black eyes—that may be (as Soma-cow). 
But he should not entertain even a desire for what has black-eyes. She (the cow that 
is chosen) should be one that has not been impregnated. Verily this one the Soma- 
cow is speech, in its true form. Speech is indeed fresh (notbecome stale by time). 
Indeed this one (cow) which has not been impregnated is certainly fresh. She 
(should be) of unpierced ears, not one-eyed, not having only one horn, (sheshould 
be) short statured, not lame, not having seven hooves (not having one hoof 
undivided) and (she should be) of one (uniform) colour. Such a one is indeed 
fresh. (First Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANAII 

1. Having washed his two hands, he ties the (piece of) gold to this (finger) (the 
titig finger). The reason why he ties the gold to this is (this); This (universe) is 
indeed two-fold viz. ‘truth’ and ‘untruth’. There is no third. The gods are ‘truth’. 
Men are untruth . This thing viz. gold is verily the seed of Agni. (He chants) “Let 
me touch the tiny parts (of Soma) with ‘Truth’. Let me handle Soma by means of 
‘Truth’. Therefore he ties (the piece of) gold in this (finger). 

2* He then says, Bring the binding (cloth) of Soma. Bring the wrapping 
(cloth) of Soma. Bring the head-band”. What is most shining that alone should 
be the Soma-cloth. For this becomes his (Soma’s) clothing. He who makes this 
(cloth) this most shining—he verily shines. And he who makes some (indifferent) 
thing as this (cloth) he becomes so (insignificant) indeed. Therefore, only what 
is most shining should be the Soma-cloth. 

3. If they get a head-band, it may indeed serve. If they do not obtain a head- 
band then, on their cutting off the fore-part of the Soma—wrapper itself that (cut 
off portion) may take the place of the head-band. Either the Adhvaryu or the 
sacrificer takes it. 

4. Those two (Adhvaryu and sacrificer) move eastward, muttering, “Say to 
Soma for my sake, this part, related to Gayatri, is for you”. “Say to Soma for my 
sake, this part, of Trstubh, is for you”. “Say to Soma for my sake, this part, related 
to Jagatl (metre) is for you”. “Say to Soma for my sake, may you obtain the 
sovereignty of the measures of the metres!” 



IV.3.2.10] 


TRANSLATION 


65 


5. (The reason) why they move, thus muttering is that the Soma, being 
purchased even in part is fully purchased and purchased is the sovereignty of the 
very metres, the dominion of the metres. Therefore, indeed, thus does he report 
at the outset, “I purchase you really for the sovereignty of the metres, for the 
dominion of the metres and not for killing”. They indeed kill this (Soma) in that 
they thus squeeze him. Thereby he makes up his mind for the purchase. 

6. Then he sits behind, with bended knees, (saying), ‘You are ours”. For, he 
(Soma) has indeed come to him (thesacrificer) and him who has come, he is surely 
going to buy. Therefore he says. You are ours”. (He says) Your sparkling (juice) 
is fit to be taken”. For, from it he is going to take the pure (sparkling juice of) 
Soma. (He chants) “May those who collect you, collect you!” Thus he makes this 
(Soma) full for the sake of completeness. 

7. In that matter, some people throw away any other plant (weed) that is 
fallen (into Soma), saying, ‘Thus we make this complete (Soma only) ”. One should 
not do so. Soma is indeed Ksatra (the ruler) and the other plants are the common 
subjects. What other plant has fallen (into it) is to this (Soma) like (the food) that 
has been (grasped) by the mouth. This (throwing away of the weed) then becomes 
just like one may snatch and throw away what has been grasped (by the mouth). 
Therefore, now he should only mutter the Yajus (chant). Thus indeed he makes 
this (Soma) complete. 

8. Having made (folded) the Soma-cloth into two or four and having spread 
it with its hem towards the east or towards the north, he measures out this (Soma) 
on it. Because he measures this, therefore there is this measure among men viz. 
measure of the store-room or the small (measuring) jar or any other measure 
there is among men. 

9. He metes it out with a chant to Savitr; for Savitr is the impeller of the gods. 
Being impelled by Savitr does he verily measure it thus with a metre that goes 
beyond all (other) metres (in the number of syllables) (aticchandas ). ‘Aticchandas’ 
really is (i.e. it contains) all the metres. (He measures with it, thinking) “May (this 
Soma) of mine be measured by all the metres!”. 

10. He measures it (chanting) “I praise that god (Savitr), impeller of the two 
protectors (Heaven and Earth), one of wise action, of rue impulsion, the holder of 
precious things, one of all-round pleasing aspect, the thoughtful one, one of 
surpassing intelligence, at whose impetus incomprehensible effulgence shines 
above. May the golden handed (Sun) of auspicious action and of fine movement, 
measure out (Soma) with compassion!” 



IV. 3.3.2] 


TRANSLATION 


67 


11. With this very (chant) with all (fingers), with this (chant) with four 
(fingers), with this (chant) with three (fingers), with this (chant) with two 
(fingers), with this (chant) with one (finger), again with this (chant) with one, with 
this (chant) with two (fingers), with this (chant) with three (fingers), with this 
(chant) with four (fingers) and with this (chant) with all (fingers) and then also 
with the palms cupped together he throws (Soma). 

12. As to why he measures out raising and bending, thereby he employs a Viraj 
(metre) thus that way (forward) and this way (backward). That which is that way 
conveys the sacrifice for the gods and that which is this way pleases men. 

13. In that he verily measures raising and bending. He thus makes these 
everyone of the fingers acquire varied power (energies). Therefore indeed are 
these fingers of varied power. Therefore too, he makes half of it with one and then 
(the rest) with two. 

14. Since he verily measures raising and bending, therefore these fingers are 
indeed not united. He metes out ten times. For, ‘Viral’ is often syllables and Virdt 
certainly is the sacrifice. He thus accomplishes the very ‘ Viral' the (shining) 
sacrifice. 

15. Then, having gathered it up, he binds it (with the binding doth), 
(chanting) ‘You for the sake of progeny”. For, indeed for (obtaining) descendants 
he does thus to it in that it looks as if pressed in what has been bound up. Therefore, 
it looks as if pressed down between the shoulders and the head. 

16. Then he makes a space (hole), as it were, (chanting) “May the descendants 
breathe (derive energy) after you”. In that he compresses it. Thus he seems to close 
up (cover up) the vital breath, Thus (by making the hole) he relieves the very vital 
breath. With the vital breath that has thus been relieved by him, these creatures 
breathe (following it). Therefore he says, “May the creatures (descendants) 
breathe after you”. (Second Brahmana ends) 

BRAHMANA III 

1. He (the Adhvaryu) bargains over him (Soma). Since he thus haggles over 
him, therefore, all this even now becomes, sometime, verily the object of bargain 
(purchase). He haggles, having asked him (the possessor of Soma), “Oh seller of 
Soma! Is your Soma for sale?” He says to him (Adhvaryu), “It is for sale”. (The 
Adhvaryu says) “Let me purchase it of you” “Purchase” says he (the Soma seller). 
(The Adhvaryu says) “Let me purchase it for one sixteenth (of the cow)”. 

2. The seller of Soma says, “King Soma certainly deserves more than this”. 
The Adhvaryu (says), “Indeed King Soma deserves more than this. But the 
greatness (value) of the cow is great. From the cow (comes) fresh milk, from her 
the boiled milk, from her the curds, from her the sour cream, from her the curdled 
milk, from her the watery portion of the curdled milk, from her the butter, from 
her the ghee, from her the clotted milk and from her the whey. 



IV.3.3.7] 


TRANSLATION 


69 


3. Let me purchase (Soma) of you with a hoof (one eighth of the cow) ”. The 
seller of Soma verily says “King Soma deserves more than this”. The Adhvaryu says, 
“Indeed King Soma deserves more than this. But the greatness (value) of the cow 
is certainly great”. Having enumerated these very things he says, “Let me purchase 
(Soma) of you with the foot (of the cow) (one fourth of the cow), let me purchase 
(Soma) of you with half (of the cow), let me purchase (Soma) of you with the 
(whole) cow”. (The Soma Seller says) “King Soma has been purchased (by you). 
Show the nourishing things (that from the price) 

4. He shows, “Gold, goat, cloth, milch cow, a pair ofKine, three other (cows) 
Ashe first (before finalizing) says (bargains) and thereafter the other one finalises, 
therefore even now in human (transaction), they bargain only before, and then he 
clinches the bargain (finalises). The reason why the seller of Soma says merely so 
much, “King Soma surely deserves more than this”, and then the Adhvaryu shows 
these essences and the products of the cow is that Soma is already glorified for he 
is a god. Thus he (the Adhvaryu) thus glorifies only the cow, thinking, “May he who 
knows these essences and the products purchase this (cow)!” He verily bargains five 
times. The sacrifice is of the measure of the year and the seasons of the year are five. 
He obtains it (the sacrifice) by means of five. Therefore he bargains five times. 

5. Then he purchases this (Soma) with gold, (saying) “I purchase you (Soma) 
the shining one with (gold) the shining one”. In that he purchases Soma with the 
gold, he really thus purchases this shining one with the shining one. (He says) “The 
brilliant one with the brilliant (I purchase) Thus he veirly purchases the brilliant 
with the brilliant in that (he purchases) Soma with the gold. (He says), . “(I 
purchase) the undying with the undying”. Indeed he purchases the immortal with 
the immortal in that he purchases Soma with the gold. 

6. Then he (the Adhvaryu) takes it back again, (saying) “In the sacrificer 
(unifier) of your cow”. He places it down (saying) “In us (in our sacrificer) be your 
shining ones”. What is verily its vital energy that he places in this (sacrificer). And 
then he purchases (the Soma) thus with the (mere) body (of the gold). Therefore 
he says, “In us (in our sacrificer) (be) your shining ones”. 

7. He then bargains for this (Soma) with a she-goat whose neck is turned 
thitherward, (chanting) “You are the body of austerities”. This (she-goat) has been 
bom of the austerities of this (Prajapati). Therefore he says, “You are the body of 
austerities”. (He says) ‘The colour of Prajapati”. In that she brings forth 
(offspring) in the year, thereby there is (in her) the colour of Prajapati. (He says) 
“You are bought with the best animal”. It is the best animal in that it brings forth 
thrice in a year. (He says) “May I increase with a thousand fold increase!” Thus he 
verily prays for the blessing. ‘Abundance ’ verily is a thousand fold increase. Indeed 
abundance is prosperity. Thus he veirly prays for the blessing, “May I attain 
prosperity!” Therefore he says, “May I increase with a thousand fold increase!”. 



rv.3.3.13] 


TRANSLATION 


71 


8. In so far as he takes Soma after having given the she-goat and in that he 
makes (Soma) come down (to him) by means of the she-goat (aja), therefore 
indeed is this (she-goat) is known as ‘ aja’ (she who drives thither). It is inded ‘aja’ 
that they call ‘aja. Therefore he takes the Soma after having given the she-goat 
(aja). 

9. He takes (Soma) (chanting), “Oh friend! Oh bestover of good friends! 
come”. He verily says (means) this only, “Be auspicious to us, without hurting us”, 
when he says, “Oh friend! Oh bestover of good friends! Come”. (He says) “Enter 
(be seated on) the right thigh of Indra”. The sacrificer is Indra. Thus he now places 
(Soma) on his right thigh. Therefore he says, “Sit on the right thigh of Indra”. (He 
chants) "The desirousone on the desirous”. When he says “The desirous one on the 
desiring one” he verily says (means) this only “thebeloved one on the beloved one”. 
(He chants) “The pleasing one on the pleasing one”. He verily says (means) this 
only, “The auspicious one on the auspicious one”. 

10. Then he uncovers his head..Indeed he who undertakes the vow becomes 
an embryo. He has produced this sacrifice. This then remains an embryo till the 
pressing of soma. Therefore he remains as if enclosed. The embryo is verily covered, 
as it were. Therefore the sacrificer uncovers his head. 

11. Having turned his head away, he mutters, “Oh Svana! Bhraja! Anglian! 
Bambhan! Hasta! Suhasta! Krsanu! These are the things for you with which Soma 
is purchased. Guard them. May they not fail you! "Indeed these (things) by sharing 
belong to those who are the Gandharvas. the attentive guardians of Soma. He thus 
indicates these names of theirs verily to them. Thereby he becomes free from debt 
to them. 

12. Then he mutters, “Oh! Agni! Keep me from evil conduct. Make me have 
recourse to right conduct”. Verily Soma comes now to this (sacrificer) who is 
seated. When he has come, he (the sacrificer) gets up. Thereby he does wrong; he 
breaks the vow. The reason why he (Soma) comes to him (the sacrificer) who is 
seated and when he has come he gets up is that indeed Agni is indeed the lord of 
vowfor the gods and now he (the sacrificer) verily approaches him (Agni). Thereby 
h is vowdoes not become violated. Thus he does not break the vow. (He chants) “Oh 
Agni! Keep me from evil behaviour”. Here it (the meaning) is not obscure. (He 
chants) “Make me resort to right conduct”. He verily says (means) this only, 
“Make me resort to proper (conduct) (He chants), “I have risen with rising life, 
with good life, following the immortal”. Soma is indeed immortal. Thus he rises 
following Soma. There is no affliction, no destruction to him who thus rises 
following (the arrival of) this immortal Soma. 

13. Then he mutters, “We have reached the path that leads to well-being and 
which is free from danger”. The gods verily feared this that it might not be that the 
terrible Raksasas would not destroy this (sacrificer) midway. They attained welfare 



IV.3.4.2] 


TRANSLATION 


73 


by means of this (chant). In that manner indeed, this (sacrificer) attains well-being 
by means of this (chant), “We have reached the path that leads to well-being and 
that is free from danger”. There is nothing obscure in this. (He chants) “By which 
he destroys all enemies and obtains wealth”. He verily says (means) only this, “By 
which he destroys all destructive (evil forces) and attains welfare thus”. Saying 
“Him, verily” they carry (Soma), in their hand and then convey him by means of the 
cart. Thus he verily glorifies him (Soma). He indeed puts virility into him. People 
follow the sacrifice, indeed. Therefore they carry the seed on their head (towards 
the field) and bring (the com) by means of the cart. 

14, (The reason) why he purchases it near water is (this). Water indeed is the 
essence of this (Soma). Thus he purchases this which is verily sapful. And when he 
purchases this with gold, he thus purchases this indeed virile (lustrous). When he 
purchases this with the she-goat, he thus verily purchases this which has heat 
(austerity). And when he purchases this with cloth, its dress indeed is its skin - thus 
he purchases this which has its skin. When he then, purchases this with the milch 
cow, he purchases it thus with its milk (to be mixed with Soma). And when he 
purchases this with a pair (of Kine), he thereby purchases this (Soma) verily with 
a mate. Therefore these prices for Soma do not fall off. Indeed he purchases it with 
only ten and not with other than ten. Viraj (metre) is verily of ten syllables. Viraj 
indeed is sacrifice. Soma is of Viraj. Thus he (the sacrificer) brings about the 
sacrifice which is of Viraj. Some give an ox or some other bull, (thinking) “this is 
certainly an advance (prior) purchase”. (Third Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANA IV 

1. He spreads the black antelope skin vefily in the enclosed central portion 
(of the cart), (chanting) ‘You are the skin of Aditi”. That (former explanation) is 
itself the significance of this Yajus (chant). On that he places the king (Soma), 
(chanting) “Sit on the seat of Aditi”. This thing viz ,, the cart is, as it were, of the form 
of the mid-region (aerial region), This (earth) is indeed Aditi. This is the firm 
resting place. Placing it thus in the cart, he establishes it in this firm resting place. 
Therefore he says,“Sit on the seat of Aditi”. 

2. He then touches it (chanting) “The shower (the bull) (Soma) has propped 
up the sky and the aerial region and has measured the vastness of the earth”. The 
gods were verily afraid of this, (thinking) “May not the destructive Raksasas kill this 
(bull) ours, in between?” Thus, he (the sacrificer) reinforces these worlds with this; 
he makes this greater, (to be beyond) the (threat of) destruction. Indeed there is 
none as slayer of one by whom all this (universe) has been strengthened. (He 
chants), “The paramount Lord has occupied all the worlds”. Thus he reinforces all 
this (universe) with this (Soma); he makes this (superior) beyond death. There is 



IV.S.4.7] 


TRANSLATION 


75 


certainly no slayer of him by whom all this has been strengthened. (He chants) “All 
these, verily are Vanina’s ordinances”. Thus he makes all this (universe) follow in 
the path of this (Varuna), unopposed to him. Therefore he says, “Surely all those 
are the ordinances of Varuna”. 

3. Then he wraps up this (Soma) lest the destructive Raksasas should hurt 
him all around. Indeed the gods are hidden, as it were, from men. Thus he makes 
this (Soma) concealed, as it were. Verily this becomes an embryo till the pressing 
(of Soma). The embryo is surely hidden. Therefore he wraps it (Soma) up. 

4. Then he wraps this (Soma) up, (chanting) “Over the woods he has spread 
out the mid-region”. Indeed over the tree tops in the woods is this aerial region 
stretched. Therefore he says, “Over the woods he spreads out the mid region”. (He 
chants) “Strength in the horses and milk in the cows”. Verily the horses are males 
(men). Virility is strength. When he says “Strength in the horses” he verily says 
(means) only this, “Virility in men”. (He chants) “Milk in the Cows”. This milk is 
indeed in the cows. (He chants) “Varuna (has placed) wisdom (thought) in the 
hearts and fire in the creatures”. Indeed into the hearts of these creatures has this 
thought that has the speed ofmind entered. Therefore says he, “Wisdom (thought) 
in to the hearts”. (He chants) “Varuna (has placed) five into the creatures”. For this 
fire has entered into these creatures, the beings. (He chants) The sun in the sky 
has he placed and Soma in the mountain”. Indeed the yonder sun has been placed 
in the sky. “Soma in the mountain”. Indeed this Soma has been placed in these 
mountains, these rocks. Therefore he says, “Soma in the mountains”. 

5. If there are two black antelope skins, one of the two he fastens (as a flag) in 
front, (in the east). If there is only one, he cuts off the neck of die deer-skin and 
fastens it up as a flag. 

6. He sacrifices it with a chant, “Ascend to the eye of the Sun and the pupil of 
the eye of Agni, where you reach with these horses, shining with the wise (Soma) ”. 
Thus he verily makes the Sun to be moving ahead in front. Thereby the very Sun 
moves in front of this (Soma) driving away the destructive Raksasas and breaking 
them up and then conveys this (Soma) in a fearless, safe (danger-free) windless 
place. 

7. And now, there are two raised planks. Standing between them, the 
Subrahmanya drives (the oxen). Who is fit to ascend beside him (Soma)? Indeed 
this (Soma) is superior to the person who may climb beside him. Therefore he 
(Subrahmanya) drives, standing below. He drives (prods) with the twig of paldsa. 
This thing viz. the paldsa branch is not at all hard. Therefore he drives with a paldsa 
branch, and (he thinks) “whatever of Soma was formerly in the New Moon ritual 
inherent (hidden) may that be here now too”. Therefore he drives with the paldsa 
branch. 



IV.3.4.13] 


TRANSLATION 


77 


8. Then they drive the two oxen. If both of them are black or one of the two 
is (black) then he should know that Parjanya is going to pour rain abundantly and 
{Parjanya) will (surely) rain. This indeed is knowledge. 

9. First he yokes verily the right one and then the left. In human (practice) one 
yokes the left indeed first. And it is thus with reference to the gods. 

10. He sanctifies, then, with ' mantras’ (chants), “Oh bright ones, come, you 
two bearers of the Yoke”! “Verily these two are bright; indeed these two are the 
bearers of the yoke. (He chants) ‘You two, be yoked without tears when he says 
“tearless”, he verily says (means) only this, “unafflicted”. (He chants) “Not killers 
of men”. He verily says (means) only this “not perpetrators of evil (wrong)”. (He 
chants) “Prompters of Brahman”. Indeed these two are prompters of Brahman 
(the priest). (He chants) “Auspiciously you two go to the residence of the 
sacrificer”, lest the destructive Raksasas harm (them) in the way. 

11. Then he says, “Recite for Soma who is being carried on (in the cart) ” or 
“for Soma who is being carried around”. The Hotr recites. The Adhvaryu makes 
him (the sacrificer) say You are auspicious to me. Oh lord of the world! get down 
(from the cart)!” Indeed this (Soma) is auspicious to this (sacrificer). Therefore this 
(Soma) indeed becomes auspicious to this (sacrificer). Therefore this (sacrificer) does 
not respect even a king. And yet he salutes (addresses) the kings first. Thereby this 
(Soma) himself becomes auspicious to this (sacrificer). Therefore he says,You are 
auspicious to me”. (He chants) “Get down, Oh lord of the world! ” This (Soma) indeed 
has power over all these worlds. (He says) ‘Towards all abodes”. All dwellings are 
indeed limbs. He verily says (means) only this “towards the limbs” (He chants) “May 
not enemies find you! May not high-way men find you! May not malicious wolves find 
you! ” (thinking) “If not (if this prayerful blessing is not made), the destructive Raksasas 
might harm this (Soma) in between (on his way). (He chants) “Having become a 
falcon, fly away, go to the house of the sacrificer. That (place) has been cleared 
(prepared) for us”. The bird itself makes this (Soma) which thus, reaches (the 
gods/sacrificer). This one viz., the falcon is, among the birds, most vigorous and 
strongest. The Raksasas do not pursue it. Thus the bird itself makes this (Soma) 
which is thus, reach (the gods/sacrificer). And then they now bring by the cart only 
the body of it (Soma). “Go to the residence of the sacrificer . That has been cleared 
(prepared) for us” - there is nothing obscure, as it, were, in this. 

12. Then he invokes the ‘Subrahmanya’ (litany) just as one would announce 
to those for whom he is going to cook (food), “Come! Now I am going to cook for 
you”. Now he thus announces this sacrifice to the gods. Brahman indeed makes 
the gods come down. By the Brahman (chant) he thus makes the gods come down 
towards this sacrifice. Therefore he invokes the ‘Subrahmanya’. 

13. He invokes (reciting) “Subrahmanyom, Subrahmanyom, Subrahmanyom” 
(He chants) “Oh Indra! Come”. (Indra is the deity of the sacrifice. Therefore he 
says, “Oh Indra! Come”). (He chants) “Oh, possessor of horses! Come. Oh ram of 



TRANSLATION 


79 


IV.3.4.19] 

Medhatithi! Oh woman (wife) ofVrsanasva! Oh overpowering buffalo! Oh lover of 
Ahalya! ” He (thesacrificer) desires to make this (Indra) joyous, thus (recounting) 
with those very actions which were his. With them does he make this (Indra) happy. 
(He says) “Oh Kausika! Oh Brahmana! You who call yourself Gautama!” was first 
devised by Aruni formerly, (he chants) “Oh gods! Oh priests! Come”. Thus he also 
invites the gods. There is also a purpose served here (in the sacrifice) indeed by 
those who are gods among men, the Brahmanas who study the Vedas and teach the 
Vedas and who make him (the sacrificer) perform the sacrifice. (He says) “On the 
day, at the pressing of Soma, come (and be present) ”. Just as one would announce 
to those for whom he is going to cook (food) “So many (of you) come to me during 
the day. Then I shall cook for you”. So, now he thus announces this sacrifice to the 
gods. 

14. Then, the Pratiprasthatr comes up with the sacrificial animal for Agni and 
Soma. Indeed Agni and Soma place this (sacrificer) who undertakes the vow 
within theirjaws. Verily that (former) oblation at consecration belongs to Agni and 
Visnu. He who is Visnu he is indeed Soma. He the sacrificer becomes the oblation 
for these two. Therefore they, Agni, and Soma, place this (person who has 
consecrated himself) within theirjaws. He redeems the victims viz. himself with this 
(sacrificial) animal and with his self that has been redeemed and that is (now) his 
own, he sacrifices. 

15. If (sacrificial animal), should be two-coloured, forit belongs to two deities. 
It may be a black buck. Indeed that is more of the colour of these two. If he does 
not get a black buck, it may be a red deer. But it should be of two colours. 

16. In that, some come up, having taken a firebrand from the Ahavantya, 
(chanting) “This is Agni, This is Soma” saying “We redeem (ourselves) with the two 
who are together”. One should not do it that way. Wherever these two are, they are 
verily together. Therefore one should not adopt the fire-brand. 

17. He chants the ‘ mantras’ , “Obeisance to the eye (the perceiver) of Mitra and 
of Varuna (the Sun - the deity of day and of night). Offer true worship to the great 
god thus “Sing (the praise) for the Sun who sees afar (orfor seeing far) who is divine 
bom, who is wise and who is the son of the sky”. By this, he verily performs obeisance 
to this (sacrificial victim) and thus makes friendship with this one. 

18. Then he props up (the cart) (chanting) “You are the prop of Varuna” . 
He pulls out the two wedges, (chanting) ‘You two are the pins of Varuna”. Indeed 
this one (Soma) belongs to Varuna till the pressing. 

19. Then, four people lift up the seat (throne) (of Soma). Two (men) indeed 
lift up (the throne) for this human king. And for this (Soma) who at once has power 
over all this (world), four (men) (lift the seat). It (the seat) is made of ‘ Udumbara* 
wood. Indeed Udumbara wood is food and strength. Therefore it (the seat) is one 
made of ‘ Udumbara ’.It reaches upto below his navel. This indeed is the place of the 
seed (semen). Soma is verily the seed. 



TRANSLATION 


81 


IV.3.4.22] 


20. He (Adhvaryu) touches it (chanting) “You are the sacrificial seat of 
Vanina”. He spreads the black antelope skin (chanting) ‘You are the sacrificial seat 
of Varuna”. He places (Soma) (chanting) “Be seated on the sacrificial seat of 
Varuna”. For this (Soma) belongs to Varuna till the pressing. 

21. Then he makes this (Soma) reach (the sacrificial hall), chanting, “What 
powers of yourself they worship with offering, may the sacrifice encompass them all. 
Oh Soma! the increaser of songs (one who makes the homes prosper) one who 
ferries across, one who bestows fine sons, non-killer of men (sons), move on to 
dwellings”. Verily houses are dwellings. He verily says (means) only this, “Go to our 
homes, not doing evil, being auspicious and calm”. They place him (Soma) south 
of the Ahavamya. Then (Thereafter) no one should move in between (Soma and 
the Ahavamya ). 

22. There, some point out a vessel of water (saying), “this is just as one may ask 
for water for a Brahmin or for a king who requires water". One should not do that 
so should he do so, he would be doing indeed what is human. What is human is 
verily devoid of prosperity (a decline) for the sacrifice. Therefore one should not 
do so. (Fourth Brahmana Ends) 


(Chapter Three Ends) 



IV.4.1.7] 


TRANSLATION 


83 


Chapter Four 
BRAHMANA I 

1. What is (called) hospitality (i.e., offering to the guest) is verily the head of 
the sacrifice. One ‘Prayamya’and ‘Udayaniya’are indeed the arms. Therefore these ■ 
two offerings are on both sides of the guest-offering. Indeed the two arms are on 
the two sides of the head. 

2. Now (as to) why it is known as ‘guest offering’: This one viz. die Soma who 
has been purchased, indeed as a guest comes to his house. For him, as fora Bra- 
hmana or a King who has come as a guest, one would cook a big bull or a big 
goat—that is the offering made by humans - for the gods it is thus that he prepares 
the guest-offering. Therefore is it called a guest offering (hospitality to a guest). 

3. He should take up (material for the guest worship) after having passed 
beyond (Soma) towards the east. Indeed a superior person viz. Soma who has been 
purchased comes to this persons (sacrificers) house. Where (when) a superior 
person visits, if they do not respect him there (then) he surely becomes angry there 
(then). Thereby does he become honoured. Therefore (thesacrificer) should take 
up, after going beyond (Soma) to the east. 

4. Then one Ox, of the two, should be verily unyoked (released) and the other 
not unyoked. Then should he take up (the material for offering). Thus, by this one 
which has been released. He has arrived and that which has not been released by 
that he is honoured. Therefore, one should be unyoked and the other not unyoked. 
And then he should take up. 

5. In that matter, he should take up (the material for offering) only after 
having unyoked both (the Oxen) and having made (Soma) reach (the sacrificial 
hall) and having placed (Soma on the seat). Whatever is the practice of the gods, 
in accordance with that (is the practice) of men.This is indeed of men. Even though 
the king (Soma) comes, as long as he does not unyoke, they do not bring water (to 
offer to him) and do not offer worship, they do not bring water (to offer to him) 
and do not offer worship. And only when they unyoke, then do they bring water and 
then offer worship. (Soma) reach (the hall) and having seated (Soma), he should 
take up (the material for offering). He should take it up hastening and quickly, as 
it were. Thus does he (Soma) become honoured. 

6. The (Sacrificed) wife holds dn to it from behind. Indeed the sacrificer 
holds on to him (Soma) as he is being carried around and thus (does) his wife. Thus 
on both sides does he hold on to (Soma) with a couple. Where a superior person 
comes, there all those in the house indeed become active. Thereby does he (the 
guest) become honoured. 

7. He takes it up with a different Yajus (chant) (different from that) in which 
manner he takes up other offerings. The reason why he takes it up with (a Yajus) 
other than that (the usual one) is this. This Soma, being purchased only in a part. 



IV. 4.1.11] 


TRANSLATION 


85 


really purchased in full is the supreme sovereignty of the metres, the Kingdom of 
metres, the metres are the ones which act as attendants on both sides of him 
(Soma).Just as the king-makers the bards and leaders who are not Kings are the 
attendants on the King around him, in this manner the metres attend on this 
(Soma) on both sides. In that matter it is not proper that he should take up a second 
offering (saying that it is) “for the metres”. He should take it only in such a manner 
that he would make the metres have a share (in the offering). Therefore, even when 
they prepare (offering) for the king (Soma), then itself the attendants are taken in 
for their share. 

8. He takes up, (chanting) “You are the body of Agni. You (I take up) for 
Visnu”. Indeed Agni is Gayatri. Thushe assigns a share to Gayatri. (He chants), ‘You 
are the body of Soma for Visnu - (I take) you up”. Verily Soma is Ksatra (Ksatriya); 
Ksatra (the warrior class) is Tristubh (metre). Thus he assigns a share to Tristubh. 
(He chants), ‘You are the honour (hospitality) to the guest (I take) you up for 
Visnu”. This is verily his (Soma’s) special share. This is thus his special share, just 
as (there is) a special share indeed for the chief person, apart from the metres. (He 
chants), “(I take you up) for the falcon that bears Soma, (I take you up) for Visnu”. 
Thus he assigns a second share to Gayatri. In that she, having become a falcon, 
brought Soma from the sky (heaven), thereby Gayatri is the Soma-bearing falcom. 
Therefore he gives her a second share thus indeed because of her strength. (He 
chants), “(I take you up) for Agni, the bestoverof prosperity, (I take you up) for Visnu”. 
Catde verily arejagatl (metre). Cattle are prosperity. Thus he assigns a share tojagatl. 
Why he takes up (chanting) (each time) “You-for Visnu”, “You - for Visnu” is (that) 
indeed h e takes it up thus for Visnu the sacrifice. Verily he takes up five times. The 
sacrifice is of the measure of the year. The seasons of the year are five.He gains it 
(the year the sacrifice) by means of five. Therefore he takes up five times. 

9. This (guest offering) is a purodasa (sacrificial cake) on mine pot sherds. 
Gayatri is inded of nine syllables. Eight are those which he utters and the ninth is 
the pranava (Om). Gayatri is certainly the forepart of the sacrifice. Indeed the head 
is the forepart. Hence this (guest offering) is a 'puroddscC on nine potsherds, 
towards this fullness (completion). 

10. The enclosing sticks are of the Kdrsmarya wood. Among trees the gods 
found this one viz. Kdrsmarya to be the destroyer of Raksasas. Verily hospitality to 
the guest is the ‘head’ of the sacrifice. Therefore the enclosing sticks are of 
karsmaryawood lest the destructive Raksasas should harm the sacrifice in its head. 

11. The spread bunch (of holy grass) is of dsvavdla (grass) (that resembles a 
horses tail). Verily the sacrifice went away from the gods. Having become a horse, 
it went away. Having followed it, the gods reached its tail hairs. They tore them off. 
They threw them away. They became these plants viz. ( dsvavdla'. Verily honour to 
the guest is the head of the sacrifice. The tail hairs are the hind position (of 
animals). Thus he encloses the sacrifice indeed on both sides. 



TRANSLATION 


87 


IV.4X17] 

12. There are two separators (separating stalks) of sugar-cane for the sake of 
non-confusion, as otherwise (if the separators are not put) the' barhis ’ arid ‘prastard 
of asvavala would get mixed up. He takes up four ladlings of ghee, for,here he does 
not make after-offerings. 

IS. Having placed the sacrificial dishes (on the alter), he churns the fire. This 
thing viz. guest-offering is indeed the head of the sacrifice. In that they thus (now) 
churn this (fire), verily Agni, the sacrifice is born. One who is born is indeed bom 
with the head (first). He thus produces the sacrifice viz. Agni from the head itself 
(first). Indeed this thing viz. hospitality (the guest-offering) is the head of the 
sacrifice. Agni is verily all the deities, for, they offer for all the deities into the fire. 
Thus even from the head (beginning) he fulfills (enriches) the sacrifice, through 
all the deities. 

14. He takes the bottom piece of the churning wood, (chanting) “You are the 
producer of Agni”. For, from this the fierce one (Agni) is born. (He places) two 
tender blades of holy grass (on it), chanting ‘You are the two testes”. These two who 
are (bom) of a woman, they are indeed these two (sons). (Chanting), You are 
Urvasi”, You are Ayu” he swears the lower churning stick (by dipping it) in the pot 
in which ghee is melted and the upper churning rod (with the chant),You are 
Pururavas”. Urvasi, the celestial nymph is the wife; the husband is Pururavas. And 
what (offspring) was bom from this couple is Ayu. In that manner indeed does this 
(sacrifice) produce this sacrifice viz. Agni from this couple (the two churning 
pieces). 

15. Then he says (to the Hotr), “Recite for Agni who is being churned”. The 
Hotr recites, the Adhvaiyu chums (chanting), “I chum you with the metre of 
Gayatri”, “I churn you with the metre Tristubh”, “I chum you with the metrejagati”. 
Thus he chums towards himself. Thus he makes the sacrifice not turn away from 
himself. He indeed churns it (Agni, the sacrifice) with the metres, produces it with 
the metres. He recites the metres for the one that is being churned. Thus he makes 
the very metres to be in con tact with the sacrifice. Just as the rays are connected with 
the younder sun, in this manner now he makes the metres to be connected with the 
sacrifice, (by saying) “Recite for the one (Agni) who has been bom”, “Recite for the 
one who is going to be thrown (in the fire-place) 

16. He throws (the fire into the fire place). (Chanting) You two (fires) 
{Ahavaniya and the now churned fire) be for our sake, of one mind, of one thought 
and blemishless. Do not harm the sacrifice; do not (harm) the sacrificer. Knowers 
of all that is born! Be auspicious to us now”. Thus he verily speaks peacefulness to 
these two (fires). Thus he verily appeases them. 

17. Then he pours {ghee into the fire) (chanting) “Agni. (who has been 
churned) moves into Agni {Ahavaniya) having entered,-the son of the Rsis (seers), 
the saviour from curses (censure), such a one, you the giver of comfort please offer 
(convey) the oblation, with good offering, here to the gods, for ever without 
witholding (from any of the gods) Svdhdr Indeed for they chum this one for the 
purpose of offering. He (Adhvaryu) appeases him with this oblation. 



IV. 4.2.3] 


TRANSLATION 


89 


18. Then they proceed (with the guest-offering). It ends verily with Ida, 
Indeed this thing viz. honour to the guest is the (head) of the sacrifice. Verily the 
head is the fore-part. Thus he puts the sacrifice together, from the very head 
(beginning). He does not offer the after-offerings. If he were indeed to offer the 
after-offerings, it would be as if he would be putting reversely the two feet in (the 
place of) the head. Therefore it (the guest offering) is only upto the end of Ida. He 
does not make the after-offering. (First Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANAII 

1. When the gods had worshipped with hospitality, conflict came upon them. 
They did not agree (with each other). They, unwilling to endure each other’s 
superiority separated into four (groups). Agni along with the Vasus, Soma with the 
Rudras, Indra with the Maruts and Varana with the Adityas. Some say Brhaspati 
(joined) with the Visvedevas (the all gods). But indeed all these are all the gods (the 
all gods). The Asuras and Raksasas went after (chased) them who had separated. 

2. They (the gods) said, “The Asuras and Raksasas have followed us”. We are 
verily in the control of the enemies. Oh! Let us come to an agreement”. “Let us not 
fall into the control of the enemies. Let us stand up for (i.e., be under) the 
excellence of one (of us) All those gods stood by Indra’s excellence (greatness). 
Therefore they say, “Indra is all the deities”, i.e., The gods have Indra as the best 
(chief). For it was by his excellence that they stood. Therefore, kinsmen should not 
separate (in discord). For, the hopeful enemy who is far away verily follows these. 
He who knowing thus comes to an agreement, does what is displeasing to the 
enemies and he does not fall into the power of the enemies. 

3. Having come to an agreement, they said, “Ah! Let us do this in such a 
manner that upto the heaven it may be invisible”, “So (be it)!” said they. Having cut 
up their favourite bodies (forms) and fond powers (and placed them separately) 
(they said), “Let us say, by this (agreement) the one who, among us, may be hostile 
to another and who among us, may speak otherwise (discordantly) - (May he 
become many (blown to pieces)! ”) They said “So (be it)! ” Who is the witness of this 
(agreement) of ours? ‘The mighty Tanunapta’ himselT. This one who blows (the 
wind) is indeed the mighty Tanunapta. Having entered into man (a person), to¬ 
wards him and away from him (becomes) those two the inbreathing and the 
outbreathing. Therefore they say, “The gods know the mind of man well (fully)”. 
He proposes with his mind. That reaches the ‘ prana (breath). The breath reaches 
the wind. The wind reports to the gods, how the mind of man (is). 



TRANSLATION 


91 


1V.4.2.8] 

4. Therefore, too, has (this) been said by the Rsi (Veda), “(Aperson) proposes 
in his mind. That (thought) reaches the wind. The wind reports to the gods how 
your mind is, Oh man! ” Those gods said, after having cut up (into separate pieces) 
their (own) pleasing bodies and fond powers, ‘The one among us, who is hostile 
to another and who may say otherwise (different) from this (agreement) of ours- 
may he become (separated) into many (pieces)!" The gods do not transgress it even 
now. For, whatwould have they become if they had transgressed it? They would have 
perpetrated untruth.The gods verily, observe this one vow viz, truth. Therefore 
came glory (to them). Therefore came their conquest which could not be van¬ 
quished (taken away). He who, knowing thus, speaks truth, indeed becomes 
glorious. 

5. Thus is this The convenance of Tanunaptra” (that agreement to which 
Tanunapta was a witness), with its cause. Those gods cut up (into separate parts) 
their pleasing bodies and fond powers, there after they receive only ghee (portions). 
Receiving the ghee (portion), verily into the same manner, they cut up their (own) 
pleasing bodies and fond powers. Therefore, indeed; one should not write with 
(should not make an agreement with) every one, thinking, “If not (i.e., if I make 
a convenan t with everyone), my pleasing bodies and my fond p owers might be with 
every one”. They say, “One should not be hostile towards that person with whom 
he unites”. Indeed, they say. One should not be hostile to one with whom he has 
made an agreement, with Tanunapta (as witness). 

6. Then he verily takes (ghee) (from the Dhruva), (chanting) “I take you for him 
who comes; for him who moves around, I take you”. Indeed this one who blows (i.e., 
the wind) is he who comes and who moves around. For this one he verily takes. 
Therefore he says, “I take you for the one who comes and who moves about” (he 
chants) “For Tanunapta the mighty”. (He chants) “For the capable, the strongest”. 
This one who blows (thewind) is indeed the capable, the strongestone. For this one 
does he take up (the ghee). Therefore he says,“for the capable and the strongest”. 

7. Then they touch it. Thus indeed did the gods again come to an agreement 
(saying) “May he be in that manner - that one among us who is hostile to another 
(of us) and who among us may speak differently from this (agreement) In that 
manner, do these (priests) come to an agreement, indeed, (thinking) “May that 
one, among us fare in that manner, - he who is hostile to another (amongst us) and 
who, among us, may speak (anything) other than this (agreement)”. 

8. Then they touch (chanting) “You are unassailed, unassailable”. Indeed the 
gods, remaining together, speaking alike and holding together, were unassailed 
and unassailable. (He says) The strength of the gods”, (indeed meaning) the 
pleasing bodies of the gods and their favourite abodes (or fond powers). (He says) 
“Not cursing and saving from curse”. Verily the gods are superior beyond courses. 
(In saying) “what cannot be hurt” he verily says (means) only this, “unassailable . 
(He says), Truly may I reach Truth! ” He verily says (means) this only, “May I truly 



TRANSLATION 


93 


IV. 4.3.2] 


(straightway) reach truth! May I not transgress this!” (He says), “Hold me up for 
well reaching (the goal)For the gods who spoke in common who held themselves 
alike, hold (established) themselves in good achievement (welfare). 

9. Having taken it round and having covered it (with a lid), they place it down. 
Having taken (apart) from it, they give the vrata (food for consecration) to the 
master of the house ( Grhapati ). For, he indeed is the one who takes the place of 
Indra among them (the consecrated priests). If he should sacrifice with an offering 
with a sacrificial fee, then, they give it to the sacrificer. For he, among them, is the 
one who takes the place of Indra. The pleasing bodies (forms) and the favourite 
abodes (fond powers) which the gods put together, all that they deposited in Indra. 
This one who burns (i.e., the sun) - he is indeed Indra. Thus he bums indeed with 
that virility. Formerly he (the sun) was always verily black. And those many who 
undertake the consecration - they place the pleasing forms and the fond powers in 
the master of the house, in that same manner. For, he among them is the one who 
takes the place of Indra. If he should sacrifice with an offering with a sacrificial fee, 
then they place the very pleasing forms and fond powers in the sacrificer in that 
same manner. For he, among them, is the one who takes the place of Indra. Then, 
the pleasing forms and the fond powers which the gods had gathered together, all 
that was, was united. From that, Saman came to be. Therefore they say, “Saman is 
Truth”. “Saman is bom of the gods”. For it was bom of them. (Second Brahmana 

Ends) 

BRAHMANA III 

1. The gods having performed the ritual of hospitality, discord came upon 
them. Contending with each' other for superiority, they did not come to an 
agreement They indeed agreed in the matter of (the covenant of) Tanunaptra. 
Having come to an agreement in ‘ Tanunaptra' (the covenant of) ‘ Tanunaptra they 
said, “We have indeed acted thus in violation of vow”. Having been the consecrated 
persons, we spoke evil to each other. “Let us seek an atonement for this. Let us 
perform expiatory ritual”. They had not prescribed a re-consecration before the 
final ceremonial bath. They only found this intermediate consecration. 

2. With fire itself they enveloped the skin around. Verily ‘AgnF is heat; 
consecration is austerity. They tightened the guide (of holy grass) further. Thus, 
what had already been thrown around (the body) they threw around further. Since 
they found the consecration in the middle, therefore it came to be known as 
intermediate consecration. In that manner this person (the sacrificer) now 
undertakes the intermediate consecration. 



IV.4.3.8] 


TRANSLATION 


95 


3. He envelops the skin with fire itself. Agni indeed is heat and consecration 
is austerity. He girds the girdle more (tightly). Thus he throws around further this 
(girdle) that has already been thrown around (the body). Whatever he does before 
this, in violation of the vow, or speaks — this is an atonement for that.They (the 
gods) said “We have obtained progeny”. 

4. They enveloped the skin with the fire itself. Agni is indeed the maker of a 
union, the progenitor. Therefore they obtained progeny. They tightened the 
girdle further. Thus, they produced offspring in themselves. In that manner does 
this one (sacrificer) verily obtain progeny. 

5. He envelops the skin verily with fire. Agni is indeed the maker of a union, 
the progenitor. Thus does he (the sacrificer) obtain progeny. He binds the girdle 
faster. Thereby does he produce offspring in himself. Therefore is it that he 
undertakes the intermediate consecration. 

6. Now, the reason why he undertakes the intermediate consecration (is this). 
The gods, having been consecrated, set out for fetching firewood (kindling wood). 
Them who had thus set out, the Asuras and Raksasas wished to kill them after having 
followed them, by (assuming) the form of another and another by (assuming) the 
form of the other. They came together, mutually speaking ill (of each other) saying, 
‘Thus have you said to me! Thus have you spoken to me!” Only Agni did not say so 
to any other and indeed no one else said so to Agni. 

7. Those gods said verily to Agni,“Oh Agni! Do they speak thus to you?” (Agni) 
said, “Not me”. Those gods indeed said, ‘This one viz. Agni verily is the greatest 
repeller of Raksasas, among us”, “Ah! Let us all be of his own form. That way, we 
shall escape from the Raksasas”. ‘Thus we shall enjoy (occupy) the world of 
Heaven”. They all become (assumed) that form which belonged to this very Agni. 
Thereby they escaped from the Raksasas, and that way occupied from the Raksasas 
and that way occupied the world of Heaven. In that very manner does this one 
(sacrificer) thus become (assume) the form which is of this very Agni. That way he 
escapes from the Raksasas thus occupies the world of Heaven. Therefore indeed 
does he undertake the intermediate consecration. 

8. Placing the firewood, he undertakes the intermediate consecra¬ 
tion, (chanting), “Oh Agni protector of vows! You are the protector of vows” For 
Agni is the protector of vows to the gods. Therefore he says, “Oh Agni the protector 
of vows! You are the protector of vows”. (He says) “This very body which is yours - 
(may this be) in me! That is my body, (may this be) in you! ” Thus he envelops the 
skin with fire. (He says) “Oh lord of vows! (may)our vows (be) together. May the 
lord of consecration approve of my consecration! (May) the lord of penance 
(approve) of my penance”. Is it not obscure, as it were, here. Thus he assumes 
the intermediate consecration. Here (now) he lightens the girdle further. More 
does he bend his fingers and tightens the navel tuck further. 



IV.4.3.14] 


TRANSLATION 


97 

9. Then they serve him with heated (delighting) water. Verily fire is, as it were, 
heated up, as it were. For, this is, thus, the form of fire. Therefore they serve him 
with hot (pleasing) water. Having touched the hot water they strengthen Soma - 
verily ghee is the thunderbolt, Soma is the seed - thinking, “If not (if I do not 
strengthen Soma), I might harm the seed Soma with the thunderbolt, viz. the ghee. 
Therefore they serve him with hot water; having touched the hot water, they 
strengthen Soma. 

10. About that, they say, He should perform it only as previously. He should 
do the very strengthening (of Soma) first after having performed the ritual of 
hospitality (Soma) for whom this strengthening is done. Then (he should perform) 
the ‘Tanunaptra * (the ritual of covenant with Tanunaptra (fire) to witness) and then 
the intermediate consecration. One should not perform it that way at all. For this 
is the performance of the sacrifice. It was here, indeed, that discord came upon 
these (gods). They verily came to an agreement in the Tanunaptra (the ritual with 
Tanunaptra as witness). Therefore (he should perform) only. Tanunaptra at the 
outset, then the intermediate consecration and then the strengthening (of soma). 
This alone is established (practice) (this is what remains ultimately) . 

11. The reason why they strengthen (reinforce) soma (is this). Soma (was) 
verily in heaven (the sky). Indeed Soma is a god. ‘Verily Soma is Vrtra. These 
things viz. the mountains, the rocks; are his body here. There this plant viz. Ausanya, 
is bom”. So said Svetaketu the son of Uddalaka, “Having brought that (plant) here, 
they press it”. ‘They make it into soma (again) by the consecration (diksa) and the 
rituals preceding the pressing (upasad) the ‘Tdnunapatra’and the strengthening 
(dpyayana) thereby indeed does it become Soma”. 

12. And again, the reason why they strengthen Soma is (this). They say ‘the 
honey is of bees! The sacrifice indeed is the bees’ honey. And these viz. the 
sacrificial priests are themselves the bees. Just as the bees would replenish the 

honey, in the same manner do these (priests) now replenish (strengthen) it (the 
sacrifice). 

13. And again, the reasons why they strengthen Soma (is this), the gods, verily 
having won this conquest, which conquest is theirs, said “Ah! Let us make this in 
such a manner that this of our may become inaccessible (unclimbable) for men”. 
Having completely sucked out the essence of the sacrifice just as honey-bees would 
completely suck up (honey) having emptied it and having covered (obliterated) 
the sacrifice with the sacrificial post, they disappeared. Because they obliterated 
(the sacrifice) by means of this, therefore is this known as l yupa ' (the sacrificial 
post/the obliterator). 

14. That indeed came to be heard by the Rsis. This sacrifice was collected in 
such ways-as the Rsis collected it. Just as the Rsis then (formerly) gathered the 
sacrifice, thus verily does this (sacrificer) who undertakes the consecration now 
collects this sacrifice. 



rv.4.3.19] 


TRANSLATION 


99 


15. Verily speech is the sacrifice. What, verily of the sacrifice, was thoroughly 
sucked up by the gods and what was emptied that very thing now they replenish. 
And now the sacrifice is verily enriched. They strengthen it six times. Indeed six are 
the seasons. Thus, having become the seasons, they strengthen it. 

16. They strengthen it (chanting), “Oh god Soma! May every span (segment) 
of yours be strengthened!” Thus they strengthen every part of him. He (Soma) 
bears the essence in every segment. Therefore he says, “Oh god Soma, may segment 
(after) segment ofyours be strengthened! He (chants) “to Indra the obtainer of the 
best portion ofwealth”. Indra is the god of the sacrifice. Therefore Let us ‘To Indra’ 
(He chants) “To the winner of the best of the wealth”. This, each part (of Soma) 
(becomes) ten each towards the gods, for the sake of Indra; they (the ten) fill (ten) 
cups of the best part or a hundred each (in each becomes hundred fold and fills 
a hundred cups). Therefore he says, “T o the winner of the best part of the wealth”. 
(He chants) “May Indra be strengthened for your sake!” Indra is the god of the 
sacrifice. He verily says (means) only this, “Whoever is your deity, may that (deity) 
be strengthenedforyour sake! ” (He chants) “Be strong for the sake of Indra!” Thus 
he places replenishment in this (Soma). (He chants) “Strengthen us friends with 
gain and with understanding”. As he gains, therefore he says that. (He says) “With 
understanding” for he recites with understanding. (He chants), “Oh god Soma! 
May itbe well with you! Maylenjoy (attain) the completion of the pressing {sutya)!” 
This is the prayer for blessing of the priests and the sacrificer, “May it be well! May 
we reach the end, the completion of the sacrifice”. 

17. Thereafter, they remove (wrong doings) (i.e. they appease the gods) on 
the jbrasfara(spread bunch of holy grass). The sacrifice (requires) serving attend¬ 
ance at the north. These who strengthen soma move away tranversely from the 
sacrifice. They join, as it were, at the south. They are out off from the gods. 
Therefore they remove (the wrongs) on the prastara. 

18. They remove (the wrongs) (appease the gods) (chanting) “(May) desired 
riches (come to us) for great strength and for prosperity— “The right for those who 
speak the right”. He verily says (means) only this “The Truth for those who speak 
the Truth”. (They chant) “Obeisance to the sky, obeisance to the earth” Thus he 
makes obeisance to heaven and earth on whom all this rests. 

19. About that they say, “Should he remove (the wrongs) (appease the god) 
(i.e. make amends) on the anointed ( prastara ) (or) on the unanointed”. Indeed 
thus he should remove (the wrongs) only on the unanointed. For, indeed, there is 
the immediate throwing of the anointed (into the fire). Having gathered it 
( prastara) up and having taken it up, (tbe'Adhvaryu) says, “Oh Agnidh! Do the 
waters boil (rejoice)?” (The Agnidh replies) “they boil". That takes the place of 
cordial talk. (The Adhvaryu says) “Come with them (waters) ” He lifts (the prastara ) 
up, above and above (the fire). Then,this is in the place of (as if) throwing it into 



TRANSLATION 


101 


IV.4.4.5J 


the fire. And why he does not throw it into the fire is that with this (pmstara) itself 
they perform (the ritual) on the morrow, upto the pressing. (Third Brahmana 

Ends) 


BRAHMANA IV 

1. Indeed the ‘Upasads’ (the subsidiary rituals preceding the pressing) are the 
neck of this (sacrifice). Therefore, if he has (the performance of) ‘Pravargya’ then 
(he should perform the ‘ Upasad *) after having performed the ‘Pravargya Pravargya 
is the head (of the sacrifice). And then he places these necks in this. Therefore, 
those prayers of imitation which he recites in the forenoon key are the prayers of 
offering in the afternoon; those which (he recites as) offering prayers (in the 
forenoon) they are the prayers of invitation (in the afternoon). Thus he verily 
interlinks the bones of the necks; he interlinks these shoulders. These bones of 
these necks and these shoulders are interlinked. And then he sacrifices with the 

'Upasads'. 

2. The gods and the Asuras, both sprung from Prajapati contended. Then the 
Asuras built cities in these worlds, one of iron in this (earth), one of silver in the mid 

(aerial) region and one of gold in the sky. 

3. Then the gods verily attacked. They be seiged (sat near) them (cities) with 
the ‘Upasad’ (rituals) and broke them and conquered. Therefore they say, “In 
human (practice) ,they conquer a city by a siege”. And the gods conquered verily 
with these ( Upasad) . And when this (sacrificer) sacrifices with these, indeed they do 
not at all build cities, in that manner, in these worlds for this (i.e. against this) 
(sacrificer). These very worlds he thus breaks up and he conquers these worlds. 
Therefore it is that he sacrifices with the 'Upasads'. 

4. They (the Upasads) have ghee as offering. Verily ghee is the thunderbolt. It 
was with this very thunderbolt viz. ghee that the gods broke up these worlds and 
conquered. In that manner, indeed, this (sacrificer) breaks up these worlds with 
this thunderbolt viz. the ghee, and conquers these worlds. Therefore (they, the 
Upasads) have ghee as offering. 

5. He takes eight times in the juhu (spoon) and four times in the upabhrt 
(spoon). About that they say, indeed, “He should take only four times in the juhu , 
eight times in the upabhrt”. He verily takes only eight times in th ejuhu and lour times 
in the upabhrt . Thus he makes the thunderbolt heavy in the fore-front. Among the 
gods, verily Agni and Soma are together. For them only he takes together, he makes 
them be together. For Visnu who is single, he pours (sprinkles ghee) the libation 
formerly itself; he does not (make) the second (libation). Or, having made the 
subsequent (northern) libation he recedes. For the sake of conquest, therefore, he 
pours only the first offering and not the subsequent (northern) one. 



IV.4.4.9] TRANSLATION 

6. Having made (the Agnldhra) call the attention (of the god) he does not 
choose the Hotr. He merely says, “Oh Hotr! Sit”. The Hotr sits onthe seat of the 
Hotr. Having been impelled, having taken up (the ghee) m the sruk (spoon), he says 
"Recite the prayer of imitation for Agni * Having passed beyond ( e ire) ,^ ^ n S 
caused the calling of attention, he says, “Recite the offering prayer for Agni . When 
Tawf’has been pronounced, he pours the offering. He says, “Recite the prayer of 
invitation for Soma”. Standing there itself (and having caused the calling ol 
attention, he savs “Worship (pronounce the offering prayer for) Soma When 
‘VasaV has been pronounced, he pours the offering. Pouring out (the ghee) 
together, he says, “Pronounce the prayer of invitation for Visnu”. Having caused the 
calling of attention, he says, “Worship (recite the offering prayer for) Visnu . When 
‘ Vasal’ has been pronounced, he makes the offering. The reason why he offers 
verilv standing along (continuously) and does not move about (here) now as he 
performs moving about in (any) other sacrifice, is (that it is) for the sa e o 
conquest. Therefore, he verily offers standing along (continuously) and does not 

move about. , . . _ , , 

7. He verily worships (sacrifices to) these three deities. The reason why he 

worships these three deities is (this). He thus fashions the very thunderbolt, 
(making) Agni the face (of the thunderbolt). Soma the dart (the sharp up); and 
Visnu the part connecting the arrow-head and the shaft. Thus he verily fashions the 
thunderbolt. Verily the day is Agni and the night (is) Soma. And what is the joint 
of day and night that is Visnu. These two verily are the year. For, revolving, these two 
make the year. Thus, therefore, he fashions the veiy thunderbolt viz. the year. It was 
by this thunderbolt viz. the year indeed, that the gods broke up and conquered 
these worlds. In that very manner this (sacrificer) breaks up these worlds, conquers 
these worlds, by means of this thunderbolt, the year. Therefore, is it that he 
worships these three deities. 

8. If there are three Upasads (preliminary rituals before pressing of soma), 
indeed three are the seasons of the year — thus the very form of the year is thus 
made. He thus fashions the very'year. With (each) one he performs twice, with 
(each) one he performs twice. That (makes) six. Verily six are the seasons of die 
year. Thus the form of the year itself is made. Thus he fashions the very year. 

9. The reason why he performs in the morning and in the evening is (that it 
is) also for the desire for completion-that way the completion takes place-and that 
it might be good victory. Now, when he performs in the morning, thereby he verily 
conquers. And, when he performs in the evening, it is (with the thought) that it 
might he a good conquest. And when he makes the offering (it is like this) - here 
(in this world) indeed, they lay seige on the city and conquer it; having conquered 
it, they resort to it which is their own. Now when he (the sacrifice!) performs, he 
verily lays seige thus. And when he completes it, he verily conquers. And then he 
thus attains what is his own. When he makes the offering, he proceeds with the first 
( Upa&ad ) , twice with one and twice with one (the other). 



IV.4.4.13] TRANSLATION 105 

10. He offers, (chanting) “Oh Agni! your body which rests in iron, which is 
oldest (biggest) and which is in an inaccessible place—it has driven away the sharp 
word it has driven away the terrible word —Svaha” That (body of Agni) was indeed 
of this form. It was verily of the form of iron. Now he performs with another 
(Upasad ), twice with one and twice with one (the other). 

11. He offers (chanting) “Oh Agni! Your body which lies in silver, which is 
oldest (biggest) and which rests in an inaccessible place—that has driven away the 
terrible word - Svdhd^.For, it was of this form. It was indeed silver. And he performs 
with another ( Upasad), twice with one and twice with one (the other). 

12. He offers (chanting) “Oh Agni! Your body which rests in gold, which is 
oldest (biggest) and which rests in an inaccessible place—that has driven away the 
sharp work, it has driven away the terrible word-Svahdl” For, it was of this form. 
Indeed it was golden. If there are twelve ‘Upasads’ he performs with one for four 
days with one (the second) for four days and with one (the third) for four days. 

13. And now verily (the matter) of the Upasads related to the consecration 
(fasting): Some (other) Upasads are ‘progressively increasing’ and some others are 
‘progressively decreasing’. About that, those are ‘progressively increasing’ (at 
which) he milks one (teat) by the first (day) and then two (on the second day) and 
then three (on the third day). They are the ‘progressively increasing’. They are 
‘progressively decreasing (at which) by the first (day) he milks three (teats) and 
then (on the second day) two and then (on the third day) one. They are the 
‘progressively decreasing’. These which are ‘progressively increasing’ they are (the 
same as) the progressively decreasing’. And those which are ‘progressively 
decreasing’, they are (the same as) the ‘progressively increasing. They conquer the 
world indeed by austerities. Thus, on and on, the penance thus becomes better 
(greater) and better. He who, knowing, thus, takes to the ‘progressively decreasing’ 

(Upasads) becomes (morrow after morrow) better and better and further and 
further wins a greater (bigger) and greater world. Therefore one should take to 
only the ‘progressively decreasing’. If there are twelve ‘ Upasads ’ he milks three 
(teats) for four days, two for four days and one for four days. (Fourth Brahmana 
Ends) 


(Chapter Four Ends) 



IV.5.1.6] 


TRANSLATION 
Chapter Five 

BRAHMANA I 


107 


1* He proceeds from the front half of the hall towards east taking three steps 
and plants peg, so as to be within the vedi limit. From that central peg, he takes 
fifteen strides to the right and drives in a peg. This is the right hip. From there itself 
(central peg) he proceeds northwards fifteen steps and plants a peg which 
becomes the left hip. Again from the middle peg, he takes thirty-six strides towards 
east and plants a peg which forms the front part of the vedi From the centre, he 
makes twelve strides to the right and there drives in a peg and that is the right 
shoulder. From the middle peg itself, he takes twelve steps to the north and plants 
a peg to form the left shoulder. This is the measure of the altar (vedi). 

2. Now, why he takes thirty steps in the rear is this: The Virad metre has thirty- 
six syllables and the gods gained a firm footing in this world by means of the Virad. 
So too, he (the Yajamana) by means of the Virad, would get firmly established in 
this world. There may also be thirty-three steps because the Virad consists of thirty- 
three syllables too and by means of Virad he gets firm footing. But this is only a 
speculation. Only thirty steps are taken. 

3. Now the reason for thirty-six strides towards the east (forward) is this: The 
Brhatl metre has thirty-six syllables and it is by means of the Brhati that gods obtain 
the heavenly world. In the similar manner,this Yajamana would attain the heavenly 
world by means of the Brhati and the Ahavariiya fire of his is in the sky. 

4. Now, why he takes twenty-four steps forward is because the Gayatri metre 
has twenty-four syllables and the Gayatri is the fore-part of the sacrifice. This (space 
covered by twenty-four strides) is the fore-part of the al tar and hence twenty-four 
strides are made forward. 

5. She ( vedi) shall be broad in the hind part because a lady is broader at the 
back and is (called) heavy hipped. This makes the womb wider for procreation and 
it is from a wide womb, these creatures are bom. 

6. The front altar ( Uttaravedi ), is the nose of the sacrifice, because they raise 
it high and therefore it is called the elevated altar. Originally there were two types 
of beings; one the Adityas and the other the Arigiras. The Arigiras were the first to 
organise a sacrifice. 



IV.5.U1] 


TRANSLATION 


109 

7. After preparing for the sacrifice, they said- “Let us announce to the Adityas 
about our Sutyd feast ( Soma Yaga ) to be performed for tomorrow” and tell them 
“You (Adityas) officiate in our sacrifice”. They sent Agni himself as messenger and 
Agni came to them (Adityas) and said “Angiras asked me to inform you about the 
Stitya feast tomorrow”. They also requested “You officiate in our sacrifice”. 

8. The Adityas told (among themselves) “Plan it (in such a way) that Angiras 
officiate in our sacrifice and not we in theirs”. (Accordingly they decided) “Let us 
organise a Sutyd itself immediately”. To avoid refusal (on the part of the Angiras) 
they organised a Soma sacrifice (Sutyd). 

9. Having organised the sacrifice they said (to Agni) - “Angiras have informed 
us about tomorrow’s Sutyd. And now we say to you and (through you) to the Arigiras- 
“You be priests for our sacrifice (to be held today itself). There itself they sent 
another messenger to the Angiras. The Angiras (came and) asked Agni “Though 
you were despatched by us (as a messenger) you did not return to us”. 

10. He (Agni) said, “I have been wooed by the unblamables and as one wooed 
by them I was not able to refuse to them”. That is why when one is wooed by a 
blemishless person, one should not refuse. Then their (Angiras*) anger completely 
disappeared and they officiated in the sacrifice of the Adityas and that sacrifice is 
known as Sadyah Kri (one arranged on the spot). At the time of offering daksind, 
they brought speech itself as daksind, They (Angiras) did not accept it saying “We 
will be harmed if we accept it”, so that sacrifice stood incomplete (without daksind ). 
Another daksind, they brought in the form of the Sun. That they accepted. Hence 
the Angiras claimed, “We are fit to be sacrificial priests and deserve daksind because 
you had to bring even the Sun as daksind for us”. For that reason also it came to be 
known as Sadyah Kri. Hence a white horse is the daksind for this {Sadyah. Kn 
sacrifice). It (the horse) has a golden pendent in front and it assumes the form of 
that (Sun) which shines (scortches). 

11. Then that ‘speech* got angry (saying) “How is the Sun supreme to me, not 
for his back-ground, nor in any respect, why should they accept him and not me?” 
She transformed into a lioness and moved amidst the gods and Asuras seizing 
anything between those rivals and devouring. They both realised that whichever 
side between the two, she joins (goes over), that side will prosper and the other will 
lose. So both of them wooed her. (For that) Agni himself was the messenger of the 
gods (to call her) and for Asuras, one Asura Raksas called Saharaksas (was the 
messenger). 



IV.5.I.17] 


TRANSLATION 


111 


12. She asked Agni while returning with him “By going over (to the Devas) 
what will happen to me?” They (Devas) said, “You will get the foremost oblation. 
Even before Agni (gets his) you will get your libation”. That is why when the Agni 
is kindled in the Uttaravedi (northern altar) and the libation is offered, that first 
offering goes to her (Vak). 

13. While returning (to the gods) ’she said, ‘Whatever blessings you may seek 
from me, those I will bestow upto you”. That is why whatever blessings they seek, 
they are bestowed by her. 

14. For, the Uttaravedi, in fact is speech itself. The very raising of this Uttaravedi 
is for the fulfilment of the sacrifice; for its completion. Speech is the Uttaravedi 
sacrifice is speech. Therefore the Uttaravedi is set up. 

15. He measures (the Uttaravedi ) with the yoke and the peg. Whenever it (an 
animal) is brought by means of the yoke, the peg (the vertical peg inserted in the 
hole of the yoke to keep the animals neck in position), is also there. Because that 
which is to be yoked is done so with the yoke and the peg. Since she (speech) 
becoming a lioness went about in rage, she is to be yoked into this sacrifice. 

One must not therefore accept a daksind which has been refused by some one 
else, because it becomes a lioness and attacks. One should not own it because it 
would turn into a lioness and kill him (who owns it). Nor it should be given to 
another person in which case, he will be making over the sacrifice to someone other 
than himself. Therefore, if he has a relative who is a sinner, he can give it to him. 
So that it will not turn into a lioness and attack him. By giving to a kinsman, he is 
not making over the sacrifice to some one else (outside his fold). This is the disposal 
for a refused daksirtd. 

16. Then having taken the peg (of the yoke) and the wooden sword, he takes 
three strides backward from the peg on the northern side and draws a line with the 
wooden sword saying “Thou art f<?r me the resort of the afflicted” and then to the 
north he addresses the earth to whom he comes afflicted. With edge (of the sword) 
he draws a line northward addressing this earth, which he moves after acquiring 
wealth, (He does so saying), “Thou art my treasure house”. Then drawing a line 
from the South to the east saying “Protect me who am in distress”. He thus 
addresses the earth to protect him from where there is distress for him, “Keep me 
out of want”. So saying he draws, a line from the north to the east. By that he tells 
the earth “Wherever there is want, save me from that”. 

17. Then he flings (digs with the wooden sword) uttering the names of the 
Agnis. He flings it uttering the names of Agnis, because, earlier when gods invoked 
Agni to be their Hotr (priest) he bolted away and entered these earths. This earth 
is one and the other two beyond it. For that very reason he digs him out (from this 
earth). 



rv.5.1.23] 


TRANSLATION 


113 


18. He digs saying “O Agni, you have the name ‘Nabha’ as you know. Thou art 
‘Angiras’. (Now) thou come with the appellation ‘Ayu\ He fled with that name 
which bestows life span; which reanimates. “Thou art in this earth” (so saying) he 
digs that Agni which is in this earth. He takes (the loose soil with the wooden sword) 
and lays it (in the altar) saying “Whatever inviolate sacred appellation you have by 
that I lay you down”. That is to say, with whichever name you are unaffected by the 
Raksasas, and which is sacked for sacrifice, by diat name I lay you (on the altar). 

19. Then he digs the second time saying “O Agni you have the name ‘Nabha’, 
as you know, thou art ‘Angiras’. (Now) you come with the appellation ‘Ayu ’. He fled 
with that name which bestows life-span; which reanimates. ‘Thou art in this sacred 
earth” (so saying) he digs out that Agni which is in the second earth. He takes (the 
loose soil with the sword) and lays it (on the altar saying) “Whatever name you are 
unaffected by the Raksasas and which is sacred for sacrifice, by that name I lay you 
(on the altar). 

20. Then he digs the third time saying - “O Agni, you have the name ‘Nabha’ 
as you know-Thou art Angiras, (now) you come with the appellation ‘Ayu ’. He fled 
with that name which bestows life-span, which re-animates ‘Thou art in this third 
earth” (so saying) he digs out that Agni which is in the third earth. He takes (the 
loose soil wi th the sword) andlays it (on the altar saying) “Whatever inviolate sacred 
appellation you have, by that I lay you down”. That is to say “With whichever name 
you are unaffected by the Raksasas and which is sacred for the sacrifice, by that 
name I lay you (on the altar). 

21. He takes (the earth) for the fourth time saying “Again, thee, for the delight 
of the gods” by which he means I take you well-pleasing to the gods”. He takes (the 
day) for the high altar from the Catuala pit (a quadrangular pit) because it has four 
sides (representing) the quarters, (That is) he takes it from all the quarters. 
Therefore he takes from the Catvala pit. 

22. Then he touches it (the clay, saying) “Thou art a lioness overpowering the 
enemies. Be of service to gods”. In as much as she became a lioness and roamed 
about devouring and attacking, he says ‘You are a lioness overpowering the 
enemies”. By this he means ‘Through you, we shall vanquish our foes’. When he 
says “Be of service to the gods”, (he means) Vedi is a lady and he offers her to the 
gods. 

23. He then measures all around with the yoke or by the Yajamana’s foot in 
tens (i.e. each unit measuring ten times the foot of Yajamana), Because, Virad is 
indeed of ten syllables. Speech is Virad. This measurement of ten feet is therefore, 
speech. Therefore in tens of the foot of Yajamana he measures everywhere. In the 
middle he makes a naval (a naval-shaped depression) thinking ‘let me sit in the 
middle and sprinkle ghee (all around) ’. 



IV.5.2.4] 


TRANSLATION 


115 


24. Then he sprinkles water. She after becoming a lioness was roaming about 
devouring and attacking in rage—waters are (means for) peace. So with water 
(symbolising) peace, he calms her down. Vedi being a lady, he makes her fit (for 
gods). Hence he sprinkles saying ‘You are a lioness who overcomes enemies. You 
become purified for the gods”. 

25. Then he scatters gravel on it. Gravels are indeed decoration for her, 
because the gravels are, as if, shining. A lady bedecked, shines as it were. This 
(gravel) is the ash of Agni, the Vaisvanara. So it amounts to placing Agni on her. 
(But being Agni’s ash) It does not happen to bum her. He scatters (saying) “You 
are a lioness, overpowering the enemies, you get ready (purified) for the gods. 
(First Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA II 

1. He collects material; the enclosing logs of pine-wood; bdallium; aromatic 
grass; the air of the ram in between the horns and samidhas. He prepares the base 
of gravel taken from the Catvala. He melts the butter (on the Gdrhapatya fire); 
cleans the laddies sruk and sruva. Takes out the melted ghee and stirs it. Takes five 
times spoon-full of ghee by the sruk to the sruva. The Hotr (priest) sits in the Hotrs 
adana (his allotted enclosure). Takes the burning sticks and places on the gravel 
base. 

2. Then he says (to the Hotr) - “Recite for Agni who is being carried” and (to 
the Pr&tiprasthata) he says “Come following me with the single wooden sword”. 
Other markings (earlier made by the sword) are within the vedi. So by this, whatever 
part (of the Gdrhapatya) is separated from the intermediate peg, that gets con¬ 
nected. Thus it gets linked and becomes unbroken. 

3. Some (prefer to) go upto the Uttaravedi (backward). That should not be 
done so. One should proceed only from that (middle) peg. Then he takes the 
sprinkling water and sprinkles the Uttaravedi. The purpose of sprinkling is the same; 
whatever sprinkling is done it is only to purify. 

4. He sprinkles (saying) “May the noise oflndra along with Vasus protect you 
in front”. It only means “let the sound oflndra along with the Vasus, safeguard you 
in the front”. “May the Pracetahs, along with the Rudras, protect you in the rear”. 
It only means “Let the Pracetahs along with the Rudras safeguard you at the back”. 
“May the Manojavas, along with Pitrs, protect you at the right”. It only means “Let 
the Manojavas, along with the manes, safeguard you on the right side”. “May 
Visvakarman along with the Adityas, protect you on the left”. It only means ‘let 
Visvakarman, along with the Adityas safeguard you on the left side’. 



IV.5.2.9] 


TRANSLATION 


117 


5. Then the remaining sprinkling water, he pours at the side of the front half 
(saying) ‘This heated water, I throw away outside the sacrifice”. She (the speech in 
the form of a lioness) roamed about in anger and dejection; that grief (part) of 
hers, he is now discarding from the sacrifice. He should not say this if he does not 
wish to exorcise (wish harm to some one). If he wishes to exorcise (harmhis enemy) 
(he should say) “This heated water, I discard from the sacrifice”. He thus inflicts, 
sorrow unto him (the enemy) and he dies in grief. 

6. He then pours ghee (on the Uttaravedi ) either once or tw o times; why he does 
so is because (at that time) they said (to the speech when in the form of lioness) 
“Our offering will reach you first before (it reaches) Agni”. Now by this (pouring 
of ghee) the first offering reaches her. In as much as she (the lioness) said 
“Whatever blessings you may seek, all those I shall bestow on thee”, she fulfills 
whatever blessings are sought for. 

7. He pours ghee (saying) “You are lioness—SvaMunto you”. Since, she after 
becoming a lioness roamed about devouring (everything) it is said “You are lioness 
- Svaha unto you” (he says) “You are lioness who was brought (back to the fold of 
gods) by the Adityas - Svahaunto you”. Because the Adityas brought her to the right 
side. (He says) “O lioness, the winner of priests and the winner of Ksatra (warriors), 
Svaha unto you”. By this he seeks two blessing; one for the priestly class and the 
other for the warrior class. (He says) “Thou art the lioness bestowing abundant 
offspring and growth of wealth; Svaha, unto you”. By this, he seeks progeny and 
cattle wealth”. “O lioness bring those gods for the Yajamana; Svaha. unto you”. By 
this he seeks the (presence of) gods for the sacrifice. (He says) “For the sake of the 
beings”. So saying he lays the offering laddie. Beings are offsprings. By this, he prays 
for all progeny. Hence he says ‘for the sake of beings’. 

8. He then lays the enclosing sticks (pine-wood sticks placed around the 
navel). Other enclosures will come later and till then these are to protect the Agni. 

9. He lays (the sticks) saying “You are firm, make the earth steady” (lays) the 
middle stick. “Thou art well-established; make the air steady”, (so saying he lays) on 
the right side. ‘Thou art unshakably established; make the sky steady”. (So saying) 
on the left side. Thus having made these (three) worlds firm, he makes it firm on 
all the sides; so that the terrible Raksasas will not attack it. Thou art Agni’s stamina” 
so saying he throws the other sticks (into the altar). That indeed serves as stamina 
(for the fire). 



TRANSLATION 


119 


1V.5.3.3] 

10. The material that he has collected is to ensure completeness or fullness to 
Agni. Those pine-wood sticks are indeed his (Agni’s) bones. So (by enclosing with 
pine-wood sticks) he re-inforces him by his own bones. The bdellium, truly is his 
flesh. So he enriches him with his own flesh. The aromatic grass that is there, is his 
fragrance. So he emballishes him with his own fragrance. Now why the ram’s hair- 
tuft which is there is because Agni dwelt one night in between the horns of the ram. 
“Whatever of Agni’s nature has got stuck there, let that also be brought over here” 
- thus thinking, he should cut the hairs nearest to the head (of the ram) from (the 
back of) its neck and bring it. If that is not available, let him, the hair from some 
part (of its body). Now, why he said “Thou art Agni’s stamina” is because it is indeed 
Agni’s strength. 

11. Saying“go away”, he takes hold of the stick from the front. But before that 
he takes the one on the right, then the one on the rear-side and then the front one. 
He collects these all together, near the central peg ( sanku ) in the rear half. He 
keeps the sprinkling water-vessel there. By its side the idhma (fire-wood) and darbha 
grass are kept. Having taken the water-vessels, he first sprinkles the fire-wood; then 
the vedi. Then he places the darbhas on the fire-wood and sprinkling water on it, 
he brings it near the rope (the string that connects the vedi and the sanku) and 
while rolling that rope he moves on pulling it upto the Uttaravedi which is 
measured (with that rope) without touching it ( Uttaravedi by the hand). This 
(action) amounts to appeasing the vedi When that gets appeased, they pray for 
peace facing the Sadas and Havirdhdna (the hall where priests sit and the enclosure 
having the carts with soma) and then stand facing it (the vedi) . (Second Brahmana 
Ends) 

BRAHMANA III 

1. The sacrifice is a man. It is a man for the reason that a man sets it up (spreads 
it out). While being spread out, it is made as large as a man. This is why the sacrifice 
is a man. 

2. The soma-cart (the wooden cart in which soma juice is kept) is itself his head 
and has Visnu as its presiding deity. Since it (the cart) has soma in it and somabeing 
the havis (material for offering) to the gods, it is called Havirdhana (the container 
of havis). 

3. Ahavamya is truly his mouth and when he offers (oblations) into the 
Ahavamya, it amounts to feeding by the mouth. The sacrificial post is verily his tuft. 
The Agnidhnya and MarjdUya are his two arms. 



IV.5.3.I0] 


TRANSLATION 


121 

4. The sadas (the enclosure for the priests) is itself his belly and that is why they 
eat in the sadas. For, whatever food is eaten here (in the sacrifice) settles down in 
the belly. It has Indra as its presiding deity. Because all gods sat {asidan) here, it is 
called sadas. in the same manner it is here that the priests of all gotras (lineages) sit 
now. 

5. Symmetrical are his fire-altars and they are indeed, identical in form. So they 
form symmetrical (feet for his sacrifice’s body). The sacrifice, thus being spread out 
has the same characteristics of a man. Therefore it is that sacrifice is a man. 

6. The cart-shed has doors on both sides (in the front and the rear). So has 
the sadas, opening on both sides (the front and the rear). This man is perforated 
from one end to the other. 

7. Those (two) soma carts stand turned round; the southern one on the right 
side and the northern one on the left. The larger of the two should be the one on 
right side. Then only they will be facing the north. They are turned round (and 
placed on the altar). On them, they place a mat of reed grass or a covering looking 
like a reed-roofing. They cover the front portions of the havirdhani carts with 
curtains. 

8. Returning again (to the hall) he makes the Sdvitra offering; for Savitr is the 
one who grants permission to the gods. “We will perform the sacrifice, impelled by 
Savitr" thus (thinking) he makes offering to Savitr”. ‘They harness the mind and 
they harness die thoughts”. (So saying he offers.) They truly perform the sacrifice 
after harnessing the mind and harnessing the speech, they perform sacrifice for the 
gods. So he says “Harness the mind” by which he applies his mind. Then “Harness 
the thought” (he says) because speech is thought. It is by speech which is thought 
(itself) people make their livelihood. With the Veda being repeated (after hearing 
from the preceptor) and by conversation (for wordly transactions). (Men make 
their livelihood) Therefore he says “Harness the thoughts”. The priests of the 
priests, the highly intellectual”. By Viprah, he means the learners of the Veda. 
Therefore he says, The preceptors of preceptors who are highly intelligent”. 
(Then he says) The knower of rites alone has assigned the priestly offices”. For, 
indeed in performing the sacrifice, they (the intelligent masters of Vedas) assign 
(qualified) persons for priestly offices. “Great is the praise of the divine Savitr”. So 
he says, because Savitr is the prompter of the gods and so he means “prompted by 
Savitr I set about this sacrifice”. 

9. Having then, taken ghee once more, four rimes spoon-full he says, “O 
Yajamana, come hither”. The wife of Yajamanaalso follows. Then he lays down gold 
in the right wheel-track of the southern vomocart and offers thereon. 

10. The gods while performing a sacrifice, became scared of attack by the 
Asura-Raksasas from the southern quarters. So they installed this thunderbolt at 
the southern side. By that they contained die terrible demons from the south. 
(That) thunderbolt {ghee) at the southern side. By that he contains the terrible 



IV.5.3.17] TRANSLATION 123 

Raksasas on the southern side. That is why the Raksasas do not come on his way. 
Now, as to why (offering ghee) after placing a gold piece? Because an oblation is 
never made where there is no fire. Gold is the essence of Agni. So (hyplacing a gold 
piece) the offering happens to be made at a place where there is fire. 

H‘ He offers oblation (saying), “Visnu strode through this (universe), thrice 
he put down his foot; it is enveloped in his dust, Svahd”. 

12. Then he pours the balance ghee into his wife’s palm. Wife is a woman and 
gheeis semen. The seed sown in a woman gets entrenched. From there it is bom (as 
child). So here too he is planting the semen in a woman i.e, his wife. From there 
iris bom- The wife anoints the heated part of the axle. By (man and woman) getting 
heated, these offsprings are bom. Only when (the bodies of) man and woman get 
heated, semen flows. This productive union causes child-birth. 

13. She anoints (saying) ‘Audible to the gods; announce you unto the gods”. 
In this manner she informs the gods about the implanting of the semen. That the 
gods cause to be born. She anoints in a concealed way (from the Cart). Because 
semen is implanted only in a concealed manner. Then he gives the sntva and smk 
to the Pratiprasthata. 

14. He takes another four times spoon-fulls of ghee and brings his wife through 
the hind part of the Garhapatyafire and offers on the right wheel track of the soma 
cart. Then also, after placing a gold piece and saying “Be yee too abundant in food 
and milch cows and pastures, out of benevolence to man! You propped up these 
two worlds, O Visnu, with beams of light did you hold fast the earth on all sides, 
Svahd”. 

15. He then pours the remaining gheem to the palm of his wife. With that the 
wife smears the other axle (of the cart) which is heated, saying, “Audible to the gods, 
announce you unto the gods”. This means the,same as it is worded. The wife'then 
returns. 

16. He then says (to the Hotr) “Recite to the soma carts as they are moving 
(forward)”. The Hotr responds (by saying) “You both go forward, furthering the 
Adhvara . Sacrifice is, of course, the Adhvara. This amounts to saying ‘go you both 
forward, encouraging the sacrifice’. (He further says) “You conduct the sacrifice 
upwards; lead it not astray”. It only means “take this sacrifice to its culmination”. (By 
saying) “Lead it not astray’ he means do not let it down. 

17. Let him make the Yajamana say - “Speak ye unto your own cow-pen, ye 
divine resorts; speak not my life away; speak not my offspring away”. These are 
words addressed to the terrible (aspect of speech ) which she utters at the axle in 
the sacrifice. With this she appeases her (speech). This should be said like this if she 
is to be bid fare-well. If not, one need not take note of this. 



rV.5.3.23] 


TRANSLATION 


125 


18. Then he (Adhvaryu), having gone round by the northern side, he moves 
behind the Uttaravedi, taking three steps and make them (soma carts) stop where he 
thinks fit, saying “May Ye rejoice here on the height of the earth”. For, this (altar) 
is verily the height (top) of the earth since his Ahavaniyais situated there. Ahavanlya 
is indeed in the heaven (so this place must be just below heaven i.e. the top of the 
earth). Therefore it is said “You - rest on the top of the earth”. 

19. Then he props the southern soma-cart (saying) “I declare the heroic deeds 
of Visnu, who measured out the earthly regions; who propped the upper seat, 
striding thrice, the wide-stepping! For Visnu (I prop) thee”. He fixes the Prop. 

20. The Pratiprasthata then props the northern soma-cart. saying “Either from 
the heaven, O Visnu, (or from the earth, or from the great, wide airy region, O 
Visnu), fill both thine hands with wealth and bestow on us from the right and the 
left! For Visnu thee.” Thus he fixes the prop. 

21. Why he makes offering and fixes the props with chants referring to 
Visnu is, because Havirdhana (soma cart) has Visnu as its presiding deity. Then he 
touches the upper part of the reed mat (covering the cart). He makes him touch 
either the neck or the mat—like covering (saying) “Let Visnu then be praised for 
his power, terrible like a wild beast prowling about the mountains, or whose three 
wide strides all being abide”. This mat-roofing is his (Visnu’s or Havirdhana’s) 
upper skull-bone. There on, as it were, are the other skull-bones. (So he says “When 
all beings abide)”. These two coverings (on the side and front) are the other two 
skull-bones, the one on the sides and the other at the front covering it (the soma 
cart). They are reed-mats or some cover resembling the mats. The one behind is 
also a skull-bone. 

22. He makes him touch the front band (saying) “Thou art Visnu’s fillet” for 
it indeed is his fillet. It is a fillet made of reed grass and so bereft of hairs as it were 
is the fore-head. “You are the corners of Visnu’s mouth”. So saying, he makes him 
touch the two vertical hurdles, for they are indeed his (Visnu’s or Havirdhana’s) 
mouth-edges or the comers of the lips made of reeds with hollow interior. These 
mouth-edges are as if hairy. 

23. Then, with a wooden pin he sews (the hurdles to the four door posts) 
(saying) “Thou art Vispu’s sewer”. Then he puts a knot (saying) Thou an Visnu’s 
fixed (point)”, lest it should get loosened and fall. When the job is completed it is 



IV.5.4.6] 


TRANSLATION 


127 


untied. By doing thus, desease befalls not the Adhvaryu or the Yajamana. He 
touches the cart-shed, so completed (saying) “You belong to Visnu” because, 
Havirdhana is indeed of Visnu. (Third Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANA IV 

1. For two reasons, the pits are dug (in the HavirdhanahaW). This Havirdhana 
(cart-shed) is truly the head of the sacrifice. And what (four) holes there are in the 
head (the two ears and two nostrils) wherein these life-breaths (abide), these are 
produced (in the head of the sacrifice) here and they come into being (to complete 
the shape of the head by digging four pits). 

2. Now, the gods and Asuras, both progenies of Prajapati, contended. Then 
the Asuras, by way of which craft deposited (underground) destructive charms, 
thining “thus we may overcome the gods”. 

3. Now, the gods saw through it By means of these (holes) they dug out those 
destructive charms. Whenever a charm is dug out, it becomes defunct and 
ineffective. So the gods made it malicious defunct and ineffective. Similarly if any 
malicious enemy has planted charm here by way of witchcraft against this 
Yajamana, it is defused and rendered ineffective. For these two purposes (giving the 
shape of the head and to remove destructive charms), these pits are dug (in the 
Havirdhana hall). 

4. He takes up the spade. “At the prompting of the divine Savitr, I take thee 
with the arms of Asvins; with the hands of Pusan”, (thus saying) he takes (the 
spade). (Also says) “Thou art a woman”. This is said with the same purport (as the 
preceding Mantra ). Why he says ‘Thou art a woman” is because the spade indeed 
is female. A woman is a female. So he says ‘Thou art a woman”. 

5. On the southern side of the Havirdhana, deep down, he draws a line (with 
the spade) as long as a yoke pole (saying) “Here do I cut off the necks of the 
Raksasas”. For the spade is the thunderbolt and with the thunderbolt he severs the 
neck of the terrible Raksasas, He marks them by drawing lines of a span length. 
Because these life-breaths are of span length. He draws thus the first line, then thus, 
then thus and then thus (four lines), 

6. He digs (those pits) in the order in which the lines are drawn. Thou art 
great, of great sound” - thus he praises them and by that make them exalted. When 
he says, ‘Thou art great, of great sound’ - “Utter thou the great voice unto Indra” 
- Indra is the deity of the sacrifice. These pits are of Visnu”. By this they become 
associated with Indra. Therefore he says “Utter thou the great voice unto Indra”. 
The voice which is Raksas-killing, witch craft-killing” (he says). For, it is indeed for 
the destruction of the charms of Raksasas that these pits are dug. He says Those 
are of Visnu”, for that voice in the Havirdhana (cart-shed) is indeed Visnu’s. So he 
says “You belong to Visnu”. 



IV.5.4.14] TRANSLATION 129 

7. Here do I cast out the charms which the triend, which my (unfriendly) 
relative has planted for me”. An alien or an (envious) relation, plants a charm 
underground. This makes it defunct and ineffective. 

8. “Here do I cast out the charm which my equal, which my unequal has 
planted for me . For, either an equal or an unequal (enemy) plants a charm 

underground. This makes that defunct and ineffective. 

9. Here do I cast out the charm, which my kinsman, which a stranger has 
planted forme”—For either a kinsman or a stranger plants a charm underground. 
This makes that defunct and ineffective. 

10. “Here dol cast out the charm, which one born with me, which one notbom 
with me has planted for me. For, either one who is a brother or one who is of 
different parentage plants a charm underground. This makes that defunct and 
ineffective. 

11. Saying “I cast out witchcraft” he finally throws out (the earth remaining in 
the several pits) whereby he carts out witchcraft. Let him dig them arm-deep for 
that being the extreme reach, he thereby in the end removes the witchcraft and 
makes the charm defunct. He connects them (the pit) by invisible tunnels (cross¬ 
wise connecting underground holes). That is why these pranas (life-breaths) are 
invisibly connected and move unseen. 

12. He makes him (Yajamana) touch them in the same order in which they 
were dug. (Saying) ‘You are the ruler of thyself, a slayer of enemies! Thou art ever 
-ruling, a slayer of the hateful! Thou art the ruler of men, a slayer of Raksasasi Thou 
are the ruler of everybody; a slayer of foes!” This is a praise as well as a request for 
blessings. You are the ruler of thyself is a praise. “Slayer of enemies” is the blessing 
he seeks. This is the refrain in all these chants. 

13. They both (Adhvaryu and Yajarnana) then touch (each other’s hands 
through the passages connecting the pits underground). The Adhvaryu through 
the passage in the right side pit in front and the Yajamana through the passage in 
the left-side pit in the rear (touch each other) and the Adhvaryu asks - Yajamana! 
What is here?” “Well-being” he replies. “(Be) that ours in common” says the 
Adhvaryu in a low voice. Then the Yajamana through the passage in the right side 
pit in the rear and the Adhvaryu through the passage in the left-side pit in the front 
(touch each other). The Yajamana asks “Adhvaryu! What is here?" “Well-being” 
says he. “(Be) that mine”, says the Yajamana. 

14. By thus touchiong (each other) they thereby make the vital airs {pranas) 
inter-connected; they make these vital airs yoked together. By this the vital airs are 
inter-locked or yoked together. And why he said “ Bhadram (well-being) ” is because 
this word bhadram in human parlance is (indicative of) luck (or prosperity). They 
wish for it (prosperity) by this sacrifice. Then he sprinkles water (on the pits), One 
and the same foresooth, is the significance of sprinkling. Whichever he sprinkles, 
he makes it pure for sacrifice. 



IV.5.4.19] 


TRANSLATION 


131 


15. He sprinkles water (saying) “You the killers of Raksasas, the killers of 
charms, I sprinkle thee who belong to Visnu”. For, these (holes) are dug to destroy 
the Raksasas and the charms; so he says ‘You the killers of Raksasas and the killers 
of charms, I sprinkle thee who belong to Visnu”. These pits are indeed of Visnu. 

16. The residual waters, he then pours out (saying) “Killers of Raksasas, killers 
of charms. I pour (water) on thee who belong to Visnu”. (So saying) he pours waters 
into the cavities. These waters get concealed in these cavities. Waters are food. Food 
is the vital air. So he installs vital airs inside these cavities. Thus the pranas get 
concealed in these pits. 

17. Then he spreads barhis grass with their tips turned eastwards and north¬ 
wards (saying) ‘You the killers of Raksasas, the killers of charms, I spread (for you) 
who belong to Visnu”. By this, he provides these cavities (symbolising nostrils and 
ears) with hair. By this the hairs are planted inside these holes. That prevents the 
vital airs from getting dried up (moistens them). Then he spreads barhis (grass) 
with tips eastward. These are their hairs (on the head). 

18. Thereon, he lays the two adkisavanas (wooden planks forming ahandpress 
to squeeze somajuice) saying You the killers of Raksasas, the killers of charms, I lay 
you who belong to Visnu”. These (planks) are indeed his (Visnu’s or 
Havirdhana’s) jaws. Therefore, they appear as if connected with each other at the 
ends. The jaws are of course connected at the edges. 

19. Then he surrounds them with earth (saying) You the killers of Raksasas, 
the killers of charms, I surround you who belong to Visnu”. He thereby steadies 
them so that they may not crumble. He then places the cut red skin (skin used to 
press soma). For this is indeed his (Visnu’s/Havirdhana’s) tongue. The reason why 
it is red is because this tongue is as it were, red. He then places th e pressing stones 
in front (of the holes). These stones are verily his (Visnu’s) teeth. In so far as the 
pressing (the soma creeper) is done by the stones, it is like chewing with the teeth. 
Thus the head of the sacrifice is complete. (Fourth Brahmana Ends) 


(Chapter Five Ends) 



IV.6.1.7] 


TRANSLATION 
Chapter Six 
BRAHMANA I 


133 


1. The sadas is verily the belly (of the sacrifice). That is why they eat (drink) 
in the sodas; for whatever food is eaten, here on earth, it settles down in the belly. 
Because all the gods sat (asidari) in it, it is called sadas, and so do these brahmins 
of all gotras (lineage) now sit therein. 

2. He measures it with a log of audumbara wood. For the Udumbara means 
strength and food. This (action) provides food and sustenance to the sacrifice at 
the middle (part of the body i.e. sadas the belly). So he measures with audumbara 
log. He cuts it equal to the length (height) of the Yajamana. Yajamana is sacrifice, 
so he cuts it to the measure of the sacrifice. 

3. From the central peg in the hind part of the altar, he takes strides eastward, 
six steps towards the right and the seventh step for, completion of desires, where 
the metrical forms of speech were born. The Sakvari metre is of seven feet and she 
(Sakvari) is the richest among metres. So he takes these seven strides. 

4. He takes up the spade At the prompting of the divine Savitr, I take thee 
with the arms of Aivins, with the hands of Pusan; thou art a woman” (says he). The 
meaning of this Mantra has already been told. Why he says “Thou art a woman” is 
because the spade is a female and a woman is a female. So he says “Thou art a 
woman”. 

5. With her (the spade) he marks off the pit (saying) “Here with I cut off the 
necks of the Raksasas”. For, the spade is a thunderbolt and with the thunderbolt 
itself, he cuts off the necks of the terrible Raksasas. 

6. He throws off the earth eastward (while digging). On the eastern side he 
places the audumbara log. Then he lays barhi grass of the same length. Then he 
renders the sprinkling water containing barley. 

7. Why they (waters) should contain barleys (yavas) is because the essence of 
plants is water, wherefore, plan ts when eaten-alone (without water) do not satiate. 
Only when both are united, they satiate. So (thinking) Twill sprinkle with (waters) 
rich in sap” he makes them so with barley. 



IV.6.U5] 


TRANSLATION 


135 


8. Now, the gods and Asuras, both of them progenies of Prajapati were 
quarreling. Then all the other plants except the barley went over to the side of the 
Asuras; and only the yam plants remained for the gods. Only with the barley plants, 
those gods attracted to themselves the plants and food and other sustenance of 
their foes, the Asuras. They attracted them (Ayuvata) from all {the Asuras). They 
are called yavas , since with them they attracted. 

9. Those gods said “Whatever sap is there in the other plants, let us invest it in 
the barley”. So they invested the essence of all other plants in the yavas. That is why 
when other plants wither, these (barley plants) grow as if they are rejoicing. In 
these, the essence was deposited and hence it is like this. Only with these yavas. 
They attracted to threaten the enemy’s plants, food and sustenance. They attracted 
from all of them. So these (sprinkling waters) are to contain yavas. 

10. He scatters (yava in the sprinkling water) (saying) “Thou art barley. Keep 
them from us the hateful, keep away from us the enemies”. The significance of this 
(action) is the same as that of sprinkling water. Whichever is sprinkled upon, it is 
rendered pure for sacrifice. 

11. He sprinkles (waters) (saying) - “You for the sky; you for the aerial region; 
you for the earth”. Food is Udumbara. He enriches these worlds with energy and sap. 
He endows this world with energy and sap. 

12. Then what residue is there in the vessel (of sprinkling water) that he pours 
out into the pit (saying) “Let the worlds get purified; let the resting places of the 
Pitrs (get purified) ”. The pit is, as it were, meant for the Pitrs. This (action) only 
renders the pit purified for sacrifice and make it Pitr daivatyum (i.e. fit for gods). 

13. Then he spreads barhi grass with northward and eastward pointing dps 
(saying) “Thou art the seat of the Pitrs”. This part of the ground dug out is, as it were, 
the seat of the Pitrs. If it were not. dug, it would have confined to the plants only and 
would have been (suitable) only for the plants. So if it had remained undug, it 
would not have been suitable for the Pitrs. 

14. He raises it (the pole) (saying) “Prop thou the sky! Fill the air! Stand firm 
on the earth”. Thereby he endows these worlds with stamina and sap; bestows 
stamina and sap on these worlds. 

15. He then fixes it (the pole) down (saying) - “May Dyutana, the son of 
Maruts, plant thee”. Dyutana, the son of Maruts, doubtless, is the one that blows 
yonder (the wind). By means of him, he plants it (He says) “M itra and Varuna with 
firm support”. Mitra and Varuna are (respectively) the inhaling and exhaling 
breaths. He then plants it with the in-breathing and out-breathing. 



IV. 6.1.23] 


TRANSLATION 


137 


16. He then re-inforces it with earth around (saying) “I enclose thee, winner 
of the priesthood; winner of the warrior class, winner of growth and wealth” 
Manifold are indeed, the blessings (sought through) sacrificial texts. By this one, 
he seeks these blessings when he says “Winner of the priesthood, winner of the 
warrior class, winner of growth and wealth, I enclose thee”. Growth and wealth 
means wide-ranging prosperity. He thereby prays for wide ranging prosperity. 

17. He then presses it firmly all round (saying) “Uphold thou the priesthood! 
Uphold the warrior class, uphold out life; uphold our progeny”. By this he only 
seeks for these blessings. He presses (around) so as it is on a level with the ground. 
(In the case of) ordinary hole (say, around a tree) it is elevated from the ground. 
But in this way (making it on level with the ground) it is worthy of gods and the 
levelled ground itself gets elevated. 

18. He then pours water unto it. Wherever in digging, they w’ound or injure 
this (earth) - water being a curative—there he soothes it by that curative, i.e. water, 
there he heals it by water. Therefore he pours waters thereon. 

19. He then touches it (saying) Thou art firm; may this. Yajamana be firm”. 
Thus whatever wish he entertains that wish is accomplished for him. 

20. He offers oblations at the forked top of the log (where the branch and 
the trunk part) (saying) “Q Heaven and Earth, be yee two full of ghee” whereby he 
endows the heaven and the earth with strength and sap; bestows stamina and 
essence on them. He pours (ghee) in an unbroken manner. By that, the Paijanya 
(god of clouds) becomes incessently raining and never driedup. Therefore the ghee 
offering should be uninterrupted. 

21. Then he brings the mat (roofing mat) and touches it (saying) “Thou art 
Indra’s mat”. For the sadas belongs to Indra, “Shelter to every one” for the sodas is 
meant for all persons (priests of all gotras ). 

22. He lays down the side mats or some coverings similar to mats. Then three 
(more) mats on the north of these and three (more) beyond them. Thus they 
become nine (mats) so that they are three-fold and sacrifice is three-fold. 

23. This (sadas) has the tie-beams of bamboo poindngnorthward and this is 
exclusively for the gods. The other (hall) being Havirdhdna (the enclosure to keep 
the havis, soma) , it has tie-beams of bamboo pointing eastward and has entrance 
on the eastern side. Therefore no one eats or drinks there. Whoever eats or drinks, 
his head would verily burst asunder. But those two (enclosures) the dgnidkra and 
the sadas are common (to both men and gods). Therefore they eat and drink in 
those two. In as much as they have northward pointing beams, by that they belong 
to men; and in as much as they have doors at the eastern side, they belong to gods. 
Therefore the sadas has its tie-beams of bamboo pointing to the north. 



IV.6J.27] 


TRANSLATION 


139 


24. He encloses it (sadas) (saying) - “May these songs encompass thee on every 
side; O! thou that delightest in songs! May these favours be gladly received by thee; 
invigorating the vigorous”. He who delights in songs is foresooth, Indra; and songs 
mean vis (the populace)! He thus surrounds the warrior class (Ksatra) with the 
populace (vis). Therefore the warrior class is here surrounded by vis. 

25. He then takes the sewing needle and sews (the cross-rafts to the post 
saying) “Thou art Indra’s sewer; thou art Indra’s fixed point”. He then makes a 
knot, lest it should fall asunder. He unites the knot when once the job is done and 
thus disease befalls not on either the Yajamana or the Adhvaryu. When completed, 
he touches it (saying) ‘Thou art Indra’s own” for the sadas belongs to Indra. 

26. Then taking note of the supporting props at the back of the soma carts 
(apalamba — a temporary prop fixed under the rear part of a cart which being 
loaded), he measures the (location of) agnidhra. One half of it should be inside the 
altar and the other half outside. Or a little more than half may be outside the altar. 
Or entirely it may be inside the altar or entirely outside. Or entirely it may be inside 
the altar or entirely outside. Or entirely it may be inside the altar orentirely outside. 
When completed, he touches it (saying) “Thou art the Visvedevas' s own”, because 
it is herein, in the Vasatlvari waters forming the havis (water used to drench the 
Soma plant before squeezing and hence forming part of the soma havis) that the 
gods resided for the night during which the soma was being prepared. Hence this 
(agnidhra) belongs to All gods. 

27. Now, once on a time, the gods, while performing sacrifice, were afraid of 
an attack from the South by the Asura-Raksasas. Asura-Raksasas did attack them 
from the south and drove them out of the sodas. Having driven them out, they 
overturned those hearths (dhisnyas) of theirs which were within the sadas . That is 
why these hearths (in the sadas) do not blaze a$ the Gdrhapatya and Ahavanvyahl&ze. 
Before that they were also blazing. They chased them out even from the agnidhra 
(enclosure) and captured half of agnidhra. But fortunately the Alkgods ( Visvedevas) 
gained immortality from these (from that unconquerred half of the agnidhra). 
Having gained immortality, they again lighted their hearths so that they came to 
stay. Therefore they are kindled at each soma feast. Because that is how the gods lit 
them. That is how this agnidhra is unimpaired. And if weakness is to overcome any 
one of the consecrated (diksita), it should be said (by the Adhvaryu) “Lead him to 
the agnidhra” because that which is free from fear is never in grief. Therefore he 
who is samrddha (fully equipped), he should officiate as Agnrdh. He should be 
accomplished and well-versed in Vedas. He is the one well-equipped. For him the 
first daksina is to be offered, for he is that samrddha. Since Visvedevas gained 
immortality, the agnidhra belongs to Visvedevas. That is why when it is completed 
(erected), he touches it saying "You are the Visvedeuas’ own”. (First Brahroana 



rv.6.2.5] 


TRANSLATION 


141 


brAhmana II 

1. The dhisnyas (hearths) foresooth, are its (sacrifice’s) counterparts 
(congeneres) .They have the same marks. Their bodies are counterparts of its 
(sacrificer’s) body. Now, Soma was in the heaven and the gods were here (on the 
earth). The gods desired “Would that Soma might come to us” (so that) we might 
sacrifice with him when come”. They produced those two Mayas (illusory deities), 
Suparni and Kadru. Suparni indeed was vak (speech) and Kadru was this (earth). 
They made them quarrel with each other regarding sharing of wealth and while 
they were quarrelling they said “Which of us shall be able to look furthest ahead 
shall win the other”. 

2. She, Kadru told Suparnl “Look far”. Suparnl said “On yonder shore of this 
ocean there stands a white horse near a post; that I see”. Then Kadru told “I see the 
tail of that horse hanging down and the wind is tossing it; that l see”. Now when she 
(Suparni) said, “On yonder shine of ocean” she meant only the vedi (altar). As big 
the altar is, that much is this earth. (When she said) “A white horse near a post” (she 
meant) the sacrificial yupa as the post and Agni as the white horse. And what Kadru 
said “Its tail is just now hanging down and there, now the wind tosses it, that I see” 
this is only the rope. 

3. Suparnl told Kadru “You have not won; come, let us go and know”. Kadru 
said ‘You yourself go. You yourself will come and tell us (who is right) \ Yes! said 
Suparni and wentas told by Kadru and then returned. She (Kadru) asked “Did you 
win or didn’t?” Suparni said “You yourself (hath won) ”, Since they thus disputed, 
this story is called ‘Supami-Kadrava (episode)’. 

4. Then Kadru told Suparni “Verily I have won thine own self. Yonder is Soma 
in the heaven” she said. “Fetch him hither for the gods and thereby redeem thyself 
from death”. “So be it” (said) Suparni and created the metres. Speech indeed, is 
Suparni and from vak (speech) the metre are bom. From among them (the 
metres) Gayatri fetched soma. That soma was concealed in two golden vessels. These 
(vessels) were having their sharp-edged (lids) closing together at every moment (at 
every twinkling of the eye). These two foresooth are consecration ( dtksa ) and 
penance (tapes). 

5. Him (Soma) these Gandharvas guarded. They are these hearths ( dhisnyas ), 
these Hotrs (fire-priests). The Gayatri tore off one of the two vessels and brought 
it. Thus was consecration (. Diksa ). By that, the gods consecrated themselves. Again 
she took off (to the heaven) and tore off the other vessel and brought it. That was 
penance ( tapas) . Therewith the gods underwent penance. They are ‘the Upasadas '. 
Again she flew (to heaven). She took (consumed) soma by means of a Rhadira- 
wood-(piece). Since she at e'(ackakad) with it, it is named Khadira. Hence the yupa 
(sacrificial stake) is of Khadira wood. So too the wooden sword (sphya) (is of 



IV.6.2.10] 


TRANSLATION 


143 


Khadira wood). She took it (soma) away when the Acchdvakawas protecting it. That 
is whv the Acchavaka fell from grace. 

6. Indra and Agni rejuvenated him for production of creatures, whence the 
Acchavaka priest belongs to Indra and Agni. That is why, those who are consecrated 
should protect soma carefully. Because, if a thing is stolen away when it is being 
guarded by some one, the latter will fall from grace. Therefore the Brahmacarins 
(students) should deligently protect their teacher. Just as one would safeguard his 
cattle in his house; he (the student) should protect his teacher. If he (teacher) is 
taken away while in his (student’s) custody. The latter is doomed. SuparnI brought 
that soma and gave it to the gods. Thereby she redeemed herself from death. 
Wherefore they say “One who sacrifices (gets) the world of bliss”. Verily, even when 
bom, man is bom as with a debt (owing) to death. And in that he sacrifices, he 
thereby redeems himself from death. That is why they say “One who sacrifices 
(earns) the world of bliss”. 

7. Him (Soma) those Gandharvas (guarding in the heaven) followed. They 
are these dhisnyas (hearths). They are these Hotr (fire-priests). They said “Do you 
let us share in the sacrifice; let us also have the sacrifice” They (gods) asked 
“Whatwill be for us then? "They (Gandharvas) said “We shall be again your guards, 
lust as we protected him (Soma) there (in the heaven), we shall guard him foryou 
here”. 

8. They said “So be it”. Here take your Soma-wages”. Therefore he (Yajamana) 
grants soma krayana (prices of the Soma) to them (saying) “Suvan, Nabhraj, 
Anghara, Bambhara, Hasta, Suhasta and Krsanu (names of the Seven Gandharvas 
who guard Soma) - these are your Soma prices. Keep them safe. Don’ t lose them”. 
By thus distributing it to them, they (Gandharvas) get these names. 

9. And then they (gods) said, “The Soma draught has been taken away from 
you (when you were supposed to guard it) and therefore you do not deserve the 
Soma offering. You may eat the gfo?<?offering in the third savana (evening session of 
the sacrifice) only and not the Soma offering because your Soma has been taken 
away”. Therefore when the dhisnyas (hearths) are sprinkled with gheeby bunches of 
darbha grass. They (Gandharvas) take partin those same gtooblations of the third 
session. There is no soma drink for these from whom Soma was taken away, 

10. “And what they will offer in the Ahavaniya fire, that will satiate you”. That 
which is offered into the Ahavaniya does satiate them”. “And when he (Adhvaryu) 
will move about holding the soma over each of you ( dhisnya hearths) that will satiate 
you”. Hence when he moves holding soma over each of them, it satiates them. 



IV.6.2.14] 


TRANSLATION 


145 


Wherefore let not the Adhvaryu pass between them (hearths). Adhvaryu does hold 
the soma and these (hearths) with open mouths await him and he would fall into 
their open mouths if he goes between them. Or Agni will burn him up. Or else that 
god who is the lord of the beasts (Rudra) may devour him. Hence whenever the 
Adhvaryu has any business in the hall, let him pass north of the d^Ttidhra shed. 

^11. These (hearths) are there set up for the protection of the soma. It front is 
the Akavamya (guarding the Soma); on the right is the MarjaRya ; the Agnidhnya 
on the left and these (hearths) which are in the sadassre (to protect) from behind. 
Thus he (Soma) in the middle is guarded. 

12 They (dhisnyas) themselves insisted “Our one half be raised and one part 
as they are (assigned) so that from the raised half we shall know again that heavenly 
world from which we have come and from that half not raised, we shall be present 
here bodily when we are assigned and thus we will not go back to heaven and we will 
not go astray”. That is why half (portion of each-hearth) are elevated and half are 
not raised. 

13. They themselves insisted “We have not prospered with these our names 
because (in those names) the Soma was taken away from us. So we shall take each 
a second name”. They assumed a second name each. There with prospered. Just the 
name Vibhu was changed to Pravahana. All of them are having two names. They 
prospered (by the change of names) even though they were deprived of share in 
soma, gods gave them share in the sacrifice. Wherefore, let a Brahmin, if he 
prospers not, take a second name, for verily he prospers, whosoever, knowing this, 
takes a second name. 

14. Now what he offers in the Ahavaniya, that he offers unto the gods; thereby 
the gods exist; and what {soma) is consumed in the sodas, that is offered to men, 
thereby men exist; and that the Narasaiiisas ( soma sacred to Pitrs kept in nine 
wooden cups under the axle of the Soma sacred to Hire kept in nine wooden cups 
under the axle of the soma cart to be drunk by the priests after the libations) kept 
under the soma carts, that he offers to the Pitrs and thereby the Pitrs exist. The 
animals follow the men, the birds, plants and trees and other such creatures follow 7 
the gods and all partake in the sacrifice. Thus they without being left out drink 
together. The gods at the Akavamya, the men at the sodas, the Pitrs in the two soma- 
carts. On old days, they drank together visibly, but now they do so unseen. Thus it 
is a collective drinking symposium. (Second Brahmana Ends) 



IV.6.3.5] 


TRANSLATION 


147 


BRAHMANA III 

1. He performs the Vaisarjim offerings (setting free the various paraphernalia 
like the dark-deer skin, inunja belt etc.). Why he performs Vaisarjini offerings is 
because, the one who consecrates himself, consecrates all these (items). He 
consecrates himself for the sacrifice. He is preparing (for) the sacrifice. All these 
are (parts) of that preparation. When the sacrifice is prepared, all these follow suit. 
(Even) when the sacrifice is established they all stand before it. If these ( Vaisarjini 
offerings to set them free) are not offered, all these will stay put (between the 
Yajamana and the sacrifice even after they are no more needed). 

2. So, when he offers the Vaisarjim offerings, to the extent the sacrifice has to 
be spread and to the measure to which it should extend, upto that it is set up and 
these (paraphernalia which have outlived their utility) are sent back to their 
respective places and to their original positions. Because it sets them free, it (the 
offering) is called Vaisarjini. Those who eat with the Yajamana (i.e. Yajamana’skins) 
should be there where he starts (the Vaisarjini offerings) and (while the offerings 
are made) they (relatives) should say ‘You set them free when we are witnessing”, 
he needs to start these offerings only if he wishes. Even if he wishes and (the 
relatives) do not approve, even then, he by himself can set these free and that too 
without their witnessing them. Visnu, foresooth, is sacrifice. By his strides he 
obtained for the gods that all-pervading power which now belongs to them. By his 
first step he gained this same (earth). Then the region of air and by his third stride 
he gained the heaven. And that Visnu, the sacrifice, obtains that same pervading 
power for this Yajamana. 

3. He then puts fire-wood on and from the Cdtvdla he prepares the 
underlayers of gravel. The Yajamana takes the king (Soma) on his lap. The wife (of 
the Yajamana) follows. They arrange the Vayu-cups, the soma —through the 
pressing stones and the filtering clothes and places the butter that is there on (the 
Garhapatyafor melting); cleans the srucas. Having brought down the ghee (from the 
Gdrhapatya) and purified it, takes thereof four ladlings (with the sruva) in the juhu 
and four ladlings in the upabhrt and takes clotted ghee in five ladles. 

4. He takes the clotted ghee (saying) Thou art a light endowed with all forms, 
the flame of the Visvedevas”. The cattle are of all forms and the cattle foresooth are 
the clotted ghee. Therefore it is said “all forms”. He (Adhvaryu) scatters about the 
(dust of the foot-print of the Soma-cow behind the Gdrhapatya for the sake of a firm 
standing* for it is on the foot one stands firmly. 

5. Now some divide it (the clotted ghee) into four parts. One of the four parts 
(they put) in the under layer at wherever they take up the Akavamya (for 
transfering it to the Uttaravedi ). With another one-fourth they anoint the axle. Then 
another one-fourth they put on those gravels forming the underlayer (for taking 



rV.6.3.10] 


TRANSLATION 


149 


out the Agnldhra) and one-fourth part they scatter about behind the Garhapatya. 
They (do so) and say that The beasts have four legs and they become steady on four 
legs”. Let him not do so. Let him in one go scatter it about behind the Garhapatya. 
Because anything stands only on one base for stability. So let him scatter it all in one 
instalment. 

6. He then offers into the burning fire-wood (saying) Thou O Soma, moult 
widely withhold thy protection from the life-injuring hatreds put forth by others, 
Svaha”. Thereby, he takes a firm stand in this world and by this, gains this world. 

7. He then offers the second oblation to (Soma), the nimble. This Soma said 
at that time ‘You make me (appear) too small and carry so that I will not be 
obtainable (for the Raksasas); being small to be killed (to be spotted out and killed 
by enemies). Small is the nimble. So he (Adhvaryu) makes him nimble (so that he 
will be) small and unnoticeable for killing. So he offers the second oblation to the 
nimble (saying) “May the nimble (Soma) graciously accept the butter, Svaha*. 
Then they lift the (burning) fire-wood and place it on the Upayamani (support). 
Then they collect all those (articles) which are lying there. 

8. He then says “Recite for Soma who is taken forward”, or (he say’s) “Recite 
for Agni who is led forward”. But let him say “For Soma who is taken forward". This 
sacrifice is progressing upwards towards the heavenly world. Yajamana is sacrifice. 
So Yajamana himself is progressing (towards heaven) ”. So says the Hotr. The 
Adhvaryu makes (Yajamana) say “O Agni, lead us on a good path unto wealth, thou 
O God that knowest all actions ? Keep thou from us the evil (influence) that leadeth 
astray, and we will offer unto thee most ample adorations”. He thereby places Agni 
in front and Agni marches in front repelling the evil spirits, and they take him 
further on a (way) free from danger and injury. He then places him (Agni) in a safe 
and unassailable place free from wind. 

9. He (Adhvaryu) then puts him (Agni) down on the Agnldhra hearth and 
offers oblation (saying) “May this Agni make wide room for us, may he march in 
front smiting the haters! May he gain riches in his (attempts) to win wealth. May he 
fiercely advancing, conquer the enemy; Svaha”. “By this he takes a firm stand in the 
aerial region and by means of him (Agni) he gains that world. He lays down the 
Vayu-cups, the Soma-trough, the pressing stones and the filtering clothes. 

10. Having approached the Ahavanlya, he takes the sprinkling waters and first 
sprinkles the fire-wood and then the al tar. Then they give him the BarAt grass which 
he sprinkles and pours the remaining water (with Barhi grass). He takes the Prastara 
bunch of Ahfavala grass. He spreads the Barhi grass in a simple layer. Having spread 
the Barhi grass, he lays the enclosure (sticks) and takes the mmidhas of Kdrsmarya 
wood offers (saying) “Stride thou widely, O’Visnu, make wide room for our abode! 
Drink the ghee, thou bom of ghee, and speed the Lord of the sacrifice ever onwards, 
Svaha”. Thereby he takes a firm stand in that sky region”. By this (offering) he gains 
that sky region. 



IV.6.S.17] 


TRANSLATION 


151 


11. And as to his offering oblations with a chant belonging to Visnu, it was to 
make him (Soma) nimble so that he is carried unobtainable (unnoticed) and small 
to be killed. And he fully exists in the hearth where there is no fear and no enemies. 
As great as the sacrifice as is its size, to that extent, he makes him. 

12. Then on the earthem mound he places the bunch of Darbha grass, then 
places the ladle, then the Upabhri (offering ladle), then the clotted ghee. Then he 
touches the havis (offerings) and takes the king (Soma) and goes towards the altar. 
On the Havirdhana at the right side, he spreads the dark antelope-skin and places 
the Soma on it. 

13. Then, he says “O divine Savitr, this is thy Soma, protect him. May they not 
injure thee”. Savitr is he who produces the gods. Therefore he makes him (Soma) 
over to him for protection (thinking) “Let him be well guarded”. 

14. Having released his hold on him (Soma), he chants “Now,0 divine Soma, 
hast thou, a god, joined the gods, and here, I with the men with increase of wealth 
and prosperity”. Thereby he only seeks a blessing when he says “I with the men with 
increase of wealth and prosperity”. Agni and Soma have seized him who consecrates 
himself between their jaws, for that consecration offering belongs to Agni and 
Visnu and Visnu, foresooth isno other than Soma. So the Yarn's belongs to these two 
(Agni and Soma); thus they (Agni and Soma) have seized him between their jaws; 
and he now redeems himself from Soma. So he becomes free of his indebtedness 
to him. 

15. He then walks out (of the cart-shed) saying “Hail! I am freed from Vanina’s 
noose”. He is truly in Varuna’s noose; as it were, when he is hi another’s mouth. He 
is freed from that. So he says “Hail! I am freed from Varuna’s noose”. 

16. He then puts a kindling stick (on the Ahavanha) (saying) “O Agni, 
protector of vows! on thee, O protector of vows! What bodily form of thine hath 
been on me (may) they (be) on thee; what bodily form of mine has been on thee 
(may) that (be) here on me! Our vows, O lord of vows (have been performed) 
rightly; the Lord of consecration hath approved my consecration: the lord of 
penance hath approved my penance”. Thereby he frees himself from Agni and this 
is how he gets relieved of indebtedness. Thus got released from both Agni and 
Soma, he sacrifices with a self (body) which is now his own. 

17. And now they partake of hisfood, for he has become a man (Again). If they 
had partaken in his food when he was consecrated, it would have been havis and it 
would have amounted to eadng havis which is not duly offered (in the lire). 
Therefore now they can partake of his food since he has become a man (again). 
Hence they now use his (original) name, for he is a man. They call by his 
Subrahmanyam (lineage name) ‘so and so is sacrificing; the son of so and so is 
sacrificing; thus he becomes (is treated) as a man and loosens his fingers. (Third 
Brahmana Ends) 



IV.6.4.5] TRANSLATION 153 

BRAHMANA IV 

1. Preparing to cut the sacrificial stake (yupa ), he makes an offering with the 
Rks ( mantras ) belonging to Visnu, and then cuts the stake. Why he offers with 
Vaisnava chants is because the stake belongs to Visnu and Visnu is the sacrifice. He 
thus approaches the stake by means of the sacrifice. If he offers with the sruk 
(offering ladle) he offers after taking four ladle-full ghee with the sruva (dipping 
ladle) and only with the sruva. 

2. He offers (saying) “stride thou widely, O Visnu, make wide space for our 
abode! drink the ghee, thou bom of ghee and prompt the lord of the sacrifice over 
onwards, Svdhd He takes the ghee left over in the vessel and also the sruva and 
whatever tool (for cutting), the carpenter has, that he takes. 

3. They now proceed towards the direction where they are enaged in cutting 
the stake. When he reaches that (tree) he stands behind it facing the east and chants 
- “I passed over others (other trees) and I did not go nigh (some) others”. One 
approaches a spot (groups of trees) (when he searches for a particular type) and 
he does not find (what he wants) among them and so passes over. One does not at 
all go near others (another spot where there is no chance of finding what he wants). 
‘Thou art the most accessible among those (trees which are fit for my purpose). 
Thou art much superior to get others (which are less qualified for my purpose) ” 
This (tree) is indeed the nearest (most accessible) among the selected group of 
eligible (trees). It is indeed, superior to others (not coming within the wanted 
category). So he says, Thee, I have found accessible among the selected ones and 
on the further (higher) side of the accessible ones”. (He says) Thee do we prefer, 
O divine lord of the forest, for the worship of the gods”, just as for a good job, one 
would favour (select) one from amidst many, in the same manner, he chooses this 
(particular tree) and says Thee, may the gods approve for the worship of the gods”, 
for that (job) becomes accomplished when the gods also favour it. He gets ready 
for felling (by saying) “For the sake of Visnu, thee” because the yupa belongs to 
Visnu. 

4. When it is (to be) felled, he places a blade of grass (saying) “O plant, protect 
it”. For, this axe is indeed a thunderbolt. He coven it (softens it) by these plants so 
that this thunderbolt does not injure it. He then strikes (with the axe, saying) “G 
axe, hurt it not”. For, the axe is a thunderbolt and by this, the thunderbolt does not 
harm it The first chip which he cuts off, he takes (and lays aside). He should cut 
it (well at the bottom) so that the axle of the cart does not touch (the stump) (when 
the cart is to pass over thestump). For, they willbe transporting (the stake) by a cart. 
If the axle beam (is stuck up), his passage to heaven too (will be blocked). So he 
should cut it (the tree) so as (its stump) it does not obstruct the axle (of the cart). 

5. It (the stake) should be made to fall on the eastern side, for the east is the 
direction of the gods. Or it may be (made to fall) northward since north is the 
direction of men, or (even) to the west, only to avoid its falling on the southern 
quarter. 



rv.6.4.15] 


TRANSLATION 


155 

6. While the tree is falling, he addresses it with the chant “Graze not the sky! 
Hurt not the air! Unite with the earth!” For, that tree which they fell for the stake 
becomes a thunderbolt, for the stake is a thunderbolt. These worlds tremble for 
fear of that falling thunderbolt, but he thereby propitiates it for these worlds and 
thus it allays (the fear) of these worlds. (When he says) “Graze not the sky”he means 
do not harm the sky; (when he says) “Hurt not the air” he means to say ‘do not harm 
the aerial region’; (when he says) “Unite with the earth” he means to say ‘be thou 
in harmony with the earth’. (He further says) “For this sharp-edged axe hath led 
thee forward unto great bliss”. For, in so far as it is fashioned for the sacrifice, it is 
led into great bliss. So he says “into great bliss”. 

7. He offers ghee on the stump (of the cut tree). Ghee is foresooth, a thunder¬ 
bolt. (He does so) lest the terrible Raksasas should rise therefrom. He thus repels 
(them) by means of the thunderbolt i.e. ghee. Or, ghee is semen. He plants this 
semen in the plants themselves. By that semen, the plants (though) cut (again) 
sprout. 

8. He offers ghee (saying) “Grow thou out of this; O lord of the forest, with a 
hundred shoots! May we grow out with a thousand shoots”. Thus he seeks only a 
blessing when he says ‘May we grow out with a thousand shoots’. 

9. Thereupon he cuts it (the stake of the proper length). Of whatever length 
he cuts it the first time, it remains that long. 

10. He may cut it five cubits long; for fivefold is the sacrifice and five fold are 
the sacrificial animals; and five seasons there are in the year. Therefore he may cut 
it five cubits long. 

11. Or he may cut it six cubits long because there are six seasons for a year and 
hence six cubits long. 

12. Or he may cut it eight cubits long for Gayatri metre has eightsyllables; and 
Gayatri is the fore-part of the sacrifice and this ( yupa ) is the fore-part of the altar; 
therefore eight cubits long. 

13. Or he may cut it eleven cubits long, for, the Tristubh metre has eleven 
syllables. Tristubh is a thunderbolt and the yupa'xs a thunderbolt. Therefore eleven 
cubits long. 

14. Or it may be cut at fifteen cubits long, for the fifteen versed chant is a 
thunderbolt and the yupa is a thunderbolt. So fifteen cubits long. 

15. These (measures) need not be taken seriously. Because it is with an 
unmeasured (thunderbolt) the gods conquerred the unmeasured. Therefore this 
(yupa) shall also be so (unmeasured) and with the unmeasured (yupa) he (Yajamana) 
wins the unmeasured (benefits). It (yupa) is made to be eight-comered, for eight 
syllables has the Gayatri metre and Gayatri is the fore-part of the sacrifice and this 
(yupa) is the fore-part of the altar. So it should be eight cornered. (Fourth 
Brahmana Ends) 


(Chapter Six Ends) 



IV.7.1.8] TRANSLATION 157 

Chapter Seven 

BRAHMANA I 

1. He takes the spade itself (saying) “I take thee prompted by the divine Savitr, 
with the arms of the Asuras; with the hands of Pusan”.“I take thee thou art a 
woman”. The purport of this chant has already been told. Why he says ‘Thou art a 
woman’ is because the spade is a female and so he says ‘Thou art a woman’. 

2. With her (the spade) he draws (the lines) for the hole for the yupa (to be 
installed) so that half (of the hole) is within the altar and half outside the altar 
(saying)' “Herewith I cut off the neck of the Raksasas”. For, the spade is a 
thunderbolt and with the thunderbolt he cuts off the necks of the Raksasas. he digs 
the pit equal to (hold) the bottom part of the stake. 

3. He throws up a heap of earth (dug out) towards the east of it (pit).Thereon 
he puts sacrificial grass of the same size and there upon he places the head piece 
of die yupa (Casala ). Then he takes the sprinkling water mixed with barley corns; 
the significance of this is the same as before. Then he sprinkles the water mixed with 
barley corns. The significance of this sprinkling is the same as before. Whatever he 
sprinkles, he only purifies it (so as to be fit for the sacrifice). 

4. He sprinkles (saying) “For the sky-thee! For the air-thee! For the earth- 
thee! ” The stake being a thunderbolt (he does so) for the protection of these 
worlds. ‘I sprinkle thee for the protection of these worlds’ is what he means to say. 

5. The sprinkling water that remains, he then pours into the yufiaiude 
(saying) “Be the worlds pure where in the Pitrs reside ”, It means the same as before. 
Thereupon he strews barhis grass, both northward-pointing and eastward- 
pointing (saying) “Thou art the seat of the Pitrs”. It means the same as before. 

6. He then throws in the first chip of yupa (removed), when the tree was cut). 
Now that chip of the outer (bark) doubtless is the vigour of trees; hence when they 
(chips of the outer bark) are cut off, they (the trees) dry up, for, it is their vigour. 
Hence (by throwing it there) he endows it with that very vigour, thinking ‘I shall 
(plant it) with its vigour; let it be endowed with vigour’. Why this (particular) chip 
is thrown is because it has been produced with (the chanting) of a formula; it is 
sacrificially pure. So that very same (chip) is thrown. 

7. He throws it (saying) “Thou art a leader, easily accessible to the Vnnetr 
priests (who draw the Soma). Because itwas cut outfir&t, he says ‘Thou art a leader’. 
‘Thou art easily accessible to the Unnetr priests; be thou mindful of this (yupa) ; it 
will stand upon thee”, for the yupa is to stand upon it. 

8. Then he offers the ghee oblation; for, ghee is a thunderbolt. ‘Lest the evil 
spirits should rise from below’, he repels them with the thunderbolt i.e. ghee. 



TRANSLATION 


159 


IV.7.1.16] 

9. He moves to the front of it (^apit) and says “Bring gheeior the yupaand 
recite”. Or (hemaysay) “We shall anoint the yupa\ you recite for it”. The Hotr recites 
and let the Adhyaryu anoint (saying) “The divine Savitr may anoint thee with sweet 
drink”. For, Savitr is the prompter of the gods and all these here are sweet drinks. 
The sacrificer himself is they upa. With all these he anoints the Yajamana. This Savitr 
(the prompter impells him (to do so). Therefore he says, “Divine Savitr mayanoint 
thee with sweet drink”. 

10. Having then anointed the top ring on both sides, he covers {thzyupa) with 
it (saying) “To the full-berried plants thee” for that (top ring) is as its berry. By this 
he indeed connects the berry (with the trunk). Because the connecting part 
between (the trunk and the fruit) is pressed as it were, it looks as if the berry fruit 
and the tree are contracted in the middle. 

11. He then anoints the comer (of the stake) facing the fire, for, the comer 
facing the fire is the sacrificer and the ghee is sap. Thereby he anoints the Yajamana 
with saip.He then grasps the girdling part all round and applies the sap from top to 
bottom. 

12. He then says (to the Hotr) “Recite to the yupa which is being set up”. The 
Hotr says and the Adhvaiyu raises it (the yupa saying) “With thy crest, thou hast 
touched the sky, with thy middle, thou hast filled the aerial region, with thy foot 
thou hast steadied the earth”-This yupa is none other than the thunderbolt. So (by 
raising it) he conquers all these words. He drives away from these worlds the hated 
enemies. He puts them out (of these worlds). That is why he then raises it. 

13. He then plants it {yupa'mto the hole) (saying) ‘To what resorts of thine we 
long to go, where are the swift-footed, many-horned, kine; there, foresooth, was 
imprinted wide-striding highest mighty step of Visnu”. With this chant in Tristubh 
(he plants) - Tristubh is verily a thunderbolt and the yupa is a thunderbolt. 
Therefore he plants it with a Tristubh chant He plants it with a chant belonging 
to Visnu because the yupa is of Visnu. 

14. He now turns the Agnistha comer (of the yupa ) towards the fire so that the 
Yajamana does not stir from his seat. If the Agnistha corner turns away from the 
fire, it (would amount to) the Yajamana moving away from his seat. Therefore he 
now turns the Agnistha comer to face the fire. 

15. He then re-inforces (the bottom of the yupa ) with earth (saying) “Well 
disposed to Brahmins, well-disposed to the warrior class, winner of prosperity and 
wealth, I steady you”. He then presses (the earth) around it (saying) “Uphold thou 
the priesthood; uphold the warrior class,uphold our life; uphole our progeny”. 
Then pressing to level it with the ground, he pours water thereon. Its significance 
has been told. 

16. He (Yajamana) touches it {yupa) and chants - “See you the deeds of Visnu, 
where by he beheld the sacred ordinances. Indra’s allied friend”-Indra is the god 
of the sacrifice and the yupa is of Visnu. Thus here he (Visnu) is united with Indra. 
So he says Indra’s allied friend. 



rv.7.1.223 


TRANSLATION 


161 

17. He then looks up at the top-ring (saying) “The wise ever behold that 
highest step of Visnu, fixed like an eye in the heaven” For he who has set up the 
yupa has hurled the thunderbolt. (When he says) “see yee Visnu’s conquest”, he 
means this achievement (of planting the yupa). 

18. He then girds (the yupa with a rope made ofAuiagrass). He girds it to cover 
its nakedness. He winds it at the level of the navel for it is there that the garment 
is (tied). He thereby puts food into him; for it is there that food settles. Therefore 
he girds it at the level of the navel. He winds it thrice for threefold is food and food 
means cattle and (there is) the father, the mother and what is bom (of them) is the 
third. So he winds it three times. 

19. He girds it (saying) “Thou art enfolded; may the heavenly hosts enfold 
thee! May riches enfold this Yajamana among men”. By this he seeks a blessing 
when he says ‘May riches enfold this Yajamana among men’. 

•20. Thereupon he conceals a chip of the yupa (under the rope) (saying) 
‘Thou art the son of the sky”. For it is doubtless the offspring of that (yupa); hence 
if there be the full number of eleven yupas , let him conceal in each its own chip (got 
while rough-heving the stake to make it eight cornered). So that his children are 
bom in order and not foolish. If some one gets confused in (inserting these chips) 
in eleven different yupas, he will get disorderly and foolish issues. And now why it 
is called svaru (very sore) - that (chip) is cut off from that (yupa) and thus is its own 
(soni) sore (arms or wound). It is from that (yupa tree) this is chopped off. 
Therefore it is called svaru. Moreover, that chip of the yupa is a bridge to the 
heavenly world. This girdle (kusa rope); (this) chip and the top-ring and further 
up he reaches the heavenly world. 

21. With that part of it which is dug in, he gains the world of the Pitrs', and with 
what is above the pit up to the girdle, he gains the world of men and what is above 
the girdle and upto the top-ring, he gains the world of the gods. What space covered 
by two or three fingers breadths above the top-ring, that is of the gods called 
Sadhyas. He shares their world. He who knows this so, gains the same world with the 
Sadkya gods. 

22. He instals that (yupa) on the fore-part (of the altar). For, the yupa is a 
thunderbolt, as the club is a thunderbolt. Of course in hunting the dub one holds 
it in the fore-part. So he instals it in the fore-part. Momentum is in the fore-part. 
Wisdom is in the fore-part, the worship spot of the gods is in the east. Therefore he 
instals it on the fore-part. 



IV.7.2.2] 


TRANSLATION 


163 


23. Verily, by means of the sacrifice the gods gained that supreme authority 
which they nowwield. They said “Let us make this (world of ours) such thatit cannot 
be reached by men”. They consumed the sap of the sacrifice, as bees would suck out 
honey and having drained the sacrifice and scattered it by means of the yupa, they 
disappeared. And because they scattered with this (yupa), it is called Yupa. It has 
eight comers. For the Gayatri metre has eight syllables and Gayatri is the fore-part 
of the sacrifice. This yupa is (at) the fore-part of the altar. Therefore it is eight- 
cornered. 

24. Now the gods once throw those paridhis (enclosing sticks into the fire). 
Since they then threw, some (people) now throw that boundary. There upon the 
Raksasas (got entry inside) and sipped (the soma) after (the gods). 

25. The gods told (Adhvaryu) “Offer thou only a chip of the yupa” (Even by 
this) the paridhiswould be deemed to have been thrown and the sacrifice will gain 
momentum. Then the Raksasas will not hereafter sip (the soma) taking that (chip) 
for a raised thunderbolt. Then, they (gods) offered only a chip of the yupa. That 
itself (amounted to) throwing (the paridhis) and the sacrifice gained momentum 
and the Raksasas did not sip (soma) taking that (chip) for a raised thunderbolt. 
Therefore, only a chip of the yupa should be thrown. That itself will (serve the 
purpose of) throwing (the paridhis ). He after performing the Anuyajas (after¬ 
offerings) offers it (the chip) (saying) “May thy smoke rise up to the sky, thy light 
to the heavens! Fill the earth with ashes, Svahd”. (First Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANA II 

1. He instals eleven yupas. Why he instals eleven yupas is because the earth is 
indeed that extent as the altar. The yupas are the thunderbolts. By means of these 
thunderbolts he takes possession of the earth. He strikes at her (earth’s) enemies 
and drives them out. That is why he instals these eleven yupas. The twelfth, not fully 
hewn, is kept (as a stand by). He keeps it down on the right side end of the altar. 

2- Now, the gods, while performing this sacrifice, were afraid of an attack of 
Asura-Raksasas from the southern direction. Those raised (yupas) then were like 
an arrow discharged after being drawn-therewith one smites (the target) or does 
not smite or it is like a club wielded and hurled-therewith one strikes (the target) 
or does not strike. That is (the nature) of these errected yupas. This thunderbolt 
(the twelfth yupa lying down unerected) in the south is (like) an arrow drawn (on 
the string) but not discharged (yet) or (like) a club wielded but not thrown (at the 
target). This is (the nature of) the thunderbolt held up at the southern side for 
dispelling the terrible Raksasas. 



IV.7.2.7] 


TRANSLATION 


165 

3. He touches it (the twelfth yupa) (saying) ‘This is thy place on earth; thine 
is the beast of the forest”. There are the sacrificial animals and the yupas and to this 
one he thereby assigns an animal of the forest and by that it {yupa) becomes 
possessor of an animal. 

4. Some instal all those yupas on the previous day itself to ensure speedy 
completion of those rituals saying Let us quickly set up the sacrifice. We shall install 
the yupas in the previous day itself’. But one should not do so. Because, before 
girdling them (with grass rope) the Adhvaryu does not leave his hold on them, (If 
they are errectedon the previous day) theywill remain ungirt during the night. This 
they would disapprove. The yupas are errected for the sacrificial animals and the 
animals are not slaughtered that day except in the case of the one facing the fire. 
Therefore only the one facing the fire should he instal that day (previous day). That 
alone is girded and on that the animal is slaughtered. So only the one (yu^ba) facing 
the fire should be errected that day. 

5. Some instal the yupa which is immediately to the north of the one facing 
the fire. Then the one in the south, then a northern one—last of all the one on the 
southern flank; thus it (the row of yupas) inclines to the north. That should not be 
done so. That which is south of the one opposite to fire, he should instal first, then 
the north one, then the southern one—last of all the one on the northern flank.; 
and thus indeed, his work attains completion towards the north. The largest be the 
one forming the southern flank; then shorter and shorter till in the northern 
flank,the shortest (is errected). Thus (the row) inclines to the north. 

6. Thereupon they set up the Patm-yupa (wife’s yupa) the thirteenth for the 
wives. It is erected for the sake of completeness (or) perfection. The year has 
thirteen months and hence the thirteenth is installed. 

7. Then they tie the animal ( pasu ) for Tvasta. for Tvasta who fashions the 
semen that is impregnated and hence Tvasta fashions the semen now implanted. 
It (the animal of Tvasta) happens to be one with testicles, for, die one with testicles 
can procreate and Tvasta is (the cause of) procreation. Hence he is one with 
testicles. He (the animal) is let off after fire has been carried around it. It is not 
slain.Were he to slaughter it, his progeny will get stopped. Thus (letting it free) he 
sets free his progeny (impedes not his offspring). Thus let free,his progeny will be 
(born) unimpaired. Therefore after taking fire around it, it is let off; it is not slain. 
(Second Brahmana Ends) 



IV.7.3.4] 


TRANSLATION 
brAhmana III 


167 


1. There is the pasu and there is the yupa. So they immolate the pasu only at 
the yupa. Never do (they slaughter) without a yupa. Originally the animals did not 
submit there to that they should become food, as they have now become food. Thev 
walked errect on two feet just like man (thinking) thereby they will not be 
slaughtered. Then the gods discovered this thunderbolt i.e. yupa. They errected it 
and from fear thereof they ( pasus) shrunk in there body and thus became four- 
footed. Then they became food. Since they became food, they submitted thereto 
(resigned to their lot of being food). That is why they immolate the pasu only at a 
yupa and never without a yupa. 

2* Having goaded the pasu (to the yupa) , he chums the fire. Why he goads the 
animal and then churns the fire is because the animals did not originally submit 
thereto that they should become the havis (sacrificial offering) as they have now 
become havis. Gods caught hold of them who were thus unbending. Though thus 
they caught hold of them, they did not submit to it. 

3. Those gods spoke, “Verily, these (animals) know not the procedure of this, 
n or (do they know) the nature of the havis and what is a secured resort (for them). 
That is why they do not submit”. Then they said, “Let us chum the Fire”, then they 
will realise that having churned fire we will offer them in the fire. Then they will 
come to know “This is the nature of havis and indeed they will offer it (us) into the 
fire and that is a safe resort (for us). So (realising) they will submit (to their being 
made havis) . Thus satisfied in their minds will agree to be immolated. They haring 
chrunedfire, offered (the hams) into the fire. Then the animals {pasus) know “this 
is the nature of the havis. They are offering the havis indeed, into the fire. This is 
a safe resort”. And they submitted and became prepared in their minds for 
immolation. (Here) then (after churning the fire) this pasu submits for it and 
becomes mentally ready for immolation. Therefore, after driving the pasu to the 
stake, he churns the fire. 

4. They (some) say “Let him not goad (the pasu) , nor churn the fire, because 
it appears like faultering (or haring a guilt complex). Let him take the rope and 
haring gone thither put it round saying “Let it be straightway bound"’. That should 
not be done so, for, it would be as if he intended to commit secretly some unlawful 
act. Let him therefore proceed in that order (goading the pasu and churning the 
fire). 



IV.7.4.23 


TRANSLATION 


169 


5. Then, taking a straw, he goads the pasu, thinking ‘I will secure it with (the 
help of) a companion (straw) for he who has a companion is stronger. 

6. He takes the straw (saying) ‘Thou art a cheerer for, a second person 
(companion) does cheer one. Therefore he says ‘Thou art a cheerer’. (Then he 
says) “The celestial hosts have approached the gods”. The celestial host are those 
pasus. They have submitted to the gods”, he means to say, when he says ‘the celestial 
hosts have approached the gods, ‘The willing ( pasus have gone to) the best of 
leaders”, for the gods are the wise (leaders). 

7. “O divine Tvastr, manage the wealth (pasus) ” for, Tvastr is the lord of these 
(beasts). Pasus are the wealth. Whose wealth are the pasus and who is their lord, 
him, he addresses to mean “Quieten them”, when he says, ‘O divine Tvastr, manage 
the wealth. “May the offering be relished by thee” Since only when they agreed (to 
be havis) they have been made into havis. So he says “May the offering be relished 
by thee”. 

8. “Rejoice, Ye prosperous “for cattle are prosperous”. So he says, “Rejoice, Ye 
prosperous”,“0 Brhaspati, preserve the riches”. For Brahma is Brhaspati and the 
pasus are the riches. These animals when they were not submitting, gods caught 
hold of on the farther side by (with the help of) Brahman and they did not 
transgress (him). And in like manner does he now catch hold of them (pasus) with 
the Brahman on the farther side and they do not transgress him. Having thus 
goaded the^asu, he churns the fire. After churning the fire, he binds (th epasu) and 
that (will be dealt with) hereafter. (Third Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANA IV 

1. He then takes the rope and getting closer (to the pasu) puts it on it (saying) 
“With the noose of sacred order I bind thee; be bold 0 Man. The rope belongs to 
Vanina and hence only with the rope of the sacred order he binds the havis of the 
gods. Thus the rope of Varuna does not injure it. ‘Be bold. O Man’ (he says) 
because at first man dared not to approach it (the pasu ). Now that he binds it with 
the rope of the sacred order as an oblation to gods, man dares to approach it. 
Therefore he says “Be bold, O Man”. 

2. He then binds it (to the yupa) “At the prompting of the divine Savitr, I bind 
thee with the arms of the Asvins, with the hand of Pusan, thee agreeable toAgni and 
Soma, I bind thee”. Even as on that occasion, when taking out an oblation for a 
deity, he assigns it, so does he now assign it to the two deities (Agni and Soma). He 
then sprinkles it. The same is the significance of sprinkling. He makes it thereby 
sacrificially pure, whatever he sprinkles. 



TRANSLATION 


171 


IV.7.4.8] 

3. He sprinkles (saying) “For the waters—thee for the plants I sprinkle”. He 
purifies it ( pasu) where it is found and wherefrom it originates. By eating the plants 
and drinking water, the seed (of an animal) comes into being. From the seed 
(comes) the pasu. Therefore (he says) ‘I sprinkle for the waters, for the plants’. 
“May thy mother grant thee permission, may thy father”. For, it is bom of the 
mother and the father. ‘Thy brother of the same womb and thy friend of the same 
herd”. By this he means ‘I immolate you with the consent of those of yours by birth 
(connected to you byyour birth). “I sprinkle thee agreeable to Agni and Soma". (By 
this) he makes it purified for which deities it is intended as havis. 

4. He makes it drink (water) (saying) ‘Thou art a drinker of water”. By this he 
purifies it for sacrifice internally. He then sprinkles it underneath (the body) 
(saving) “May the divine waters make it palatablej let the oblation to the gods be 
truly tasty”. Thus he makes it sacrificially pure all over. 

5. He thereupon tells (theHotr) “Recite to the fire thatis being kindled”. After 
making the second libation of ghee, he crosses over (to his former position) without 
letting the two ladles touch one another, and anoints the pasu (with therein the 
juhu). For, the second libation is indeed the head of the sacrifice and sacrifice here, 
is of course that pasu. He thereby places the head on the sacrifice. 

6. He anoints at the fore-head (saying) “May thy breath unite with the wind". 
‘Thy limbs with those worthy of sacrifice” -(so saying) on the shoulders (he 
anoints),“Unite the Yajamana with (the object) on his prayer” (so saying) on the 
loins. By this he only says “For whatever desire the animal is slain, do thou obtain 
that”. For, when he immolates the pasu, its breath unites with the wind. Obtain 
thou that (purity); thy breath may pass into the wind” is what he says. Thy limbs 
with those worthy of sacrifice”. It is with its limbs that they sacrifice. ‘You obtain that 
(purity) ”. “So you attain that (purity) by which we may sacrifice with your limbs" - 
is what it amounts to - The Yajamana with his prayer - thereby he seeks blessings 
for the Yajamana”. ‘You attain that (purity) by which those blessings may be sought 
for the Yajamana” is what his saying amounts to. He then requests the Hotr to say 

Srausat. The significance of this is the same. 

7. He calls a second time for the Srausat for invoking Mai tra-Varuna. When he 
thus calls for Srausatiox the invocation of Maitra-Varuna, it is the Yajamana himself 
whom he chooses. 

8. After calling for the Srausat, he says “Verily, Agni is the leader of the divine 
hosts”, for, Agni is the head of the deities and hence he says “Agni is the leader of 
the divine hosts”. This Yajamana (the head) of men ”. For, this community wherein 
he sacrifices, is behind him; wherefore he says, This \ajamana of men . May the 



TRANSLATION 


173 


IV.7.4.8] 

household of these two shine brightly, unlike (a cart) with one bullock, for a 
hundred winters (like) two fellow-bullocks yoked” Where by means to say “May 
their household life be free from calamities for a hundred years”. “May their 
fortunes be united though their bodies be ununited”. Now when this one sacrifices 
in the Fire, he gives fortune to Agni and whatever blessing the priests here invoke 
upon the Yajamana, all that Agni grants. Thus in their fortunes only unite (co-exist) 
but their bodies are ununited. This is thus said so that the Agni will not bum the 
Yajamana. When the Yajamana by his skin touches the fire (gets bodily united with 
fire), fire will burn him. Therefore he says ‘not united in body’. (Fourth Brahmana 

Ends) 


(Chapter Seven Ends) 



IV.8.1.5] 


TRANSLATION 


175 


Chapter Eight 
rrahmana I 

1. Thereupon, the Hotr after being chosen, sits down on theHotr’s seat. Then 
they proceed with the Apn chants. Why they proceed with the Apn chants is this - 
He who gets consecrated with his whole mind, with his whole self, prepares for the 
sacrifice. Having prepared for the sacrifice with his whole mind, with his whole self, 
he offers it to the gods. Having offered to the gods, he becomes as if, emptied out. 
With these Apn chants he becomes filled again (rejuvenated). Since he becomes 
filled again with these Apn chants, they rejuvenate him with them and hence they 
are called Apn chants. 

2. There are here eleven Prayajas (fore-offerings). This man has eleven 
(ingredients); ten vital airs and the eleventh is the self. Thus they fill his entire body . 
Therefore these Prayajas happen to be eleven. 

3. Being asked, the Adhvarvu takes the sruks and having crossed over and 
called for Srausai, says “Prompt (the Hotr) to recite to the samidhas (kindling 
sticks). Thus he proceeds with the ten fore-offerings saying “Prompt... etc.” at each 
and pouring the ghee together at every fourth offering. Having performed die ten 
Prayajas, he says “Bring the slayer”. It is the knife which is called slayer. “Bring the 
chip of the yupa”. Then he anoints them (the knife and the chip) at the top (with 
ghee) from the juhu. He touches the fore-head of the pasu (with that saying) 
“Anointed with ghee, protects the pasu”. The chip of th eyupa is a thunderbolt (and 
knife is a thunderbolt. The ghee is (also) a thunderbolt. So all these (three) are 
made the thunderbolt and it is made the protector; lest the terrible Raksasas should 
injure it {pasu); for, the thunderbolt is the destroyer of the terrible Raksasas. He 
again conceals the chip of the yupa and hands over the knife to the butcher. 

4. He says to him (butcher) “Be this thine approved edge”. Setting down the 
two sruks, he says, “Recite to Agni circumambient”. Thereby he encircles it (pasu) 
with an unbroken fence office, lest the terrible Raksasas should seize upon it for, 

Agni is the killer of the terrible Raksasas. _ 

5. Now they say ‘since with this fire (fire-brand taken from the Ahavamya) the 
encircling of the pasu by fire is dorie, another fire has to be churned out (a new) 
and with that the cooking of the pasu has to be done, for, this fire is indeed 
Ahavamya. What is cooked in it cannot be offered to itself (later as oblation). Nor 
they should offer into it what is not cooked. So another Agni has to be churned out 
and in that they should cook. It should not-be done so. For, when he carries fire 
round it (paryagwikatana of the posit), it {pusti) becomes as food swaliened by ^h^-* 
(fire). (If they are to cook in another new fire) it would amount to snatching what 
has been already swallowed (by one) and offered to some one else. So he shou d 
only remove some coals off that same fire-brand and thereon cook that {pasu). 



IV.8.1.11] TRANSLATION ? 

Then they should deposit the coals also (back into the Ahavanm) and thereby 
there is no conflict. J “ 


6. When they proceed takingit (th epasu) northward; theAgnidh goes in front 
carrying (a new firebrand whereby he makes Agni himself go in front of it (pasu). 
That way. Agm leads him destroying the terrible Raksasas and breaking through 

(the obstacles) Thus he takes htm (pasu) to a safe place free from evil and secured 
(from the wind). 


7. Then from that grass strewn over the veil, he takes two straws. Him (the 
pasu) who IS being taken northward, Pratiprasthata follows with two oventurn- 
roasters (pans used for roasting the vapd). Adhvaryu follows Pratiprasthata 
Yajamana behind Adhvaryu. With him (pasu) they go northward. 

8. As to this dtey say “The Yajamana should not follow him (pasu) since they 

are takmg him to death andsoitisindeedinappropriatefortheYajamanatofollow 

one that is being taken to death”. Definitely (Yajamana) should follow. He is not 
being taken to death when he is taken for the sacrifice. He is of course being taken 
only for sacrifice. Therefore (Yajamana) should follow. If he doesnotfollowritewill 

get excluded from the sacrifice. Hence he should definitely follow (the pasu) 

9. When he follows him, he follows in a concealed manner. With two roasters 
(first) the Pratiprasthata (walks), then the Adhvaryu after the Pratiprasthata and 
then the Yajamana behind the Adhvaryu. Thus he follows in a concealed manner 

10. He (Adhvaryu) having called for the Srausatszys “O! Hotr, prompt again 
the offerings to the gods”. This is what belongs to All-gods ( Vibedevds) at the Pasu- 
offering, Hotr responds. Adhvaryu makes the Yajamana say “O’ thou Revati 
(prosperous)! (bestow) upon the Yajamana”. The prosperous one foresooth is 
speech. So he says “Revatl (bestow) upon the Yajamana”. “Bestow (thou, what is 
pleasing unto him” by which he says “Bestow freedom from misery”. That is what 
is pleasing unto him. “From the wide air, along with the divine wind”. By this he 
means “The Raksas moves about in the aerial region and as this man (Yajamana) 
soars up to the air-region (by his merit), rootless (without his physical body) and 
unfettered on both sides, unite him with the divine wind and protect him from 
(dangers) from the aerial region. This is what he means when he says, “From the 
wide air along with the divine wind”. “Offer thou with the soul of this haws 
(oblation) . That is, he says, “Offer thou this unblemished oblation”. “Unite thou 
with its ( havis) (here, the pasu’s) body. He addresses this to speech. 

11. At the spot where they cut it {pasu) up, he places one of those two straws 
(which he picked up from the vedi) (saying) “O great one, lead the lord of sacrifice 
unto greater sacrifice” - thereby he spreads a cushion {barhis) for it (to hold the cut 
pieces) since a havis that spills (on the ground) is worthless. Whatever may now be 

spilt of it when it is cut up, that settles there on the cushion {barhis) and is thus not 
wasted. 



IV.8.2.2] 


TRANSLATION 


179 

12. Then they move by the north of Ahavamya, turn right and sit ‘lest they 
should be eye-witnesses to its being strangled (quieted). They do not slay on the 
frontal bone, for that is the human way (of doing it); nor behind the ear, for that 
is the procedure (adopted) by Pitrs. They either choke it by merely keeping its 
mouth dosed or they make a noose (and strangulate). That is the gods’ way. Thev 
do not say ‘slay it or kill it’. He would be doing it in the human way if he were to say 
‘slay it or kill it’. He should only say ‘quiet it; let it go’, for, it (pasu) is going to the 
gods. That is why (afterwards) they say ‘it has gone’. 

13. Before strangling, he offers (saying) “Svaha to the gods” When it is 
strangled (he says) To the gods, Svaha, , For in the case of some gods the Svliha 
sound preceeds and in some others Svaha sound follows”. Both these (types of) 
gods he pleases. Being gratified, both these gods convey him to the heavenly world. 
These offerings are called Pavipasaz/ya oblations. He may offer them if he c hooses. 
If not he can ignore them. (First Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA II 

1. When he (the slaughterer) announces “The pasu has been quieted”, the 
Adhvaryu says, “Nestr, lead up the lady”. The Nestr brings the wife (of the 
lajamana) and conducting her, he makes her say “Homage be to thee, O wide- 
stretched The wide-stretched one, foresooth, is the sacrifice; because the sacrifice, 
indeed, widespreads. That wife is of course, the hind-part of the sacrifice and he 
wants her thus come forward praising the sacrifice. That is why she pays homage to 
it (the sacrifice) she bows before it For that reason the sacrifice does not injure her. 
Therefore she says “Homage be to thee O wide-stretched”, (she says), “Advance, 
unresisted”. By that she says ‘Advance thee unchallenged (by enemies) Unto the 
rivers of ghee, along with the path of sacred truth” whereby she means to say towards 
good. “Ye divine pure waters, carry ye (the sacrifice) to the gods, well-prepared. May 
we who prepare (for the sacrifice) be rendered worthy preparers”. Thereby (she) 
purifies the water. 

2. Thereupon (she) cleanses with water, the (apertures for) the vital airs in 
the pasu. The reason why she thus cleanses with water the apertures of the vital airs 
is this: The food of the gods is like the nectar for the immortals. But in quieting 
(cutting up) that pasu, they kill it. Water is life-breath. Water is food. And the vital 
air (life-breath) is the food. By this (she) now puts into it those vital airs and thus 
it becomes thereby animated. Then, it rises*up as it were and comes to life. Alive, 
it becomes the food ( havis ) of the gods, the nectar for the immortals. 



IV.8.2.9] 


TRANSLATION 


131 

3. That wife of the Yajamana is a woman and from woman progeny is born here 
on earth. Thus he causes that ( pasu ) to be bom from that woman. 

4. She wipes its mouth (saying) “Thy speech, I cleanse”; the nostrils (saying) 
“I cleanse thy breath”; the eyes (saying) “Thy eye, I cleanse”. The ears (saying), 
“Thine ear, I cleanse”; that opening of the vital air in front (saying), “Thy organ, I 
cleanse” or “Thy navel, I cleanse”; that opening of the vital airbehind (saying), “Thy 
anus, I cleanse”. Thus she puts into it those vital airs and revives it. 

5. Thereupon, holding its legs together (wipes them) (saying) Thy feet, I 
cleanse”, because it is on the feet it stands firmly. She thus, putting vital airs into it 
and reviving it, makes it stand firmly on its feet. Therefore she says Thy feet, I 
cleanse”. 

6. With the waters that are remaining (after her wiping) the Adhvaryu and the 
Yajamana then sprinkle it and put the vital airs into it and revives it. Thus, wherever 
they cut it, wherever they wounded it while quieting it, that they sooth and heal it. 
Thereby they make it pure for the sacrifice. That is why they sprinkle it. 

7. They (Adhvaryu and Yajamana) sprinkle it (saying) “Let your mind be 
strengthened; let your speech be strengthened; let your life-breath be strength¬ 
ened; let your eye be strengthened; letyour ear be strengthened”. Thus they infuse 
the vital airs into it. Thereby they revive it. “Whatever was wounded or crushed in 
you, let it be healed; let it be joined”. Thereby whatever (parts) of it they wound or 
crush while quieting it; that they strengthen and that they heal. “Let that be 
purified”. By saying so, they render it pure for sacrifice. 

8. “Auspicious be the days” (so saying) they pour out (water) on its hind part. 
They are indeed tormenting it while strangling. Lest thereafter they grieve for days 
and nights, by the healing waters they calm it, since water is healer. Therefore they 
say “Auspicious be the days”. 

9. Thereupon they turn the pasu over on its back. He (Adhvaryu) puts on it 
this (other) straw (saying) “O Plant, protect”. This knife foresooth, is a thunder¬ 
bolt. He covers it by these grass. Thereby that thunderbolt does notinjure him. (He 
says) “Injure it not, O blade” - for, this knife which is indeed a thunderbolt is 
(capable of) injuring. By this the thunderbolt does not injure him, fince it cuts with 
its tamed edge which is (rendered harmless), treated with the chant and made pure 
for the sacrifice. The (cut) top of the grass, he holds by his left hand and the bottom 



W.&2.16] 


TRANSLATION 


1S3 

part he holds by his right hand. When the blood gushes out, he smears it (the 
bottom part) in both ends (saying) “Thou art the Raksasa’s share” for, that blood 
is indeed, the share of the Raksasas. If (the grass) happens to be cut on both ends, 
because the Raksasas, roodess and cut up on both sides are loitering in the aerial 
region. Therefore it is cut at both ends. 

10. He throws (the grass) away and treads on it (saying) “Herewith, I tread 
down the Raksasas! Herewith, I drive away the Raksasas! Herewith, I consign the 
Raksasas to the regions of darkness”. Thus it is by means of the sacrifice that he 
drives away the evil spirits, the Raksasas. 

11. Therefore they pull out the vapa (omentum) and envelop the two roosters 
(saying) “May you envelop heaven and earth with ghee”. Thereby he invests both of 
them, the heaven and earth, with strength and sap; he puts strength and sap into 
the heaven and earth. 

12. The two roasters of vapa are made of Kdrsmarya wood, where the gods 
earlier immolated the Pasu. (At that time) when the paswwas being drawn upwards, 
its sacrificial essence flowed downwards and from that this tree sprang. Since it grew 
from that which was being drawn up (krsyamdna) , it is called Kdrsmarya. With that 
same essence, he now perfects it and makes it whole. Hence the roasters of vapa are 
of Kdrsmarya wood. 

15. After cutting the vapa (omentum) off on all sides, he heats it at the cooking 
fire. He does cook it, otherwise it will be uncooked when offered in the Ahavamya 
and (will amount to) getcooked there (and thus will not be an oblation). Then (the 
Agnldh) takes a burning stick and goes in front and again puts it down. Then the 
tip of the grass (which he was holding all the while in the left hand), he throws it 
(into the Ahavamya) (saying) “OVayu, graciously accept the drops ” for this samidha 
is (kindled) by drops (of ghee) because it is with drops that it has been kindled. 

14. Then at the northern end, he heats the vapa , for he is about to pass by the 
fire; and to roast ( the vapa) , after walking round to the south side. Hereby conceals 
it from Agni and thus, that fire does not injure it when taken past (the fire). 

.15. He takes it (vapa) between the Ahavamya and the yiipa. The reason why 
they do not take it across the middle (of the altar), whereby they take other 
oblations, is lest they should bring the sacrifice in the middle into contact with this 
uncooked and bloody (vapa). If it is taken (by the route) with yupa in the front, 
then it will not be outside the sacrifice (and at the same time it does not come into 
contact with the middle of the sacrifice). Therefore he takes it between the 
Ahavamya and the yupa. He cooks it at the southern side. 

16. He sprinkles ghee (on the vapa) (Saying) “May the Agni accept the ghee 
withjoy, SvahcFl Thereby these heated drops (of ghee) offered with Svdhti, reach the 
Agni. Hence he says, “Recite to the drops”. He recites to the drops, those chants 
addressed to Agni, Why he recites to the drops, chants meant for Agni is, that rain 



IV.8.2.20] 


TRANSLATION 


185 

originates ft om gifts made here (on the earth), for, from here it is that Agni obtains 
rain. By means of these drops {ghee falling from the vapa) he obtains those (rain) 
drops which lain. Therefore he recites to the drops, chants addressed to Agni. 

17-18. As to this some say (alternatively) that the clotted ghee has to be first 
sprinkled (with ghee) (and then only the vapa), arguing that the clotted ghee is the 
breath. One priest cursed Yajnyavalkya who was first sprinkling ghee on the vapa 
(saying) “This Adhvaryu has shut out the breath, the life-breath shall depart from 
him” He (Yajnyavalkya) said, when (he become) old, weak and lying down (after 
continuously doing the other way for his whole life). “These hands of mine have 
become gray (by sprinkling the vapa first) and what has become to that priests 
words (of curse) . After the last Prayaja offering, one sprinkles ghee first in to the 
Dhruva (which contains the clotted ghee ). For, the foremost shares of gwe are for it 
(dotted ghee ), since in that fore-offering it is in that order for other types or havis. 
This Prayaja (in the after-offering) is the last. Here this (vapa) is the first to be 
offered. Therefore the vapa itself should be first sprinkled and then the dotted 
ghee . 

19. By sprinkling ghee on the vapa ,, the pasuzs well gets sprinkled. Why he does 
not directly sprinkle on the pasuis lest he should sprinkle on the uncooked. So the 
pasu itself gets sprinkled with ghee when he sprinkles on the vapa. 

20. Thereupon, he makes a layer of ghee (in thejuhii) and places a piece of gold 
thereon. He then places the vapa, and then a (second) piece of gold on it. The 
reason why there is a piece of gold on both sides is this. That which is alive becomes 
oblations to the gods; it is the nectar of the immortals. This pasu, they slay before 
offering it in the fire. Life is ambrosia, gold is life. So (by placing gold pieces) he 
bestows life into it and ultimately set it up firmly in immortality. That is why it rises 
up as it were from hence and so it comes to life. Being a live (animal) it becomes 
the oblation to the gods; nectar to the immortals. 



TRANSLATION 


IV.8.3.3] 


187 


21. He calls for SrausaUnd says “Prompt (the Hotr to recite the offering chant 
on) the vapa and fat of the he-goat for Agni and Soma”. He orders to send the vapa 
andfat of the goatfor Agni and Soma and he does not say “Thatisbroughtforward”. 
As he says in the case of the pressed Soma (which is also a havis). He offers {vapa 
and fat) when vasa has been pronounced. Why he offers vapa is this. For whatever 
deity the pasu is seized, that same deity, he places by means of that fat. Fat is here 
a sacrificial oblation. He beingpleased by this oblation, waits patiently for the other 
types of havis that are being cooked. He lays the two vapa, roasters, throws them 
together afterwards (after the offering of vapa) (saying) “Consecrated by Svdhd, go 
ye to Urdhvanabhas (the Vayu who drives the clouds up in the sky), the son of the 
Maruts”. Thinking “Lest these two wherewith we have cooked the vapa should 
come to nought”. They then cleanse themselves over the Cdtvdla pit. For, in 
quieting up {the pasu) they wound it, and water being a healing (soothing) agent, 
they heal it by means of water. Therefore they cleanse themselves over the Cdivdla 
pit. (Second Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA III 

1. For the same deity for which there is a pasu, he subsequently prepares a 
puroddsa (cake). The reason why he subsequently prepares a puroddsa for that same 
deity is this—rice and barley, truly are the sacrificial essence of all pasus ; with the 
same essence, he now completes that {pasu) and makes it whole. Why he proceeds 
with that puroddsa after offering the vapa is this. It is from the middle part (of the 
pasu’s body) that this vapa is pulled out and at that middle part lie now completes 
it by means of that sacrificial essence: because he puts this essence in the middle 
part (i.e. on the vapa) . Therefore he proceeds with the puroddsa after offering the 
vapa. 

2. He tells (the slaughterer) “Divide into three parts. Make the heart the 
uppermost”. The sacrifice is indeed, threefold and so he says “Divide into three 
parts”. Then he says “Go ahead; cook”. 

3. He then instructs the Samitr (slaughterer) If one asks you “Is the hmds 
cooked"you only say ‘cooked’ and not ‘cooked of course’ nor ‘cooked, revered Sir’, 
only say‘cooked’. 



IV. 8.3.8 ] 


TRANSLATION 


189 


4. (When it is cooked) he steps up with clotted ghee stuffed (in the juhu) and 
asks “Is the havis cooked, O Samitr”. The Samitr replies ‘cooked’. “That is for the 
gods” says the Adhvaryu in a low voice. The reason why he asks is this. Cooked 
forsooth, not uncooked must be the gods’ food; and the Samitr indeed knows 
whether it is cooked or uncooked. He asks that (thinking) “Let me perform with 
cooked havis”. Now, if that havis is uncooked (and the Samitr has misled him) it is 
vet cooked food for the gods and cooked itis (so far as) the Yajamana is concerned. 
The Adhvaryu also is free from sin (for taking it for cooked). That sin befalls only 
on the Samitr (the slaughterer). Now, why he says in a low voice ‘That is of the gods’ 
is that the cooked havis is for the gods and not the uncooked. So he says in a low 
voice. “That is of the gods”. Thrice he asks; for three-fold is the sacrifice. 

5. The heart, he soakes with clotted ghee, for, the heart is the self; the mind and 
the clotted gheei s the breath. He thus puts breath into its (pasu s) self, into its mind. 
That is why it rises up and it gets enlivened and becomes the live food of the gods; 
the nectar of the immortals. 

6. He pours ghee (on it) (saying) “May thy mind unite with the mind; thy breath 
with the breath”. He does not utter Svdhd. This is not an oblation. He brings that 
(cooked pasu) by the same route by which the pasuwzs taken (to be slaughtered). 
He brings it between the Ahavamyaand the yiipa. He does not take th is cooked hams 
through die back side of the altar by which other cooked oblations are brought lest 
this which has been cut limb by limb and mangled come into contact with the 
middle of the sacrifice. If it is taken by the outside of the altar in front of the yiipa, 
it would get excluded from the sacrifice. (To see) that it does not get excluded from 
the sacrifice, they bring it between the Ahavamya and the yiipa. 

7. He (The Pradprasthata) cuts it at the south side (of the fire). There are 
branches of the Plaksa (tree) forming the upper barhis (enclosure). The Plaksa 
branches form the upper enclosure (whereon he cuts) because when the gods, at 
first, seized a pasu (for sacrifice), Tvastr spat on its head, thinking “Surely, thus they 
will not use it for sacrifice (since polluted by spitting)”. For, the animals are (of) 
Tvastr and that spittle of Tvastr is the brain in the head and the marr ow in the neck- 
bone (of the animal). Hence that substance is like the vomit Hence it should not; 
be eaten, because, it is indeed the spittle of Tvastr. Of the pasu, which was spat upon 
by Tvastr, the essence flowed down and this tree grew (out) of it Hie gods observed 
it, wherefore it (was) praksa (observed) and praksa it was that came to be called 
Plaksa. With that same essence (of the ^afuspaton by Tvastr, which oozed down and 
gave rise to the tree), he now completes it and makes it a whole. Therefore the 
Plaksa branches form the upper enclosure. 

8. He then makes a layer of ghee both in the juhu and the upa&krt and puts a 
gold piece in each of them. He puts gheeiu the ladle used for offering wpa arid die 
samavatta ( the vessel having the cuttings of Ida). 




rv.8.3.12] 


translation 


191 


9. Thereupon, he addresses (the Hotr) to recite on the Aarinhat is being cut 
for the Manota deity (that Agni who is called Manota by virtue of his being 
addressed as Manolr in the particular hymn). Why he refers to Manota is that all the 
deities move towards the pasu while it is immolated, thinking “My name he will 
choose; my name, he will choose”, for, the pasu is no doubt, the sacrificial food for 
all gods. So the minds of all the gods are ( ota ) pinned upon that pasu. Those minds 
of gods are satisfied and they have not flocked near it in vain. Therefore he asks to 
recite for Manota. 

10. He first cuts the tip of the heart; that is since it is in the middle,he cuts the 
tip of the heart. The heart is the bieath, since it is from there (heart) that this breath 
moves upwards and the animal is bi eath, for only so long does the pasu (live) as it 
breaths with the breath. When the breath departs, it lies there worthless, even as a 
log of wood. The heart then is the pasu. And this (heart) of the pasu , he gets cut 
before his very eyes. (Later) Even if (any portion) he misses in cutting, it does not 
cause any deficiency. That is why he cuts at the tip of the heart. Therefore (he cuts) 
according to the proper order. 

11. Then he cuts the tongue, for that stands out from its fore-part. Then the 
breast, for, that comes after that (tongue). Then the lower parts of the fore-feet; 
then the flanks; then the kidneys and then the livers. Then he cuts the hind part into 
three; the broad piece, he keeps for the fore-offerings; the middle part he cuts and 
puts into the ju Auafter subdividing it into two pieces; the smaller one for the tryanga 
(to be offered in Svistakrt oblation). Then the hip above the udder. This much he 
stuffs the juhu with. Then into the upabkrt (ladle of (hat name) he puts the upper 
part of the fore-feet belonging to the tryanga; the one-third of the tryanga after 
dividing it into two and the haunch set apart for tryanga . This much he stuffs into 
the upabkrL Thereupon he places two pieces of gold and sprinkl es ghee. 

12. He then takes the oblation of vasa (the melted fat mixed with the water 
used for cooking the limbs) (saying) “Thou art trembling”. For, quivering as it were, 
is the broth; hence he says “Thou art trembling". “May Agni prepare thee” for the 
fire does, indeed cook it. “The waters have washed thee together” for the water 
indeed gathers together that fat from the limbs; hence he says ‘the waters have 
washed thee together’. “For the sweeping of the wind-thee;for the speed of Pusan ”, 
By saying “For the sweeping of the wind-thee” (he means) that he takes it to the 
aerial region because the wind that blows yonder, blows towards the aerial region. 
For that (wind), he takes it. Hence he says, “For the sweeping wind-thee". (By saying) 
“For the speed of Pusan” (he means) Pusan’s speed, forsooth, is yonder (wind) and 
for that he takes it. Hence he says “For the speed of Pusan". “From the hot vapour 
tottering”. The hot vapour, namely, yonder (wind) and for that he takes it. Hence 
he says “From the hot vapour tottering”. 



IV.8.3.19] 


TRANSLATION 


13. Thereupon, after sprinkling ghee twice, he mixes it either with the 

chopping knife or with the crooked knife (saying) “The enemies are finished” 
Thereby he destroys the terrible Raksasas. finished . 

14. Into the Samavattadhani, he empties the broth and therein he puts the 
tongtie the heart the breast, the broad piece (of the hind part), the kidnevs and 
the rectum. Then he spnnkles gtetwice. Why he puts gold pieces on either s,de b 

^T e h 7 0n 7 I u '^ g ° dS; theneCtarfor * e Mortals. They ki 
the fiosu which, is offered tnto the fire. Life is nectar. Gold is nectar He thereby 

ultimately estabhshes it firmly in life; in immortality. That is why it (fiosu) rises 

“ \ Were; " 1& - This becomes J Wor the X Te /car 

for the immortals. 

15 And because he cuts crossways - of the left fore-foot and the right haunch 
and of the nght fore-foot and the left haunch. Therefore this fiosu kicks forward id 
feet crossways. But were he to cut straight on, this fiosu would draw forward its feet 
(of the same side) simultaneously; therefore he cuts crossways. Then as to whv he 

does not make cuttings of the head, nor the shoulders, nor the neck nor the hind- 
thighs. 


., Th m Id , -d \T e - Se ' Zed a/,aS '“' 7116 g0ds ' did not go near 

it. Then th.sAdtt.satd; Adit, ts this earth. “Head Ye not this; I will myself be an 

eye-witness thereof in whatsoever manner they will perform this (offering)” So 

when they performed, she said “Only one oblation have they offered, the other they 

have left over Now that which they have left over are these same portions. Which 

are now being cut. Thereupon the gods made over three limbs to Agni (Svistokrt) 
and so they are cut into the upabhrt. " 


_ u Y? 16 AsUraS thGn made P ortions of the head, the shoulders, the neck and 
the hind-thighs. Therefore he does not make portions of these. They are purified 
(polluted) since Tvastr spat upon the neck. Therefore the neck is not cut. 

18. Thereupon he says (to Hotr) “Recite (the invitatory chants) to Agni and 
Soma for the havis of the Gods” - Having called for the Srausat, he savs (to the 
Maitra-Varuna) “Prompt (the Hotr) to recite for the hams of the he-goat to Agni 

and Soma . He does not say “the havis made ready”. He did say “Made ready” in 
the case of Soma. ' 


19. After chanting half the offering formula, he offers the mpd. Why he offers 
vapa when half the chant is uttered - it is from out of this that essence has risen 
upwards here by which those creatures sustain themselveson this side of the sky, in 
the aerial region. For, the oblation of vasd is the essence. That sap, he renders 

strong by means of this essence and hence this essence when eaten or drunk does 
not perish. 



IV.&S.25J TRANSLATION 

195 

20. And now. as to why he offerswhen half the chant is uttered - one half-chant 
forsooth is this earth which is the sacrificial ground and the other half-chant is 
yonder-sky. Now between this earth and the sky is the aerial region and it is to that 

aerial region he offers. Therefore he offers in the inteival between the utterance 
of the two half-chants. UCI dnce 


21. He offers (saying) “Drink the ghee, you drinker of gheel Drink the ima, vou 

1 7v / U fJ he ^ of region, SMUT. With this prayer to 

the All gods (\ isvedevas) he offers. For, the air-space belongs to the Visvedevas ,'since 

creatures breath m and breath out while moving about here and therefore h is of 

a S ° 9 d 9 S '^f the la?at 1 'P r0n i 0Unced ’ he ofFers the oblation which is in the Juki i. 

22. Thereupon, while taking clotted ghee, he says (to Hotr) “Recite to the lord 
of the forest and offers as the Vasal is pronounced” He thereby makes that 
thunderbolt the yufia a sharer (in the sacrifice). The lord of the forest is himself 
made to be the pasu Soma. And as to his offering (to the tree) in between the two 
oblauons, he thereby fills both completely. They both thereby become Soma. So 
he offers it between the two offerings. 


, ^en while what is remaining in the upabhrt; he says (to the Hotr) “Recite 
to Agm, the Svisfakrt (the one who makes the offeringswell-offered)", Haring called 
for the Srausat, he says (to the Maitra-Varuna) "Prompt for Agni. the Svistahn' and 
offersasthe Vasal ispronounced. Withwhatisleftoverofthe vasd offering he then 
sprinkles the quarters (saying) “The regions,he fore-regions-the bv-regions. 
i he intermediate regions the upper regions to the regions, Svaha"! Thus for the 
five quarters. For the offering of uamis sap. Thus he imbues all the regions with sap, 
and hence sap is available in each region and this earth. 


• a * u n 116 c °uche S (what remains of) the pasu. This is the time for touching 
1 1 yid whether he has already touched it, fearing 'Those evil spirits that hover near 
WI tear it about", or whether he be not afraid of its being torn about, let him in 
any case now touch (the pasu). 


■ c 2 ?'. He touches u (saying) “To Indra belongeth the out-breathing; may it be 
infused in every limb. To Indra, belongeth the in-breathing, may it get infused in 
every limb”. When it has been cut up limb by limb, and when it has been wounded, 
he heals it only by the Prana and Udana (in-breathing and out-breathing). Then it 
is made up. “O’, divine Tvastr, let thine multiple forms closely unite together; that 
it be ujuform, what is of multilated shape”. Thereby he makes it fashioned and 
completely well-set. “May thy friends, thy father and mother, rejoice over your- 
gomg to the gods". Thus having made him completely set-up and fashioned, he puts 
together all those (parts) which are offered in the fire. Thus in full unmultilated 
form, it becomes p a iu in Yonder world. (By these chants, he restores ail its 
mutilated parts of the body and shape it into a full-fledged pasu in the other 
world).(Third Brahmana Ends) 



IV.8.4.5] 


TRANSLATION 
BRAHMANA IV 


197 


1. Now there are three elevens at the pasu-sacrifice eleven fore-offerings 
(prayajas); eleven after-offerings (anuyajas) and eleven by-offerings ( upayajds ). 
This much is the pasu-sacrifice. Ten fingers, ten toes and ten vital airs and three 
breaths - out breathing (Praiia), in-breathing ( Uddna) and through-breathing 
(vyana) -That is the constitution of all animals. These three (tens plus one of the 
breaths) is the pasu sacrifice. 

2. Now they argue “What then is done at the sacrifice since the vital air is 
friendly to all the limbs”. The hind part being (the seat of) the vital air and that 
pasu’s body extending from thence forwards, that vital air pervades all through. In 
that jbaiu-sacrifice, he cuts the hind part into three one-third, he puts into thejuhu, 
one-third into the upabhrt and one-third (keeps) for the by-offerings. So the vital 
air exists friendly to all the limbs. 

3. They say- “He alone, however, may slay an animal who can supply it with the 
sacrificial essence. And if it be lean, let him stuff into the hind-part whatever is left 
of the fat of the belly from wh ere they pull out the Vapd. The hin d-part being ( a seat 
of) the vital air, and that (animal) extending from thence forward, that vital air 
pervades it all through. The pasu, forsooth, is breath, for only so long the pasu lives, 
as it breaths, with the breath. But when the breath departs from it, it lies worthless 
like a block of wood. The hind-part is (part of) the animal and fat means sacrificial 
essence. Thus he supplies it with the sacrificial essence. Thus he should do 
(replenish the hind-part with fat from the body) if it (pasu) is lean. If it is young and 
fleshy, he need not care to do this. Because it is having this sacrificial essence. 

4. Thereupon he takes clotted ghee. By taking the clotted ghee, he makes a 
productive pair because it is ghee and sour milk. They two form a pair. Where there 
is a pair, there is productivity. So he creates a productive union. 

5. Therewith they perform the Anuyajds (after offerings). The Anuyajds mean 
cattle and clotted ghee stands for milk. So he thereby puts milk into the cows and 
thus milk is here contained in the cattle. Clotted ghee means life-breaths; because 
clotted ghee is food and life-breath is food. Thereby he puts into (they>asw) that vital 
air which is here in ffont(in the form of clotted ghee) . He (Pratiprasthata) performs 
the by-offering behind (the altar). The hind portion is (seat of) vital air. The hind 
part stretches behind and the vital air pervades it all through. By this he puts vital 
air at the hind portion. Thus two vital airs are here contained from both sides. The 
one above and the one below. Here now, one (Hotr) pronounces the Vasai for 
two—one for (the Adhvaryu) him, who offers the after-offering and the one for 
(the Pratiprasthata) him, who offers the by-offering. Because he (Pratiprasthata) 
offers in addition to what he (Adhvaryu) offers, it is called Upaydja (by-offering). 
And in performing the by-offering, he produces (offspring), since he performs the 



IV.8.4.15] 


TRANSLATION 


199 


Vpaydjas behind the altar. It is indeed from the hind part, offspring is bom of 
woman. 

6. He offers the by-offering (saying) “Go throw to the ocean! Svdhal”. The 
ocean is water and semen is water; he thereby casts the seed. 

7. “Go thou to the divine Savitr, Svdhal” Savitr is the impeller of the gods and 
impelled by Savitr, he thus procreates. 

8. “Go thou to the aerial region, Svdhal ” It is into the aerial region the 
offspring is borne and he produces these offsprings in the aerial region. 

9. “Go thou to Mitra and Varuna, Svdhal ” Mitra and Vanina are the Prana (out- 
breathing) and Udana (in-breathing); he thus bestows the Prana and the Uddna 
into the creatures. 

10. “Go thou to the day and the night, Svdhal” It is in the course of day and 
night that these creatures are borne. So he causes creatures to be borne in the 
course of day and night. 

11. “Go thou to the metres, Svdhal” There are seven metres and there are 
seven domestic and seven wild animals. Both kinds, he thus causes to be produced. 

12. “Go thou to the heaven and the earth, Svdhal ” For Prajapati having created 
the living beings, enclosed them between heaven and earth. So these creatures are 
enclosed between heaven and earth. There would only be as many living beings as 
were created in the beginning; they would not have (propagated) multiplied, if he 
had not (further) procreated (by these by-offerings). Creatures are again bom 
(repeatedly - because of the by offerings). 

13. “Go thou to Soma, Svdhal ” Sacrifice is the semen he thus casts seed. 

14. “Go thou to the sacrifice, Svdha.” Sacrifice is the semen and thus he pours 
semen. 

15. “Go thou to the heavenly ether, Svdha.” The heavenly ether is water and 
water is seed and thus he castes seed. 



TRANSLATION 


201 


IV.8.4.19] 

16. “Go thou to Agni-Vaisvanara, Svahal” Agnus this earth and into this (earth) 
the resting place these creatures are created. These creatures are indeed, borne in 
this safe resting place. Here (in the by-offering), he again creates (or re-creates) 
them. So these creatures are again identically borne. He then wipes his mouth 
(saying) “Give me mind and heart”. By that'it is, he does not offer himself (into the 
fire). 

17. Thereupon they perform the Patnisamyajas with the tail (of the pasu ). The 
wife of Yajamana is a female and it is from the back half of woman that progeny is 
bom. So the Patnisamyajas are performed from behind (with the tail). For the wives 
of the gods, he cuts portions from inside (the pasu), since it is from inside ofwoman 
that offspring is born. For Agni the householder from above (it is cut from the 
upper regions of the pasu ). Since it is from above that the male mates with the 
female. So for Agni the householder, it is (cut) from above. 

18. Thereupon they betake themselves, with the heart-spit to the purificatory 

bath. 

19. He then touches the waters (saying) “May the waters and plants be friendly 
unto us”. For, whom they proceed with, that ( vasd ) the waters as well as the plants 
recede from there, being afraid of him. He makes friends with those waters and 
plants and they again come near him. He takes them in. So he says “May the waters 
and plants be friendly unto me”. He does not prepare this (spit-bath) in the case 
of the pasu offering to Agni-Soma; nor in the vase of that (pasu) of Agni. Only in the 
vasd homa it is done. At the completion only, it is done (symbolically). That itself 
make it (in effect) done in the other two. (Fourth Brahmana Ends) 


(Chapter Eight Ends) 



IV.9.1.9] 


TRANSLATION 


203 


Chapter Nine 
BRAHMANAI 

1. Prajapati having created living beings, felt himself exhausted, as it were. 
The creatures turned away from him, the creatures did not care for his prosperity 
and food. 

2. He realised “I am exhausted and the object for which I created the beings 
has not been achieved. They have turned away (from me) and they have not cared 
for my prosperity' and food. How can I again replenish myself so that the creatures 
might return to me and attend to my prosperity and food”. 

3. He went on praising and toiling and saw that set of eleven (pasus). He 
offered (them) in sacrifice. By offering them he again replenished himself. The 
creatures thereupon returned to him and attended to his well-being and food. He 
became more powerful after the offering. That person who offers this eleven, gets 
enriched with off-spring and cattle. To him his progeny comes back and attends to 
his comfort and food. He (Yajamana) becomes stronger after this offering. So one 
should perform the sacrifice with Ekddasam (the set of eleven Pasus). 

4. .And, now' this one belonging to Agni is the first pasu. For, Agni is the head 
of the gods and he is the lord of the creatures and thereby the sacrificer becomes 
Agni. 

5. Then the one for Sarasvati; for, Sarasvati is speech. It is by means of speech, 
Prajapati replenished himself. Speech returned to him (Prajapati). He made 
speech subject to himelf; And so does this one (Yajamana) becomes strong.by 
speech. Speech returns to him and he makes speech subject to himself. 

6. Then the one for Soma; for, Soma is food. It was with food, that Prajapati 
replenished himself. Food returned to him and he made food subject to himself. 
And so does this one (Yajamana) now becomes strong by food, food returns unto 
him and he makes food subject to himself. 

7. .And now as to why it (that for Soma) comes after the one for Sarasvati? 
Sarasvati is speech, and Soma is food; he who is incomplete by (having only speech 
now becomes prosperous and eater of food. 

8. Then the one for Ptisan. The cattle are Pusan. It is with the pasus that 
Prajapati replenished himself. The pasus returned to him. He made the pasus 
subject to himself. And so does this one (Yajamana) now becomes strong by pasus, 
pasus return to him and he makes pasus subject to himself. 

9. Then the one for Brhaspati. For Brhaspati means the priestly class. It was by 
means of the Priesthood that Prajapati replenished himself. The priestly class 
returned to him. He made the priesthood subject to himself. And so does this one 
(Yajamana) now becomes strong by means of the Brahman a; the priest-hood 
returns to him and he makes the Brahmana community subject to himself. 



TRANSLATION 


205 


IV.9.1.18] 

10. And as to why it (Barhaspatya) come after the one for the Pusan—Pusan 
means cattle and Brhaspati is priesthood, Hence, the Brahmana (priest) has the 
maximum power over the cattle.Therefore the j barns are placed before him (as 
food) and put into his mouth (as food). That is why he (Yajamana) gives away 
(offers) all that (cattle) and renounces (roams about). 

11. Then one for the Vihiedevas. For the All-gods mean everything. With 
everything. Prajapati then made himself replenished. Everything returned to him 
and he made everything subject to himself. And so does this one (Yajamana) now 
becomes strong with everything. Everything returns to him and he makes every¬ 
thing subject to himself. 

12. And as to why it ( Visvedeva ) comes after that for Brhaspati—Brhaspati 
means the priesthood. Visvedevas means everything. Thereby he then makes the 
priesthood the head of everything. Wherefore the Brahmnais the head of this all. 

13. Then one for Indra. For Indra means warrior class and vigour. With the 
prowess of the Ksatra (warrior class) Prajapati replenished himself. The prowess of 
the Ksatra returned to him. He made the Ksatra prowess subject to himself. And 
so does this one (Yajamana) now becomes strong with the Ksatra prowess. The 
valour of the warrior class returns to him and he makes the Ksatra valour subject 
to himself. 

14. And as to why it (Aindra) comes after that for the Visvedevas— Indra 
means the warrior class. Visvedevas are the vis (class). The populace is the food. 
Thereby he places food before the Ksatra, The warrior class becomes the consumer 
of food and therefore thus food gets placed before it; gets put into the mouth. 

15. Then one for the Maruts. For, the Maruts are the vis (class) and the divine 
clan, means abundance. With abundance then Prajapati replenished himself. 
Abundance rfeturned to him. He made abundance subject to himself. And so does 
this one (Yajamana) now becomes strong by abundance; abundance returns to him 
and he makes abundance subject to himself. 

16. And as to why it (the one for Maruts) comes after that for Indra—Indra is 
the warrior class. The vis (class) are the Visvedevas and the Matuts are the class. 
Thus the warrior class is guarded on both sides by the vis (class). Thereby here 

Ksatra is protected on both sides of the vis. 

17. Then for twin god Indra-Agni—-Agni stands for brilliance and Indra for 
power and vigour. With these two energies Prajapati then replenished himself. 
These two energies returned to him. He made these two energies subject to himself. 
And so does this one (Yajamana) becomes strong with both these energies; both 
energies return to him and he makes these both subject to himself. 

18. Then for the Savitr. For Savitr is the propeller (progenitor) of the gods and 
so all those wishes become accomplished for him, impelled as they are by the Savitr. 



TRANSLATION 


207 


IV.9.2.5] 

19. Then one for Varuna. Thereby he delivers him (Ycyamana) form every 
sin done unto Varuna; from every guilt and ultimately (he redeems) all creatures 
from the noose of Varuna. Thereby he begets progeny free from disease and 
sinless. Hence he (offers one) to Varuna. 

20. If he is to bind these eleven sacrificial pasus to eleven yitpas, let him bind 
the one (meant) for Agni to the yupa opposite to the fire and the rest in the same 
order. If there is only one yupa, the pasu (meant) for Agni is to be bound first and 
then the others to be taken in the same order. When they (pasus) are taken 
northwards, the one for Agni is to be conducted first and then the others in the 
same order. When they strangle, they have to strangle the one for Agni first as the 
southern most; then the others in the same order. Later when they make those 
chief oblations, they perform in the order in which they are cooked. (First 
Brahman a Ends) 

brahmanaii 

1. He collects the Vasativari waters. Why he collects the Vasativari waters— 
when the head of the sacrifice (the pasu) was cut off, its sap flowed down and 
entered the waters. It is with that very sap those waters flow and so that very sap is 
believed to be flowing there. 

2. When he thus collects the Vasatwari water, he collects that same sap which 
is the essence of the sacrifice which entered the water. He puts it into the sacrifice 
and he divides it into three for all the savanas (Soma pressings). Thereby he imbues 
all the pressing with the sap and make all savanas sapfull. That is why he collects 
the Vasativari waters. 

3. He should collect them from the flowing waters. It is the sap of the sacrifice 
and the waters are believed to be carrying that sap. That sap of the sacrifice, let 
one collect directly—” so he thinks. Therefore he should collect it from the flowing 
waters. 

4. Moreover it is collected for the purpose of protection. Now, everything else 
here on earth, whatever it be, takes rest. Even that yonder one which blows (the 
wind) Is taking rest (stops blowing). Only these (waters that flow) (take no rest. 

Therefore let him collect it from the flow (of waters). 

5. Let him collect it by day, thinking “I will collect the sap of the sacrifice, 
seeing”. He collects it (by day) also for this reason—Here is that one who burns 
yonder (the Sun) and he collects them for the Visvedevas. These rays (of the Sun) 
are the Visvedevas and this is the day time (when those rays are present) . So it (the 
Vasativari) should be collected in the day. Moreover, in this kavis and in these 



IV.9.2.10] 


TRANSITION 


209 


Vasatlvaris, the gods reside during that proceeding night. It is like preparing a 
resting place for a dignity whose arrival is for the benefit (ofthe host). So one should 
collect them during day time. 

6. And if the Sun were to set before the Vasattvarisare collected, then (there 
is an expiation). If he happens to be one who has performed a Soma sacrifice before 
this, let him take it (the waters) from his reservoir Vessel (Nindhya) since that water 
must have been stored in the day time (before sunset) if he is one who has 
performed a Soma sacrifice before this. If he is one who is peforming for the first 
time, he can take the waters from the reservoir of another who has performed it, 
who might be staying at the same place or settled nearby, because his waters must 
have been stored in the day time. That neighbour (from whose vessel he can take 
water) is one who has performed Soma sacrifice earlier, and (while taking that 
water) he should hold a burning log over it and that serves the purpose of that 
burning Sun of the day. Alternatively, (he may hold) a piece of gold which (also) 
assumes the form of the Sun. This is the expiation. 

7. Otherwise he collects (the water) saying) “Rich in havis are these waters. 
One who is rich in havis wooeth for (them)”. The sap of the sacrifice entered into 
them. So he says “These waters are rich in havis”. (By saying) “One rich in haitis 
wooeth for ( them) ” he means “the Yajamana who is rich in havis wooes for them ”. 
“Rich in havis (may be) the divine Adhvara” (meaning) the sacrifice is the Adhvara 
for which this is being collected. “May the Sun be rich in havis n —because it is for 
that yonder one who burns (the Sun), he is collecting it. He is indeed, collecting 
for the Visvedevas. These rays (of the Sun) are the Visvedevas. Therefore he says 
“May the Sun be rich in havis”. 

8. He takes it in front of the patni (wife of the Yajamana) and deposits it 
(Vasativari waters) behind the Garkapatya (saying) “I place you on the seat of Agni 
who has a secure home”. “I deposit you in the seat of Agni whose house is 
unimpaired”—this is what (he means) he says “I placeyou on the seat of Agni, who 
has a secure home”. Then he comes to the end ofthe Pasw-ofFerlng. 

9. He takes round (the Vasativari water) behind the patni walks out by the 
southern door and places it at the southern hip of the Utiaravedi high altar (saying) 
“Ye (waters), the share of Indra-Agni”. For, he takes these waters and these 
Vasatlvaris for all the gods and Indra-Agni are the Visvedems. Therefore, he says “Ye 
(waters) the share of Indra-Agni”. 

10 . He takes it up again and puts it down in front of the patni, walks round 
behind her and exits (by the eastern door) along the north side (of the altar) and 
puts down (the water) in the northern hip (ofthe high altar) (while putting down) 
some say “Ye are the share of Mitra-Varuna”. Let him not do so for thus (by saying 
so) completeness is left behind (completeness is missed). That is redundant Let 
him (here also) say “Ye the share of Indra-Agni” Only thus there is no redundance 
and thus a fitting completion is achieved. 



IV.9.3.5] 


TRANSLATION 


211 


11. These Vasatlvari waters are carried round for the sake of protection. For 
protection the Agni is in front to protect. These { Vasatlvari waters) go round on all 
sides destroying the evil Raksasas. 

12. He puts it down in the AgnUhra (fire-house) (saying) “You are the share 
of all the gods”, whereby he makes all the gods enter it. They ( Vasatwam) are 
congenial for the dwellers (good dwelling place) and hence they are Vasatlvari, 
Visvedevas are installed in it. 

13. Now there are here seven formulas with four, he collects the waters, with 
one he puts it down behind the Gdrhapaiya, with one he carries it round, with one 
he puts it down at the Agnldhra. For when the metres were bom from vdk (speech), 
the one consisting of seven feet; the Sakvari, the highest of them. Therefore, he 
takes (the Vasatlvari) with seven formulas to bring about completeness. (Second 
Brahmana Ends) 


brAhmanaiii 

1. He (the Adhvaryu) takes down the king (Soma)—why he brings down (on 
the skin spread as Adhisavana) is this— This (earth) is a safe resting place. This is 
the birth-place of all these creatures. It is to this safe resting place, to this birth¬ 
place, he notv takes him down. He spreads him (Soma) on it. So he takes it down. 

2. (He takes down Soma) before the pressing stones (lying) with their heads 
pointing to each other. Soma is Ksatra (nobility) and the stones are vis (people). 
Thereby he raises the nobility over the vis (clans). Why (the stones) face each other 
(and the Soma is between)— The vis (clan) in the presence of Ksatra is 
uncontentious. Therefore, in front of the stones (facing each other). 

3. He takes him (Soma) down between the shafts—for, the cart is (part of) in 
the sacrifice and thus he does not put him (Soma) outside the sacrifice. 

4. He takes it down (saying) “Thee for the heart, thee for the mind”—It is with 
the heart and mind that the Yajamana entertains the wish for which he sacrifices, 
Therefore he says ‘Thee for the heart, thee for the mind”. “Thee for the heaven" 
“Thee for the Sun”. By saying “Thee for the heaven”, he means to say ‘for the sake 
of attaining the heavenly world. When he says “Thee for the Sun” he only says ‘for 
the sake of gods’. “Upwards convey thou to the heaven, to the gods, the Adhvara 
(cult), these invocations”. Adhvara, no doubt means the sacrifice. Thereby he says, 
‘upwards convey thou this sacrifice to the heavens, to the gods’. 

5. “O, Soma King, descend unto all thy subjects”. Whereby he brings down to 
(assume) lordship and sovereignity over these creatures. Sitting bv his (Soma's) 
side, he utters “May all the people discend to thee”. He thus does as it were 
something irregular by saying “May all the 'people discend to thee”. But by' his 
saying “May all the people descend to thee" (he means) rightly (that the people 



TRANSLATION 


213 


IV.9.3.12] 

should bend low before the king). That is why when the nobility sit at a higher 
pedestal, these vis (clans), these creatures, wait upon below. (People descend to 
thee means let them kneel before you from below). 

6. Then the Hotr sits near him (Soma), while sitting, he starts reciting the 
morning prayer, he offers a kindling stick saying “Recite to the gods, those who have 
arrived at day-break”. This prayer is for the metres. And then when he puts that 
samidha, he only invokes the metres. 

7. In this regard, some merely say “Recite to those who have arrived at day¬ 
break”, omitting the word ‘gods’ let him not say so. Because, metres are forsooth 
gods who arrive at day-break. Since the after-offerings are to the metres and the 
after-offerings are made (saying) “Prompt to be gods! Recite (the offering chants) 
to the gods” (specifically mentioning the word gods) let him say “Recite to the gods 
who have arrived at day-break”. 

8. And why the Hotr recites the morning prayer is because the metres have 
their vigour impaired by the gods, since it was through the metres that the gods 
reached the heavenly worlds (and consequently made the metres a spent-force). 
Then they (gods) neither recited prayer nor uttered the sdstras (to replenish their 
vigour). Hereby he now again strengthens those metres and renders them to be of 
unimpaired vigour and by means of those of replenished vigour, he performs this 
sacrifice. This is why the Hotr recites the morning-prayer (for the metres). 

9. Here now they say! “What is the (Adhvaiyu’s) response to the morning- 
prayer”. He (Adhvaryu) should keep blinking (awakened throughout the prayer). 
That is his response. But this he need not mind. If he falls asleep (again) he may 
as well sleep. 

10. When the concluding chant (of the morning prayer) is uttered, he takes 
four spoon full of ghee in that sruk known by the name Pramrim and having offered 
it on that ( Vasativaris ), draws it near in front of the pressing stones. Why offers ghee 
on it and draws it near in front of the stones—when the head of the sacrifice (the 
Posts) was cut, the sap therefrom oozed out and entered the waters. That has been 
collected on the previous day by (collecting) the Vasatwari waters and that essence 
which is left over there, that he is now bringing near in front of the pressing stones. 

11. And when he makes that offering, he pours out (the gftee) towards that 
same sap of the sacrifice (in the water) and draws it near him and takes control of 
it. And indeed, he pleases those deities to whom he makes that offering and thus 
satisfied and pleased, they convey that sap of the sacrifice for him. 

12. He offers (saying) “May Agni with his flame hear my prayer whereby he 
means to say “May he hear this orayer” and vouchsafe it to me” When he says May 
Agni with his flame, hear my prayer”. “May the waters and the Soma pots hear the 
divine”—(He means) "May the waters hear (prayers) of mine and vouchsafe it to 
me”— “Hear me. Ye stones, who are knowers of our sacrifice”. He means to say “May 



IV.9.S.17] 


TRANSLATION 


215 


these pressing stones hear this prayer of mine, may they vouchsafe it to me*. (He 
says) ‘knowers of our sacrifice because the stones are indeed knowing. “May the 
dhine hear this offering prayer of mine”. For, Savitr, is the impeller of the gods and 
impelled by Savitr he goes for the sap of the sacrifice. 

13. Having then a second time taken four spoon-full of ghee , he says “Summon 
the waters, O Horn! by which he only says ‘Desire the waters, O Hotr! The reason 
why the Hotr then recites is this—by that (oblation) he (Adhvaryu) pours out (the 
ehee) towards that sap of the sacrifice which entered the water and which he is now 
drawing to him and seeks to control. So he begs of those waters. Lest the terrible 
Raksasas do not snatch it on the way which it is drawn to him, he stands guard by 

it.* 

14. He (Adhvaryu) then gives the direcdons— “Come, hiter, the cup-bearers 
of the Mitra-Varuna! O’ Nestr, lead up the wives! Ye bearers of the Ekadhanis (cups 
of that name) come hither! O’ Agnldh, step over to the front side of the Catvala 
pit with the Vasatlvari water and the Hotr’s cup”. This is a collective direction which 
they go about obeying. They move by the front side of the Agnldh, by the back of 
the” Cdtvdla pit and walk out by the north. That is the gate-way of the sacrifice. 

15 . Why they take the ladies (paints) is this: When the essence of the sacrifice 
entered the waters, those ‘Gandharvas’ guarded it. Then those gods said “Here 
definitely these ‘Gandharvas’ are dangerous and so how to take the sap of the 
sacrifice to a place which is fee from danger, injury and storm”. 

16. They said, “Well, the ‘Gandharvas’ are fond of women, let us go together 
with the wives”. They further said (thought) “They- (‘Gandharvas’), surely, will 
hanker after the wives, and therefore we shall carry off that sap of the sacrifice to 
a place free from danger and injury and storm”. They went leading the wives. The 
‘Gandharvas’ did hanker after the ladies and got attached to the ladies and they 
(gods) carried off the sap of the sacrifice to a place free from danger, injury and 
storm. Thatis why (here) these (priests) go leading the wives. The ‘Gandharvas’ will 
only hanker after the ladies and will be attached to the ladies and these (priests) 
bring that'sap of the sacrifice to a place free from danger, injury and storm. 
Therefore they go with the wives. 

17. They go in that direction where there is the water. When they reach the 
water, they offer (oblation) to those waters. That sap of the sacrifice which entered 
the waters, receives this oblation which is offered. It rises up (to the sacrifice of the 
water) to receive it. He avidly catches it (the sap) and craves it of the waters 
Therefore he offers (oblation) to the waters. 



TRANSLATION 


217 


IV.9.3.23] 

18. He offers to the waters (saying) “Ye divine waters—the son of waters”; the 
waters are indeed divine so he says ‘O divine waters’—the son ofwaters’, “Thatwave 
of yours suitable for oblation”. By which he says That wave of your which is 
suitable for sacrifice”. “Mighty, most intoxicating”. He only means ‘powerful’when 
he says “Mighty”. By most intoxicating, he means ‘most sweet’. “Give ye that unto 
those gods”—in saying this he has craved it of these (waters). The drinkers of the 
pure (Soma)”— the true doubdess are the gods and truth is the pure (Soma). 
“Whose share Ye are, SvdhaP. That which is the essence of the sacrifice is the share 
of those (gods). Therefore he says “Whose share ye are, Svaha”. 

19. Thereupon, he makes that oblation float away by means of the Maitra- 
Varuna cup (saying) “Thou art the agricultural product”. Even as the coal is 
consumed by fire, so is that oblation consumed by that deity for whom it is offered. 
Therefore he saysThou art the agricultural product”. With these waters which are 
in the Maitra-varuna cup, he drenches the King (Soma). GA#? being a thunderbolt 
and Soma the semen, he makes (the .ghee) float away lesthe should injure that seed, 
Soma, by that thunderbolt i.e. ghee. He then takes (water, saying) “I draw thee up 
for (bestowing) imperishability upon the waters. That is why, in spite of this (food) 
being consumed, the waters do not diminish. 

20. The reason why he takes (water) with the Maitra-Varuna cup is this. When 
the sacrifice escaped from the gods, the gods endeavoured to call it by means of 
Praise (sacrificial calling chants); by means of the chants called Nivids (short 
invocations) they implored; they induced them by means of the chants called 
Puroruks. Thus they got him (sacrifice back). In the same way. This (Yajamana) 
obtains him the sap of the sacrifice. He now collects the Ekadhana vessels and then 
by the vessels used for washing the feet, called pannejanas. 

21. Then they came towards the opposite side of the Cdtuala pit and (the 
Adhvaryu) makes the Vasativari water and the Maitra-Vaninas cup touch one 
another (saying) “Water hath united with waters; the plants with the plants”. The 
sap of the sacrifice which was collected yesterday and that fetched to day, both kind 
let me mix together” (so thinking) he does so. 

22- Now some indeed pour (some of) the Vasativari water into the Maitra- 
Varuna’s cup and from the Maitra-Varuna’s cup (back) to the Vasativari water 
thinking ‘Thereby we directly mix together’ both the sap of the sacrifice which was 
collected yesterday and that collected today. But let him not do so. Because, when 
he pours (the waters) together into the Adhavaniyathrough, then both kinds of sap 
do get mixed. So he should only utter this chant. 

23. Now, why he (makes the two touch one another) close over the Catmla pit 
is this. It was from thence the gods by means of sacrifice ascended to the heavenly 
world; he thus makes the Yaj amana look along the god’s route to the heavenly road. 



translation 


219 


rv.9.4.2] 

24. He returns (to the Havirdhana ) and the Hotr asks him “O Adhvaryu hast 
thou gained the waters?” Whereby he means to say 'have you obtained the waters'. 
He replies to him “Yes, they have yielded themselves”—whereby he means ‘I have 
obtained them and they have yielded to me’. 

25. If there is a residue (of ghee) left in the Prakarani ladle sufficient for an 
oblation, let him offer that itself. If it is not sufficient (in quantity) for an oblation, 
let him take another four spoon-full of ghee and offer (saying) “Whatever mortal 
thou favourest in battles, whomsoever thou encourage in the race, the winneth 
unfailing strength, SvahaV' Thus he offers with a prayer to Agni. Thereby he 
establishes the Agnistoma (praise of Agni) in Agni itself. (Here he uses a chant) 
having the word martya (mortal) because the sacrifice is of the same measure as man 
(a mortal): It should be offered thus if it is Agnistoma, If it is Ukthya , let him touch 
the enclosing stick in the middle—there are three enclosing sticks and three Ukthya 
recitations (one for each) and by means of them the sacrifice gets established there. 
If it be a Sodasi , an Atirdtra or a Vdjapeya , let him neither make an oblation nor touch 
the enclosing sticks. By merely chanting the formula (“Yamagrn Prtsu etc.”) he 
should reach (the Havirdhana) . In this way, he should duly distinguish the form of 

sacrifice from one another. 

26. The Ekadhana pots are always of uneven number-either three, or five or 
seven, or nine or eleven—thus uneven numbers. Now, two, two forms a productive 
pair and the one that remians over, (the odd one), that exceeds the wealth of the 
Yajamana. That which exceeds the wealth of the Yajamana. That is the one 
(common) property of all these (others) and because of that they are called 
Ekadhana (having one as common-property). (Third Brahmana Ends) 

brAhmanatv 

1. Thereupon they sit down around the two Adhisavanas (pressing boards 
where soma is exuacted). He (Adhvaryu) then ties a piece of gold in that (ring 
finger). Why he ties a gold piece on that finger two fold verily, is tills, there is no 
third, namely truth and the untruth. Gods, forsooth, are the truth and men are 
untruth. This gold is Agni’s seed. “With the truth, I will touch the stalks (of the 
Soma plant); With the truth, I will take hold of Soma”— (thus thinking) he ties a 
piece of gold on that (ring-finger). 

2. He then takes a pressing stone. That one (stone) which he takes first is the 
one with which Updmsu-grahas is pressed out. Those (pressing stones) are of lock 
and these here are (also) of rock. Soma is in the sky because Soma is a god. Soma 
was Vrtra and these rocks and these mountains were his body. They slay him when 
they press. They pound him with this same rock. Thus, with his own body they 
fashion him and make him complete. Thereby there is no sin involved. Therefore, 
these (pressing stones) are of rock. 



TRANSLATION 221 

JV.9.4.8] 

3 He takes it (saying) “At the prompting of the divine Savitr, I take thee with 
he arms of the Asvins, with die hands of Pusan, thou art a giver”. For, Savitr is the 
1 ompter of gods; thus he takes it, prompted by Savitr. “With the arms of the 

P . ’ ne sa ys—the Asvins are the priests of the gods and with their arms he thus 

takes it* not with his own. “With the hands of Pusan”~he says—Pusan is the 
distributor of shares to the gods,who servesfood by his hands. So with his (Pusan’s) 
hands he thus takes it, not with his own. Moreover, human being cannot bear it. It 
, tone) is indeed, a thunderbolt and he takes it by means of these deities (Savitr, 
Asvins and Pusan). Thereby that thunderbolt does not injure him. 

a “Thou art a giver” (he says while taking it up) when they press with this 
(stone); then there is an oblation. When there is oblation, there is daksind (giving 
of gift). It (stone) thus gives both (oblation and daksind). So he says‘thou art giver’. 
“Make this Adhvara profound ”. Adhvara is the sacrifice. Thereby he only says make 
this sacrifice great’. “Well-got up for Indra” (he says). India is the god of the 
sacrifice, so he says ‘for Indra’. (when he says) “Well-got up” he means well- 
produced. “By the most excellent bolt (thunder bolt or vajra, the weapon of Indra). 
This Soma is the most excellent bolt. Therefore he says ‘by the most excellent bolt’ 
“Rich in nutrition, rich in sweetness and rich in drink”— By this he only says ‘the 

(Adhvara) is rich in sap’. There he restrains speech. 

5. Once on a time, the gods, while performing sacrifice, were afraid of an 
attack from the Asura-Raksasas. They said “Let us sacrifice in a low voice since we 
are afraid of Asura-Raksasas’ attacks”. They controlled their speech. Speech is 
indeed sacrifice, so they sacrificed in a low voice. That is why (here) he restrains 

his speech. , . r 

6. He (Adhvaryu) then makes the Yajamana. mutter over the Nigrabhyas 

(waters) “Ye are the Nigrabhyas heard by the gods. Satisfy me satisfy my mind, 
satisfy my speech, satisfy my vital air; satisfy my ear, satisfy my soul, satisfy my off¬ 
spring, satisfy my cattle, satisfy my clans, satisfy my followers. Let us not be thirsty^ 
For, water is sap. He only wishes that (sap) for all these. “Satisfy ye my whole seir 
that is what he means by saying “satisfy my cattle, satisfy my followers and let not my 

kinsmen suffer thirst”. , .... . _ , 

7. He thenmetesoutthe Updmsu savana (He store used to pressthe Upmnsu-gmfm 

Soma). Because he metes him out, therefore there is a measure in man (to mete out) 
just as (there is a measure) for a room or a vessel or what other measure unit there is 
among men. Vyana (the pervading vital air) is (measure for) Upamsa savana. That 
(Upamiuxwma) isinrealityAditya-Vivasvan (theSun).WhiIepressmgh,m, (sma) they 
pounds him (soma creeper). Thereby he rises from hence and thus comes to life. His 
own Vyana (the pervading vital air which is the measure for the stone that poun ) 

does not harm his own self. Therefore he metes out the VpSMf sornno. 

8. He metes out (saying) "Thee for Indra, with the Vasus, With theRudras , 
for, Indra is the deity of the sacrifice; so he says ‘Thee for Indra. By saying 



rv.g.4.13] 


TRANSLATION 


223 


h Vasus, with the Rudras’, he assigns a share to the Vasus and Rudras along with 
Id a “Thee for Indra with the Adityas”, whereby he assigns a share to the Adityas 
1 with Indra. ‘Thee for Indra, the slayer of the foes”, a foe is an enemy. He 
3 ° Dg to say “Thee for Indra the vanquisher of enemy”. This is a special share of 
hWIndra) just as there is a special share for a chief. So is the special share for him 
fldra) ‘Thee for' the Soma-bearing falcon”. This he offers to Gayatri. She 
IGavatri) as a falcon, fetched Soma from heaven and hence Gayatri is called the 
Soma-bearingfalcon. “Thee for Agni, thebestower of growing wealth” (so saying) 
he metes out for the second time to Gayatri. Agni is Gayatri; since she as a falcon 
fetched Somafrom heaven, Gayatri is Soma-bearing falcon. Hence for that prowess 
f hers he me tes out a second share. He thus metes out five times, for the sacrifice 
l of the same measure as the year and the year has five seasons, which he obtains 
by five times (meeting out). So he metes out five times. 

3. He touches it (saying) “What light of thine there is in the heaven, O Soma, 
what on earth, and what is in the wide air, therewith make wide room for this 

Yaiamana forhisprosperity;speakthouforthegiver n .Whenhe(Soma)forthefirst 

time became the havis of the gods, he thought “I must not in my entirety become 
the havis of the gods”. Accordingly he deposited three of his bodies aside. 

10 That the gods knew. They with this (touching with this pai ticular chant) 
arrested (those three bodies). Thereby (the Soma) in his entirety became the havis 

of the gods. So he touches it in this manner. 

11 He then pours Nigrabhya water on it. Now, why he pours A* grabhya water 
is this! Waters, forsooth, slew Vrtra and byvirtue of that prowess of theirs, they now 
flow Wherefore nothing whatsoever can check them when they flow; the)' flowe 
according to their own free will (thinking) ‘To whom should we submit (stop); we 
bywhom Vrtra was slain”. Now all this (universe) whatsoever there is, had submitted 
to Indra. So Indra told them (waters) “All this (universe) has surrendered to me, 
submit ye also to me”. They asked “What shall be then (reward) for us 

12^He (Indra) said ‘The first draught of King Soma shall be yours . They md 
‘yes’ Therefore they submitted (to him). Those which submitted, Indra drew (; *- 
graha) them to his chest. The Yajamana is Indra indeed. That is why they (waters) 
L submitted to him. Those that submit, he draws to his chest. Since he draws them 
to his chest (Ni-gmhite) they are called Nigrabhyas and this is their first draught oi 

king Soma; in that he pours Nigrabhya waters thereon. w 

13 He pours it (saying) “Ye are great, the subduers of Vftra - The waters are 

?. c „ nv< . «Yp are great” (he says) “Subduers of Vrtra because, 
indeed propitious. So he says le are great t y> • r,f the 

it is by them that Vrtra was killed. “Ye augiiienters of wealth and waves of the 

mmoLd (Soma)”for,thewatersareim,nor,al.IT 

fit for gods”. There is nothing obscure in this. “Invtted, ye dnnk Soma -Thus 



TRANSLATION 


225 


IV.9.4.18j 

invited they drink the first draught of king Soma. This first draught of King Soma 
is theirs (waters’) 

14. While striking (the soma plant) let him think in his mind. “I struck him 
who hates me or who strikes at the human Brahmana”. He only condemns him (the 
enemy). How can he strike the (Soma) who is indeed god? They say that he (who 
is struck) will have no life, so (by thinking as said above) the act of striking, ceases 
to be sinful. If not so, a Brahmana will not hurt thinking ‘I shall not incur even a 
shred of sin by striking (somebody)’. So he should think in that way (that he is 
striking only a wicked enemy). Then he has no sin. 

15. He strikes at him (saying) “Fear not, tremble not” (he says) “Don’t get 
frightened and do not tremble”, “lam striking him (whom I hate) and not you”. 
“Take thou strength”, whereby he means ‘Take sap’. “Take thou strength” whereby 
he means Take sap’. “Both ye bowls that are firm, be steady and take strength”. 
Some say ‘It is addressed to those two pressing boards. Is it to be minded (as a big 
thing), even if these wo oden planks are to break? These two, namely the heaven and 
earth indeed, are the two that tremble for fear of that raised thunderbolt. Hereby 
he now' only assuages those two (heaven and earth). “May they have energy; may 
they have sap”—this is what he means. Thrice he presses, thrice he gathers together, 
four times he adds Nigrabha waters. Thus it makes ten. The Virad metre has ten 
syllables; Virad is the sacrifice. He thus completes the sacrifice which is Virad. ^ 

16. He now adds Nigrabha water. Why he adds Nigrabha water is this—Now 
when he (Soma) first became the havis for the gods, he set his heart on those (four) 
regions, thinking “Could I but consort with those regions as my mate, my loved 
resort”. By adding the Nigrabha, the gods then made him consort with the regions 
as his mate, his loved resort. In like manner does this one (\ajarnana) now, adding 
the Nigdrdbha, makes him (Soma) consort with those regions as his mate, his loved 

resort. 

17. He adds {Nigrabha saying) “From east, from west, from north, from south- 
from every side, may the regions resort to thee”, “O mother, satisfy (him), may the 
noble meet together”. A mother ( Amba ) is a woman and the regions (Disah) are 
women; therefore he makes him (Soma) consort with the regions as his mate, his 
loved resort. (By saying) “May the good progeny come together .The offspring are 
the good progeny. Therefore these offspring though. Situated far off (from each 
ohter) live in harmony. 

IB. Now as to why he is called Soma. When he first became the hams for the 
gods, he keptaside his most pleasing form. Thegods noticed it. They said Take that 
too with you. Along with that (concealed fofm) thou shall be our haws'. He drew 



1V.9.4.21] 


TRANSLATION 


227 


it to him even from afar (saying) ‘That is verily my own (sva me). Since he said “Sva¬ 
nte esah” it is called Soma. 

19. Then as to why the name Yajna— Now when they press him they actually 
strike him. That makes him to come into being. When they spread him, it is thereby 
borne. He is borne moving (in the process of spreading) Yanjayati Hence Yahja, 
they say is the same as Yajna, 

' 20. While being beaten, he (Soma) uttered this statement “Verily thou O god, 
shall extol the mortal O most mighty. There is none else like you as giver of joy. O 

Lord, unto thee do I speak this word, O Indra . ^ 

21. While being beaten, he becoming a mortal, uttered this statement ‘Thou 
alone will be my generator and none other than thee’ to Indra. From Mgrabhya 
waters, they collect the several Grahas (cups of libations of soma). As to why they 
collect the gramas from the Nigrabhya waters is this. Itwas the waters which slew Vrtra 
and by virtue of that prowess, they flow and nothing withholds it from flowing. The 
Vasatwaris are collected from the flowing (waters). From the Vasaizvaris, (they 
collect) Nigrabhyas ; from the Nigrabhyas (they collect) the Grahas which (in turn) 
have the vitality (brought into them) from the Hotr’s cup. The Hotr the Rkisz 
woman. From woman all these creatures are bom. So they are collected from the 
woman, the Rk, in whom vitality is brought from the Hotr’s cup. And therefrom 
these ( Grahas) are produced. So it is from Nigrabhyas , the Grahas are collected. 
(Fourth Brahmana Ends) 

(Chapter Nine Ends) 

ADHVARA KAN DA ENDS 



GRAHA KANDA 

• • 

Chapter One 
BRAHMANA I 

1. The Upamsu (graha) (the wooden ladle filled with the fim-pressed somar 
juice) is the prana of the sacrifice; the Updihsu-savana (the pressing stone) is the 
Yydna, and the Antarydma graha (the container of soma known as Antarydma) is the 
Udana. Now why it is called Upamsu is because, there is a Graha called amsu which 
is 'Prajapati and his prana is this graha;, and because it is his prana, it is called Upamsu. 

2. This (graha) he draws without a strainer, whereby he puts the prana into 
him as if from the outside and thus, the forward-tending prana of his, flows forth 
from him. He purifies it with sprigs (small stalks of soma plant already pressed) of 
Soma, thinking “it shall be pure”. He purifies with six sprigs since the seasons are 
six— that means he purifies it with the seasons. 

3. As to this, they say “When he purifies the Upamsu graha with the amsus 
(sprigs), as all other Soma draughts are (already) purified by means of the strainer 
(pavitra) , then whereby these amsus are purified and how do they (by this process) 
become purified (further) ? 

4. He puts those (sprigs) again (on the unpressed soma plant, saying) “That 
inviolable and awakened name of yours, O Soma, to that Soma-svahS', Thus by 
uttering svahd, he purifies these (sprigs). Thereby they get purified. That is why 
they are again put on (the impressed smrca plants). This applies to all grahas because 
this graha means everything, for it is the process of all pressings. 

5. Now, once the gods, while performing sacrifice, became scared of an attack 
by Asura Raksasas. They said, “Let us, in the morning worship itself, establish the 
entire sacrifice, if the Asura-Raksasas should thereafter attack us, our sacrifice (by 
that time) would have been established”. (Accordingly) in this first graha itself, they 
established the complete sacrifice by means of the chants; and at the first praise 
( stotra) by means of the Saman; at the first invocation ( sastra) by means of the fife with 
that sacrifice thus completely established, they subsequently adopted that 
(procedure). Here, this sacrifice also (gets established) in the same way. 

6. He presses (the soma) eight times; for, Gayatri has eight syllables. The 
morning Savana belongs to Gayatri. Thus this is made to be the morning worship. 



V.l.1.14] 


TRANSLATION 


231 


7. He draws (the soma juice got out of the first pressing) (saying) “Grow thou 
pure, for Vacaspati, purified by the hands with the sprigs of the bull”. Vacaspati is 
the prana and the Upamsugraha is (also) prana. Hence he says “Grow thou pure for 
Vacaspati purified by the hands with the sprigs of the bull". For, he purifies it with 
the sprigs of Soma. ‘Purified by the hands (■ Gabhastiputa) ’ he says; for, the hands are 
the Gabhasti. It is by the hands he is purified. 

8. He then presses ( soma plant) eleven times; for, the Tristubh metre has 
eleven syllables. The noon-worship (. Mddhyandina Savana) belongs toTristhubh. 
Thus the mid-day Savana is made. 

9. He draws (the soma juice for the mid-day Savana) (saying) “Grow thou 
pure, a god for the gods whose portion thou art”— for, he (Soma) is indeed a god. 
“You become pure for those gods for whom you are a portion”— (This is what he 
means). 

10. 'He then presses (the soma plant) twelve times, for thejagatl metre has 
twelve syllables and the evening worship (Sayam Savana) belongs toJagatL Thus 
(by the third time pressing) the Sayam Savana is made. 

11. He draws the Soma (saying) “Make thou, our draughts sweet”; whereby he 
imbues rasa (sap) into him (Soma) thus renders him relishable. Hence when 
beaten (slain) he does not get putrified. If any body else were to be beaten (slain ) 
he becomes putrified. And when he offers (that graha) he thereby establishes him 
(sacrifice). 

12. They say ‘thou who desire to have spiritual lustre ( Brahma varcasa) should 
press eight times at each occasion; for the Gayatrl consists of eight syllables and 
Gayatri is indeed, Brahman and he thereby gets endowed with brahminicai lustre. 

13. This amounts to pressing twenty-four times (eight times thrice). Now 
there are twenty-four half-months in a year and the year is sacrifice, the Prajapati. 
Thereby the sacrifice gets established. “By one who desires for cattle (Pasu kdma ), 
it should be pressed five times at each (of the three) occasions”— so they say. The 
cattle has five parts. So he does become possessed of cattles, by pressing five times 
on each occasion. The sacrifice (also) has five limbs. That surely establishes the 
sacrifice. The sacrifice attains the status ofbeing well-established. This, however, is 
a speculation. The other (method) is what is practised. 

14. He wipes ( the vessel) all around to see that nothing (of the soma juice) 
trickles down. He does not deposit it, for this is his prana. Thereby this prana flows 
continuously. Should he however, exorcize (cause harm to some enemy), he may 
hold on to the vessel and offer (the trickled soma which has been wiped ) (saying) 
“I put thee down; the prana of so and so (enemy) Thus the person against whom 
he is (exorcising) will have no life (will die). Since he does not put back that trickled 
soma into the vessel (but uses it for Abhicara), the Yajaraana and the Adhvaryu 
continue to live. Then he covers the vessel itself (saying) I am blocking the life of 



V. 1.1.19] 


TRANSLATION 


233 


the enemy”. So by not wiping it (trickled soma) into the vessel, he is not deluded. 
Because (due to that) the life of the enemy whom he wants to harm is endangered. 

15. While sitting inside (the Havirdhana) he utters ‘Svdha’. He utters Svahd 
while seated inside because, the gods were afraid lest the Asura-Raksasas should 
destroy this graha before it is offered. Thus by uttering ‘Svahd’ (even) while sitting 
inside (the Havirdhana), they (in effect) have offered it and what is (symbolically 
offered) they afterwards offer in the fire (formally). That is why he offers him 
(soma) with the uttering of Svahd even while sitting inside. That which is (already) 
offered is offered into the fire (later). That is why he utters Svdha, sitting inside. 

16. “I walk along the wide aerial region”, (so saying) he walks. For, it is along 
the aerial region that the Raksasas move, just like this man, rootless and unguarded 
on both sides. With that Brahmana (Vedic mantra ), he renders the aerial region 
free from danger and fearless. Having come out (of the Havirdhana) and while 
offering (the soma) , he may ask for a boon. “Let such and such boon accrue to me. 
I am offering (this oblation) For, the gods, forsooth are eager (in a hurry) to 
obtain the offering of that graha. So they grant him that boon which he asks for, 
thinking “Let him quickly make the offering”. 

17. He offers (saying) “Self-made thou art for all powers, both divine and 
earthly”. This grahais the prana (of the sacrifice) which blows yonder. He is made 
by himself; he is self-born and there is no other maker or creator for him. So he says 
“You are self-made”. “For ail powers, both divine and earthly"— for it is born for 
all these creatures. “May the mind obtain thee”—Prajapati is indeed, the mind. So 
he says “May Prajapati obtain thee”. ‘Svdhd-thee O well-bom for Surya"—thus he 
utters the second Svahd, (intended) for another deity. 

18. For, in that orb which burns yonder, he has just offered this libation and 
the latter (Sun) is the All. Hence he makes that (Sun) the highest of the all. If he 
utters a second Svahakara for a lesser deity', that deity is raised above him (Sun). 
Therefore he utters another Svahakara and makes that deity supreme. 

19. Then he wipes the (vessel) graha upwards, thereby he puts into him that 
Prana which is outside. Then with the palm of his hand turned upwards, he rubs 
(the wiped off soma) on the enclosing stick (in the middle). Thereby he imbues 
that outward tending prana into it (saying) “Thee to the gods who sip motes of 
light”. 



TRANSLATION 


235 


V. 1.2-13 

20. In that orb, where he made the offering and where this (Sun) bums; those 
rays are the gods who sip motes of light. It is these he thereby gratifies. Thus they 
^et pleased with him. 

21. He offers it with a Yajus formula; for he does not recite an invocatory 
mantra (Anuvakya) nor an offering prayer ( Yajya ). By that ( Yajus) formula, he (the 
graha) becomes one endowed with an Anuvakya and a Yajya (the one Yajus itself 
makes good the absence of Anuvakya and Yajya ). If he wishes to exorcise (harm an 
enemy), let him offer some sprigs (of soma) which may adhere to his body or to his 
garment, (saying) “O divine plant, let that be tme wherefore I, pray thee; let so and 
so (my enemy) be struck down by destruction falling from above and get crushed”, 
just as a person escapes (from a crowd) on hearing that there some people are 
getting killed, thissprig (the thrashed bitof Soma plant) escapes from among those 
that are being thrashed. That is why, (by using that stray sprig in exorcising), the 
enemy even by running away does not escape (from death). This is the magical 

effect here. 

22. Now he deposits it (that graha) on the northern side (of the Khard) 
(saying) “Thee for the prana”. For, this graha indeed is his (sacrifices) prana. 
Alternatively they say that it should be placed on the southern side, on the place that 
yonder one (Sun) who bums is following that southern direction. (No); let him 
place itonly on the northern side because there is no other offering superior to this. 
Then after taking the upamsu savana (the pressing stone) he touches it neitherwith 
the fringe nor with the straining cloth. (If he does so) it would amount to rinsing 
it in water if he touches it with the fringe or with the straining cloth. Only with his 
hand, he rubs (the drops of soma) off that (pressing stone) and then lays it down 
near (the upamsu cup) (saying) “Thee for the vydna”', for, this (stone) is indeed the 
vydna of the sacrifice. (First Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANA II 

1. The Upamsu (graha) forsooth, is his prana, the upamsu savana (pressing 
stone) is his tydna\ and the Antaryama (graha) is his uddna. Now, why it is called 
Antaryama is because that which is the prana is also the uddna and the vydna. Now, 
in drawing the Updrhsu graha, he puts into him that prana which tends away from 
him and in drawing the antaryama he puts into him that uddnawhich tends towards 
him, when he gets confined within his self. So this uddna is confined within the 
inner self. Because this uddna is confined in its inner-self or because of it these 
creatures are ( yatah ) prevented (from getting lost) it is called Antaryama. 



TRANSLATION 


237 


V. 1.2.7] 

2. He draws it from inside the strainer; whereby he puts that udana into him 
as one tending towards him. So much so, the Updm.su libation of his, happens to 
be drawn from inside the strainer cloth (i.e. from the pure Soma). The Updm.su and 
the Antaryama are the same, since they are the prana and udana. And, thereby, 
moreover, that (vital air) of his comes unbroken in respect of the other grahas. 

3. Now, as to why he purifies the king (Soma) by means of a strainer 
(pavitra) —when Soma, the king insulted his priest, Brhaspati (by abducting the 
later’s wife) and later restored her to him, he (Brhaspati) got appeased. Even 
though he restored (her) to him, the sin of having thought of insulting a Brahmana 
remained in him (Soma, the Moon). That sin which he committed by intending to 
insult (that Brahmana), that sin is now expiated by the pavitra. So purified, he 
(Soma) becomes fit for sacrifice and food for the gods. Therefore they purify- Soma 
with pavitra. 

4. Now as to why they draw the graA^with the upayama (earthem pot to keep 
Soma). This earth (forming the upayama is Aditi. The cam (rice-pap) containing 
the Prdyamya Hauls (an oblation of that name) belongs to Aditi. So both these are 
earth. This havisis prepared before the Sutya day (soon after the difad). This Aditi 
desired for a food other than the earn (i.e. soma) even on the Sutya day along with 
the gods (and said) “Let me also have a share in the pressed soma”. 

5. They (gods) said “This sacrifice has already been aportioned among the 
deities. By means of thee let the grahas be carried and offered to the deities {by 
using you as the carrier)”. She (earth) said “Yes”. This is the upayama (earthem 
vessel). By these (earthern vessels) food and drink are served to the creatures. By 
this (earth, shaped as pot) all these are brought. By means of this, the grahas are 

taken. That itself is her share in the pressed soma. 

6. Then, as to why he deposits them in the womb is that this earth is the womb 
of everything. It is from her that these creatures are bom. This Soma which has 
come into being, is the semen which the priests carry about. If the seed is caste in 
a place other than the womb, it becomes dead. So it is cast in the womb. It is 

deposited in the womb (of the upayama). 

7. One of these two grahas, he offers when the Sun has risen and the other 
before sun-rise. These two grahas are bis prana and udana. His offering one after 
sun-rise and the other before sun-rise is to keep the prana and udana distinct from 
each other. That is why though the prana and udana are the same, they are 
differently called as prana and udana. Those two grahas are the day and night. His 
offering one after sun-rise and the other before sun-rise, is to keep the da> and the 
night distinct from each other. If both were offered after the sun-rise, there would 



TRANSLATION 


239 


V. 1.2.10] 

be only day and no night. If bo th were offered before the sun-rise, there would be 
onlv night and no day. Therefore he offers one after sun-rise and the other before 

sun-rise. 

8. The Updmsu being the day, he offers it before sun-rise. Thus he gives the 
day’s characteristic to the night. That is why even when there is darkness in the 
night, one is able to distinguish as it were, certain things. The .Antarydma being the 
night! he offers it after sun-rise. Thus he gives the night’s characteristic to the day. 
That is why this Sun even when rising does not burn up these creatures. Thereby 
these creatures are saved from him. 

9. He draws (the Antarydma graha) therefrom (saying) "Thou art taken with a 
support. Restrain thou; O mighty (Indra), Guard Soma”. The significance of the 
Upaydma has been told. “O mighty”—mighty indeed is Indra and Indra is the lord 
of the sacrifice. So he addresses ‘O Mighty’. ‘Guard the Soma’ (he says). By this he 
only says, “Protect the Soma”. (He says) “Preserve the riches”. The cattle are the 
riches. ‘Preserve the cattle’, he thereby means to say. (He says) “Gain thee food in 
the sacrifice”. Food means creatures. He thereby makes these creatures interested 
to sacrifice and these creatures go on invoking and sacrificing. “Inside you I lay the 
sky and the earth, into thee I lay the wide air; allied with the gods the lower and the 
higher”. Thereby he makes this (graha) one belonging to all the gods, because by 
means of this, these creatures move about in the air breathing out and breathing 
in. Therefore it belongs to all the gods. “Delight thyself in the Antarydma, O’Mighty 
One”-The mighty one is Indra and Indra is the leader of the sacrifice; wherefore he 
says ‘O mighty one’. In this chant (by which he draws the Antarydma graha) he 
repeatedly uses the word ‘inside—inside’ (antar) and it amounts to saying I place 
you within me’ (i.e. he identifies the graha with his own self). 

10. He wipes (thevessel) all round, lest (any soma juice) should spill down. He 
does not deposit it, for this is udana; hence this udana passes continuously. If he 
deposits the updmsu cup, let him also deposit this antarydma cup and if he does not 
deposit that, this too he should not deposit. If he covers that (updmsu cup) (with 
his palm), let him cover this as well. Whatever he does (in respect) of that (updmsu 
cup) the same is to be done in the case of this (antarydma cup). This has to be 
offered with the same mantra with which the Updmsu is offered. Both Updmsu and 
Antarydma are the same. 



V. 1.2.15] 


TRANSLATION 


241 


XI. Now the priests of the Caraka school, offer this with a different mantra, 
saying ‘let us make the prana and uddna posses different vigours’. But, let him not 
do so. Because they would upset the prana and the uddna of the Yajamana, if they 
offer them with different mantras. He may as well offer it (Antaryama) , silently 
{without any mantra). As he offers Updmsu with a mantra, this (even if offered 
silently) is as good as offered with the same mantra . Or why he should offer silently? 
Let him offer with the same with which the Updmsu grahais offered. 

12. He offers (saying) “Self-made, thou art; for all prowess divine and earthly; 
may the mind obtain thee; Svdha ; thee, O well-born for Surya”. The significance of 
this has been told. He wipes the cup clean downwards. After offering updmsu did 
he not wipe it upwards and thereby put the prdna'mto him as one tending away from 
him? Here (in the case of Antaryama) , he wipes it downwards and thereby puts the 
uddna into him as one tending towards him. He then rubs (the wiped off soma) 
upon the enclosing stick (in the middle) with his palm upturned. There (in 
updmsu) he puts the prana which was tending away from him by nibbing towards 
the east. But here he does so towards the west because he puts uddna as one tending 
towards him. (He rubs) (saying) ‘Thee for the gods sipping motes of light”. The 
significance of this has been told. 

13. He then places (the Antaryama cup) in the southern half (of the altar) 
(saying) “Thee for the uddna'. For, this is indeed his uddna. He should place them 
(the updrhsuand antaryama cups) so as to touch one another, whereby he unites the 
prana and the uddna. 

14. They repose undisturbed till the third worship ( trtlya savana). That is why 
these creatures sleep. Since these two grahas are (again) used in the third savana, 
these creatures wake up, both mobile and immobile. They follow this manner of the 
sacrifice. This sacrifice is being conceived as all the birds. Its two wings are Updmsu 
and Antaryama grahas. The upathsu savana (the pressing stone) is the body (of the 
bird). 

15. They (the two grahas) repose undisturbed until the third smmna. The 
sacrifice spreads out. That which spreads out, does move. That is why the birds fly 
with their spread-out wings, unfolded. Because they (the two grahas) are (again) 
used in the third savana, these birds fly (back) drawing in their wings folded. This 
is the (nature of) the updmsu. Updmsu is indeed prana. One breaths out the pranas 
on this (earth). This Antaryama, is, indeed, yonder sky; for, this uddnaof Antaryama, 
is up-breathing and the uddna, one breaths, upwards to the sky. The Up&nuu smmna 
is vyana and one who breaths through (in and out) breaths through the aerial 
region. (Second Brahmana Ends) 



V. 1.3.6] 


TRANSLATION 

brAhmanaiii 


243 


1. That which is the Aindra-vdyava graha (the cup of that name where soma is 
collected for the twin deities Indra and Vayu) forsooth, is his speech; and as such, 
it belongs to his self. Now Indra when he hurled the thunderbolt at Vrtra, thinking 
himself to be weaker and fearing lest he had not finished him (Vrtra), hid himself 
(to escape from a counter-attack). He distanced himself from his enemies. The 
gods too hid themselves along with him. 

2. They, the gods said “We are not sure whether Vrtra has been slain, whence 
we are hiding. They told that god who blows (Vayu) “You find out this, whether 
Vrtra is killed or is alive. If he is alive, you being the swiftest will present yourself 
quickly (here to inform us). 

3. He (Vayu) asked “What shall be my reward then?” They said, “The first 
vasatkara of king Soma shall be thine”. “Yes” he said and proceeded. Vrtra was slain. 
Vayu returned. 

4. He (Vayu) said ‘Vrtra has been slain. Whatever one does if (his enemy is ) 
slain, you do that”. The gods rushed (to the place where Vrtra lay slain), just like 
those who would grab at the property (of the dead), they took possession of him 
(Vrtra, the Soma) in the vessels. That part of his which one (god, single-handed ), 
seized, that became Ekadaivatya (graha belonging to one deity); and what two of 
them (together seized), that became Dvidaivatya (belonging to two deities) and 
what many (gods together seized) became Bahudaivatya (meant for many deities). 
Since they collected him separately by these vessels ( Vya-graka) they are called 
grahas. 

5. The Vrtra is none else than Soma. He emitted stinking odour into them. 
He was not fit to be offered as oblation, nor for eating (drinking). They told (his god 
who is blowing “Blow thou through him and make him palatable to us”. 

6. He asked “What shall be my reward then”. (They said) ‘They shall name 
those cups after you’. He said, “Be it so; but all of you blow along with me”. The gods 
blew off half (of that stink) and deposited i t in the cattle. This is the foul smell in 
tile cattle. Hence one should not close (his nostrils) from that smell (of the cattle). 
That is indeed, the smell of king Soma. Even though one may fee! pierced 
(unbearable) by it, let him breath windward. Soma is auspicious. To feel repug- 



TRANSLATION 


V 1 3 12] 1KAJN5LA1UJiN 

nance is sin. So if one abhores it (the odour of the cattle) it is like a sickening 
repulsion to an auspicious augury. It is the sin in him that repels this smell. 
Therefore one who knows thus should not abhore that smell (in the cattle). 

7. Then this god (Vayu) blew through this samajuice and made it palatable to 
them and fit for being offered as oblation' fit for eating (drinking). Hence these 
vessels though belonging to various deities are called Vdyavya (Vayu’s vessels). His 
sraha it is, that has the first Vasatkara. 

b g. i n dra then thought “This Vayu is having the major share (of this sacrifice), 
since he has all these vessels and the first Vasatkara. Well, let me also have a share 
in this graha (of Vayu) ”. He desired a share in it (and said) “You give me a share in 

this graha”. ^ . 

9. Then Vayu asked “What benefit I will have then?” Indra said The 

(presiding deity of) speech ‘ Vak* will intelligibly express. He said ‘yes’ if speech will 
intelligibly express, then I will let you share”. From thence it became a graha for 
Indra and Vayu. It was only Vdyavya (belonging to Vayu) before that. 

10. Then Indra claimed “One half (of the graha) is mine”. Vayu said ‘Only 
one-fourth is thine”. (Again Indra said) “Half ismine” and (Vayu contended) “Only 
one-fourth is thine”. Thus disputing, they went to Prajapati with their problem and 
said “Divide this and aportion our shares”. Prajapati divided it into two and said 
‘This one half is for Vayu” and this (other) half he divided again into two and said 
This half is of Vayu” and this (other) half is of Indra. Thus he made Indra receive 
one-fourth share. So this graha is named ‘ Aindra-tunya ’ {graha with one-fourth 
share for Indra). Before that it was (entirely) Vdyavya and it now became Amdra- 

tUny 11. Now with this libation there are two Puroruk chants {mantras proceeding 
the Upayama mantra ). The first belongs to Vayu alone and the second to Indra and 
Vayu. It is the same case with the two Anu vdkya chants; so also with the two Prmsa 
chants and the two ydjya formulas. In each of these pairs, Indra gets only one-iourt 
share. He said They have aportioned to me only one-fourth share . Hence, he 
rendered only the fourth part of speech intelligible. This fourth part of speech 
which is intelligible is what human beings speak. Another fourth, unmtelhgibk » 
what animals speak. Yet another fourth unintelligible (speech) is what the birds 
speak. The other fourth unintelligible (speech) is what small wrm tn here speaks. 
P 12. Wherefore also it has been thus spoken by foi “Four are the measured 
grades of speech; The Brahmins who are wise, know them; three deposited in 
secret, move not; the fourth grade of speech men speak . 



TRANSLATION 


V.l.4.23 


13. He draws (the graha, saying) “O Vayu, come near to us! O thesipper of the 
pure (soma ); yours are a thousand steeds, O bestower of all boons! Unto thee hath 
been offered the gladdening juice whereof thou, O God, takest the first draught. 
To thee Vayu. O Indra and Vayu, here is soma juice. Come ye hither for the 
refreshing draught, the drops of which look for you eagerly. Thou art taken with 
a support. Thee for Vayu, for Indra and Vayu. This is thy womb; thee who are closely 
united”. Thus saying, he deposits (the cup). He who is Vayu, is Indra; and he who 
is Indra, is Vayu; therefore he deposits (saying ‘To thee who are closely united’. 
(Third Brahmana Ends) 


brahmana rv 

1. Mitra and Varuna, forsooth, are his intelligence and Will and as such belong 
to his (inner) self. That which he contemplates in his mind ‘let this be mine; 1 will 
do this’ that is intelligence (kratu) and that by which it is accomplished, that is will 
( daksa ). Now, intelligence, indeed is Mitra and Will is Varuna. These <*re his own 
self. Brahmana (priesthood) is Mitra and Ksatra (ruling class) is Varuna. Hie 
Brahmana conceives (ideas) and the Ksatra is the doer. These two were, in die 
beginning, separate. Then the Brahmana could, of course stand without the 
Ksatra, the Varuna; but not Ksatra without Brahmana. Whatever Ksatr a did, if not 
conceived by Brahmana, that was not reaching fruition for him. 

2. Therefore Ksatra deliberated “Letusunite Brahmana and Ksatra; (and said 
O Brahmana come to the front, approved by you I shall do my acts”. “Be it so (said 
Brahmana) and they united and out of that Mitra-Varuna gmha came out. e 
himself is the Purodha (priest). Therefore a Brahmana should never associate with 
any (low type) Ksatriya, because together they produce righteous and unrighteous 
acts (only if the'Ksatra is of high order, the combination can be productive of 
righteousness), But whosoever Ksatra is in authority, shall not associate with any 
type of Brahmana because together they produce righteous and unrighteous acts 
(only if the Brahmana is of high order, a Ksatriya whether high or low, if happens 
tobe in authority, can be productiveof righteousness) Henoe.ttsqm.e popcrth* 
a Brahmana should be without a king. But were he to obtain a king, it would bt 
conducive to the success (of both). It is, quite improper that a kmg should be 
without a Brahmana, for, whatever act he does, unguided by the pnesth«^here 
he succeeds not. Therefore a Ksatriya who intends to do a deed oughtby ail me-r.s 
to resort toaBrahmana, for he verily succeeds only in the deed in which he is guide 

by a Brahmana. 



TRANSLATION 


249 


V. 1.5.2] 

3. Now he draws (the Mitra-Varuna graha) (saying)—‘This soma , O Mitra and 
Vanina, hath been pressed for you”. Ye holy ones, hear now my appeal—thou art 
taken with a support. Thee for Mitra and Vanina. 

4. He mixes it with milk. Now as to why he mixes itwith milk—Soma, forsooth, 
was Vrtra. Now when the gods slew him, they said to Mitra Thou also slavest!’ But 
Mitra said “No”, I am the friend of everybody. Being a friend, I won’t become a foe”. 
They said “Thou art so, then we will exclude you from soma feast”. He said then “I 
too shall strike (Vrtra). Thereupon the cattle deserted him saying ‘Being a friend 
he has become an enemy’. Thus he was deprived of cows. This Mitra was enriched 
with cattle when gods mixed milk (with the soma meant for him). That is how, this 
Yajamana, enriches him with cattle by mixing it with milk. 

5. As to this they say “Surely he (Mitra alone) did not wish to slay". Thus, what 
milk is there in this (mixture) that belongs to Mitra and only the soma is of Vanina. 
These two of course get mixed when it is mixed with milk. 

6. He mixes (milk) (saying) ‘May we delight in the wealth’ we take gained; the 
gods by the offerings and the cows by the pasture. That unfailing milk cow, O Mitra 
and Varuna, grant ye unto us day by day. This is they womb; thee for truth and life". 
(Thus saying) he deposits it. The truth is mitra, Brahma is mitra. Brahma is truth. 
Vanina is life. Vanina is the year and the year indeed is life. So he deposits (saying) 
“thee for truth and life”. (Fourth Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA V 

1. The Asvina graha, forsooth is his ear, hence in drinking it, he turns (the cup) 
all round. For, with that ear of his, he hears all round. Now, when the Arigiras or 
the Bhrgus ascended the heavenly world, Cyavana among the Bhargavasor Cyavana 

among the Arigiras was left behind here withered. 

2. Saryata belonging to (the clan of) Manavas, just then wandered about that 
place with his tribe and settled near about where Cyavana was lying. His boys, while 
playing, saw him (Cyavana) withered and lying; took him for an evil spint or ghost 
to be despised, pelted him with clods. He got enraged and engineered dissidence 



V. 1.5.7] 


TRANSLATION 


25! 

among the Saryatas and made diem fight (each other). The father fought with the 
son and the brother with brother. 

3. Saryata then ruminated "What did I do by which this (situation) has come 
about?" He arrived at this conjecture. Cyavana of Bhargavas or of Ahgiras was left 
behind only here, withering. He must have been serverely harmed by someone and 
hence this has come about. He called together the members of the settlement. 

4. After calling together the villagers, he said “Whoever among you, the 
cowherds or shepherds has seen anything (strange), here ".They said “Yonder lies 
a man withered and ghost-like in the forest and him the boys today pelted with 
clods and we suffered it (kept quiet at it)”. He recognised that he is Cyavana. Then 
he yoked his chariot, took his daughter Sukanya with him; proceeded and reached 
where Cyavana was lying. 

5. He (Saryata) said “Reverence be to thee; O Rsi! Because I did not recognise 
thee, I offended thee; here (in Sukanya) by means of her, we attone for that 
(offence) —Letyour wrath be calmed”. Then his (Gyavana’s) wrath subsided. Then 
the Saryatas (who were fighting each other) compromised and the assembled 
villagers dispersed saying “By any means we shall not hurt him hereafter”. Asvins 
(the twin gods of medicine) were going about among men curing (ailments). They 
came there where Cyavana was lying. They entreated this Sukanya (saying) “Come 
to both of us. Why do you sleep by this withered worthless (person) T 

6. She said, “I will not leave him who is alive, for, to him my father gave me”. 
This, that sage knew and said to Sukanya after they (Asvins) had gone— “What did 
those two say?” (She said) “Thus thus (they spoke)”. “What reply you gave them” 
(asked the Rsi). (She said) “I will not abandon him who is alive since to him my 
father has given me”. 

7. He (Cyavana) said “If they again speak to you so, you will tell them 
thus—‘You two do not seem to be perfect nor you appear to be fully mature; that 



TRANSLATION 


V.l.5.12] iKAiNai^u^ 

is whv you insult my husband’. Then, if they ask you “How we are imperfect? tell 
them 'YOU make this husband of mine again youthful and then I wall tell you (why 
are imperfect) ”, They came again and said the same (words of courtship). 

' 8. She said, “You two do not seem to be perfect nor fully matured and hence 

sou insult my husband*. They asked “Howwe are imperfect”. (She said) "Make this 
husband of mine again youthful and then I will tell you (how) ”. They said “Be it so, 
hold him up and make him drink this water; let him again get up m that age 
in which he wan ts (to become) ”, (She) held him up and made him drink thatwater. 
He got up rejuvenated in that age in which he wanted to. Then they asked How we 

are vana himse if rep lied ‘These gods are performing sacrifice at 

Kuruksetra- they are keeping you out of that sacrifice. Hence you are imperfect . 

10. They accepted this (reason). They came to the gods who were performing 
sacrifice They came when the Bahispmamanavias completed. 

11 They said, “Invite us thereto”. The gods said “We will not invite you. Vou 
have too much mingled among men when you want about curing. Th®j' et ° 1 ^ 
not invite you”. Then they (two) said “But surely ye worship with a headiest 

sacrifice” (Gods said) “How with a headless sacrifice?” They said Assign (Sww) 

graha for us; then we will tell you”. “So be if they_said..5 

fbem. They became Adhvaryu priests and restored head ofthe ^■'’IlceTh 
(how the headwas restored) will be explainedin the Divakirta (XV -M-8).Stnce the 
Asvins restored the head of the sacrifice (on their arrival after Bahi^pavamaM 
chanting) the graha for both of them is drawn after the chanting of the 
taTPamarur, fecause they arrived there (at Kumksetra sacrtfice when the 

^Tw”aid “Well, butwe two, being the Adhere the leaders 
of this sacrificeHransfer ye that grakaof ours to this 

Accordingly they brought their graha P ,. t d ^ 

dual deities. Hence this graha is drawn as the tenth and 

third in sequence. As to the these Asvins, they are manifestly those ^ heaxen an 
earth. Then ‘Lotus-crowned’ they are called; Agm forsooth, is the lotus 
(earth) and the Sun that of yonder (sky). 



TRANSLATION 


255 


V. 1.5.14} 

13. He draws (the Asvina graha) (saying) “Mix Ye the sacrifice, O Asvins, with 
that whip of yours, rich in honey andjoyfulness! Thou art taken with a support; thee 
f or the Asvins. This is thy womb; thee for the honey-loving (Asvins)Thus (saying) 
be deposits it. He takes it with Rk mantra containing the word 'madhu ’ (honey) and 
deposits it with (thewords) madhvibkyam tvd (thee for the honey-loving). Dadhyarig, 
the Atharvana, imparted in them (the Asvins) the Brahmana (text) called‘Madhu’. 
That Madhu is their favourite resort, and with that favourite resort of theirs (i.e. 
Madhu) he now approaches them. Hence he draws it with the Rk containing the 
word madhu and deposits it with ‘thee for the honey-loving’. 

14. Now those other vessels ( grahas ) are smooth (except the three meant for 
dual-deities). The vessels of the graha for Indra andVayu has awooden belt around 
it This is its second shape, and hence it is Dvidaivatya (having two deities). The 
vessel of the graha for Mitra-Varuna is of goat-shape. That is its second shape and 
therefore it is dvidaivatyam. The vessel of the graha for Asvins is lipshaped. That is 
its second shape and hence it is dvidaivatyam The Asvins are indeed, the head (of 
the sacrifice) and this head-shape is supplied with lips and hence the vessel of the 
Asvins is lip-shaped. (Fifth Brahmana Ends) 

(Chapter One Ends) 



V.2.1.7] 


translation 

Chapter Two 

brahmanai 


257 


1. The Sukra and Manthins (the two prnhns 
eyes. Now the Sukra, indeed is he who ySider burns ^ h ! s 

burns, itis called Sukra (the bright). And the MantMn indeed is to “ 

it witli barley powder and makes a gruel ( mantha) of hand so mi * es 

and Moon) are the eyes of all the creatures Tf „ j sManihi. They (Sun 
not see (distinguish) their own palms. ° ° DOt ” Se ’ (people) will 

1 °Th a ese drawn for some one and offered for some one 

el^i They are drawn for Sanda and Marka, the Asura-Raksasas and ofe “ d t o the 

3. Why it is so—when the gods drove away the Asura-Raksasas thev could no, 

drive away these two (Sanda and Marka). Whatever rituals, the gods perfomed 
they dtsturbed them, caused confusion and ran away quickly F 

4. They (gods) said “Let us find a way as to how we can get them away ■ let us 

?n^ f r t ? S) for them as well. They will come (to receive themTand we 
shall catch hold of them and drive them away”. They agreed to this Man I La 

grahas for them. They came. The gods seized^them antfdrosethem away 1 THterefme 
these two grohur are drawn for Sanda and Marka and offered to tSL 

This fthat^ “'I* ” LC ‘ US draW these £ raA<wfor *e deities themselves. 
( that i !t ls °ff ered to the deities) is well-known (so why draw in the name of 

tot way ^' ThUS he (Va j fiavalk ^> onI X speculates. He did not practise it 

water!in to Stm ^ Tt <S r 3 P lacenta - !ike “ver of fight, prompt the 

as ThilonewU K ( ?? y) " he r ewate ™Pn>duced*.With thistheydescribehim 
7 Le^fth f m mS b f5 ef t mng to him as ,with a placenta-iike cover of light 1 , 
tot e ' r h °u WmS be dle P Mrp raA chant for Sukra -‘In that ancient way. in 
tot earher way; m that universal way (you draw) that eider the greatest the one 
searnd on the barhis (grassmat) and the'winner of heaven”.'1 eaStem to 

^nne^f heav eSL - % T ‘ e [ der greateS '’' ,The one seated on ^and 

those verv rf ‘ ^° U *J°’ by Shaklng us eke out our sins ' («* pre>re) thee in 
those veryperformances when you enable the Yajamana to excel other Yajaminas. 

ihou art taken with a support. Thee for Sanda". 



V.2.1.14J 


TRANSLATION 


259 


8. He deposits it on the sou them side (ofth ekhara) (saying) “This is thy womb; 
protect valour”. This is for the eater (Sun). The eater is valorous. So he deposits 
(saying) ‘protect the valour’. Now, as to why he deposits on the southern side (of 
the Khara)—that one who burns yonder moves in that direction. 

9. Thereupon, he draws the Manthin (graha) (saying) “He the longing, 
prompted the daughters embedded in the variegated (cloud) in the form of the 
light-covered, measuring out the darkness. Him the bards kiss like a child at the 
union of the waters and the Sun. Thou art taken with a support. Thee to Marka”. 

10. He mixes it with barley powder. Varuna once struck Soma right in the eye 
and it swelled (asvayat). Therefrom came asva (horse). Because it sprang from a 
swelling it is called ah>a. A tear of his fell down. That became the barley. So they say 
that barley belongs to Varuna. That (barley) which fell down from his eye, with the 
same (barley), he now makes him whole, renders him complete. So he makes it with 
barley powder. 

11. He mixes (saying) “At whichever offerings ye two, rushing swiftly like 
thought, accept with approval the songs—he the manly, who by the reeds of this 
(one) hath seasoned in the hand the (object) of his desire—and (says) “This is thy 
womb; protect the cream res”- and deposits it on the northern side (of the khara). 
This is for the one to be eaten (Moon). Creatures are these people who are to be 
eaten (to serve the nobility). So he deposits it (saying) “Protect the creatures”. 

12. Now there are two chips of the yupa sprinkled and two unsprinkled. One 
of those sprinkled, the Adhvaryu takes. One of the unsprinkled, the Pratiprasthata. 
(takes). Adhvaryu takes the Sukra (graha) and the Pratiprasthata takes the Manthi 
(graha). Taking them, the Adhvaryu (wipes his cup with the chip of the yupa saying) 
“Swept away, swept away is Sanda”. Pratiprasthata (wipes his cup with the chip of the 
yupa, saying) “Swept away is Marka”. Even while taking them these two Asura- 
Raksasas (Sanda and Marka) are driven away. Adhvaryu walks out (saying) “May the 
Sujb'a-drin king gods lead thee forward”. The Pratiprasthata walks out (saying) “May 
the Manthin-drinking gods lead you forward”. Thus they lead forward those two 
(libations) only to the deities. 

13. Behind the fire-altar, they (Adhvaryu and Pratiprasthata) go forward with 
each others shoulders touching. Going round the altar they deposit (the grahas) on 
the high altar. Adhvaryu deposits on the southern hip (of the altar), continuing his 
hold on it. The Pratiprasthata deposits on the northern hip (of the altar). (While 
doing so) they render the high altar uninfested by Raksasas (by saying) “Thou ait 
uninfested”. Now they pass by the altar and transgress it. But since (they indicate) 
it is only in the course of propitiating Agni, he does not punish them for this 
offensive movement. 

14. He (Adhvaryu) prays “Thou abounding in heroes and producing heroes, 
shower the Yajamana with growth of wealth”. Thereby he invokes a boon to the 
Yajainana. 



V.2.1.2G] 


TRANSLATION 


261 


15. Then ‘Thou abounding in creatures and producing creatures, shower the 
Yajamana with growth of wealth”—thus (prays) Pratiprasthata. For, this libation is 
for the one eaten and creatures are the eaten (food). Hence he says ‘abounding in 
creatures and producing creature shower Yajamana with growth ofwealth’—thereby 
seeks a boon to the Yajamana. 

16. They (two) closing the cups (with their hands) move forward of the altar, 
thereby make them hidden by closing them. That which is covered becomes 
invisible. Th at is why no one sees the Sun and the Moon while they go forward. They 
(priests) proceed to the front side and open (the cups) and offer them standing in 
front. Thus they make them visible. That is why all the creatures see these two (the 
Sun and the Moon) from the back (when they have already moved to the front). 
That is why no one sees the seed which is cast forward but that which is being bom 
(out of it) is visible as it emanates. 

17. They (Adhvaryuand Pratiprasthata) put their elbow's together behind the 
yupa ; provided the fire does not blaze up. If the fire blazes up, they can put together 
(their elbows) in front of the yupa; (Adhvaryu saying) ‘The Sukra (light) uniting 
with the sky, with the earth, with the brightly shining” (and the Pratiprasthata) 
saying ‘The Manikin, uniting with the sky, with the earth, with the Manikin-shining'. 
Thus (saying) they make these two cups the resting places of their eyes (stare at the 
respective cups). That is why these eyes (of men) are united by bones around here 
like and here like. 

18. Then they throw those two chips of the yupa which are unsprinkled 
(saying) “Sanda is thrown away” (says Adhvaryu) and “Marka is thrown away" (says 
Pratiprasthata). Thus before the offering, these Asura-Raksasas are driven away. 
Then they place in the fire the two sprinkled (chips); Adhvaryu (saying) “Thou art 
the abode of Sukra and Pratiprasthata (saying) “Thou art the abode of Manthi”. 
These two (chips) are the kindlers of the eyes he kindles the eyes with them—hence 
these eyes are kindled. 

19. Then on he chants “May w r e be the preservers of thy unbroken valour and 
prosperity, O divine Soma”. This is indeed a benediction for that performance; he 
thereby invokes a boon. 

20. Then he says, “Urge thou for Indra the Soma-droughts brought forward, 
the pure, sweet-flowing, of the morrow’s Prdtah savana, (morning worship). When 
Vasatkara, is uttered, the Adhvaryu first offers; then the Pratiprasthata, then others 
(Camasadhvaiyus). Now, as to why they offer after going round to the front of the 
fire (is because) these two libations are his eyes. The eyes they thus put in front. As 
to why they stand on either sides of the yupa and offer—-for, the yupa is the nose. 



TRANSLATION 


263 


V.2.1.24] 

Hence these two eyes are on both sides of the nose. As to why they offer with a chant 
when the Vasatkara is uttered—for, the entire savana is offered after these two 
(libations) and hence they attain this special status. As to why the entire savana is 
offered after these two is because they are verily his eyes and eye is truth and, truth 
is closest to Prajapati. Therefore the entire savana is offered after these two 
offerings. 

21. He offers (saying) “This is the first consecration, assuring all boons: He is 
the First, Varuna, Mitra, Agni—he is the first, Brhaspati, the wise; to that Indra offer 
Ye the juice, Svaha ”. That being the first, he offers saying This is the first’ —for, 
when the semen is cast, the eyes, indeed, come first, they appear first and hence he 
chants thus. 

22. He then directs-“Let the Hotr’s camasa (cup) advance; let the Brahmana’s; 
then those of the Udgatr’s (singer’s); then the Adhvaryu’s camasas (cups) advance. 
You the cup- bearers of the Adhvaryu’s come and fill up (the cups) with pure soma”. 
Having gone round (the altar) Pratiprasthata pours the residual soma into the vessel 
of Adhvaryu. Here it is he who pays the first bali (tribute). The Adhvaryu pours it 
into the Hotr’s camasa (cup) for drinking; because the draught belongs to him who 
utters Vasal For the Vasal is the life-breath; that life-breath turns away from him 
when he utters Vasatkara. The nourishment (soma) is life-breath. That prana , he 
puts back into his body when he pours it (into Hotr’s camasa). So he pours the food 
to the utterer of Vasal As to why these two cups (of Sukra and Man thin) are not 
brought back for being filled, while other grahas are (brought back) is because, 
they are the eyes. Therefore only the residue of the Hotr’s cups are poured (into 
these two for food). 

23. They now fill up the cups of Hotrs, because these residues are the remains 
of offered oblations. They are not sufficient for offering. They are, by this, 
replenished so that they become sufficient for offering. 

24. Thereupon they make the Hotrs offer together. Now the Hours as a team 
convey the sacrifice to the gods. It is them he thereby pleases, so that thus satisfied 
and pleased, they may convey the sacrifice to the gods. When the first offering is 
made (by the Hotrs) or when all the offerings are made, he addresses them (thus) 
—“Let the priests’ offices be satisfied, now that they have obtained good offering 
of sweet drinks, well-offered, svaha . (First Brahmana Ends) 



V.2.2.6] 


TRANSLATION 


265 


BRAHMANAII 

1. The Agrayana graha, forsooth, is his self and as such it is his entire graha, for, 
self is one’s all. So he draws it by means of this (earth). The sthaU (bowl) is (made) 
of tliis earth. He draws it (this libation) with the bowl This graha is all and this 
(earth) is all. So he draws by means of her. 

2. He draws it full, for, full includes all and the graha is all. So he draws it full. 
He draws it for the Visvedevas; for, the Visvedevas are all. This graha is all. So he 
draws for the Visvedevas. He draws it in all the (three) Havanas', for, this graha is all 
and hence he draws it in all the (three) savanas, 

3. If the king (Soma) becomes exhausted, they extend him out of this bowl; 
they will enlarge him. This bowl is, indeed his self. It is from the body that all limbs 
grow. So they can make him issue only from this (Agrayana graha) . From this, they 
expand him (Soma). From this only they draw the last graha, namely, Hdnyojana. 
Thus this sacrifice gets established at the end in its own self in this form (of 
Agrayana ). That is why the final graha, Hdriyojana, is drawn from this (Agrayana 
bowl). 

4. Now about why it is called Agrayana —that speech which he restrained on 
holding that pressing stone. Spoke out first at this (libation) and because it spoke 
out first (agra) at this (libation), therefore it is called Agrayana Why at this that 
speech speaks out is because (originally) it was restrained out of fear from Raksasas. 

5. He draws the first six grahas first and then this as seventh. Six indeed, are the 
seasons for a year and the year is all. In this graha all are there. When this is 
conquered and it became free from fear and danger, here the gods first uttered 
speech. That is why he first utters speech here. 

6. Or he draws it (the Agrayana graha from that stream of Soma) (saying) “Ye 
gods, who are eleven in heaven, who are eleven on earth, and who are eleven 
dwelling in a glory in the (aerial) waters; do ye graceously accept this sacrifice! 
Thou art taken with a support; Agrayana, thou art, Svdgrayam (surdgrayam or good 
in marching first, thou art)”. By uttering ‘agrayana thou art, svagrayana, thou art’, 



V. 2.2.11] 


TRANSLATION 


267 


he makes that speech itself fresh. If he were to use the same word repeatedly as 
'agrayanosi-agrayanosi ’or ‘svagrayanosi-svagrayanosi ’, he would commit (the fault of) 
repitition. 

7. “Guard the sacrifice, guard the lord of the sacrifice”—thus he utters the 
released speech (meaning) ‘protect the sacrifice’ when he says ‘guard the 
sacrifice’. He utters the released speech when he says ‘guard the lord of the 
sacrifice’ by which he means ‘protect the Yajamana’. Yajamana, indeed, is the lord 
of the sacrifice. 

8. (He says) “May Visnu guard thee with his might” By this he utters the 
released speech. Visnu being the sacrifice, (he means) ‘may the sacrifice protect 
you with its power’. He utters only the released speech, when he says, ‘guard thou 
Visnu’—for, sacrifice is indeed Visnu and (he means) ‘protect the sacrifice’. When 
he says ‘Protect the same feasts all around’, he means this very graka (of Agrayana) 
because it belongs to all die savanas. 

9. Having wrapped (the graha ) with the fringe (of the filtering cloth) he utters 
‘km. Now that same speech (vdk) being unsupported lay exhausted. She was 
exhausted and could not move. When she was exhausted, the gods infused breath 
into her, for, ‘ him is breath’. The ‘him ’is indeed life-breath. That is why no one can 
utter ‘him’hy closing the nostrils. She by means of this breath rose up again. So it 
is that (he) infuses breath into her who is exhausted and she by this breath gets 
revived just as a person exhausted takes breath and gets revived. Therefore he 
wraps (the graka) with the fringe (of the filtering doth) and utters ‘him\ He utters 
‘him’three times since the sacrifice is three-fold. 

10. After uttering ‘him’, he says “Soma becomes pure; Soma becomes pure”. 
For that (speech) which, for fear of Raksasas, he did not utter earlier, that he now 
utters when all is conquerred and free from fear and danger. He reveals it (that 
speech) ‘for this priesthood, he becomes pure’; he says for the Brafimana; ‘for tilts 
Ksatra, he becomes pure’; he says for the nobility; ‘for this Yajamana who presses 
soma, he becomes pure’—he says for the Yajamana. 

11. Here now they say “Having said this much, let him deposit (the graha), for, 
as much as the priesthood, fire, notility, Indra and Indragni, so much means this 
all and therefore having said this much let him deposit”. This is only a speculation. 
In addition he says “For the sap and pith, he becomes pure . This he says lor the 
rains because it is from rain that pith or juice comes. (He further says) For the 
waters and plants, he becomes pure”—this he says for those waters and plants. For 
heaven and earth, he becomes pure”-—this he says for those two, heaven and earth 
whereon this all rests. “For well-being he becomes pure” whereby he says ‘For good 
he becomes pure’. 



TRANSLATION 


269 


V.2.S.S] 

12. Here now some say (in addition) “For spiritual lustre, he becomes pure”, 
but let him not say so. When said ‘for the priesthood (he becomes pure) ’ that itself 
he says for the spiritual lustre. So he should deposit after saying upto ‘For 
well-being, he becomes pure’. He deposits it saying “This is thy womb; thee for 
the Visvedevas He indeed deposits it for Visvedevas. He should deposit it in the 
middle of the khara. For, this graAa happens to be his self (body). On the right 
(south) of it is the Ukthya bowl and on the left (north) of it is the Aditya bowl, 
(Second Brahmana Ends). 


BRAHMANA III 

1. This Ukthya (Graha) is his undefined prana (vital air) and as such it is his self. 
Because this self is undefined vital air and hence his very life-principle. So he draws 
with this (earth); from this earth is made the bowl. This earth is undecaying and 
immortal. The life-principle is undecaying and immortal. So with this earth he 
draws. 

2. This life-principle is also the Dhruva (graha) by which his body is held 
together and the joints are knit together. Before drawing this (last cup), the graha 
superior to this for Atchavaka is drawn from that ( Ukthyave ssel). Then he takes the 
king (Soma) for the midday savanaarvd pours one-third of the vasatwaris (into the 
Adhavaniya ). Thus the jointunites; for, indeed, he makes (the Ukthya cap) the first 
of the second pressing and the last of the first pressing. That which belongs to the 
second pressing he makes first and vice-versa. Thus he interlocks them whence 
these joints are interlocked. This like that and that like this. In like manner at the 
midday pressing (when) the last has not yet been drawn. Therefrom for the 
Acchdvaka priest, he pours (the remaining of the Ukthya vessel). Then he pours 
one-third of the vasatwaris (into the Adhavaniya ). Thus the joints united, for, 
indeed, he makes it the first of the second pressing and the last of the first-pressing; 
that which belongs to the second pressing—he makes whence these joints are 
interlocked—this one like this and that one like this. And because his body is 
thereby held together, therefore this (graha) is his life-principle. 

3. This ( Ukthya graha) is the wish-yielding cow, Indra’s special share. He 
divides it for the three Ukthyas (songs of praise) of the morning savana and three 
for the midday savana. Thus they are six. Six are the seasons. Seasons matui e all this 
food. So this is the wish-yielding cow, the special share of Indra. 



TRANSLATION 


271 


V.2.3.11] 

j| e draws it without (reciting) a puroruk chant, for the puroruk is an uktkya 
(a song of praise) and the puroruk is a Rk mantra. Ukthya is (also) a Rk mantra and 
the graha is Saman and the other chant he utters is Yajus. Formerly these ( puroruk 
verses) were differentfrom the Rks, differentfrom Yajus mantras and different from 

Satnans. 

5. They, the gods said, “Let us place these ( puroruks ) among the Yajus, thereby 
this vidya will become still more expanded. Accordingly they placed them among 
the Yajus. Thereby this vidya became still more manifold. That Ukthya is puroruk 
and puroruk being a Rk and Rk being a praise (ukthya) and since he divides it for 
recitation, it is already possessed of. puroruk (has the effect of puroruk) and hence 
(there is no need for a separate puroruk) ; he draws it without a puroruk. 

6. He draws it (saying) “Thou art taken with a support; Thou for Indra, 
possessed of the Brhat Saman, possessed of vigorous youth! I draw thee of churning 

praise”_for, he draws it for the song of praise. By ‘Thou Indra possessed of 

vigorous youth’, he only says ‘that valour of yours’ is what he means by ‘Indra the 
Brhadvatd . “For that thee, for Visnu—thee”. For, sacrifice is Visnu and this he draws 
for the life of the sacrifice. Hence he says ‘For that thee for Visnu ’. ‘This is thy womb; 
thee for the songs of praise”—(thus saying) he deposits. For, it is for the ukthyas 
(songs of praise) he draws this graha. 

7. He divides it (among the three Ukthya vessels of the assistants) (saying) 
Thee, the one who pleases gods, I draw for the gods; for the life of the sacrifice”. 
One should not divide it like this. It will (amount to) be his ordering (the gods) 
(putting oneself above the authority) if he divides that way. He is after all drawing 
it for the life of the sacrifice. So only with this he should divide it (only with the latter 
part of the mantra) 

8. (He says) “Then the one pleasing to the gods, I take for Mitra-varuna, tor 
the sake of the life of the sacrifice”. (He takes the share) for Mitra-Varuna; for, in 
verses to Mitra-Varuna. They (the Udgatrs) sing praises for this (libation) and he 
(the Hotr) afterwards recites chants for Mitra-Varuna for the sdstra and offers with 
the mantra to Mitra-Varuna. 

9. (He says) Thee, the one pleasing to gods, I take for Indra, for the life or the 
sacrifice”, for, the Brdhmandcchamsin”, (he takes the share), for, in verses addressed 
to Indra, praises of this (libation) are chanted and verses to Indra are afterwards 
recited as a sdstra and offering made with a mantra to India, 

10. (He says) Thee, the one pleasing to the gods, I take forlndra-Agm, for the 
life of the sacrifice”. (He takes the share) for the Acchdvdka, for, in verses o n ra 
Agni, praises are chanted for this (libation); and verses to Indra-Agni are recite as 

a sdstra and offering is made with a mantra to. Indra-Agni. 

11. “I take thee, the one pleasing to the gods, for Indra, for the life of the 
sacrifice” Thus only in the midday savana for all (gods). The midday savana, 
indeed, belongs to Indra. This is the rule. And the Carakddkvaryus divide it m tins 

way. 



V.2.4.1] 


TRANSLATION 


273 


12. “Thou art taken with a support, thee, the one who pleases the gods, I take 
for the gods, thee, the one pleased by praises, for ukthyas (praises), agreeable to 
Mitra-Varunas I take thee. This is your womb; thee to Mitra-Varunas”. (Thussaying) 
he deposits it. Then he touches the sthatt saying “Thou art again an offering". 

13. “Thou art taken with a support; thee, the one pleasing to the gods; I take 
thee for the gods; thee the one pleased by praises; I take then the agreeable to 
Indra”. (Thus saying) he deposits it. Then he touches the sthdtt (saying) “Thou art 
again an offering”. 

14. “Thou art taken with a support; thee, the one pleasing to the gods. I take 
thee, For the gods; thee the one pleased by.the praises; I take then the agreeable to 
Indra-Agnis”.—(Thus saying) he deposits it and places down the sthdtt, silently. 

15. “Thou art taken with a support, thee the one pleasing to the gods, I take 
thee for the gods, thee the one pleased by praises. I take thee the agreeable to Indra. 
This is thy womb. Thee for Indra-Agni”. (Thus saying), he deposits it and then 
touches the sthdtt twice saying “Thou art again an offering”. The third (sthaB) he 
deposits silently. He does not take it with a support. Only at the first, he is taken like 
that (with a support). Nor he deposits it saying ‘this is thy womb’. Because, at the 
first occasion, he has done so. So it would be a repitition if he says again here, it 
would be a repitition. His touching it saying ‘Thou art again an offering’, would 
involve drawing it once more, indeed, this need not be headed. Let him silently 
deposit. (Third Brahmana Ends). 


BRAHMANAIV 

1. This is his vital air which is in front and is forsooth, the Vaismnara (gmha). 
That which is behind is the Dhruva (graha). Formerly, indeed, these two gmte were 
drawn separately, as the Dhruva graha and as Vaisvdnara gratia. Now this one 
{Dhruva) alone is drawn. If one comes to leant (that both the grakasz re to be drawn 
again) from Carakas (priests belonging to the Caraka school) or from others, then 
let him pour that (second one, namely the Vaisvdnara gratm) into die Yajamam's 
cup and this one (Dhruva graha) into only the Hotr’s camasa (cup). Now what part 
of him there is below the navel, that is part of his sell and that is his lifepcinciple. 
So he draws it by means of this (earth), because the bowl {sthdtt) i s of earth. He d raws 
it with a bowl, for, undecaying and immortal is the life principle. Hence he draws 
it by means of her (earth). 



V.2.4.7J 


TRANSLATION 


275 


2. He draws it full; for full means all and the life-breath means all. Hence he 
draws it full. He draws for Vaisvdnara; Vaisvdnara is the year and the life-principle 
is the year. Therefore he draws it for Vaisvdnara (Agni). 

3. Having been drawn in the morning savana, it reposes aside since that time. 
Therefore the entire life-principle, it acquires. Let him not pour it (into the Hotr 
rnrnasa) while it is being praised (while the stotra is being recited). The Yajamana 
would not live through that year if poured while being praised. It should be poured 
while the sdstra is recited; then it guides him safely over the twelve-fold chant of 
stotra. Thus he obtains continued life-span. The Yajamana then lives long. 

4. Therefore the Brahman a ( diksita) should sit through (the twelve-fold) 
praise of Agnistoma and he must not move from there until this offering (of the 
Dhrnva graha ) is made. Nor he shall discharge urine because with that his entire 
life-span gets discharged. He who knows thus sits through the Agnistoma recitations 
by (determining) not to discharge urine till the Dhruva offering, lie becomes one 
who sits through the Agnistoma. Or, what part of him there is below the navel, that 
part of his self is this (Dhruva graha). Hence were he to move away or discharge urine 
before the offering of this (Dhrnva) libation, he would be casting away the Dhruva 
(the firm and lasting one). Hence, lest he should lose the Dhruva (the firm and 
lasting) he sits through the praise (Agnistoma). This applies only to the Yajamana, 
because this (Dhruva graha) is part of the Yajamana’s self. 

5. Again, as to why he sits through the Agnistoma is. Soma is glory; Soma, 
indeed, is glory. So those who partake of Soma and those who do not, both 
approach to behold that glory. That Soma, which is glory, when the Brahmanas 
have crept near together, take into themselves and drink (the soma} , whosoever 
knowing this, drinks (soma) becomes glorious. For that reason (to avoid its being 
drunk by others) one should sit through it Agnistoma. 

6. Now, he becomes one who sits through Agnistoma, because when (the 
others) while passing by (after beholding it) deposit that glory on this Agmspmmad 
(Yajamana) and turn away from that glory and thereby he takes that glory unto 
himself unshared (by anybody). He who knows thus becomes one who sits through 
Agnistoma. He emerges after becoming most glorious among all. Therefore one 
should become an Agnistomasad. 

7. And again, as to why he should be an Agnistomasad —the Gods and Asuras, 
both of them progenies of Prajapati contended. They quarrelled in respect of this 
sacrifice, before Prajapati, saying “Let this be ours; let this be ours". Then the gods 
devised this process of Agnistomasad and with that they gained the entire sacrifice 
and kept out the Asuras, their enemies, from a share in this sacrifice. In like manner» 
this one (Yajamana) gains the entire sacrifice from the hands of hateful enemy and 
thus keeps out his hateful enemy from a share in this. Thus, he who knows excludes 
(his enemy). So he becomes an Agnistomasad. 



V.2.4.12] 


TRANSLATION 


277 


8. Having drawn it (the Dhruvagraha ) he deposits it in the northern cart. The 
grahas are the yital airs; lest he should confound the vital airs (he deposits there). 
Others he deposits on the raised mound. But this one ( Dhruva ) he deposits after 
sweeping (the dust) without having as much as a blade of grass underneath. That 
which is above the navel (the other grahas) it is as it were above his self or that which 
is above his self is as it were above the navel. That which is raised, therefore one 
deposits on the raised mound. That which is below the navel, which is as it were 
below one’s self, it is as if held below the navel and that one deposits after sweeping 
and without giving room for even blade of grass below. Therefore he sweeps 
without leaving even a blade of grass below and then deposits. 

9. Now, that sacrifice which is being performed is Prajapati, from whom these 
creatures in earth have been bom; and indeed even now they are bom after this 
(sacrifice). Now were he (the Yajamana) to deposit it {Dhruvagraha) on an unswept 
(mound) after this (act), these creatures will be born who will stand on this (earth) 
by means of ( a support) something different from their bodies. Those creatures 
which stand on hoofs are standing on this earth by means of something separate 
from their self and they are the pasus (cow, goat etc). If after his (cleaning, the graha 
is deposited) the creatures that are bom (after that sacrifice) they stand by 
themselves on this (earth) (like) men, other wild animals etc. 

10. Moreover, when he heaps the dusts to form the khara (mound), he virtually 
produces an upward-facing elevation (separate platform) on this earth. So those 
creatures that, are bom from that elevation are standing on something different 
from their own bodies, namely the hoofs. Now when he sweeps and leaves not even 
a blade of grass, before depositing the grahas, those creatures that are bom of (the 
original earth surface) are standing on their own (parts of the body) like the men 
and other wild beasts. 

11. And, on the other hand, when they offer in the Ahavamya, a purndma, 
parched barley grains, porridge, sour curd etc. It amounts to pouring into one's 
mouth. But this (. Dhruva libadon) stands apart (being) of one form like water. 
Hence while he eats the different forms of food with that mouth, he lets flow from 
that opening this uniform (libation) like a stream of water, That is why it is called 
Dhruva. 

12. Now, once a time, the gods while performing sacrifice, were afraid of an 
attack from the Asura-Raksasas from the southern front. The Asura-Raksasas did 
hit from the southern side and overturned those soma cups placed on the southern 
side; they overturned the southern soma cart. Only this soma cart on the northern 
side, they could not overturn. That northern cart held steady the southern s« 
cart. And because they could not overturn this (northern cup) therefore it is canted 

Dhruva (firm). 



TRANSLATION 


279 


V.2.4.17J 

13. They, indeed, guard it; for this cup is the head of this Gayatri. Gayatri being 
the sacrifice—there are twelve prayer chants (stotras) and twelve recitations (sdstras ); 
that make twenty-four Gayatri, indeed, consists of twenty-four syllables. This 
{ Dkruva cup ) is her head. The head means prosperity. He who is most prosperous 
in a section (on a clan), he is called the head of that section. And, indeed the 
excellent (among a group) would come to harm and if this (cup) were to be 
affected, and the excellent one being the Yajamana, they guard this Soma cup, lest 
the Yajamana should suffer any harm. 

14. This (Dhruva graha) is the calf of Gayatri. Gayatri being the sacrifice—there 
are twelve prayer chants (stotras) and twelve recitations (sdstras); they together 
make twenty-four and Gayatri consists of twenty-four syllables. This (cup) is her calf. 
When they guard this (graha) they are guarding those calves so that they can milk 
her (cow). As they (cows) yield milk (when the calves are nearly safe), so may this 
Gayatri yield all the wishes of the Yajamana—that is why they guard it (cup). When 
the Adhvaryu and the Pratiprasthata walk out of (the Havirdhdna) and (later) enter 
(again) it is symbolising the entry of the cow with the calf-tied to it. 

15. Then he pours it out (the Dhruva graha) to mark the milking. The cow 
yields milk thereon (when the calf is near). In like manner, this Gayatri when 
milked, let it yield all the wishes for the Yajamana. 

16. He pours it out (saying) “O, the soma of the Dhruva, I pour thee out with 
a firm mind and speech”. Or (he says) “I take thee...”, “Now may Indra make these 
our creatures, the people, rid of enemies, and of one mind . This is only a boon he 
seeks. “For our prosperity and nourishment”. “Let these creatures be rid of 
enemies and be endowed with one mind”—thus a boon is prayed for. 

17. He collects it (soma from the stream) (saying) “The crest of heaven, the 
disposer of the earth, O Agni, Vaisvdnara! bdrn in the eternal truth of this ritual, 
thou art the wise the supreme ruler, the guest (thou art one) converted by gods as 
a vessel into their mouths. Thou art taken with a support. Thou art the firm {dkruva) 
of firm position, the steadiest of the steady, the most unshakable among the solid!) 
founded. This is thy womb—thee for Vaisvdnara". Therewith he deposits it. He 
indeed takes it for Vaisvdnara, after cleansing (the surface) and not leaving so much 
as a blade of grass. (Fourth Brahmana Ends) 

(Chapter Two Ends) 



V.S.1.6] 


TRANSLATION 


281 


Chapter Three 


BRAHMANAI 

1. Now that he draws these cups of soma, he goes out (of Havirdkdna ) and offers 
the oblation drops (an expiatory oblation) for the soma spilt during pressing). The 
reason why he offers the oblation of drops is this—whatever drops of soma were 
spilt here, whatever parts of Soma plant were (scattered during pressing), to them, 
he now makes an entry into the Ahavanlya , for, the Ahavanlya is the resting place 
of all offerings; that is why he offers the oblation of drops. 

2. He offers (saying) “Whatever particle of thine spills; whatever stalk (of Soma 
plant gets scattered) ”—whatever drop of Soma is spilt, that is a particle; that indeed 
he now directs into the Ahavanlya. ‘Whatever stalk of yours’ - (by this he means) 
whatever stalk of the Soma plant that has been thrown out by the pressing stone. 
“From the lap of the pressingbowls” for, when thrown out by the stone, they (stalks) 
leap out of the somarcollecting bowls. “Be it from the Adhvaryu or from the pavitm 
(strainer) ”, for, it leaps out either from the Adhvaryu’s hands or from the strainer. 
“That I offer unto thee by my mind consecrated by Vasal, Svdha . Thereby it 
becomes an offering (regularly) consecrated by Vasal and (sanctified) by Svahd. 

3. Thereupon he (the Adhvaryu) takes two stalks of grass from the covered 
altar. The two Adhvaryus proceed first as the— prana and uddna of the sacrifice. 
Then the Prastota (follows) as the voice of the sacrifice. Then the Udga.tr as the self 
(body), the Pr'ajapati of the sacrifice; then the Pratiharta as either the physician or 
as the vyana of the sacrifice. The Yajamana proceeds (behind) with those five priests 
ahead for as much as those five priests are, so much is the sacrifice. The sacrifice, 
is indeed five-fold. Therefrom the Yajamana proceeds, holding on to the sacrifice. 

4. He then throws one of the two stalks of grass towards into the CatvaJa 
(saying) “Thou art the ascent of the gods”. For, when the gods reached the heavenly 
world by means of sacrifice, it was from that Cdtvdla pit they went upwards. Thus he 
shows to the Yajamana, that same route to heaven which was the path of the gods. 

5. Now when the Udgatrs sit down, he throws the other stalk of grass before 
them. For this sacrifice is a collection of sacrificial Rks in the form of Udgatrs. When 
all these ( Rks) (or Udgatrs) are collected, all this sacrifice (materialises). Therefore 
to him this stalk is offered. Thus he does not mix up (collect) this one (Adhvaryu) 
and (Prajapati) does not become one with him (Adhvaryu). {Adhvaryu » not 
merged into the yagna just as the Udgatrs are); (Adhvaryu is kept separate v 
throwing the stalk of grass before the Udgatrs) . When he (Yajamana) desires that 


they may chant, the Udgatrs mutter the chants. 

6. Then he delivers the stolra (chant of praise) (saying) "Soma becomes pure . 
He mates the chant in one go and they (also) chant in Onego. For these 
chants are addressed to the gods and the gods reached the heavenly world by me. - 



V.5.1.U] 


TRANSLATION 


283 


of them in one go (straight away). So he chants them in one stretch. (After saying) 
« Tum y ee back”, he chants the other chants (called Dhuryas ) and therefore they 
chant the Dhuryas turning back (repeating) for, these Dhuryd stotraswa meant for 
these creatures. That is why these creatures are bom here repeatedly nearer to their 

previous forms. __ 

1 7. .And as to why they chant the Bahispavamana here (near the Catudla )—in 

the beginning forsooth, yonder Sun was here on earth. The seasons embraced him 
and ascended upwards. Firmly established in the seasons, he (the Sun) bums. .And 
in like manner, do the priests embrace the Yajamana and ascend from here (to the 
heaven). Therefore here (before the Cdtudla) they praise with Bahispavamana 


chants. , . ™ . 

8. He should keep out of the Bahispavamana any unworthy priest. 1 his 

( Bahispavamana) is a boat bound towards heaven. The rudders and oars, the means 
to reach the heavenly world, are the priests. He who happens to be an unworthy 
priest is the one who causes this boat bound to heaven, sink. Just as one (undesir¬ 
able person) having got into a boat that is full and make it sink, so this unworthy 
(priest) makes the Yajamana drown. Therefore an unworthy (priest) should be 
kept out of the Bahispavamana > And indeed, the entire sacrifice is a boat bound 
heavenwards and hence an unworthy (priest) should be excluded from the 
sacrifice. (More so) when they praise (by Bahispavamana). 

9 Thereupon (after the Bahispavamana chant is over), he gives directions— 
“Agmdh, spread the fires; strew the darbhds (barhls,h prepare the cakes; get on with 
the pasu" —The Agmdh (accordingly) spreads the fire. That is to say, kindles them. 
He strews the thinking “When the barhiszre strewn and the flame produced, 

1 will offer to the gods”. ‘Prepare the puroddsds ’ (he says) because it is wu the 
puroddsds, they are to start. (He says) “Get on with the Pasu” because heis about, to 

10. There after drawing the Asvin graha, he goes out and slams the animal 
(pasu). Thereby he infuses juice (rasa) into him (Soma) and makes itpalata e. 
Therefore this Jafe slain during the morning samna i™ till the third sw* 
continuously being cooked. Thus he infuses juice (rasa) in the whole sacrifice. The 

entire sacrifice* he endows with flavour. 

11. Therefore let him at the Agnistomz , stay (a pasu) which is sacred to Agm; 

for there is harmony when at the Agmstoma, slays the 0ne f'^ ^ 

be an Ukthya sacrifice, let him slay one sacred to Indra-Agnii mthe 

,he uktkyas (songsofpn^reonlnd^ ^ 

. _ , j / Vak\ is female. So too the rnght (rae.ni is 

because Sarasvau speech and speech (V) ^ ^ h He , hus 

female. Therefore the one sacred to Sarasvati is to oe sum 

distinguishes the forms of sacrificial offerings in this sequence. 



TRANSLATION 


285 


V.3.2.1] 

12. Thereupon he proceeds with (the offering of) the purodasas of the 
respective savana. Now as to why he proceeds with the puroddsa of the savana ? Soma 
is indeed, in the heaven and Soma is a god—“Soma, forsooth was Vrtra. These that 
happen to be the mountains and rocks are his (Vrtra’s) body. Thereon grows that 
plant called usand ”—so said Svetaketu, the son of Uddalaka. They bring that 
(plant) hither and press. Now when he slains the pasu, he imbrues rasa (flavour) 
into it and when he proceeds with the offering of the purodasas of the savana,, he puts 
sap into it and then, indeed it becomes soma. 

13. All those ( purodasas) belong to Indra, since Indra is the deity of the 
sacrifice. Therefore all of them belong to Indra. And as to why puroddsa , parched 
barley grains, a porridge, sour curds,—it is that those deities of the sacrifice shall 
be well-pleased. For, when they have eaten the purodasahere, they wish let us eat the 
barley grains, “let us eat the porridge and let us drink the curds”. It is in order dial 
those deities of the sacrifice shall be well-pleased. And now, as to why only in the 
morning savana, the payasyd (a preparation of curd and milk) belonging to Mitra- 
Varuna offered and not in the other two savanas. 

14. Gayatri, forsooth, bears the morning savana, the Tristubh the midday 
savana and the Tagatl, third savana. But then, the Tristubh does not bear the midday 




















TRANSLATION 


287 


V.3.2.8] 

2. Indra and Agni preserved him for the production of creatures; whence the 
Acchavaka priest belongs to Indra and Agni. It is by means of that sacrificial havh, 
the piece of puroddsa now put into his hand and by means of that {mantra) of the 
Rsis which he now recites, it is thereby they (Indra and Agni) preserve him 
(Acchavaka). 

3. When the Acchavaka is seated, the Adhvaryu moves with the Soma grahas 
(cups) meant for the seasons. Now, as to why he moves with the Rtugrakm'when the 
Acchavaka is seated—the Acchavaka represents a sexual union because he is the 
combination of Indra and Agni; Indra and Agni are two and two constitute a 
productive pair and only from that same productive pair, he produces the seasons 
and the year. 

4. And again why he proceeds with the Rtu grahas (cups of libations for the 
seasons) is because he produces the seasons and the year. The seasons and iheyear 
constitute everything. So he produces everything. 

5. Let him draw twelve of them ( Rtu grahas) for, there are twelve months for 
a year. So he should draw twelve (cups). But he may also draw thirteen for, they say 
there is a thirteenth month. Let him nevertheless draw only twelve; for. that is the 
practise and that is completeness. 

6. He draws them from the dronakalasa (soma trough) for, the drama kalaia is 
the Prajapati among the vessels. So he is producing these seasons and year from 
Prajapati. Therefore he draws from the dronakalasa. 

1. He draws with double-mouthed cups, for where is the end of those two 
(cups) which have mouths on either side? That is why this year revolves endlessly. 
He deposits them (after drawing the soma ). Whence this year is ceaselessly rotating. 

8. He recites no invitatory chant. One invites with an AnuvSkya (invitatory 
chant), that which is yet to come. Here this season has already arrived, either by day 
or by night. Lest he should twin away the seasons, they (the Adhvaryu and 
Pratiprasthata) simultaneously draw the two first and two last libations. Thus 
everything here is encompassed by means of the year. One (Adhvaryu) walks out 
(of the Havirdhdna) and the other (Pratiprasthata) follows his steps; whence these 
months pass one after the other. But were both of them to walkout together, these 
months would surely go separated (not in succession) .Therefore the one walks out 
(first) and the other follows his steps. 



TRANSLATION 


289 


V.B.2.16] 

9. “With the season” (so saying) they perform six times; thereby the gods 
created the day. “With the seasons” (so saving) they perform four times; thereby they 
created the night. Were it to be confined to this much (four times saying With the 
seasons’), there would be only night; it would never pass away. Again (saying) “With 
the season” they perform twice, thereby the gods subsequently generated the day 
(again) and hence now we have the day here, then it will be night (later) and (again) 
the day is to come tomorrow. 

10. “ Rtuna —with the season”-(so saying) the gods created men; “With the 
seasons”-(so saying) the beasts. Since they created men on either sides (of the 
beasts), these beasts are bracketed on both sides and are submissive to (controlled 
by) men. 

11. Having performed with “With the season” (or having performed six times 
thus), they both turn round their vessels. They turn round their vessels after 
performing with “With the season” from one side they create day and from the other 
side, night; from one side, man and from the other side, beasts. That is why they turn 
round and draw the grahas. 

12. Or they draw only thus—‘Thou art taken with a support* (so saying) the 
Adhvaryu (draws saying) Thou for Madhu (months)”. Thou art taken with a 
support ” (So saying) the Pratiprasthata (drawssaying) Thou for Madhava (month) " 
They ( Madhu and Madhava) are the spring season. It is indeed in the spring, plants 
sprout and trees ripen. Therefore these two are Madhu and Madhava (the sweet one 
and the one after that). 

13. Thou art taken with a support”—(so saying) the Adhvaryu (draws saying) 
Thee for Sukra (month) Thou art taken with a support”. The Pratiprasthata 
(draws) (saying) Thee for Suci (month)” They two form summer seasom Because 
during those (months) it bums severest. Therefore they are Sukra and S&d (they 
afflict). 

14. Thou art taken with a support”—(so saying) the Adhvaryu (draws saving) 
“Thee for Nabhas (month)”. Thou art taken with a support” The Pratiprasthata 
(draws) (saying) Thee for Nahhasya (month)”. They are the two rainy (months). In 
that (season), it rains from yonder sky. Hence they are Nabhas and Nahhasya (they 
cause rain from nabhas or sky). 

15. Thou art taken with a support”—(so saying) the Adhvaryu (draws eying) 

Thee for the month of Is (sap)”; “Thou art taken with a support". The Pratiprasthata 
(draws saying) Thee for the month of Urj (food)”. These two are the autumn 
season. Because in autumn, food grains grow (big urj) and juicy plants (is) ripen. 
Therefore these two are Isa and Urjd. (They cause production of food and nutri¬ 
tion). , 

16. Thou art taken with a support—(so saying) the Adhvaryu (draws saving) 
Thee for Sahasya (month)” “Thou art taken with a support". The Pratiprasthata 
(draws saying)-'“Thee for Sahasya (month)". These two form the winter season; 
because the winter by force (sahas) brings these creatures into his power; 
therefore these two are Sahas and Sahasya, 



V.3.2.23] 


TRANSLATION 


17. “Thou art taken with a support” (so saying)—the Adhvaryu (draws saying) 
‘Thee for Tapas (month) “Thou art taken with a support”. The Pratiprasthata 
(draws saying) “Thee for Tapasya (month) These two are the months of the decay- 
season; because during them it freezes most severely; therefore these two are Tapas 
and Tapasya (they cause shrinking). 

18. ‘Thou art taken with a support thee to the Amhasaspati”— (Thus saying) - 
if he draws the thirteenth (cup) then the Pratiprasthata pours his residue into the 
Adhvaryu’s vessel or the Adhvaryu pours into the Pratiprasthatas (vessel). He (the 
Adhvaryu) takes it (to the Sadas) for the purpose of drinking. Thereupon, the 
Pratiprasthata draws the Aindragna graha with the vessel not used for drinking. As 
to why he draws the Aindragnagrahaw ith the vessel unused for drinking is that no 
second Vasatkdra is pronounced in the case of Rtu graha . He, by this Aindragna graha 
make them consecrated by the second Vasatkdra, so he draws with the vessel unused 
for drinking. 

19. And again why he draws with the vessel unused for drinking—By drawing 
the Rtu grahas (cups to the season) he has generated this All; and haring generated 
this All, he establishes it on the prana and uddna. These sky and earth are the prana 
and uddna and within these two, this All is established. 

20. And again why he draws with the vessel unused for drinking—By drawing 
the Rtu grahas, he has generated this All and haring generated this All, he lays the 
prana and uddna into this All, hence these two, prana and uddna are laid into (as 
beneficiaries) this All. Therefore he draws with the vessel unused for drinking. 

21. He draws (saying) “O Indra and Agni, come Ye hither to the Soma, 
rendered desirable by our songs like the Sun. Requested by our thoughts 
(requested to the extend we can wish) take part of this Soma. Thou art taken with 
a support, thee to Indra and Agni” (so saying). “This is thy womb; thee to Indra and 
Agni” (so saying) he deposits. 

22. Then he draws the Vaisvadeva graha (the soma cup for Vamdems). As to 
why he draws the Vaisvadeva graha — By drawing the Rtu grahas, he generted this 
All If it had been that much (stopped with that) whatever creatures were thereby- 
generated at the beginning, that much alone would have been there and they 
would not have procreated. Visvedevas are all and that all he reproduces and hence 
these creatures are born in the respective torms. 

23. He draws it with the Sukracup, for the Sukra (bright) is the yonder one who 
burns (sun). What happens to be his rays are Visvedems. Therefore he draws with 

the Sukra cup. 



V.3.3.5] 


TRANSLATION 


293 


24. He draws it (saying) ‘Ye protec tors and supporters of men, O Vihwdeim, 
come hither, Ye givers (off boons) towards the Somaof this benovalent (Yajamana). 
Thou art taken with a support; there to the Visvedevas”. (Then saying) ‘This is thy 
womb, thee to the Visvedevas”, he deposits it. (Second Brahmana Ends) 

brAhmanaiii 

1. Now 7 truly when the Hotr recites the sdstra, he sings and to that singing (the 
Adhvaryu) responds and so it is called pratigara. That (Adhvaryu) who is seated 
facing east, is called upon by the Hotr. Other priests perform their priestly duties 
while facing the east, except the Udgatrs. In this manner that priestly duty (of 
pratigara) is performed facing east. 

2. He (Adhvaryu) turns round and responds {pratigara). The Udgatr is verily 
Prajapati and the Hotr being the Rk is a female. So when he sings, the Udgatr, that 
is Prajapati, implants seed in Rk, namely the Hotr, who is a female. Wien he sings, 
this Hotr reproduces (from) the implanted seed. When the sdstra is recited, it gets 
sharpened; just as this man gets heated (sharpened), so it is. Therefore it is called 
sdstra. {Sdstra acts as a catalyst for implantation of the seed). This seed so 
implanted by Udgatr, he (Adhvaryu) quickens (cheers up) by turning towards it. 
Had he responded with his face turned away, this seed that gets cast from the 
Yajamana falls astray and perishes. They both (female and male) face each other 
and bring forth the implanted seed. 

3. Now, as to why he utters pratigara. The vitality of the metres was used up by 
the gods, because they attained the heavenly world by means of them. What ecstasy 
there ism the Rkorm the Saman, that ecstasy indeed, is the essence (hat is frratigma. 
He now lays that essence into the metres themselves. He again revitalises them and 
endows them with freshness. With those (metres) revitalised, he performs the 
sacrifice. Therefore he utters the pratigara, 

4. Hence if (the Hotr) recites by half Rks, for each half Rk, let him respond 
(with pratigara) . If he recites by padds (quarters of Rks), let him respond lor each 
pdda (quarter). For whenever, in reciting, he (the Hotr) draws breath, there the 
Asura-Raksasas rush in. That (breach caused by drawing breath), the Adhvaryu 
closes up by 7 uttering the pratigara. Thereby the Raksasas do not rush into the 
sacrifice. This ( pratigara ) thus cuts off the world of the Yajamana s enemies (keeps 
out the enemies). 

5. In the beginning, the metres consisted of four syllables. Thcnjagati ilw up 
towards Soma and returned with one syllable, leaving three syllables. When the 
Tristubh soared up, it returned with three syllables leaving one syllable. Then the 
Gayatri flew up, she came back bringing all the syllables and also the Soma. Hence 
Gayatri became eight-syllabled. By means of her they kept up the continuity of the 



TRANSLATION 


295 


V.3.4.S] 


sacrifice. Therefore the morning savana pertains to Gayatri. With her, they kept up 
the string of continuity' (to) the midday savana. 

6. That Tristubh told her, “To thee will I come with three syllables; do not 
exclude me; take me in (get me united with you). “Be it so” (said Gayatri) and took 
herin- That Tristubh came to be one with eleven syllables. That became the midday 
savana belonging to Tristubh. By means of that (Tristubh), the string of continuity 
of the third savana was kept up. 

7. That Jagari told her “To thee will I come with one syllable; do not exclude 
me- take me in (get me united with you). “Be it so” (said Gayatri) and took her in. 
She became the twelve-syllabled Jagati. That became the third savana belonging to 
Jagatl. That is why they say, all these savanas pertain to Gayatri, since Gayatri alone 


went on increasing. . 

8. At the morning savana, he should utter pratigara (respond) with a compie e 

chant; because Gayatri in fullness returned. When the Tristubh chants are used in 
sadra,’ since she (Tristubh) has returned after leaving one syllable and so with that 
one chant (of pratigara) he then completes her; makes her whole. In the third 
savana (pratimrais) with three chants containing the expression mad (to rejoice) , 
because she (Tagati) returned after leaving three syllables and so with those (three 
chants containing the expression mad), he then completes her; makes her whole. 
When the Heaven and Earth are addressed in the sastra, he utters the pratigara with 
‘mad’ (to rejoice). Now, these creatures subsist on those two, namely Heaven and 
Earth. He thus imbues those two with vigour. They imbued with rasa, become 
sustaining and these creatures subsist on them. He responds {pratigara) with G* 
for that is truth. That the gods knew. Now, some utter the praiigam "etkamo . 

wishing for speech, since it contains (the word mk) .One should not 
is not offended (even if the pratigara does not contain the word 
way one utters pratigara, he does so only by speech (even Gm is a speech). There 
the pratigara should be only with Orn. That is indeed truth which the gods knew. 

(Third Brahmana Ends) 



V.3.4.8] 


TRANSLATION 


297 


BRAHMANAIV 

1. He presses out (The soma juice) (saving) ‘ iha’ihd (hither, hither). Whereby 
he draws nigh Indi a himself. (By saying) ‘brhat! brhat ’ (great, great) he draws nigh 
Indra himself. The Sukra and Manthi grahas he first draws, because this savana is 
indeed, with pure soma (Sukra). 

2. Then he draws the Agrayana graha because it is drawn in all the savanas. So 
he draws the Agrayana. Then he draws the Marutvatiya graha. Then draws the 
Ukthya, for him also there are uktkyas (songs of praise). Here some say that Ukthya 
should be drawn before Marutvatiya. But Marutvatiya is drawn First and then Ukthya. 

3. There are the Five grahas he draws; that he draws these Five grahas is because 
this midday Pavamdna (chant) is a thunderbolt. Therefore it is a Fifteen-fold 
(stoma). For thunderbolt is fifteen-fold. He (Pavamdna) is so by means of these five 
grahas, for, five are the Fingers and with the fingers Indra hurled the thunderbolt 
at Vrtra. He hurled and by that killed Vrtra. With that he conquered. Having won 
freedom from fear and safety they led forth the sacrifice to happy completion. 
Therefore here too, when he praises with the midday Pavamdna chants, they lead 
(the sacrifice) to happy completion. Thus conquered, it is taken to completion free 
from fear and quite safe. That is why he with these five grahas , hurls this thunder¬ 
bolt (of Pavamdna) , at his hateful enemy. By that he kills the hateful enemy. Thus 
he conquers. That is why he draws these five grahas. 

4. Now, as to why he draws the Marutvatiya grab as —Th is midday savana is 
indeed, the special savana of Indra. By that he strove to attack \ rtra. By that he 
strove to vanquish. Indra is the ksatras (modility) and the Marats are the x« 
(people). It is with the people, ksatra becomes strong. 

5. He, Indra, called on those Maruts who were situated, on an Ahmttka tree (to 
join him in vanquishing Vrtra), therefore those two Htu cups (so they say) may be 
ofAsvattha wood. But they are actually of Karsmaryawood. (He said) “Do you join 
me so that with you as my army, I may kill Vrtra . 

6. They (Maruts) asked “What will happen to us then". He (Indra) drew these 

two grahas. They are the two Marutvatiya cups. 

7. They (Maruts) said “Having put aside this one (cup) for our vigour, we will 
join thee". “Be it so” (said Indra). Having thus put aside one cup for their vigour, 
they joined (Indra). But Indra coveted that (cup put aside) realising ‘these Mantis 

have joined after putting aside their vigour’. 

8. He (India) said “Do not put aside that (vigour of yours); join me along with 
vourvigour". They (Maruts) said “For that.you assign another sharefor us’. Hence 
he assigned this another share (saying) “Thou art taken with a support, for the 
vigour of the Maruts; to thee (Maruts) with vigour". They joined hurt along with 
their vigour. With that strength he struck Vrtra.; with that he conquered. Indra ts 
indeed, the ksatraand Maruts are the vis (people). Ksatriya becomes strong ty t le 
people. Now (the Yajamana) endows ksatra with that strength. 



TRANSLATION 


299 


V. 3.4.13] 


9. They ( grnhas ) are drawn for Indra, the Marutvat (Indra accompained by 
Maruts). If they were drawn exclusively for Maruts, (it would amount to) the 
commoners rising up as equals to Ksatriya. Here the Maruts only subsene Indra 
(bv drawing for Indra, the Marutvat) . So there is no rising up as equals on the parts 
of the commoners with Ksatriya (nobility). (Actually) Indra feared that these 
(Maruts) might desert him. (So he thought) “How these (Maruts) will not go out 
of mv control”. And made them non-deserters (loyal) so (the graha) is drawn only 
for Indra associated with Maruts and not to the Maruts (exclusively). 

!0. He draws them with the two vessels of the seasons (the Rlu grahas). The 
seasons are the year, the sacrifice. They (the seasons) are directly attended to in the 
morning savana . In so far as he (now) draws in the Rtu grahas during the midday 
savana he attends to them (seasons) indirecdy (covertly). So he draws the two 
Marutvatiya grahas in the two vessels of the seasons. The Maruts are the vis 
(commoners) and food means commoners and the seasons, indeed, cook all this 

food. So he draws with the Rtu grahas.. 

11. He draws (saying) “O Indra, leader of the Maruts, drink thou the soma 

here; to thee accompanied by Maruts; the mightest bull, for the vigoui of the 


12. Then he draws this Mahendra graha. Now as to why he draws the Mahmdra 
graha For, Indra was then bound up by sin since he got associated with ns {the 
commoners), namely the Maruts. Because when they drew for both (Indra 
Marutvat) in the same vessel, it amounted to Ksatriya eating from the same vessel 
with the commoners for the sake of victory (as an expediency). After the victory 
was achieved, at a place free from fear and safe, drew out (from Indra) that sm {of 
sharing the same vessel with the commoners), by drawing the Mahmdmgmha. }mi 
as a reed could be pulled out of the sheeth. In like manner this one by virtue oft if 
Mahendra graha. separates him (Yajamana) from sin after victory (at a place). free 
from fear and safe in the manner of pulling out a reed from its sheath He was only 
Indra before slaying of Vrtra. Just as one (a king) vanquishing 
becomes Maharaja (emperor), he (Indra) became Mahmdra (after kilim* \ % 

So he draws the Mahendra graha. . 

13. He draws it in the Sukra vessel. That one who burns yonder (Sun) is Sukra 

(bright). He is indeed, indra. Therefore he draws in the Sukra vessel. 



TRANSITION 


301 


V.3.4.14] 


14. He draws (saying “Great is Inara and hero-like, gladdening the people, of 
double stature and unimpaired in power. For our sake, he waxed strong for herioc 
dee d—great and broad was he, and well-shapen by the makers:—Thou art taken 
with a support; thee to Mdhendra ‘This is thy womb; thee to Mahendra”-( so saying) 
he deposits. After depositing he offers praise. Having offered praise, he gives 
directions— “Soma pressers, press on and make the mortars resound; Agnidh, stir 
the sour milk ( dsira) ; be mindful of soma's (pap) ”. They do as they are directed. As 
to why he gives these directions now and get them done now (at the midday 

savana) _These two savanas, the morning and midday savanas , are indeed, rich in 

iuice that is rich in pure soma. That which is the third savanais the one where the 
ime soma is dried up (emptied). That is, the third saoanam formed only from the 
midday savana. By these (preparatory directions) the third savana becomes one 
with iuice, pure soma. That is why here (in the midday savana) these directions are 
given and these (preparatory acts like pressing) are got done. (Fourth Brahmana 

Ends) 


(Chapter Three Ends) 



V.4.1.4] 


TRANSLATION 
Chapter Four 


303 


BRAHMANAI 

1. In the name of spreading out (performing in detail) this sacrifice, they slay 
the sacrifice. For, when they press out the king (Soma) they kill him; when they 
strangle the pasu and quieten it, they slay it; with the mortar and pestle and with 
the upper and lower pounding stones, they kill the oblations (materials for 
oblations) When thus slain, that sacrifice was no longer vigourous. The gods 
invigorated him (sacrifice) by means of daksind (gifts to the priests), so it is called 
Daksind By means of them they invigorated ( adahayan ). That is why daksina is 
given By giving daksind, whatever part of the sacrifice is afflicted while being slam, 
fhat part is invigorated by these daksinds. Then the sacrifice, indeed, becomes 

2. Now at the Haviryajna, indeed they give that daksind in the order of six or 
twelve (cows). But no Soma sacrifice shall be without daksina of hundred (caws). 
For this Soma is the visible Prajapati and man is nearest to Prajapan. This man is 
of hundred years life-span and giver of hundred and so he invigorates him by 
hundred and^otbv any the less. Therefore the Soma sacrifice shall not be without 
one hundred as daksina. Nor should any one officiate as a pnest m a sacnfice 
without one hundred as daksina, nor should one be an eye-witness to it. (Because 
those who do so) will be only slaying it and will not invigorate it. 

3 There are only two types of gods; the gods (well known) are gods (of one 
tvoel and these learned Brahmanas well-versed in Vedic lore are the human gods 
the second type). Between them the sacrifice is divided mto The 
oblations are onlv for the gods and daksina tor the human gods; (namely) 
learned and well-versed in Vedic lore. He propitiates the gods ™ 
with daksind the human gods, learned and well-versed in \ edit lore. They, bo 
tvoes of gods get pleased and immerse him in nectar (give him immortality). 

W 4. This dLind is only for the officiating priests and not for 

officiating. It is they (the officiating pnests) w ^ , abundance of 

him (Yajamana) in the form of (abundan o0 ^ foml tf his 

Yajus) and m the form of (abundance gener ated« (transformed 

becomes hisselfin theotherworld. ‘Ittstheywhohaveg^ra^m^ 

me into the divine form)’ So 

officiating priests and not the non-officiatmg. 1 hereiore m 
officiating priests and not for the non-officiating. 



TRANSLATION 


305 


V. 4.1.10] - 

5. Having gone back to the Garhapatya fire (which is actually the old Ahavaniya 
in the front door of the sadas), he offers the gift offerings (daksina). Taking four 
ladle full of ghee and having tied a gold piece to the fringe of a cloth (usually used 
in oblations) and placed it on the sruk, he offers the oblations pertaining to daksina. 
This same sacrifice of his goes to the world of the gods in advance. The daksina 
follows suit the sacrifice. Following that daksina which he gives, the Yajamana 
(ascends to the world of gods). 

6. Now r , there are four kinds of daksina —gold, cow, clothes and horse. If he 
were to place the foot of the cow or for that matter the foot of the horse on the 
laddie, it won’t be possible (he cannot ascend to the heaven holding on to them). 
So he ties a piece of gold to the fringe of the sacrificial cloth and that alone he places 
on the laddie and offers. (The idea seems to be that he can easily hold on to the 
fringe of the cloth that is tied to the foremost of the daksina that is gold, and ascend 

clinging to the cow’s foot or horse’s foot). 

7. He offers with the chants to the Sun. For, yonder world is shut off by 
(intervening) darkness, Sun is the dispeller of darkness. Therefore, with this (Sun s 
light) he dispells the darkness and reaches the heavenly world. So (he offers) with 
chants meant for Sun. (He says) “The lights bear on high that divine knower of 
beings, Surya, that all may see him— -Svdha\ Thus with this chant in Gayatri metre 
(he offers). For Gayatri is this earth, which is a safe resting place on which h e stands 
firm with her (Gayatri’s) help. 

8. Another four laddie full of ghee he takes and offers (saying) “The brilliant 
front of the gods has risen, the eye of Mitra Vanina and Agni; Surya the soul of the 
movable and immovable, hath filled the heaven, the earth and the air— SmM”. 
With this chant in Tristubh metre, he reaches the heavenly world. 

9. He then makes an offering to Agni on the Agnidhm fire. He oilers ten 
(offerings) or one. As to why he offers in the Agnidkra for Agni—Agni is ruling over 
the hearth. They stay surrounding him (Agni) on all sides. Him this offering 
pleases. He (Agni) pleased with him (Yajamana) approves the gifting awayof cows. 
He gives that (cow) approved by him (Agni). Therefore he offers to Agrn on the 
Agnidhra (saying) “O Agni, lead uson agood path unto prosperity; thou OGod,that 
knowest all rites! keep thou from us the sin that leaded* astray and we will otter unto 
thee plenty of ado rations —Svahit... Now die horse (if he wishes to give) haunt esset 

or unharnessed. . . . . , ., 

10. He then may make a second offering (saying) ‘May this Agni make wide 

room for us (in the heaven). May he march ahead smiting the haters. In giving 
strength let him excel the strong. Fiercly advancing, let him conquer theenem.es- 
Svaha". Horse is that which is endowed with strength. Therefore he says let him )i t 
giving strength, excel the strong’. 



TRANSLATION 


307 


V.4.U5] 

11. The daksinds (cows) stand confined to the southern side of the altar. He 
approaches them and addresses (thus) “Your form is also my form”. Now in the 
beginning, the cows did not yield to them being gifted away. They having concealed 
their original forms stood on the southern side (of the altar) with their bear bodies; 

lest he should give them away as gifts. 

12. Them the gods liked. They brought them from the southern side with 
those very 7 forms (which they had concealed). They recognising their own forms 
came and in their minds agreed to be given as gifts. That is why this one (Yajamana) 
brings them in their own forms from the southern side. They recognise their own 
forms and agree in their minds for being gifted. That is why he says "Your form is 
also my form”. (He says) “May the all-knowing Tutha distribute you"—Now, Tutha 
is the Brahman, the all-knower. Brahman, is the one who knowswho is fit to be given 
daksind and who is unfit. Therefore no part of this daksind happens to be given to 
one unfit to be offered daksind. 

13. “Go ye forward in the path of truth” for, whosoever walks in the way of the 
gods, treads the path of truth; so he says, ‘Go ye forward in the path of truth’. “Ye 
of shining ( candra) gifts” whereby they walk with thatlustre of candra, namely, gold. 

14. He then looks at the sadas (saying) “Behold them the heaven, behold the 
aerial region”. He only says ‘let me, by means of you, ( daksind ) see the world (of 
heaven) 1 . When he says ‘Behold them the heaven, behold the aerial region’. (Then 
he says) “Unite with those in the sadas". By this he only means ‘let not anyone in the 
sadas by-pass you”. Then all those there of (in the sodas) become pleased. 

15. He then approaches the Agnldh (saying): “Let me this day get aBrfh man a 
who has father and fore-fathers (of repute)”. Those who are from well-known 
ancestry, even if they are few in number, to them he offers the daksind. Only, by 
means of them (daksinds given to Brahmanas of good ancestry’) he gains great 
(heaven). Therefore he says “Let me this day get a Brahmana who hasa father and 
fore-fathers (of repute)”. “(Let me get) a Rsi, a scion of Rsis" (he says). He who is 
well-known and learned in Vedic lore is a Rsi a scion of Rsis. -'Of well-best owed gifts 
(he says) for, he (a Rsi, a scion of Rsis) alone happens to be one of well^estowed 
gifts. So he gets seated near (the Agnidh) and gives gold (as daksind). (He says) 
“Given by us, proceed to the Gods”. “Enterye into the Giver”. For, whatever d&kxina 
he gives unhesitatingly with a large heart, it is with that he gains the great (heaven). 
Therefore he says “Given by us, proc eed to the Gods”. “May there be ( room) ku me 
too in the world of gods”—so thinking indeed, he performs sacrifice. So, that 
{daksind) makes him a sharer in that heavenly world. (When he says) “Enter ye into 
the giver” he says ‘enter Ye into me’, so that those (cows) do not go astray. Then {to 
the Agnidh), whatever his mite, he gives as daksind. As to why he gives test to the 



TRANSLATION 


309 


V.4.1.19] - 

Agmdh is because it was from thence ( Agnidhra) the gods destroyed the sin, 

16. He then approaches the Atreya (priest born of Atri gotra ) calling out “Who 
(knows) Atreya; who (knows) Atreya; who (knows) Atreya". Approaching him, he 
gives gold (as daksind). (Saying) “Given by us, you proceed to the gods; enter into 
the giver”. The import of these mantrashzs been explained. As to his giving gold to 

Atreya-_Atri was the Hotr of the Rsis. When the morning prayers were being 

"chanted sitting in front, at that time the Hotr (Atri) sitting in front recited the sdstra. 

Then darkness enveloped the sodas from behind. 

They (Rsis) said “Darkness has, enveloped this sodas , so you (Atri) come 
back here”. He came back and dispelled that darkness. (They thought) ‘This (Atri) 
islight (splendour) indeedand hence it could drive away darkness”. Therefore they 
made him this splendour, gold, a sacrificial daksind. That sage (Atri) destroyed 
darkness, with the power and splendour ol that (gold). In like manner, this Atreya 
(scion of that Atri’s gotra) by means of this gold which is splendour, dispels this 

darkness. Therefore then gold is given to Atreya, 

18 Then he gives (daksind) to Brahman, for Brahman is the protector of the 
sacrifice on the southern side. Then to Udgata, then to the two Adhvaryus seated 
in the Havirdhdna ; then to the Prastota, afterwards to Maitra-Varur.a and then to 
Brahmanacchamsin; then to Pota, and then to Nesta; then to the Acchavaka; then 
to Unneta, then to the Gravastat and then to the Subrahmanya. Then alter giving 
(daksina) to others there about, lastly he gives to Pratiharta. Pranharta is the one 
to whom this ( daksina) ultimately reaches and does not became leftover and from 
him it does not return (to the Yajamina) undistributed. 

19 Then he says “Recite (the invitatary prayer) to Indra the Mamtval . 
Thereafter he should not give ( daksina). As to why he should not give thereaf ter 
Now, in the beginning, when Prajapati gave ( daksina). Indra thought Th.s one w, 
gives awav everything (without leaving anything for me) . Hence he raisedI this 
Lnderboit (ofMMfoM chant), thinking “he won’, give m™**™** 
after (Prajapati) did not distribute (daksina). That same thunderbolt ,s now bemg 
raised whinhe addresses the invitatory prayer to Indm-Marutvat. So he should not 

give any more (daksind). 



TRANSLATION 


311 


V.4.1.28] 

20. There are only four types of daksind, Gold is dyus, life—span. By (giving) 
it he preserves himself—life-span is gold. That he gave to Agni, the one who 
officiates as Agnidh. 

21. Then (by giving) cow, he saves his life-breath. Cow is food and food is pram 
(life-breath). So he gave her (cow) to Rudra, the Hotr. 

22. Then (by giving) cloth, he saves his skin; for skin is doth. That he gave to 

Brhaspati, the Udgatr. 

23. Then (by giving) the horse, which is a thunderbolt, the leader. He gave it 
to Yama, the Brahman. Thereby he registers his wish to reach the world ofYama. 
Yama, indeed is Brahman. So he gives the horse (as daksind) to Brahman. Other 
daksinds he gives, with the hope “May these stand me in good stead in the other 
world”. Only with this wish he gives. 

24. When gold is offered (to Adhvaryu), he should approach it (receive it) 
(saying) “LetVaruna give thee to me who are Agni”. He indeed, gave it to Agni so 
that he could attain immortality. “To the giver you be (the giver of) dyus or life-span 
and to me the recipient you be (the giver of) joy ( maya) 

25. When cow is offered (as daksind to the Hotr) he should approach it 
(receive it) (saying) “LetVaruna give thee to me who are Rudra”. He indeed gave 
it to Rudra, so that he could attain immortality”. “To the giver, you be (the giver ) 
of prana (life-span) and to me, the recepient, you be (the bestower of) joy (mayah 

26. When cloth is offered (as daksind to Udgatr), he should approach it 
(receive it) (saying) “Let Varuna give thee to me who am Brhaspati . He indeed 
gave it to Brhaspati so that he could attain immortality. “To the giver you be (the 
bestower of) slain and to me, the recepient, you be (the giver of) joy ( maya ). 

27. When horse is offfered (as daksind to Brahman) he should approach it 
(receive it) (saving) “LetVaruna give thee to me who am Yama” He indeed gave 
it to Yama so that he could attain immortality. “To the giver you be (the bestower 
of) strength and to me, the recepient you be, (the giver of) joy {mma), 

28* And whatever other (daksinds) he gives, let it be accepted (saying) - jnio 
hath given it? To whom hath it been given? Wish (Kama) hath given ft. lo Kama 
it hath been given. Kama is the giver and Kama the recepient Kama, to thee this •- 
He indeed gave it to (achieve) a wish and it is received only by desire (cm the pat t 
of the recepient). That he assigns to (various) deities. Whatever » assigned to a 
deitv that deity flourshies (gets enthused) more and more. Whatever is put into the 
fire,' more and more the fire glows with that. Whosoever knowing this, accepts 
(daksind) becomes day by day more glorious. This is what Asun also said; Learning 
this (the efficacy of daksind giving), one should bear it in mind’ So he sard just as 
one offers in kindled fire, so one gives (daksind) m a recepient who » effu- gen 
(deserving) Thus he who understands, gives in that manner”. (First Brahma** 

Ends) 



V.4.2.3] 


TRANSLATION 


313 


BRAHMANA II 


1. Now, there are three kinds of gods—the Vasus, the Rudras and the Adityas 
and between them the (three) savanas are divided. The morning savana for the 
Vasus; the midday savana for the Rudras and the third savana for the Adityas. But 
then the morning savana was exclusively for the Vasus, the midday savana was 
exclusively for Rudras and the third savanawas exclusively for Adityas. 

2. Those Adityas said “As that morning savana belongs exclusively to Vasus 
(because only Gayatri metre is used; it is unmixed) and that midday savana belongs 
exclusively to Rudras (because though there are other metres used, the deity’ is only 
Indra; and hence unmixed), so offer Ye now to us a libation before the mixed 
savana (the evening savana is a mixed one where different metres are used and 
belong to different deities and so Adityas do not exclusively have it”. ‘Be it so’ said 
the gods. When the midday soma pressing is completed, they offered to them (the 
Aditvas) that (special) offering (of Aditya graha) before the starting of the third 
savana (proper). Therefore this graha is even now offered in that manner, as the 
gods did (then). 

3. The Adityas realised “Neither in the one savana have we a share nor in the 
other; what is to be done lest the terrible Raksasas might attack us”. They said to the 
grahas meant for twin-deities “We are afraid of Raksasas. May we enter into you”. 
Those grahas of twin-deities asked “What will be our reward then?” They (Adityas) 
said, “By us you shall be supplied with the Anuvasat (secondary' exclamation of a 
Vasaty. ‘So be it’ (said the grahas ) and they entered into the cups meant for twin 
deities. Hence when at the morning savana, he the Adhvaryu proceeds with the 
twin-deity-cups, the Pratiprasthata draws (somajuice) into the Aditya vessel “Thou 
art taken with a support”—this much he utters (at that time) and pours (his juice 
into the fire) after the other (i.e. after the Adhvaryu's libation). Thou to the 
Adityas”, this much he utters and pours the residue (into the vessel of Aditya). Thus 
it is done with all (grahas of twin deities). Now, they (the Adityas) entered into the 
grahas of twin deities but there is no Anuvasatkirana (secondary Vasatkam). But 
Adityas had assured ‘Ye shall be supplied with secondary Vasatkdrei by us . (Here) 
it is for the Svistakrt, the secondary Vasatkdra is done; when this second oblation is 
offered, it is offered to Svistakrt and by this they become AnummtMmns (supplied 
with secondary Vasatkdra) having the oblation to Svistakrt (i.e. Agni and not 
Adityas). Therefore they offer this oblation on the northern part (of the fire) for 
that is the region of that god (Agni, the Svistakrt). Now, why the Pratiprasthata 
draws the ^wwjuice). They entered into the Ihideimtyas and from those which they 
entered, he thereby draws them out. He then covers it (the Aditya cup) (with the 
Aditya sthdli) for were they not afraid of Raksasas.'' 



TRANSLATION 


315 


V.4.2.9] 

4. He covers (the Aditya cup with Aditya sthdli) (saying) “O Visnu Far-strider, 
here is thv soma, protect it lest they should injure it” For Visnu is the sacrifice. To 
the sacrifice he entrusts it for protection so that it will be well protected. 

5. Now, after the completion of the midday sauanaand before the third savana 
he (Adhvaryu) says “Come hither, Yajamana”. They enter together (the Havirdhana). 
The Adhvaryu, the Yajamana, the Pratiprasthata, the Unnetr and whosoever 
assistant is there (enter together). After entering, they close both doors and draw 
the Aditya cup. Were they not afraid of Raksasas, hence he draws the Aditya graha 
after closing both doors (of the Havirdhana). He draws (holding the cup and the 
sthdli) over the putabhrt. (the large vessel to receive soma after it is strained) lest (any 
som/zjuice) should be spilt. 

6. He then draw's (soma from the sthdli into the graha cup) (saying) “At no 
time art thou useless and never failest thou the worshipper, O Indra, but more and 
even more is thy divine gift increased. O mighty' lord—Thee to the Adilyas" —He 
does not draw it with a support ( Upaydma) ; for, it was already drawn with a support 
and if again he takes it with a support, it will be a repitition. “At no time are you 
indifferent but watches over both the births (here and above of the Yajamana). O 
Aditva in the form of the Fourth savana (as it is separately drawn before the third 
savana and after the midday savana, it is called the fourth savana); the nectar is 
ready for thee in the heavens. Thee to the Adityas”. 

7. Thereupon he takes curd, for cattle are after the Adityas and this curd is 
milk. So he puts this curd into the cows because this milk is beneficial in the cows. 
He should pour it in the middle (of the Aditya graha) for this milk is said to be in 
the middle part (of the body) of the cow. But let him pour it in the back part (of 
the cup) for that milk is in the hind part of the cows. These (soma juke) poured 
are the remains of what has been offered. That is not enough for oblation. So they 

are again made sufficient. So he takes curd. 

8. He takes (curd, saying) ‘The sacrifice draweth might to the glory' of the 
gods; be you merciful, O Adityas. Let your favour turn to us, so that it may set us 

free from all trouble. Thee to the Adityas . 

9. He mixes it by means of the Upamiu savana (stone). For , indeed, that Aditya- 
Vivasmt (the sun) is really the same as the Updmm savana and this being an Aditya 
graha, he makes him delight in his own share. These two sowmii* the morning 
savana and the midday savana are rich in pure soma and rich in juice, while this 
third savanah emptied of pure Soma. Neither he touches it with the fingers (of the 
straining cloth) nor with the pavitra (strainer). It will be as it is drawn, if he were -to 
touch it with the fringes or the strainer, therewith this smmmmll become one with 
pure soma and juice. So he (only ) mixes it with the Updmm savana. 



V.4.3.1] 


TRANSLATION 


317 


10. He mixes it (saying) “O Aditya-Vivasvat, this is thy draught of soma; feast 
thou upon it”. Thereupon he drops in the pressing stones. He drops them either 
into the Adhavamyaor into the Samhharam Homo-storing vessel). For the stones are 
Adityas and this third savana is of Adityas, he thus makes them delight in their own 

share. 

11. Then he doses the Graha cup with his palm, for, they the Adityas were 
afraid of Raksasas. Then he opens both the doors (of the Havirdhana) and walks 
o Ut saying (toMaitra-Varuna) “Recite (the invitatory prayer) to the Adityas”. (Then 
he says) “To the pleasing one; to those with pleasing abodes etc.”. He may, if he 
wishes, look into the graha. (Itimplies that he should not look into the graha before 
uttering invitatory' prayer of Asravand). After he has called for die Srausat, the 
offering prayer to the Adityas (he says)- “To the beloved, to these of pleasing 
abodes; to those who like the rites (vratas); to the lords of the seat of glory; to the 
rulers of the wide aerial region”. He offers as the Vasal is pronounced. He (the 

Hotr) does not utter the secondary Vasatkara. 

12. The cattle are after Adityas. Lest he should consign the cattle to the fire (he 
does not utter Anuvasaikdra) . Then he hands over the Adilya vessel to the 
Pratiprasthata. .Again they enter (the Havirdhana). The Adhvarvu draws the A gray ana 
graha They spread a straining doth over the putabhjt The Adhvarvu pours out of die 
Agrayana and the Pratiprasthata brings the residue of the two Adilya gynhas. The Unnetr 
adds thereto (soma Juice) from the Adhavaniya by means of the Vdanjana (a comma 
meant for drawing soma) . From these four streams, he draws the Agrayana 

13. The cattle are after the Adityas, whence this milk of cows is of a fourfold 
nature. Hence he draws the A gray ana from four streams. .4s to (the Pratiprasthata) 
drawing the residue of the Aditya graha and as to his not uttering the secondary 
Vasatkdrato the Aditya graha, it is because he draws the Sdvitmgmka from out of die 
Aditya graha. By that Sdvitra graha, it becomes one for which secondary 
uttered. Before that mixed savana (third one) they offered this graha to them. Tbs 
is the savana of Adityas. It is also (apart of the third savana) because this gmMn 
drawn (for being utilised) in the third savana (evening savana). Through this the 
Adityas again enter the savana. So it is not excluded from the third savana. 
Therefore here, he (Pratiprasthata) holds out the residues of the Amtya gram. 

(Second Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANA hi 

1. Savitr. forsooth, is his mind. Therefore, he drams the Savitm gnha..Stnitr is 
indeed his life-breath. When he draws the Up&miu graha. then he puts two him that 
life-breath in front, because life-breath is Up&mu. Subsequently he £«»into him 
that life-breath (while drawing the Savitragraha). So it has prana (life-breath) <•« 
either side as beneficiaries; that is, above as well as below. Hence the Ma 

is drawn. 



TRANSLATION 


319 


V.4.3.10] - 

2. As to his drawing this Savitra grnha —the seasons constitute the year, the 
sacrifice. They are directly attended to in the morning savana , when he draws the 
i rrahas for seasons. At the midday savana, he covertly attends to them (seasons), 
because it is from the Rlu grahas he draws the Marutvatiyas. Here (in the third 
savana), he neither draws the Rtu grahas nor any other graha is drawn from the 
Rinpatras (vessels of the seasons). 

3. Savitr, forsooth, is the yonder one that burns (the Sun) and he indeed, is 
all the seasons. By this ( Savitra graha) it is that die seasons, the year are attended to 
in the third savana. Therefore also he draws the Savitra graha. 

4. It should be drawn with the Upamsii. Or (he may draw) with the Antaryama 
vessel, because both Updmsumid Antaryama are one and the same. So he may draw 
it either witli Upamsu vessel or with Antaryama vessel. 

5. He draws it from the Agrayana graha, for, Savitr is his mind and Agrayana is 
his body. So he puts this mind into the body. Savitr is prana (life-breath) and 
Agrayana is his body. So he puts this prmia into the body. 

6. He draws (saying) “Bring thou forth boons for us this day, 0 Savitr, boons 
tomorrow, boons day by day. O God, through this our prayer, may we be sharers of 
boons of a good and plenteous abode. Thou art taken with a support. Thou art of 
Savitr, the joy-giver; give me joy; enthuse the sacrifice, enthuse the Yajamana”. 

7. He does not deposit it (the Savitra graha) for, Samir is the mind. So this mind 
restlessly goes about. The Savitr is prana. Therefore this prana restlessly goes 
about. He then says (to Maitra-Varana) “Recite (the invitatoiy prayer) to the god 

Savitr”. When Vasat is pronounced, he offers. 

8. There is no secondary' oblation. For, Savitr is mind and lest he shou 
consign his mind to the fire (he does not do the secondary oblation). Samtr is IMe- 
breath and lest he should consign his prana to the fire (he does not do the 
secondary oblation). Then with the same vessel, undrunk, be draws this Vmsmdmt 
graha As to why he draws the Vaisvadeva graha with that tmdnink vessel is because 
he does not do the secondary Vasatkarannd by this Vaisvadem grnha, it becomes one 
for which secondary Vasatkara is uttered. So he draws with undrunk (vessel) 

9 Again why he draws with an undrunk vessel™^*# «the mind. I modems 
are the All. All these he makes subordinate to mind. All these are subordinate to 
the mind Savitrispranaand Visvedwas&re the AIL Into all these !*<■**• 

So this prana is deposited (or becomes beneficial) in everything here. So lie draw. 

with the undrunk vessel. . . . . • A 

10. As to why he draws the Vaisvadeva graha— This savana winch is the thi a, 

belongs’to the Viivedevas. In the third savana, the (sSstras) are from Soman, _the g* s 
(addressed) are from the /(fa and those by way of preparatory rites are from the 
Yajus. That is why he draws the Mahdvaisoadem grnha. 



TRANSLATION 


321 


V.4.3.16] 

11. He draws it from the putabhrt for the putabhrt belongs to Visvedevas, 
because therefrom they draw (soma) for the gods, for the Piin and for men. 
Therefore he draws it from the putabhrt. 

12. He draws it without a Puroruk (mantras preceding Upaydma GrhUosi); for, 
he draws it for Visvedevas and Visvedevas are everything (all-inclusive), the Rk, the 
Yajus and the Saman. With all these, that graha becomes one having Puroruk 
Therefore he draws it without a Puroruk 

13. He draws (saying) “Thou art taken with a support; thou art well-gaurded, 
well-established. Homage to the great bull”. The great bull is Prajapati. So pays 
homage to Prajapati. “Thee to the Visvedevas. (All-gods). This is thy womb—thee to 
the Visvedevas”. (Thus saying) he deposits it. After depositing it, he sits facing the 
east (in the sadas) . He calls for the Hotr (to praise). The Hotr praises. Whereupon 
he praises “With one and ten for thine own sake, with two and twenty for the 
offering; with three and thirty for carrying up (the sacrifice to the gods); with they 
team, O Vayu, do thou here release them”—during the recitation of this prayer to 
Vayu, the drinking vessels are released. As to why he releases the vessels on the 
chanting of this Rk to Vayu—the beasts have Vayu as their leader: the beasts move 
about due to Vayu. He (Vayu) once went away from the gods along with the beasts. 

14. The gods invited him (Vayu) at the morning savana. He did not return. 
They invited him at the midday savana; he again did not return. They invited him 
at the third savana. 

15. He (Vayu) said “By returning, what will I gain, so that I may return to you”. 
They (gods) said “By thee these vessels would be yoked and by thee they would be 
released”. When he draws the Aindra-vdyava graha, these vessels are yoked by him 
(Vayu) and here now on (the chanting) of the prayer to Vayu, if the vessels are 
released, they are released by him (Vayu). As to why he said ‘with thy teams, O Vayu, 
do thou, here release them 1 —teams means cattle and he only says (release) by 
means of cattle’. 

16. Now, had he (Vayu) returned at the morning savana, the morning 
savana being one belonging to Gayatri and Gayatri being the metre of Agni and 
Agni being the Brahmana (priesthood), the cattle would have come to be with 
Brahmarias only. Had he returned at the midday savana, die midday smmna being 
one belonging to Indra, Indra being Ksatra (nobility) the cattle would have come 



TRANSLATION 


323 


V.4.4.4] 

to be with the Ksatriyas. Since he (Vayu) returned at the third savana , the third 
savana being one that belongs to Visvedevas, Visvedevas being everything (all 
encompassing), these cattle come to stay everywhere (in all castes). (Third 
Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANAIV 

1. He proceeds with (the offering of) the cam (rice-pap) for Soma. As to why 
he proceeds with the caru to Soma is this— soma is the havis (food) for the gods and 
here he prepares havis for that Soma (himself). Thereby, Soma is not left unfed 
since that cam is havis for Soma. It is evidently the food, since cam is cooked rice. 
Cooked rice is direct food. Therefore it is a rice-pap. 

2. Therefore they proceed with this (Saumya cam) in the third smxtna, for 
Soma has Pitrs as his deity. The other two savanas , are exclusively for gods; the 
morning savana and the midday savana. If he were to proceed with this {Saumya 
caru) in the morning savana or the midday savana , he will cause discord between 
gods and Pitn. Since the third savana is mixed one, there is no conflict. Therefore 
they proceed (with the Saumya cam) in the third savana. 

3. He recites no invitatory prayer (in offering Saumya cam) for, the Pitrs have 
passed away once for all. Having taken four ladlings of ghee and having called (on 
the Agnldh), or the Srausat, he says “Recite the offering chant of the ghee* and then 
offers as the Vasat is uttered. Whatever oblations have been offered prior to this, 
therefrom he separates this one (to Soma) and thus he avoids any conflict (between 
the gods and Pitrs). Again he continues (after the offering of emu). Another four 
ladle full of ghee he takes and haring called for the Srausat, he says “Recite the 
offering chant of the ghee”. Whatever offerings he makes after that, therefrom he 
separates this one (to Soma) and thereby avoids any conflict (between gods and 
Pitrs), Thus he offers ghee either time (once before and once after the offering of 

cam). . 

4. Some say that the ghee offering should be only once; that is before (the 

cam). There is a sruk called Pracaranl Haring taken four ladlings of ghee in that 
(PracaranT), (the Adhvaryu) sprinkles {ghee) on the Dkisnya hearths by means of 
saldkas (brushes made of grass). Now why he sprinkles on the Dhimyahezrthswith 
saldkas is this—Once the gods told (the Gandharvas, the guardians of Soiw®) At 
the third savana, you should receive only an offering of ghee; but not soma offering, 
because the som^draught has been taken from you, wherefore you are not worthy 
of a soma-offering”. Therefore that ghee offering reaches them in the third savana 
since they do not deserve soma-offering, since somondraught has been taken away 
from them. With those same Yajus formulas with which they were thrown up, with 
the same ones he sprinkles them with ghee. The uttering of Smka too as before. 



TRANSLATION 


V.4.4.9] 

5. Some say “the final sprinkling should be on the Agnldhra hearth, for, in the 
north shall this sacred work of ours be accomplished”. (No); the sprinkling (of 
Agnldhra hearth) should be earlier and the final (sprinkling) shall be only at 
MarjaUya hearth. While he thus sprinkles (tine hearths); with salakas, Pratiprasthata 
draws the Patmvata graha. The creatures are bom from sacrifice. Those that 
originate from sacrifice are born of productive pair. Those born of productive pairs 
finally originate from the productive union of sacrifice. Thus ultimately, the 
productive union of sacrifice is made the (point) of origin. Therefore from the 
productive nature of the union of sacrifice, ultimately, these creatures are born. 
Therefore from the pair that is the source of production which is ultimately the 

sacrifice, these creatures are born. 

6. If he draws the Savitra graha with the Upamsu vessel, this {Patmvata graha) 
should be drawn with the Antaryama graha and if he draws the Savitra with the 
Antaryama graha, this (Patmvata) should be from the Upamsu graha. These two are 
the same; the Upamsu and Antaryama. They are the prana and uddna, forsooth. 

7. He draws it without chanting a Puroruk Because the Puroruk is indeed 
Manliness-lest he should bestow manliness on women—therefore he draws it 
without a Puroruk. 

8. He draws it (saying) “Thou art taken with a support; of thee, divine Soma, 
begotten by Brhaspati”. (By this) he only says ‘born of Brhaspati When he says 
‘Begotten by Brhaspati O divine Soma, ‘Soma, thee the one with verility’—‘of the 
powerful’ is what he means when he says “Soma thee the one with verihty”. “May I 
prosper the draughts of thee, the on e with the mate Thereby he does not directly 
draw it for the wives. Lest he should bestow manliness on women, he does not 
directly draw it for the wives. 

9. What (ghee) is left over, smeared on die pracaram (spoon), he (Adhvaryu) 
mixes it. When he mixes the other libations he augments them, but in tills case, he 
diminishes (reducesitspotency). For, ghee is a thunderbolt. By that thunderbolt i.e. 
ohee, the gods struck the wives and impoverished them. They (the wives) thus struck 
and impoverished, became ineligible for a share in the paternal property and 
ceased to have right over their own bodies (ceased to be independent). And in like 
manner does he now by that thunderbolt, the ghee, smites the wives and impoverish 
them. Thus struck and impoverished, they have no right over heritage nor are 
owners of themselves. That is why he (now) mixes with the residual ghee (of the 

pracaram ). 



TRANSLATION 


V.4.4.I3] 

10. He mixes (saying) “I am above, I am below; and what space there is 
between, that was my father; —I saw the Sun on both sides; I am what, is highest 
to the gods in secret”. Thus he mixes with (repeating) “aham\ ‘akam’( T, T),and 
he bestows manliness on men. Thus having bestowed verility in men, he calls 
‘Agnidh’; pronounce the offering prayer .of the Patnivata' . Agnidh is the same as 
Agni. The wife is a female and Agni is male. This forms a productive couple. So he 
savs “O Agnidh, pronounce the offering prayer of Patnivata, 

' 11. He offers (saying) “O Agni! speech (thy) wife”. Wife is a female and Agni 

is male. They form a productive couple. ‘Together, with the divine Tvastr”, for 
Tvastr transforms the seed that is implanted, thus thereby he transforms the seed 
that is cast, “Drink soma—Svdhd" therewith he offers on the north part of the fire 
when the Vasat is pronounced. What other offerings there are, they are the gods 
and these are the wives; thence it is a pair well-formed. It is in the north (left) side 
that a woman lies with the man. So he offers in the northern side (of the Fire). 

12. Then the (Adhvaryu) takes (a draught of soma) to be served to Agnidh; 
because it is indeed the drink of one who pronounces Vasal He (Agnidh) says “O 
Adhvaryu, invite me”. He should not invite him because, how he who is smitten and 
impoverished be invited?” No; he should, nevertheless, invite him. Should he not 
be invited, when offering is made in the fire, for him and Vasat is pronounced for 
him. Therefore he should be invited so that he can partake (in the Soma ). 

13. He then gives directions. “O Agnidh, sit on the lap of Nestr. Nestr! make 
the wife go to and exchange look with the Udgata. O Unnetr, fill up the Hotas cup 
and let no soma juice be left”. Thus he should direct, if it is Agnistonm sacrifice. If 
it were Ukthya, Sodasi, Atirdtra or Vdjapeya, he should only say “Enlarge the Soma”. 
That Agnidh, even while holding that vessel, sits on the lap ofNestr—for he, the 
Agnidh is in reality Agni and the Nestr is indeed the wife. A wife is a female and 
Agni is male. This forms a productive couple. The Nestr takes the lady and makes 
her exchange looks with the Udgata (saying) Thou art Prajapati, the male, the 
implanter of seed; cast (your) seed in me”. (Fourth Brahmana Ends) 

(Chapter Four Ends) 



V.5.1.7] 


TRANSLATION 


329 


Chapter Five 
BRAHMAN AI 

1. He now draws the Hariyojana graha. As to why he draws the Hariyojana is 

this_The metres, forsooth, are the cattle of the gods. Just as the cattle, when 

harnessed, carry' (draw) for men, so do the metres harnessed, draw the sacrifice for 
the gods. As the metres gratified the gods, the gods gratified the metres through 
this (Hariyojana graha). Previously the metres conveyed the sacrifice to the gods and 
thereby gratified them. Now he (Yajamana) gratifies the metres when he draws this 
graha. Therefore he draws the Hariyojana graha. 

2. He draws it as an additional graha, because he draws it when the Hotr 
pronounces the chant u samyo etc.” (which marks the completion of the offering 
proper). As to why he draws it as an additional graha is because, here are the gods 
and the metres are in addition to them, and there are men and beasts in addition 
to them. So he draws it in addition to these. 

3. (He draws it) in the drona kalasa. Soma was Vrtra\ him the gods, contained 
in vessels. His head flew-up and it became to drona-kalasa. In that (head) what little 
of, (what little of the juice) got stuck, that much was in excess and that excess juice 
was collected in the excess (additional) part (which is drona-kalasa). 

4. He draws it without a Puroruk chant. This (graha) is indeed being drawn for 
the metres. Since this is for the metres, it is one endowed with a Puroruk (by virtue 
of that). Therefore he draws it without a Puroruk chant. 

5. He draw's (saying) u Thou art taken with a support.; thou art green (in 
colour); harnessed are Ye two green steads-ythee to the pair of steads —for, Rk 
and Sdntan are the pair of steeds. So he draw's it only with the Rk and the Sarntm.^ 

6. He then throws some parched grain into it (saying) Ice art the steeds 
grains, mixed with Soma for Indra”. Whatever metres are there, both measured md 

unmeasured, they all thereby drink (of the Soma). _ 

7. Then the Unnetr calls for the Srausat. For, this graha is an additional one 
and the Unnetr is also additional; because he does not cal! for SmupU anywhere 
else. So this extra libation is born by the extra (Unnetr). He (calls for Smumi) 
placing the graha on his head; or, this vessel (Drona kalasa) is the head of Socna 

(i.e. Vrtra). 



V.5.U3] 


TRANSLATION 


331 


8. (He says to Maitra-Varuna) “Recite the invitatory prayer for Soma draughts 
mth parched grains”. Having called for the Srausat, he says “prompt (the Hotr) to 
pronounce the offering chant for the Soma draughts with parched grains”. Then 
he offers as the Vasal is pronounced; offers when the Anuvasat (secondary Vasat) 

is uttered. , T , f 

9. Then they divide the grains (between them) for consuming. In the case cn 

other draughts, they are consumed according to the camasa cups (by the respective 
priests). But this graha being an additional one, there are the grains for all (the 

priests). So they divide the grains. . 

10. Or sometimes, the Hotr, asks for the drona kalasa and smells it saying 1 his 

is the draught for the one (me) who has done the \asatkdra, That is not 
permissible. Only the grains are to be divided. These grains are to be consumed 
with the breath (only swallowed) and not with the teeth (not to be bitten and 
eaten). For, these (grains) are cattle; ‘ Let us not bite the cattle’-so thinking they' 
gulp it with their breath and do not bite with their teeth. 

l\ He inhales (smells) it (the grains) (saying) “O divine Soma, this draught 
of vours is winner of horses and winner of cows”. For, these (grains) are cattle and 
hence he says “O’ Divine Soma, this draught of yours is winner of horses, winner of 
cows”. “Of that draught offered with Yajus formulas, praised with Shme 

chants”_(This means) the Yajus formulas have indeed been chanted already and 

the Stoma hvmns have been uttered. Thou sung by hymns of VUhas’ for the Mite 
have already been sung. “Of the invited, do I drink invited” - because .us the one 
invited who drinks this draught. They (the grains after being drunk by the process 
of smelling) should not be thrown into the fire. Soma throw it into the fire. These 
which are drunk become as it were uecitto (remainings after being eaten and hence 
stale). So if he were to throw it into the fire, it would amount to throwing the stale 
( ucdsta ). Therefore it should be kept only on the high altar. 

12. Thereupon thev touch the vessels filled (with water) which some others 
call Apsusoma (Soma draughts in the form of water). Just as harnessed (cattle) 
wouidcarry, in the same way those who perform the 

cattle that carry get broken (tired). Waters are soothing medicine, bo wttn - 
soothing waters, he cures them and make them healed by water. 

' 13 They touch them (water vessels) (saying! 

bodies have we united; with happy mind. May Tvayta 

riches and may he smoothen the injured (parts of our) body -Thus they gt healed 
and then they touch their (own) faces. (First Brabamna Ends) 



V.5.2.5] 


TRANSLATION 

BRAHMANAII 


333 


h Now be offers these nine Samistayajus, As to why he offers nine Samistayajus 
is that those stotra verses at the Bahispavamdna chant are nine (in number). Thus 
there at both ends are incomplete Viraj for the sake of production; it was from that 
same incomplete source of production on both sides that Prajapati produced the 

creatures_from the one (he created) those that grow upwards and from the other 

those tending to the ground. And in like manner, does he (Adhvaryu) now create 
creature from that lower source of production on both sides from the one the 

upward-growing and from the other those tending to the ground. 

2 That himkara (the chanting of ‘him 1 ) is the tenth of the stotrasand the ova a 
(chanting) is (the tenth) of these Samistayajus and thus this Viraj becomes non- 
deficient, consisting of tens and tens. Whatever deities he invites by this sacrifice 
and for whatever deities this sacrifice is performed, they all are thereby collectively 
sacrificed to (sam-ista). Since offering is made when all of them are collected 

together, these are called Samistayajus. 

3 . And as to why he offers the Samistayajus- The one who has sacrificed, has, 

as it were become emptied (exhausted) since he gives away his own self. The first 
three offerings (of the Samistayajus) fills up the exhausted Yajamana. And as to die 
three offerings which he makes next, whichever deities he invites at this sacrifice 
and for whichever deities this sacrifice is performed, they keep on watting thinking 
‘these Samistayajus, they will offer to us, they will (definitely) offer us .These (same 
deities) he thereby duly disposes off (after offering) to thetr respective wavs. 
Thereafter the three last offerings which he makes (by them) “bhsbes thru 
very sacrifice which he performed, that very one which he created. This is that 
abode (resting place) for it. Therefore too he ofTers the Samtslayajm. 

4. He offers (saying) "With thought lead us, O India, to meet with kine (By 

saying) ‘With thought’ he *erebyfillswith thought, htm who wasexluusttd. B t 

kine’ he thereby fills with cattle, him whow» 

he'luTtrifhhymnsrhim who Us exhausted. “With the favour of the gods adorable 

by: T“W?th lustre, with sap, with bodies’ (so saying) -he fills the exhausted «re 

withLre.'Withsap’ (he4).f<>r.sapisvigour 7 him^o^^u^^ 
with sap. “We have united with happy thought (mind). May Tva?ta, the gr 
boons, grant us riches and may he smoothen our bodies which are injured . 



TRANSLATION 


335 


V.5.2.11J 


6. “May the gracious Dhata, Savita, Prajapati, the guardian of treasures and the 
divine Agni accept this offering. May Tvasta and Visnu, bestowers of children, grant 
wealth to the Yajamana. (By saving) ‘May Ye grantwealth to the Yajamana’—he Fills 
(the exhausted)—- 

7. “Welcoming homes have we readied for you O Gods, who have kindly 
presented yourselves for this Soma savana”. He means ‘We have prepared 
conjenial abodes for you who have graced this sacrifice”, when he says ‘Welcoming 
homes have we readied for you O Gods, who have kindly presented yourselves for 
this Soma Savana. Carrying and taking forward the offerings’ (so saying he means) 
they are going ahead carrying on their vehicles. (So he says) “Being drawn and 
earning the havis”. They indeed are carrying and moving forward and are having 
vehicles. This is what he says ‘driven forward with their havis being carried”“Bestow 
rich gifts on him” (so saying) he sends them off in their own ways. 

8- “The willing gods whom thou broughtest hither, speed them each to his 
own abode O Agni!”, Thus he addressed Agni (earlier)— “Bring hither such and 
such gods; bring hither such and such gods” so he said to Agni (in the beginning) 
and to him he now says “See them off; to their respective abodes”. That is what he 
means by saying “Speed them each to his own abode O Agni”. ‘They' have eaten and 
drunk all” (He means) they have eaten the animal and thepurodasaa.nd have drunk 
soma . So he says ‘They have eaten and drunk all”. “Draw Ye nigh to the air, to the 
heat, to the light”. Thus he sends them off to where they have abodes. 

9. “Thee, O Agni, have we chosen here for our Hotr at the opening of this 
sacrifice; severally hast thou offered to them and severally hast thou toiled; well- 
knowing the sacrifice, draw thou neigh, thou the wise”! (By saying so) he sends off 

Agni himself to whichever is his abode. . ■ 

10. “Ye, knower of the path (sacrifice), having found the path (sacrifice), go 
Ye in the path (enter into the sacrifice) ” thus saying he dismisses them “By that 
righteous (path) O Lord of mind! enter this divine sacrifice— Svaha “Give this to 

the wind”—so saying he utters another Svahd. ra __ ... _ ^ 

1X. “O Sacrifice, go to the sacrifice; to the lord of the sacrifice , The lajam&ria 
is indeed Yainapati (lord of the sacrifice). He thereby establishes it (the sacrifice) 
in the Yaiamana. “Go to thine own womb-SwdAa”—Thus he establishes it in its mm 
womb. This is thy sacrifice; O Lord of the sacrifice, along with the tongs of praise 
and with ail heroes, do thou accept K-SvaM'. Thus the already estabmhed 
sacrifice, he ultimately establishes with all vigour m the Yajamana. (Second 

Brahmana Ends) 



V.5.3.4] 


TRANSLATION 


337 


brAhmanaiii 


j He enters (the water) for Avabhrtha (final ablution). The reason why he 
enters for Avabhrtha is this—what vital sap was (used) in the offerings, that he 
produced (extracted from Soma plant). So it (Soma) has only the body and no sap 
in it. It is fit to be thrown away. But that he takes down to the waters. Waters are 
indeed his sap. So he unites him with his rasa (by taking to the waters). Then he 
(again) produces him. He (Soma) even when produced, produces him (the 
Yajamana). Therefore he enters for the Avabhrtha. Since he takes him (Soma) 
down to the waters, ( avahf ) it is called Avabhrtha. 

2. This (. Avabhrtha ) he does when the Samistayajus are offered, for, Samktayajus 
are the end of the sacrifice. Now these (soma husks) are lying all around and so he 
collects them and having collected them he approaches the cdtvala pit. The grass 
girdle (worn by the Yajamana) and the black-deer’s horn (used by him for 
scratching the body when needed), he throws into it ( catvalapit) (saying) “Do not 
become a serpent, nor assume the appearance of a serpent”. The disposal 
(returning to its abode) of the squeezed soma stalks is by taking them (husk) into 
the water. For these two (the girdle and the dark-deer’s hom) throwing into the 
cdtvala is the disposal (returning to their abodes). The girdle is like a serpent. The 
well is the abode of serpents. So he says ‘Do not become a serpent nor assume the 
appearance of a serpent. There is enmity between men and serpents. Lest that 
should spring therefrom (as a serpent) ’ he thinks (and says do not become a 
serpent etc.). 

3. He makes (the Yajamana) says “Wide forsooth, is the path which king 
Varuna hath made for the Sun to tread on”—whereby he means to say even as 
there is for the Sun that wide path-way, free from danger and risk, so may there be 
for me here a wide pathway free from danger and risk’. ‘For the lame hath he made 
foot to put down”- Even though the Sun is footless, he puts down (his foot, and 
walks); and him (Yajamana) it frees from all the offence done to Yaruna. He who 
forbids all that woundeth the heart” (so saying) he frees him from all the sini 


including those sins in the heart. 4 , ' 

4. He then says “Sing the Sdman or say the Sdman or let him say ‘sing C®e 
Sdman) ’ because the Sdmanszre only sung. As to why he sings the S&mtm is that the 
evil Raksasas may not injure that body of his (now that it is) outside the sacrifice* 
For, with the Samans, the evil Raksasas are repelled. So he (Prastotr) swigs (a 


Sdman) dedicated to Agni; for, Agni is arepeller of M 
das (a metre having more than forty-eight syllables). So he sings- 
vanquishes the terrible Raksasas. They then (walk out) northwards in iront ■: ; ■. : e 
Agmdhra, by the back-side of the cdtvala pit. That is the door of the sacrifice. 


TRANSLATION 


339 


V.5.3.11] 

5. They go in whatever direction the water is. He (the Yajamana) descends at 
a place where the flowing waters are collected as a pool. There waters are holden 
by Varuna and that is why though flowing, they are stagnant. For, Avabhrtha 
belongs to Varuna. Therefore he should enter them. IFsuch (collected pool) waters 
are not available, he may enter into any water. He then makes himself engulfed by 
water (saying or making him say) “Homage be to Varuna, the noose of Varuna, has 
been trampled upon. Thereby the noose of Varuna does not bind him. 

6. Thereupon, throwing down a samidha, he takes four ladle-full of ghee and 
offers (into the water saying). ‘The face of Agni entering the waters. The face of 
Agni entered the waters. O Sun of waters. You escaped from the demons. In every 
household consume the fire-wood O Agni! Let thy tongue dan forth towards the 
ghee—Svahd ”. Once, the gods made so much of, so much of Agni enter into the 
waters so that the terrible Raksasas could not rise up from there. That is what this 
one (Yajamana) does now with this samidha which he—throws (into the waters) 
and with this ghee offering, (thinking) “On the kindled fire, 1 will offer to the gods”. 

7. Then, having taken four ladle-full of ghee for the second time, and haring 
called for the Srausat , he says “pronounce the offering chant for the samidha' He 
offers four fore-offerings, omitting the one for the Barkis. The Barkis being 
offspring, and the Avabhrtha belonging to Varuna, he offers four Fore-offerings 
omitting the one to Barkis, lest Varuna should seize upon his offspring. 

8. Then he says “Recite to Varuna”. Here the one potsherd of purodasa is for 
Varuna. That one pot-sherd of purodasa is for Varuna because whatever sap there 
had been in him (Soma) that sap he has produced (extracted) for the offerings. 
Now it is only the body of the Soma that is here; there is no sap in it. This pur&dhia 
is verily the sap. So he invests him (Soma) with sap and thereby produces him (in 
proper form with sap). He (Soma) thus produced, produces him (Yajamana). 
Therefore this purodasa on one potsherd for Varuna. 

9. Haring smeared the bottom (of the offering sruk) with gftee, he cuts the 
purodasa into two. Here some make two cuttings of the soma husk. But that is not to 

be done. For that (som&husk) is not fit for offering. There is no sap in it. So the &&m@ 
husk should not be cut. He sprinkles ghee (on the purodasa cuttings) and annoints 
the cut ends (of the purodasa ) and having called for the Srausat, he says Rec ite the 
offering chant to Varuna” and offers as the Vasal is uttered. 

10. Then he says “Recite the inritatory prayer to Agni and Varuna”. It is the 
share of the Agni-Svistakri and so he does not say ‘To Agni. AxmMiitka is of Varuna, 
Lest Varuna might seize upon Agni, he does not say merely To Agni. 

11. He spreads the ghee on the upper side. Only once he applies (gfeeri on 
everything. If he has (already) cut two times the soma husk, he should cut it once 
now! If he did not, he need not mind it. He then sprinkles ghee twice and having 
called for the Srausat, he says “Recite the offering prayer to Agni and Varuna” and 
offers it when Vasal is uttered. 



TRANSLATION 


341 


V.5.3.15) 


12. Now thus he offers six oblations. There are six seasons for a year and year 
is indeed Varuna. Therefore he offers these six oblations. If he so desires he can 
offer one only. This (Avabhrtha rite) is the observance of Adityas because these Yajus, 
thev say belong to the Adityas. If the Yajamana tells (to do otherwise) he should do 
otherwise. He may perform those four fore-offerings (Praydjas) barring the one to 
Barh is, two Ajya portions; (two purodasa oblations) one to Varuna and one to Agni- 
Varuna and two after-offerings {Anuydjas) barring the one to Barhis. This comes to 
ten Now the Virad is of ten syllables and the sacrifice is indeed Virad; thus he makes 
the sacrifice a Virad. This is the observence (practice) of Angiras (which is told 


13. Having made the offerings either way (the Adhvaryu) having brought that 
pot in which the husks are, holds it and throws it (saying)— In the ocean, in the 
waters is thy heart (O Soma) -for, the ocean is the waters and water* are his 
(Soma’s) sap. Therefore he says ‘in the ocean, in the waters is thy heart. May the 
plants and the waters enter into you"— thereby he unites him with waters and 
plants and (endows him) with the sap of both (water and plants). Let us, O Lord 
of the sacrifice, engage in singing of praises and in uttering of obetsance-Mw . 
Thus whatever is good in the sacrifice, with that he unites him. 

14 . Thereupon, letting it go, he stands in reverence by it (saying) ledtvine 

waters this is your child, bear him, well-loved, well-protected-(thus saying) he 
entrusts him to the waters. “This, O Divine Soma, is thine abode"-for, warnrs are 
his sap and so he says ‘ O Divine Soma, this is thine abode’ bywh.chhesays be thou 

there for our safety and for out happiness’. 

15. He caresses it and chants “O Avabhrtha, flood, thou glidest along as flood, 
Mavl with the help of gods, be saved out of the sins committed against the gods . 

That ’(sin) is gone with the help 

“howCng (demon)”. Where by he means ‘let« **£££££ 

injuries’. Having bathed ^^ot^res^^^garmentvevenas^snakecasts^ 

In himthere tsrmsin remaining, not even that much as in a child 
teeth. Returning home, he puts a samidha (in the ‘ * 

samidha of the gods”. He thereby kindles the Yajamana^mself tor that has 

gained glory along with the glorification of the gods. (Third Brahmana hr, 



V.5.4.5] 


translation 343 

BRAHMANAIV 

i He nroceeds with the caru to Aditi called Udayamya as the concluding 
.Jon Why this (Adilya cam) now-Because once, the gods said 'Yours, 
oblation. Why obiation and yours should be the concluding 

ibMon” That share of hers, he now prepares. He (in the beginning) whde gomg 
n , .o huv the king (Soma), offers with this (Adilya cam) and hence «ts called 
D b ° U ' * (oblation while going forth). Now after emerging from the Avabhrttm, 
heoffers with this and henre it is called Udayamya (oblation while emerging). They 

h®* , r H*at offers to Pathya, the benefactor (the goddess 

2. He atiirs ^ J.J p at hva is speech. Then (the gods), through 

Pathya for wh ichtas then otherwise unknown. Now it is 

speech recognised ( Udayamya). He first offers to Agni, for, 

well-known and he does X £n tosla, hen to Savitr and then to Pathya, tire 
Agn. is dre mouth of the gods^he V indeed spfech . 'Oris earth is 

Adid Onthis^dte firmly settled one (earth), he establishes speech. Thus established 
on her, the speech speaks (reveals dself); ^ ded for occasion) 

cow fo«”f^ 

for 

r mce f k"* e ey KESKome of the Yaj^tana?’ Whatever Weil¬ 
ls pStrS, * r * 

(Pasubarulha )™^whatever m^> and feeing pleased restores it to 

himTthe sacrificer). Thus this is his own caused 

4. Now why the barren cow and from there 

the cast sermon to the born, coal ( a ”£ a . _ the catt j e were born. Whence, 

the Ahgiras. came into being and o bom. That is why, whenever 

particles of ashes came out and fro for ^ v/heB no whatever was 

there are ashes strervn.peop P Therefore barren cowsdo not beat 

leftover, then come into being theb ane these creatures are 

calves. It is from sap that the seed is produced,ymd mm ^ ^ 

bom. Because she (barren cow) came in ° ^ | KI - e (af te r the Samistayajus 

of the sacrifice. So the barren cow is m PP wjjncow is not available, it may 

and after completion of was left behind after the barren cow) 

also be a bullock (castrated bul).(Wha'ev ^ ^ from that !he « c nd 

that the Visvcdevas pressed (into a p P ^ mrh(apatti (which is as good as not 
Vaisvadevi cow was produced and then the Dama>!* . 
produced). Thatis the end, for Brhaspati is th 



TRANSLATION 


345 


V.5.4.8J 

5. One may give a thousand or more (cows as daksina ), he can slaughter all 
these (pasus mentioned above) —for, everything is obtained by him who gives 
many (thousand or more cows). So one who gives thousand or more, he can 
slaughter all these (pasus). 

6. Those who perform Dirghasatra (a sacrifice extending to a long period), for 
a ve ar or more, they slaughter all these (pasus). Because everything is obtained by 
them, who perform the Dirghasatra for a year or more. Therefore they can slaughter 

all these (pasus). 

7. Then he performs the Udavasaniya Isti (completing oblation) which is to 
Agni. He prepares a purodasa in five potsherds for Agni. Its imitator/ prayer and 
offering chants are five-footed Panktis. 

8. By this time, the sacrifice of the one who performed it (Soma Yaga) has 
become as if exhausted (stale) in vigour and as it were, turns away, from him. For, 
sacrifice is Agni because it is in the Agni that all the sacrifices have been perforated. 
Now he starts a sacrifice again. Lest the sacrifice of his does not become exhausted 
in vigour and does not turn away from him, (he performs this Udavasaniya Isti ). Why 
the purodasais in five potsherds is because the Pankti metre is five-footed in which 
the invitatory prayers and offering chants are (uttered). The sacrifice is indeed, 
five-fold. He thus again starts the sacrifice. Thus his sacrifice becomes one not 
exhausted and it does not turn away from him. Gold is the daksina for it, for, this 
sacrifice belongs to Agni and Agni is seed, gold. Alternatively an ox (may be the 
daksina) because an ox (is also a carrier) like Agni, in so far as its shoulder is 
considered. The shoulder of the ox is as if charred by Agni. Then he should make 
the offering taking four ladle-full of ghee with the /ttj praising Visnu. “Stride thou 
widely O Visnu, make wide room for our stay. Thou bom of drink the glue and 
prompt the iord of the sacrifice (Yajamana) ever onwards—SudM"* For, Visnu is 
the sacrifice. He thus starts again the sacrifice. Thus his sacrifice becomes one not 
exhausted of vigour. Here, on this occasion, let him give (as daksina ) whatever lie 

Whatever be the duration of night, by that very night he should complete and 
offer Agnihotra and even though it (Agnihotra) is in the afternoon, it is virtually a 
morning offering. (Fourth Brahmana Ends) 

(Chapter Five Ends) 




V.6.1.7] 


TRANSLATION 


347 


Chapter Six 


brAhmanai 


j The Sodasi graha is Indra. At one time, so they say, other beings surpassed 
him (Indra). The creatures are the other beings. They assumed as it were, equal 

status with him. 

2. Then Indra be-thought himself “How can I excel all these (creatures 
claiming equality), so that all others shall be below me”. He saw this Soma graha. He 
drew it and with that he excelled all other creatures and all others became 
submissive to him. The heaven did not suffer from the ignominy of (bearing) the 
buttacks of any other than thatofhis (Indra) andhe prevailedover (no other being 

than Indra had a sway over the heavens). * 

3 Accordingly it was said by a Rsi. ‘The heaven did not experience any infamy 
to your greatness, caused by any affronts by another’s buttocks. (O Indra! your 
greatness is not affected by anybody else claiming equality in status with you)” 
—Knowing this, he who draws the Sodasi graha, excels all others and all others 


become submissive to him. . 

4. He draws it with a Harivat verse (a verse addressed to Indra— Hanvat ). I hey 
( the Udgatrs) sing the praise of Indra —Harivat and the Hotrs follow with their 
recital of verses to Indra— Hanvat. Hara means fury. Indra seized upon the fury of 
his enemies and in like manner does he (Yajamana) now seize upon the ara, ury, 
of his enemies by offering with this (Harivat chant). So he draws K wi th a verse 
addressed to Indra— Harivat .; they (Udgatrs) singthepraiseoflndra —Hanmt and 


(the Hotrs) follow with recitals for Indra Harivat 

' 5. He draws it with an Anustubh verse, for the morning belongs to 

Gayatri; the midday savana to Tristubh and the third samna to Jagatr metre. The 
Anustubh is over and above those and he exceeds them by her {by using the 


Anuspibh metre) ^ ^ ^ vessel _ ^ these worlds are three (in number) and 

these three he gains by three corners and by that fourth comer he makes it (Soma) 


excess. 


7. That graha drawn at the morning savana, it lies aside since t ten. tmi -^J 
all the savanas. So he makes it excess (overflow). Some, thcre "°^f 7 , w ^ 
should draw it only at the third savana, after drawing e out . 

(Some say) after the drawal of the Ukthya graha, following 

last; bringing it near the Putabhrf. So they say. This is only a speculatton.lt should 
be drawn only in the morning savana. 



TRANSLATION 


349 


V.6.2.5] 


8. He draws it (saying) “The bay steads have been harnessed by prayer . 
“Mount thy chariot O slayer of Vrtra-sodasin (Indra the sixteen fold)”. This is thy 
womb— To Indra—the sodasin ”. (So saying) he deposits it. Alter depositing he 
offers the prayer “Turn back. Soma has been left over”. (First Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANAII 

1. At the beginning all the gods were alike. When all were alike, these three 
Agni, Indra and the one who bums (Sun) desired “Let us be above (others) - They 
saw these Soma grahas. They drew them. So they are called Atigrdhyds (those to be 
drawn in excess). They (all gods) though equal and meritorious, these three 
became superior, as it were. He who knows this and draws them becomes superior. 

2 And in the beginning, this (much of) lustre was not in Agni, which, is there 
now. This lustre he desired for (thinking) ‘let me have this lustre’ and saw this 
(Atieraha) graha. He drew it and then this lustre came into him. 

3. And (in the beginning) this (much of) vigour was not there in Indra, which 
is there now. He desired let me have this vigour’ and he saw this graha-md drew 


it. Then this vigour came into him. . c 

4. And (in the beginning) this (much of) splendour was not there m Min, 

which is there now and by which he bums. He desired let me have this splendour 
and he saw this graha and drew it. Then this splendour came into him. One who 
knows thus and draws these grahas, comes to possess those powers. 

5 He draws these (grahas) only after drawing the Agrayana graha , for, the 
Agrayanais the self (body), because it is in the body that these many parts hke lung 
heart and skin are. So only after drawing Agrayana, he draws these {grahas). Some 
say that these should be drawn only after drawing the Uhihya graha, because this 
Ukthya is the undefined vital air. This body (self) is the undefined vita! an. So on£ 
after drawing Ukthya these {grahas) are to be drawn . Nevertheless, let h.m draw 

these after drawing Agrayana. 



TRANSLATION 


351 


V . 6.3.1] 

6. They {Atigrdhya grahas) are to be offered following the offering of the 
Mahendra graha. For, that ( Mahendra) is Indra’s special graha and hence it has 
special stotra and special sastra. The Yajamana is Indra and these (Atigrdhyds) are 
drawn for (fulfilling) the wish of the Yajamana. Therefore they are offered after the 
Mahendra graha. 

1. He draws ( saying) “OAgni, becoming pure, bestow upon us long-life, vigour 
and health; afflict our enemies. Thou art taken with a support thee to Agni, for 
lustre. ‘This is thy womb; then to Agni for lustre” (so saving) he deposits it. 

8. “Uprising by thy power amidst thou move thy jaws. O Indra, drinking the 
juice drawn in the cup—Thou art taken with a support—Thee to Indra. for 
vigour;— this is thy womb—Thee to Indra for vigour” (so saving) he deposits it. 

9. His beacons have appeared, his beams, wide and far over the people, 
shining splendidly like fires—Thou art taken with a support; thee to Surya for 
splendour— this is thy womb. Thee to Smyafor splendour” (So saying) he deposits 

lL 10. Then he (Yajamana) drinks these ( grahas) (saving) “O Agni the lustrous, 
lustrous art thou among the gods, let me become lustrous among men". 

11- Then (he drinks) the one for Indra (saying) “O Indra, the vigorous, those 
art vigorous among gods; let me become one with vigour among men . 

12- Then (he drinks) die one for Surya (saving) “O Sum, the splendid; thou 

art splendid among gods; let me become splendid among men. 

' 1 is. These ( Atigrdhya grahas) are drawn on the first three days of the ftnlkje 

sadalm. The one to Agni is drawn in the first day; the one to Indra on the second 
day and the one to Surya on the third day. Thus for three days one each day. But 
Carakas. however draw them on the last three days. But he should draw 'hem only 
on the first three days. If he so desires he may draw in the last three days, in V isvajtt- 
sarvaprstha all are drawn in one and the same day. (Second Brahmana Ends). 

BRAHMANA III 

1. He now draws the Ait-in graha. Then makes the (Yajamana) (look at the 
AvakiSSs (updmsu etc.) and chant the Avakaia Mantms. For, aie Avaka.sarirfXhe 
vital air. So he infused prana etc. in them by this.Prajapati.forwoib tsthatsax t tint, 
which is here performed. Only from this, these creatures were produced and m like 



V.6.3,3] 


TRANSLATION 


353 

manner are they produced here now. He fashions this entire sacrifice i.e. Prajapati 
and collects it and takes into him. He holds it in his self. Therefore he makes the 

Yaiamana chant the Avakdsa mantras. 

2. He makes him chant thus—“Thou art the giver of lustre to mv prana, be pure 
for mv lustre” (so saying he makes him look at) the Updmsu graha . Thou art the 
river of lustre to mv vydna, be pure for my lustre” (so saying he makes him look at) 
die Manama grate—“Thou art the giver of lustre to my speech, be pure for ray 
lustre” (so saying he makes him look at the Aindra-vdyva graha- Thou art the giver 
of lustre to my intelligence and will; be purified for my lustre” (so saying he makes 
him look at) the Maitra.-Va.rum graha. Thou art the giver of lustre to my ear; be 
purified for my lustre” (so saying he makes him look at) Asm so grate)—“Ye two are 
the rivers of lustre to myeyes, be purified for my lustre (so saying he makeshim look 
at Sukra-Manthis grahas. Thou art the giver of lustre to my self be purified for my 
lustre r Thou art the giver of lustre to my self be purified for my lustre (so saying 
he makes him look at) the Agrayana graha. Thou art the giver of lustre to my 
vigour be purified for my lustre” (so saying he makes him look at the Ukthya grata. 
Thou art giver of lustre to my life-span, be purified for my lustre” (so saying he 
makes him lookat) the Dhruvagraha. “Ye bvo are givers of lustre to> all my progeny, 
be purified for my lustre” (so saying he makes him look at) the Adhavmtyamd the 

Putabhrt^ ssels^ ^ ^ ^ ^ - Thou art (who), thou art 

‘katama’ (which are)-Here ‘Kah' meansPrajapati-and^katenis 
So he says ‘kosi katamosi' (who are you? whose art thou). Prajapati is kah ai_ 
Prajapafi is the Drona kalasa. Therefore he says, “Whose art you? Of whitnameart 
thou?” Thou upon whose name we have thought and thou whom *e toe 
eladdened with Soma”. For, indeed he thinks upon hts name and gladdens ton 

ski.» 

. , . .-/.nfiep in (“ntiretv he collects him and takes into 

fashioned the Prajapati, i.e. the sacrifice in entirety, necouev 

hTs self Holds him in him. He should not of course, chant for ev^MyToh^ 

these are blessings (itwould amount to) thlmd^e^e ^dpverwd in 

for him who is known, he should wish (all M He■£"£££*££ » 
Vedic lore or who is very dear to him (to him he may wish evetyttung) ana not 

every one. (Third Brahmana Ends) 



V.6.4.6] 


TRANSLATION 

BRAHMAN AIV 


355 


1. Now he extracts the omentum ( vapa ). Then he tells the slaughterer “Search 
and find out the womb. If the vapa is eight-feet (long) then he performs this rite. 
This is an atonement”. He keeps apart the thighs and skinning it, produces it 
(saying) “Let the embryo, ten-months old, move alongwith the placenta”. If itisnot 
ten-months old, then the embryo will be unknown, for, it is only the ten-months old, 
embryo is bom. So he makes it fully ten months old and causes it to be bom, when 
he says ‘let the ten-months old embryo move alongwith the placenta’, the embryo 
indeed, moves with the placenta. So he makes it ten months old and then only 


causes it to be born. 

2. Having cut it below the neck and allowing the fat juice flow, he cooks (that 
juice) near the cut pieces. He spreads that (cooked) juke where they proceed with 
the havis and spreads it (cooked juice). He divides it into two and sprinkles it with 
ghee and smears ghee on the cut sides. 

3. After (the Adhvaryu) offers havis, he (Pratiprasthata) makes the offering 
(saying) “Thou whose embryo is fit for sacrifice; thou whose womb is golden THie 
embryo is unfit for sacrifice and no one offers embryo as a sacrificial offering. Now 
he renders it fit for sacrifice. “Whose womb is golden”— so saying he furthers that 
idea (of making it fit for sacrifice). “Him whose limbs are unbroken (he says). For, 
he was as if with broken limbs, not yet grown full (ten) months and whose 
embryonic existence is unknown”. Him, thereby, he makes one with unbroken 
limbs' U I have brought together with its mother— SuaJka*. Till the mother and 
child remain separated they are referred to as separate, men they are together 
they are referred to as one (entity). Just like the word dhmu (the cow with calf). 

4. Now when he offers to the lord of trees, he smears it with gtweonaz, pours 


the juice on it Twice sprinkles ghee and smears the embryo with „ 

5. He offers the oblation to Svistakrt (saying) “Thou (the embryo) of great 
exploits and multiformed, the courageous, thy interior hath been invested with 
greatness by {soma) drops. Maythe worlds spread along the one-footed, wo4ooted, 

three-footed, four-footed and eight-footed Svdha . „„ 

6. Now when they proceed with this, they (do so) as if it is one and gratify it. 
But they are (already) Wo. If it is not wo, that which is gratified cannot be thrown 
away ft is the essence of all the limbs and so it happens to be done with till the limbs. 



TRANSLATION 


V.6.5.51 


ss: 


The sacrifice is of that extent as the extend of the funds and of the Svistakrt. This 
thus spreads over to entire sacrifice. So being in excess, it is not in excess. 

7. “May the eight-footed spread along the worlds— Svakd "—This sacrifice is 
afflicted because it is exceeding. The affliction of the sacrifice is followed by the 
affliction of the Yajamana and following Yajamana, the creatures (become af¬ 
flicted) . So this blessing is sought for the Yajamana only. He does not get afflicted 
when he says “May the eight-footed spread along the worlds*'. Now he covers the 
head with a cloth (turban) or a tree-bark. After doing the cooking of the pasu, , he 
keeps (the head) by its side. ‘Verily, O Maruts, in whose so ever house you drink, 
the heroes of the sky, he is the best-protected man’. Those who eat in houses arc* 
people (common folk) and Maruts are people. So he establishes it in Maruts 
themselves, or between the heaven and earth (saying) “The great Heaven and Earth 
mav mix this our sacrifice and enrich us with nourishments*'. This is one extra 
(rite) and nothing exceeds the heaven and earth. So he establishes between these 
Heaven and Earth. Thus, even though it is an extra, it does not become one in 
excess. (Fourth Brahmana Ends) 

brAhmanav 

1. When at that Triratra sacrifice, he gives those thousand (cows as daksim t) 
this one becomes the thousandth (i.e. the thousandth will be extra after equally 
dividing between three). On the first day he gives three hundred and thirty-three 
as daksina. On' the second day the same (number), same on the third day. So one 
remains (out of one thousand). That which remains is made the thousandth. 

2. She (the thousandth) shall be three-coloured because it belongs to Triratra. 
She should be a red one and spotted and miniated (with a bull). For, she, the 
thousandth, is in reality the Vdk (speech) and Vnk is also of unimpaired vigour, she 
is also of unimpaired vigour since she is unmated. She should have unpierced ears, 
should be one eyed and without horns, short-stamred; lame and haring seven 
hoofs. She is the one with unimpaired vigour. 

$. He may lead her up (to the Ydgasdld) on the first day, because it is from her, 
the speech, these thousand are born. And on the last day, she walks at the head (of 
the 333 meant for that day) and her progeny follow her. Even if he leads her on the 
first day, its purpose is only on the last day. 

4. He makes her smell the drona kalasa , (stationing her) in front of the 
Agnldhra, behind the catvala pit, north of the Havirdhdna . Dr&na katas*, is indeed, 
sacrifice. Thus he makes her see the sacrifice itself. This one (Yajamana) becomes 
as it were emptied by giving away one thousand (cows). She (the thousandth cow i 
(by smelling the drona kalasa) replenishes, as it were, the \ajauwzia him sen, 

5. He does not bind her (with a rope to lead her). For, rope belongs to Yanina 
and if bound (with a rope) Varuna will seize upon her. So he goads her with his 



TRANSLATION 


359 


V.6.5.10] 

hands and brings her and makes her smell (the drona kaUria) . (He says) “Smell the 
vessel; may the sacred drops enter thee. Return, again with sap”. Thereby he 
replenishes (the Yajamana) when he says “Return again with sap". “Milk us a thousand 

fold*_this also (he says) by way of replenishing him when he says Thou milk us a 

thousand fold; richly flowing; milk-abounding—may wealth come back to me". 

6. Then he mutters in her {Vasa's) right ear “O adorable, lovable, blothesome, 
bright, shining, Aditi (inviolable) Sarasvatl (hill of sap), mighty,glorious—these are thy 
names, O Agni (cow), tell thou the gods about me as a doer of good”—these are of 
course' her names (familiar) among the gods. He calls her by those very names 
when he says “These are thy names; tell thou the gods about me as a doer of good". 

7. They then release her. If by herself she moves eastwards, then one can 
conclude that the Yajamana has succeeded (in earning) the happy world of gods. 
If it goes northwards, let him know that the Yajamana will be the one who enjoys 
in this world (i.e. will be prosperous). If (it proceeds) westwards, he becomes 
bountiful among the rich. If it moves southwards, the Yajamana would depart to 

the other world soon. Such are the inferences. 

8. And to those three cows that are in excess of three hundred and thirty 
(gifted away on the three days), on each of the three days (nine in all), this one 
( Vasa) they add. In the middle of the chanting of the Virad, he gives that tenth. For, 
the Virad consists of ten syllables. By this, he splits her (Virad) and separates. This 
(thousandth cow) which he divided (aportioned) into three (for the three days), 

he now unites (or makes it whole). 

9. He shall give it to the Hotr, because the Hotr is thousandfold. x I here ate 
thousand hymns for the Hotr in the Rgveda). Or, he shall appoint two Unnetrs and 
give her to one among them who does not call for Smusat He shall give it to him 
(that Unnetr who does not call for Srausat). Since this Virad is split and has not ten 

■ joined again (and so defective). Similarly, this priest (that particular Unnetr i is mm 
defective, since he does not perform the priestly duty', despite being a priest. So the 

defective is given to the defective. 

10. Nevertheless, he should give (that thousandth cow) to the Hotr \nmseii, 
for the Hotr is thousand fold. Regarding the others (cows numbering 999» he 
should give only in tens. Those to whom he gives at the rate of one each, he should 
give to ten of them (from Brahma to Pratihartr). To those five, to whom he fives 
iwo each (from Brahmanaccbariisin to Potr; Brahmanicdiamsin to lratih*m 
omitting Potr and from Brahmanacchamsin to Pratihartr again omitting l otp he 
should give in tens at each lot. For Virad has ten syllables and Virad n speech and 
this thousand is Virad and is plenty. It becomes the bestower ot all desues m the 
other world. This limit of thousand is not to be exceeded. One thotoana C4,i 

be given. He attains that desire (of his) by' one-thousand. Bui if. one, out <* h* 
desfre, gives more (than thousand) that which he gives in excess goes bac* to him 

(does not go to gods). 



V.6.6.9] 


TRANSLATION 


BRAHMAN A VI 


1. When they make him perform a twelve day’s sacrifice with transposed 
metres (Dvadasaha with Vyudhaechandas), then he transposes these Soma grahas. 
On the first three days, he draws the grahas starting from Aindra-Vayam graha 
itself, in the order already known. 

2. On the fourth day he starts drawing with the Agrayana graha because this 
fourth day belongs to Brhaspati. Agrayana is Atman (self) and self is Prajapati So 
he starts with Agrayana graha. He does not deposit it (down). He hands it over to 
somebody and after having drawn the other grahas , when the turn for that 
(Agrayana) comes, he utters him, and deposits it. 

* S. On the fifth day, he starts with the Aindra-Vayava graha which is already 


4. On the sixth day he starts with the Sukra graha or with the Aindra graha. 
This sixth day is indeed, this brilliance. (Sukra) that burns (Sun). He (Sum 
forsooth, is Indra. So he starts with the Sukra graha. He does not deposatit He hands 
it over to somebody and after drawing the other grahas, he deposits it only when its 


turn comes. . 

5. On the seventh day he starts drawing with the Sukra gram. Hus day which 

is the seventh belongs to the Brhati metre. This graha is sukra, the brilliant, who 
burns. It is big (brhat). So he starts with the Sukra graha. He does not deposit it He 
hands it over to somebody and after drawing the other grahas , he deposits it when 


its turn comes. . , ' , 

6. On the eighth day he starts drawing only with the Amdm-Vmava graha, 

which is already known. _ . 

7. On the ninth day, he starts drawing with the Agrayana graha. I today wtwri* 

is the ninth, belongs to the Vaisvede vm. Self is the Agrayana graha and self is 
Praiapati. Self (soul) is all, and Vaisvedevas (encompass) all. So he starts drawing 
with the Agrayana. He does not deposit it. He hands it over to somebody and after 
drawing the other grahas, when its turn comes, he deposits it uttering km - 

8. On the last three days, he starts drawing only with the AmdnkVaynm gr&km, 

which is already known. I hus he transposes the grahas. 

9. Some say—One should not transpose the grahas. For, the gm*ss are vital 

airs ( prana) . Nevertheless, let him transpose them.The.se gmteare t fonooA, tlie 
limbs. Man (while sleeping) lies down with his limbs turned (transposed) So let 
him transpose them. No, he shall not transpose, for, the {So he 

' should not) Lest the vital airs get transposed. But here die> ? are^trMispc^. -y ■ _ 
in the morning savana he starts drawing with the Atndm \aymmgxsm 
midday savanahe starts with Sukm-graha and in the third wan* with Lie Agwyana 
™2Xy*$rahas) do get transpofed (otherwise). So no (further) transposes 

involved. (Sixth Brahman a Ends) 



V.6.7.73 


TRANSLATION 

BRAHMANAVII 


363 


1. This Prajapati, forsooth, is sacrifice which is performed here. From this, 
these creatures are born and in the same manner they are being produced again 
and again. From that Updmsu graha, the goats are produced and that is again 
employed in sacrifice. Therefore these creatures are again produced in the same 
forms. So these creatures (goats) are nearest to Prajapati, They are again produced. 
This Updmsu vessel belongs to Prajapati. They are produced thrice a year or they 
are bom in three (triplets). They are nearest to Prajapati and are produced again 


and again. ... 

2 From the Antaryama graha sheep are produced. That graha is again 

employed in the sacrifice. So these creatures (sheep) are again produced in the 
same forms. Since the Updmsu graha is offered first before the Antaryama, when the 
goats and sheep move together, the goats walk ahead. It is because it (the Upamu) 

is offered first and these goats are born of it. . . 

3 From the Sukra-graha, humans are produced. It is again employed m the 
sacrifice. So these creatures are bom again in the same forms. This Sukrn is the one 
who shines (Sun). He is indeed Indra. So among the creatures, human beings 
belong to Indra. So they are the lords of all (other creatures). Those who belong 

to Indra are indeed the masters. - 

4 From the Rtu graha. the single-hoofed (animals) are produced. This is 

again employed in the sacrifice. So these creatures (single-hoofed) are again 
produced in the same forms. Such like is the Rlu graha vessel (shaped as a bowl with 
spouts on both sides) and such like is the head of the onehoofed. 

P 5. From the Agrayana, Ukthya and Aditya vessels, the cows are produced. 

These animals are again employed m the sacrifice, nence me 

bom in the same forms. These cows are produced from many g 

though) each one gives birth to one every year, (sail) they are numerous,because. 

they r^"rz^t^ - ^ *** *■*■ 

forsooth, is Prajapati. It indeed, belongs to Prajaj^th^tor creating these creature^ 

he turns into these creatures, he carasses diem (by smell ng on tnur nc. , 
fosters them. Therefore Hariyojanais drawn m the Dro*c t to 

7. From these vessels, these creatures are produced Since thesecrcatu.es are 
produced after these vessels, these (graha cups) are called Prajapati. 



TRANSLATION 


365 


V.6.7.9] 

8. Now, these are five vessels from which these creatures are produced, 
Updmsu and Antarydma being same are reckoned as (one vessel). With the Sukra 
vessel, the i&u vessel, Agrayanaand Ukthya (they become five). Sacrifice is Five-fold. 
The animals are five-fold. There are five-seasons for a year. Therefore these 
creatures are produced from those five vessels. 

9. Some say ‘There are six seasons for a year’. If six are the seasons for the 
year, the Aditya graha becomes the sixth one. Only with that (Aditya graha), he 
achieves what he desires for. But indeed, there is only that one graha after which 
creatures axe produced here; with the Updmsu graha. For Updmsu is the life-breath 
and life-breath is Prajapati. Only from the prana, these creatures are bom. So only 
from the Updmsu graha , these creatures are produced. (Seventh Brahmana Ends) 


(Chapter Six Ends) 



V.7.2.2] 


TRANSLATION 


867 


Chapter Seven 

brAhmanai 

1. Graha, forsooth, is prana (vital air). All these are collected by the prana It 
is the prana that has collected all these. Hence prana itself is graha 

% For that prana, food is the source. This pranais collected by food. It is from 
food that prana emanates. Therefore food itself is graha. 

3. For that food, waters are the source. This food is collected by the waters. It 
is from waters that food emanates. Hence waters are themselves, graha. 

4. For those water, Agni is the source. These waters are collected by Agni. it 
is from Agni, the water emanates. Therefore Agni itself is graha. 

5. For that Agni, prana itself is the source. This Agni is collected by 7 prana. It 
is from prana, that the Agni emanates. So prana, itself is graha. Thus these deities are 
sustainers of one another and it is thus these deities get emanated. In the same 
manner these deities are got emanated by this one (Yajamana) and thus he attains 
oneness (sdyujya) with these deities and attains share in their worlds {s&kkatah 
(First Brahmana Ends) 

brAhmanaii 

1. They say that one should start with Aindrdgna. Agni is all the gods and 
Indra is the deity of the sacrifice. Thereby he obtains (the presence of) all the gods 
(as well as) that of the deity of. the sacrifice. 

2. And in Agnistoma, only the Agneya pdsu should be slaughtered. It is the one 
with the hairs and so Agneya pdsu should be slaughtered in Agnispmo. if it be 
WhAya sacrifice, let him seize as the second pasu, the one for Indra and Agni; for the 
Ukthyas belong to Indra and Agni. If it is Soddsi, let him seize as the third pdsu, the 
one for Indra, because Indra is Soddsa. If it i&Atirdtra, let him seize as the fourth pasu, 
the one forSarasvati. For, Sarasvati is Vdk (speech ) and Vak is female and so is rdtri 
(night) female. Therefore let him seize as the fourth pdsu, the one for Sarasvatl. 
Thus he duly distinguishes between the sacrificial performances. 



TRANSLATION 


569 


V.7.4.2] 


3. Some say, let him proceed with the Ekadasin (a sacrifice involving eleven 
yupas or eleven pains). Then the pdsu for Agni should be slaughtered first. The pdsu 
for Vanina to be at the end. Then in the same order (as before) whatever pasusax e 
left over in the Udayaniya Adrafro-—all these can be seized here. Thereby those that 
were in excess become non-extras. (Second Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANA III 


1. Those who sit in (perform) the Satra sacrifice, they reach him who is 
yonder shining (Sun). He is the one existing (Sun) and he is the heavenly world 
too. That is why those who are sitting, sleeping or going—they are (referred to) as 
Asata (they are). They (those who perform Satra Yaga) reach {ydnti] upto (a) the 
(world of) one existing ( satah ). 

2. They reach him in six months. Therefore it is that the upward (mewing) 
grahas are drawn; the upward (pointed) stotras (are adopted) and the upward 
(pointing) sdstras (are employed). 

‘ s. They reach him (the Sun) in the sixth month. They are given the form 
(lustre) of this (Sun) by the Rks, by the Sdmans and by the Yajus. Therefore the pdsu 
belonging to Surya, fit for being slaughtered (in that occasion) is seized. Be draws 
the graha for Surya (saying) “The lights bear on high” or “His rays are mvmfafe”. 
They get established in this heavenly world. Haring established them (those who 
perform Satra Yaga) in the heavenly world, they {grahas, stotras and sdstras) coroe 
back. Therefore the grahas return, the stotras also return, die mstras too return. 
They come and settle in the human world, till they have here the life-span of a man. 
When thev ( grahas etc.) go to die other world, they go only (as escorts) to that 
heavenly world which has been won by him (the .Satra performer) (so they return). 
(Third Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA IV 

1. Praiapati who creates the Bring beings had his joints dislodged. Prajlpati 
is forsooth, the year and days and nights themselves are his joints. With his 

dislodged joints he could not move about. . . . 

i The gods treated him, the year-. His joints got set. Hating joined hBjomts 
they (the gods) gave him this food by drawing the gnMs (called) Mahavratna 
(pertaining to Mahavrata). That pleases him (Prajapan). What is food for men is 
the vrata (food to be taken during fast) for gods. 




V.7.4.6] 


TRANSLATION 


371 


3. They say “Great indeed is this vrata by which (they) pleased him (made 
him happy). Hence it is called Mahavratlya (the one pertaining to the great vrata). 
He with his joints set right, approached this food, which is the food of Prajapati. 
He thus became the eater of food. In like manner, these (Yajamanas) who perform 
Satra Yaga treat themselves. To them this food is given forwhich is this Mahavratlya 
graha , they are drawing. He (each of the performers of the satra) becomes the eater 
of food. Since he is an eater of (that) food, he becomes one with Prajapati and 
shares his world with him. 

4. He draws it ( Mahavratlya graha ) with Vimrdh chant. (A Rk chant that averts 
destruction). By this destroyer (Vimrdh hymn) all those destroyers of those who sit 
in Satra sacrifice are killed. And then (they draw) with the Vaisvakarman hymns. 
Every action is got done by those who sit in Satra Yaga, “Shatter those who scron us 
O Indra” (so they say) or “(Let us invoke) for protection, Vacaspati Visvakarma". 
Thus either the one to Indra or the one to Visvakarma should be employed and by 
that (that graha) should be drawn. 

5. Now there are thirty-four vydhrtis (utterances). They are expiations. This 
Prajapati, forsooth is sacrifice, which is performed here. From this, these living 
beings are born and in like manner they are produced again. There are eight'Vasus, 
eleven Rudras, twelve Adityas—together they are thirtv-one. With these heaven and 
earth they are thirty-three. These are the gods who (collectively) are called thirty- 
three gods. Prajapati is the thirty-forth. This (team of thirty’ four) exists and it is 
immortal. That which is immortal that exists. He is Prajapati and Prajapati is 
everything. From him these thirty-four vydhrtis. Somesay that these {vydhrtis) which 
are expiations are the forms of the sacrifice. They are the joints of the sacrifice. 
The sacrifice which is performed takes the forms of (these) divinities (in the form 
of vydhrtis) and go (to the heaven). 

6. If that sacrifice is afflicted (due to the failure to give milk) by the cow (that 
gives warm milk for pravargya ) another cow should be chosen. That so chosen is 
brought in front of the diksita’s shed, where they appease it. It should be stationed 
facing east or facing north as told. Those two bones with hair-tufts, protruding on 
either sides of the tail bone-—on the right one among them, he offers these thirty- 
four offerings with these vydhrtis. 



V.7.5.1] 


TRANSLATION 


373 


7. Those he offers because the cow ( Gharmadugka ) indeed, bears the sacrifice. 
So much is the sacrifice as these thirty-four offerings; that much number of deities 
are there and so much is the sacrifice. So he deposits this sacrifice in that cow 
(Gharmadugha) . So these vyahrtis are the forms of the sacrifice. This is the expiatory 
act. 

8. So in similar manner, whichever sacrifice is afflicted (by the cow Failing to 
yield milk), he should take note of it and whichever deity he feels (is the cause), he 
should identify that deity as “This is the deity and this is the offering and offer 
( prayasatta ) for that. But when Agnidhra is conducted, in the rites pertaining to 
dlksd (imitation) (if any aspect of the sacrifice is afflicted), then whichever is the 
deity connected with that sacrifice, by that same deity that sacrifice has to he 
treated. By that he sets right and by that he makes it alright. 

9. If clotted ghee (ghee mixed with milk) be spilt, let him pour water saying 
‘everything here being pervaded (obtained) by waters’, because only with waters 
he obtains this. Waters are (producers of) tranquility. The Rk mantras pertaining to 
Visnu and Vanina are also (bestowers of) tranquility. Varuna is the inflktor (of 
affliction). It is Varuna who has caused whatever (affliction) has befallen. Sacrifice 
is Visnu and it is on that sacrifice this (affliction) has befallen. So he who inflicts 
and he who is inflicted, by those very two (Rk mantras pertaining to those two 
deities) he treats this joint (of the sacrifice); by those two he makes it alright. 
Therefore with the Rk mantras pertaining to Visnu and Varuna (he treats) . “They 
by whose vigour the spheres were supported, who are in prowess the strongest and 
the mightest, who exercise authority unrestricted, to (those) Visnu and Varuna 
hath it gone at the earlier offering”. 

10. Then he touches (the afflicted part of the spilt material) (saying) *To the 
gods, to the sky hath the sacrifice gone; may wealth thence accrue to me. To the 
men' to the air hath the sacrifice gone; may wealth thence accrue to me. To the 
pitrs, to the earth hath the sacrifice gone. May wealth thence accrue to me . 
Whatevergets spilt, it settles down only in (one of) these worlds. 'Towhatever world 
the sacrifice hath gone, thence happiness (may) come to me”. This is the blessing 
he seeks thereby. Here now Aruni said, “Why should one perforin sacrifice if be is 
not to get benefit, if the sacrifice is to be afflicted or flowed (by unforeseen) 
miscarriage?”. Therefore it is said that he obtains (the aforesaid) blessings. (Fourth 
Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANAV 

1. Brhaspati desired let me acquire glory and brabmmk lustre and attain the 
chief priesthood of the gods. He saw this stoma (song of praise). He conducted this 
sava (rite). He became glorious and possessed of brahminic lustre and attained 

chief priesthood of the gods. 



V. 7.5.10] 


TRANSLATION 


*!> U+f p,' 

SiD 

2. He who desires ‘May I become glorious and possessed of brahmink: lustre 
and attain chief priesthood'; let him perform this (stoma). He attains glory and 
brahminical lustre and attains chief priesthood. 

3. The stoma happens to be three fold. Three fold stoma becomes glory and 
brahminic lustre. It includes glory and brahmink lustre. He gets established in 
glory and brahminic lustre. 

4. Rathantara becomes the prstha (supporting Sdman). Rathantara is glory and 
brahminic lustre. It includes glory and brahminic lustre. He gets established in 
glory and brahminic lustre. 

5. There are one hundred and eight Stotriya Sdmans (Sdmans whkh contain 
trio of f&rin each). This man is of hundred years life-span with hundred fold vigour 
and hundred-fold glory. It only fashions this man. 

6. Or there are eight stotriya Sdmans. For, Gayatri has eight syllables. Gayatri is 
glory and brahminic lustre. It fashions the man and puts this glory’ and brahminic 
lustre into him. 

7. It gets connected with Rrhati. It is by means of Brhati, the gods attained 
the heavenly world. That is why it is brhat (big) by which one attains the heavenly 
world. 

8. They bathe him (anoint him) with ghee. Ghee is brilliance. So it puts 
brilliance into him. But they say that ghee being brilliance, one should not bathe 
him with ghee. Because it will bum him. So only with soma juice, he should be 
bathed. This one so bathed becomes Somdbhisikta (bathed in soma) . There they say 
that Soma is thunderbolt and so one should not bathe him with soma lest he should 
injure him with thunderbolt. No, he should be bathed only with urns juice. In his 
case it becomes sober and benificial. He should bathe only with (s&ma} which is 
remanent in the graha. That they say is sober. Titus it is said he achieves that wish 
which he could get by Somdbhisikta (even though it may be only with remanent of 
Soma in the graha). It becomes beneficial and sober for him. 

9. He should be bathed by that (soma) which trickles from the Sukm and 
Manthigrahas. These (Sukra an dManthigrahas) are offered at every mom These 
two grahas are everything. To become everything and to become whole (he should 
be bathed by those two). These two grahas are creation. He is bom along with 
issues and cattle. So he should be bathed by what trickles from Sukm and M&ntM 
grahas. 

10. Seated on a back antelope s skin, he bathes him. This is the abode of the 
Rg Veda and Sama Ve da, which is the black antelope’s skin. So he bathes him seated 
on the Rg Veda and Sama Veda, 




TRANSLATION 


377 


V.7.6.4] 


11. These become Devasus (rites of Devas). They, the Devasus are the feast for 
the sods and hence they are Devasus. He who is bora of these very’ Devasus, is bathed 
by this sava. 

12. (On this occasion) there are thirty-three (cows) as Baksinas. All the gods 
together, come to thirty-three. To achieve (win over) all those gods (thirty three 
cows are to be gifted). Prajapati is the thirty-fourth among the gods. The horses 
does indeed, belong to Prajapati. By (giving) that he attains (wins over) Prajapati. 
The Brhaspatya graha is an extra graha drawn. The pdsu for Brhaspati happens to be 
seized as a supplement, for the completion of the sacrifice. Thus all these are 
explained. This and this sava of his becomes complete (wholesome). (Fifth 
Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMAN A VI 

1. Now once on a time, the gods while planning to perform a sacrifice, were 
afraid of an attack from the Asura-Raksasas from the southern direction. They said 
(unto themselves) “We are scared of an attack from the Asura-Raksasas from the 
southern direction. Whoever is mightiest amidst us, let him protect us at the 
southern side. We shall move to the northern side and perform the sacrifice at a 

secured place free from fear”. They agreed. 

2. They told Indra, ‘Thou art the mightiest amidst us. So you protect us on this 
southern side. We will perform th e sacrifice in the north at a secured place free from 


fear. 

3. Then Indra asked “What then will be (the benefit) to me : 1 »*•-/ —— 
“Brahmanhood shall be yours. Thou shell officiate as Brahrmnaccharksin . So Indra 
accepted the office of Brahmanacchamsin. He is Brahma because he is a Brahmana 
and thus this Hotra (office of the Hotr) belongs to Indra. Therefore whosoever is 
the most powerful among the Brahmanas shall be Brahma. Whosoever is the most 
learned (in Vedic lore) is the most powerful among Brahmanas. He sits at the 
southern side (of the sacrificial hall). Then these (others) perform sacrifice at die 

northern side at a secured place free from fear. 

4. When he (Prastotr) says “O Brahman, the commander, let us praise and 

then Brahma mutters “6 Divine Savitr, they have announced the sacrifice for 
Brahman, the Brhaspati. So protect this sacrifice. So protect the lord ol 

sacrifice. So protect me. May mymind Ixuheall 

conduct this sacrifice. Let h ™ ‘ ise - T hee*pSanationofth» 

gods ( Visvedeuas) enjoy here; O those born of Savitr, praise 

mantra is the same as said in the context of the Dariafmrnamasa. When he says ”0 

thosebom ofSavitr, praise”. It means this Savitr isindeed the impeller (progenitor) 

ofTe gods So he oniy says -Pia.se Ye, the bom of Savitr'. The, sav dun Brahma 
should mutter only this much. 



V.7.6.6] 


TRANSLATION 


579 


5. Some others say “O divine Savitr, this O Brhaspati, forwards”—-upto this, 
Brahma should mutter. For, Savitr is the impeller of the gods. Th is is only hastening 
Savitr to impell, when he mutters “O divine Savitr prompt this Brhaspati”. Brhaspati 
is the Brahma for the gods. So whoever is the Brahma of the gods, to him this is 
addressed; to him this appeal. He does not have any suffering nor any affliction. 
Therefore he says Brahma should mutter only upto “0 Brhaspati forwards”. 

6. These the Maitra-Varuna (priest) mutters. “Impelled by the divine Savitr, 
acceptable to Mitra and Varuna”. This is Maitra Varuna. Mitra and Varuna are its 
own deities. Thus he announces it to those who are the deities of Maitra-Varuna, 
He appeals to them. So he says ‘acceptable to Mitra and Varuna’. (Sixth Brahmana 
Ends) 


(Chapter Seven Ends) 



V.8.1.8] 


TRANSLATION 
Chapter Eight 


brAhmanai 

1. The Aram graha is, forsooth, Prajapati. That { graha ) is the self of this 
(sacrifice); for, Prajapati is the self. Therefore when they draw that Amugraka, they 
fashion that self of his. Thus having fashioned his self, they put in, these vital airs. 
As these vital airs are (infused) they are (becoming) grahas. 

2. For whomsoever they draw this Amsu graha, his vital airs get established at 
the commencement itself, as it were. And for whomsoever they do not draw it, his 
vital airs as it were, are not-well-commenced and not well-spread. For whom he 
draws, he becomes whole and fully shaped in the yonder world. So the Amsu graha 
should be drawn. 

3. For whomsoever, they draw this (graha) this becomes the sell" of his. For 
whomsoever it is not drawn, for him the Soma itself becomes the self. Soma is 
Prajapati. Because they draw these grahas for this sava (rite); these vital airs happen 
to be installed in the self of this (Yajamana). As and when these grahas which 
become the self, are drawn, then he becomes whole and fully fashioned in the other 

world. . . , . 

4. He draws it with a vessel made oiAudumbara wood. This {gmha) is incieeu, 

Prajapati and Udumhara belongs to Prajapati and Prajapati is Amsu grafm. So he 

draws it with an Audumhara vessel. „„ 

5. He draws it with a square vessel. For, here are the three worlds and Prajapati 

is the fourth. So he draws with a square vessel. 

6. Again why he draws with a square vessel is this—-Prajapati is these quarters. 
These four sides (of the square vessel) install Prajapati in all these (four) dhecticms 
(in the four sides of the vessel). That is why these creatures are born in each of the 

^ 7. Again why he draws it with a square vessel is this—Prajapati being these 

quarters, i.e, the four sides (of the vessel) he provides with food, energy and vigour 

to all these quarters. Hence he draws with a square vessel. 

8 He silently throws down the amsus {mm plants); silently he takes up the 

Prajapati^ life-breath along with his in-breathing, he disarranges (the Prajapau« 


TRANSLATION 


383 


V.8.1.13] 

prana) and hurts him. So he unites him with immortal life and makes him 
wholesome. Therefore he smells the piece of gold. 

9. Now Rama, son of Upatasvin said “My very learned preceptor told me 
otherwise. (He has said) let him freely breath out and freely breath in*. ‘That he 
silently throws down the amsus, silently takes up the stone, silently drenches it and 
after silently pressing it once, he offers it and thereby makes him (the Yajamana) 
to be Prajapati—thus that the entire action to be done silently”—the significance 
of this has been told. 

10. Now Bulila, the son of Asvatarasvi—“Let him not press (the stone) 1 *. He 
further said “They do press for other deities and if he does the pressing here too, 
it would amount to equating him (Soma) with other deities. He should draw it 
after (only) raising (the pressing stone). That (raising) itself makes it (as if) 
subjected to pressing. 

11. Now Yagnavalkya spoke. “Let him press” he said, The impressed soma 
delighted not the mighty Indra, nor the outpressed draughts without prayer”— 
Thus spoke die Rsi (in RgVeda). Aslongashe is not pressed, itdoesnothold (give) 
the juice to that extent and what (it gives) will not be enough for oblation. Only 
when he is pressed, he holds (gives) that much juice enough for the oblation. 
Therefore he has to be pressed. While pressing, he presses (only) once. When he 
thus presses (once) he bears (gives) juice and then it becomes sufficient for 
oblation. While pressing, he presses (only) once and thereby' he does not equate 

it with other deities. Therefore let him press it 

12- Twelve young cows, pregnant for the first time are the daksina (for the 
priest for this graha ). Now there are twelve months in the year and Prajapati is the 
year and the arhsu is Prajapati. Therefore twelve young cows pregnant for the first 
time are the daksina. 

13. They along with their calves in the wombs make twenty-four. There are 
twenty-four half-months for a year and Prajapati is the year and the ammt ss 
Prajapati. So it (the daksina) becomes twenty-four with the calves in die wombs 
Indeed twenty-four of these (cows and calves together) m first pregnancy, 4td 
Kaukusta give, besides a bull and gold (as daksina ). 



V.8.2.5] 


TRANSLATION 


385 


(g 7 ®^ 1 ) should not be drawn for everybody, since this is the self of his 
(sacrifice). Self is everything and everything should not lx- done for everybody 
(indiscriminately). For him who is well-known (to the Adhvaryu), it can be drawn. 
One who is learned (in Vedic lore), by him it is achieved (even) by his study itself. 

15. It should be drawn at (a sacrifice) where thousand (cows are daksind). 
Because thousand (cows for daksind) is everything and this Amu graha is every¬ 
thing. In Sarvavedas (it can be drawn where everything is given as daksind) . Because 
Saruavedas is everything and this Amsu graha is everything. In the Satra Yaga it can 
be drawn, because Satra Yagais everything and the Amsugraha is everything. It can 
be drawn in Vdjapeya, Rdjasiiya and Sarvaprstha sacrifices. (First Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA II 

1. Now the Amsu graha is indeed, Prajapati and it is the body of this (sacrifice) 
for Prajapati, indeed is the body. And the Addbhya graha is no other than Vdk 
(speech). When he draws the Amsu graha and then draws the Addbhya Graha, be 
thereby fashions the body of this (sacrifice) and then establishes that speech 
therein. 

2. Now the Amsu is indeed the mind and the Addbhya is the speech. The Amiu 
is the out-breathing and the Addbhya is in-breathing, Amsu is the eve itself and 
Addbhya is the ear. He draws these two grahas for the sake of wholeness and 
completeness. 

3. Now the gods and the Asuras, both of them bom of Prajapati, were 
quarelling. It was for this very sacrifice they clamoured with Prajapati (saying). 
“This one shall be ours; this one shall be ours”. Then the gods saw this graha, this 
Addbhya graha. They captured the (three) savanas (Soma services) and took 
possession of the whole sacrifice. They excluded their enemies, the Asuras from the 
sacrifice. 

4. They said “Surely we have destroyed ( adabhdma) them { the Asuras)Hence 
(this graha) called Addbhya . “They (Asuras) haw found us undestroyafek* ( ad&bkym 
Therefore also it is called Addbhya. The Addbhya being speech, this speech Is 
indestructible. Therefore also it is (called) Addbhya. He who knows this and draws 
it (the Addbhya graha) captures the entire sacrifice from tire spiteful enemy. He 
drives away his spiteful enemy from the sacrifice itself and excludes him from it, In 
which vessel (the Audumbam vessel) he draws the Amiw graha, in that same vessel, 
he brings water from the Nigrdbhya (water kept in the square vessel of the Hern for 
drenching the Soma plant) and in that (water) he puts those swms (Soma plants) „ 

5. “Thou art taken with a support For Agnil take thee po»o»dd'tk^ttri 
metre” for, the morning savana belongs to Gayatri, he thus comes to possess the 1 
morning savana. “For Indra, I take thee possessed of the Trispibh metre” for, the 


V.8.3.1] 


TRANSLATION 


587 


midday savana belongs to Tristubh, he thus comes to possess the fagatf metre, for, 
the third savana belongs tojagatl; he thus comes to possess the third savana. 
“Anustubh is thy song of praise”. Whatever is subsequent to the (three) savanas they 
belong to the Anustubh metre. That he now comes to possess. He does not press 
this (Soma plants) for, the (pressing) stone is thunderbolt and the Adabhya is vak- 
(speech). Lest he should injure speech by thunderbolt (he does not press). 

6. He merely shakes (the vessel) with the Soma plants (saying) “In the flow of 
the streaming (waters) I waft thee; in the flow of the girgling (waters) I waft thee; 
in the flow of thejiibilent (w’aters) I waft thee. In the flow of the most sweet (waters) 

I waft thee. These doubtless are the divine waters.. With these which are divine 
waters and with these which are human waters—with both of them, he bestows sap 
(into that graha) . (He further says) “Thee, the bright, I waft in the bright (waters) * 
for, he indeed wafts the bright one in the bright (waters). To the light of the day; 
in the rays of the Sun’—he thus wafts it both in the light of the day in the rays of 
the Sun. To the Sun (who showers rays) (who is a bull) this form of a hump (a ball) 
is quite pleasing. Soma is the leader of soma. The brightis the leader of the bright”. 
Thus soma juice is made the leader of Soma, the bright one for the bright. “0! Soma, 
that name of Adabhya which you have, awaken (in that form), I am drawing you for 
that (Adabhya graha) . This is to activise his name of Adabhya which is vak (speech ). 
So he draws speech for the speech. So he says “I am drawing you for that". 

7. Then stepping out (of the Havirdhdna) he offers (in the Ahaxmmya) (saying) 
“To you th at Soma— Svaha to Soma”—Thus he offers somojuice unto Soma himself 
and so does not throw speech into the fire. Then he smells the piece of gold. Its 
significance has been told. For this the (amount of) daksind is the same (as for the 
Am.su graha). 

8. He then puts back the Soma plants (in the heap of Soma plants in the 
Havirdhdna) (saying) “Enter thou gladly Agni’s favourite seat, O divine Soma; enter 
thou willingly into Indra’s favourite seat; O divine Soma. Because you are oar 
friend. You O divine Soma enter into the favourite seat of the Vismdmm”. On the 
former occasion he captured the (three) savanas; he new restores them again and 
make them fresh. With them so refreshed, he performs that (part of the) sacrifice 
which is yet remaining. (Second Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMAN A III 

1. Now, once on a time, the gods sat down (to perform) a satm, (sacrificial 
session), thinking “May we attain excellence, may we attain fame and nay we be 
eaters of food”. That same food gained by them wished to getaway from them. Food 
being cattle, it was the cattle which wanted to get away from them (thinking) “These 
gods are tired and they may eat us up; (can’t say) how they will treat us*. 



V.8.3.8] 


TRANSLATION 


%H9 

2. This the gods saw through and they secured them in the houses* Hence this 
food (cattle) did not get away from them. In like manner, now these (Yajamanas. I 
are sitting down in a Satra yaga . They sit down (to perform ) a Satra yaga { thinking) 
“May we attain excellence, may we attain fame and may we become eaters of food' 
The food gained by them wishes to get away from them. Food is, forsooth the cattle. 
They (the cattle) are wishing to get away from them (thinking) ‘These (Yajamanas ) 
are exhausted; they may eat us up; (can’t say) how they will treat us”, 

3. He (the Yajamana) offers these two oblations into the Garhapatya —for, 
Garhapatya is the houses. Thus they restrain this food (cattle) in the houses ( grhas ); 
so that this food does not get away from them. This food that is kept in custody still 
wants to go away (thinking) “These (Yajamanas) may harm us; (can’t say) hew they 
will treat us”. 

4. He takes from the edges of the top portion of this food (in bits) twice or 
thrice. Later from the bottom, he takes a pinch. By this (the food) realises Tie will 
not harm me (eat me up) So it goes near him without fear. He becomes friendly 
for the food. He who knows thus and observes this rite becomes eater of food. 

5. This then is done on the tenth day which is known as Satrotthdna (rising form 
the session). From among them (who sit down in the Satra yaga); one controls his 
speech (observes silence). Others depart (vitisth&ta) . He who stands afoot ( mHithaii) 
and wants to go away ( vitislhasata) and who wishes to eat, he eats. 

6. They assemble at the Garhapatya in the afternoon. When they start, the 
Adhvaryu makes the offering. It is the offering to be done by the Adhvaryu. If the 
Adhvaryu does not know that the Grhapati himself can offer. If the Gfk&paii does 

not know that, anybody who knows it can make the offering. 

7. He offers (saying) “Here is joy; here Ye rejoice”. Be addresses the cattle 
thus “Here is stability; here is your own stability'Sws&d . he addresses thus the 

8. Then he makes the second offering (saying) “Letting the suckling call to the 

mother”- he says this only by way of letting fire go to this earth. By saying ‘a suckling 
calf drinking from the mother’ he only refers to the fire suckling the ( moisture of 
the)'earth. (He says) “May he maintain increase of wealth-among ■ 

Increase of wealth is cattle and he only means ‘let us be enriched with cattle’. 



V.8.3.14] 


TRANSITION 


191 


9. They walk out by the eastern (door) and moving to the north, reach the 
Havirdhana cart from behind towards the front. For, from the front towards the 
back (they enter) earlier (while commencing to perform the sacrifice). Rut thus (it 
is done) while rising from the session. 

10. He having reached the hind shaft of the northern Havirdhana art, sings 
the Soman called Satrasya rddhih (the completion of satra). Or (he moves) to the 
northern hip of the high aitar or to the southern shaft of the northern Hmnrdhdna 
cart and sings that same ‘Satrasya rddhih ’ Sdman. 

11. “We have reached the light; we have become immortal because those who 
sit down in the satra do reach the light and they indeed, become immortal" To the 
sky have we ascended from the earth” for, they who sit down in the Satra yaga 
indeed, ascend from earth to sky. u We have reached to the gods” for, they do attain 
to the gods, who sit down in the Satra yaga. To the heavens, to the light" (thus 
saying) they reach the finale. Those who sit down in the Satra yaga do go to the 
heavens; they become ‘light’. Therefore they make the finale by the words ho the 
heavens; to the light’. He who sings the glory of the Satra yaga, he only prays for 
prosperity from then. Thus singing with these three Simms, they’ indeed, prosper. 

12 Then they creep along right under the axle of the southern Hairndhum 
cart towards east (saying) “O Indra and Parvata, leaders (of the aimyi whoever is 
(going) away from our army, each such one, you scorch with the tbuncterboli. 
scorch him. Frightened and hiding (stealthily), if they run away prattling (in fear) 
even into whole forests, such enemies of ours, O brave ones, see them destroyed . 
Thus with the Aticchandas (verses in redundant metre) (they address j. Ail the* *<• 
verses in Aticchandas. Byall these they destroy the enemy. Haring 

enemy they move underneath the axle (of the Hemrdhmm cart*. The axle ». a 
thunderbolt and it tsby the thunderbolt they kill the enemy. ThenM W 
doesnot overtake them.Thus,just as the serpen would cast away iu>rio%h tuvuij, 
cor rid of all sin? they move on bv the eastern side. Having emerged at the eM 
eoingby the nOTtherrfside, from the front, they enter to the tack side of the i* 
For front the back towards the front (they moved) when about to pertmm the 
sacrifice but *us (they do from the front to thetetk) while risingtan the senwn. 

13 They sit by their respective dhisnyas (hearth,). Then the l dgat. **s» the 
ofthe Kfa plrtaimng to the serpent queen, imtiating it M »d 

inaudiabie so that mother would not join him in singing and another not 

over hear his singing. If another is to initiate, ttwould be m <xce» ^ ^ 

"riSt b. excess. Therefore it is initiated, unaccompanied by 
another and inaudible to be ove an^er^ ^ ^ (>j lhr 

14. By the Udgaty j^^^fojhedtocreep away ahead of this 



V.8.3.19] 


TRANSLATION 


393 


these plants and trees, which constitute food in her (earth). That essence of the vak 
now wished to creep away ahead of this earth. That (essence) they obtained by this 
Saman (made up of Rks belonging to serpent queen). Thus won, that (essence of 
vak) returned (to the earth). That is why these plants and trees grow upwards (from 
this earth). 

15. In like manner, does the essence of the vak wishes to desert these 
(Yajamanas) who have gained it and wishes to creep away ahead of them (leaving 
them behind) —for vak is this earth and her essence are these plants and trees which 
constitute food in this. That essence wishes to creep away ahead (leaving this earth 
behind). By means of this Saman, they overtake it. Thus overtaken, it (that essence) 
returns to them. Hence upwards on this earth, grow the plants, upwards the trees. 
They sing the verses of the serpent queen, for, the queen of serpents is this earth. 

By means of her they obtain everything. 

16. The Hotr explains the (stotra called) four-Hotrs. It is an explanation (to be 
done) by the Hotr himself, because the Hotr follows up the state (slotm) by that 

sastra _if he does not know that, let the Grhapati do it. If Grhapati does not know, 

let someone who knows it recite it (sastm). This is how that stuia is followed up (by* 


a sastra). , . , 

17. Now they utter Brahmodya (metaphysical investigation on Brahman ) wmcn 

is in the form of vakovakya (statements and counter statements i.e. dialogue), 
calling the Adhvaryu. Adharvu replies - ‘These Yajamanas have achieved fulfilment . 
Merit has come to these Yajamanas’-This is only a wish for fulfilment. These do 

indeed, fulfill. _ 

18. By uttering the Brahmodyahyvtay of the vakm,>dky& they achieve everything, 

they come to possess everything; because those who sit down in the Seirayega, have 
praised with Sdmans, thereby they have attained so much; they have come to powss 
so much- they have recited with the RMs. Thereby they have attained », much, they 
have come to possess so much, they have performed with Yajm, there by they have 
attained so much, they have come to possess so much. But this has not beer, 
attained by them, not yet possessed; namely the Brahman (through)* 

That is what .they now attain, what they now come to possess. Hu i ■- f- 

(sastra) for the stefe Therefore they utter m 

19. Starting from the Udumbam post, they’ all sit down m siente «« « f, 

sets. The sacrifice is vak and they milk the sacrifice, ££ 

they perform sacrifice with speech, that essence they (bnng, from the oher 
dJhv dav and strengthen it for the last day. Thus that speech obtained here, 
strengthens all these. With that well-released and re-invigorated speech, thatwh.cn 
is unfinished in the sacrifice, that is uiken up* 



TRANSLATION 


395 


V.8.4.2] 

20. Why he sits from the Udumhara post onwards is because Udumktm is 
energy and with energy he replenishes this sacrifice. Now when the Sun has set they 
walk out of the sadas by the eastern door and sit in front of the Havirdhdna. While 
they sit observing silence, the Pratiprasthata silently goes round (them) pouring 
the Vasativari waters. (This is) for whatever desire they get initiated. It is with 
(specific) desires the Rsiswere getting initiated in those days. ‘I have the desire for 
this; let me have it’ let that be fulfilled. In like manner his (Yajamana’s) desire is 
fulfilled or one with many desires may also get initiated. 

21. Now for that (releasing of the speech) this is to be muttered “ Bkuhs, Bhuvah 
and Svdh ”. Thus they enrich this vdk with truth. With that speech, so enriched, they 
seek for blessings. “May we be abundantly bestowed with offspring”— thereby they 
pray for offspring. “May we be abundantly bestowed with heroes”—thereby they 
pray for heroes. “May we be abundan tly bestowed with nourishing food”—thereby 
they pray for nourishment. Thus from these, all these wishes are fulfilled, 

22. Then the Grhapati recites the Subrahmanya litany. Or one authorised by 
the Grhapati recites. Sometimes all of them recite, each separately. (That is not to 
be done). Grhapati alone should recite or the one whom the Grhapati authorises. 
(On that occasion) they wish (to be called) for another sacrifice. They place 
samidhas (on the fire). This kindling marks the end of the ritual (Third Brahmana 

Ends) 


BRAHMANA W 

1 This vidyd (Vedic lore) is, forsooth, the Rks, the Yajus md the Smrnm^im 
is the threefold vidyd. Of them, the Rk is this earth; for, Rk means vSk C^ch) and 
it is by vdk that they praise. This earth being vdk is hence the EL Whoever prana* 
does praise in this. Therefore this earth is the Rk. The Yajm m, forsooth, Aesky and 
the Sdman is indeed, the heaven. All these (three) vutps vc* wed m the Serna 
sacrifice He who knows thus and performs the Same sacrifice, he wtm uvei 
world by the Rks, wins over the sky by die Yajusmd wins over the hsmem ^ fhe 
Samans. Also one who knows thus, even if he studies «*one(°r ^ 

but recalls the formations of the other two (study parts of *e «*er ««, Veda, 
relevant for the ritual) he too attains this success (over the three woridsi - 
2. This thousandfold progeny of Vak, hidra andV isniidnn^ 
this Trayx vidyd (threefold vidyd) isof tlmse.Two d^u rftto^ ^ ^ 

and Vtsnu one-third. Indra took as his share, the Kfa and the two*"* 



V.8.4.10] 


TRANSLATION 


m: 


Yajusas his share. Hence whatever (is to be done) with Rk and Saman is done in the 
sadas (a hall, so called in a sacrificial place) ; because they were token by Indra and 
the sadas belongs to Indra. This Soma, who is Visnu, they carry with the Yajus, 
because Visnu took as his share the Yajus. With this sacrifice, that is Visnu they' 
proceed forward, as it is called Purascarna (preparatory ceremony). 

3. Yajus are the mind; Rk and Soman are the speech. Without speech,'one 
cannot know the mind. When one contemplates silently, nobody knows (what he 

contemplates upon). . 

4. The gods said to speech (situated in) the Was—“Without you the mind is 

not known. So go forward and make known this mind . 

5 She (speech) asked—“What shall I gain then?" They said "Whatever is 
offered with the chanting of Svdhd in the Soma sacrifice without Vmaikdra all that 
will be your share”. So whatever is offered with Svdhd chantwithout VmaMra in the 

Soma Sacrifice, that is the share of vak. 

6. She (speech) went forward and made known “Thus he does this thus he 

does this”. Thus it is by means of words it is known. So mind and vak became 

colleagueSg^^ ^ ^ Havirdkdna too, they perform with vak, when they do 
things with vak in the form of Rk. They recite in the morning prayer when they 
recite the kindling chants and when they praise the pressing stones ( Q*o+*m • 

Thus they (speech and mind) became colleagues. , , , 

8. Therefore in the sadas too, they do things with the Yajus when they ire « 
up the Dkisnya hearths all about the sadas. Thus they two became coSleagu • 

(there Havirdharm for cohabitation (themind and the «*«*«>> 

to mate get covered all around). (They think) -Let us cohabtt m prtvacy .The 
waters are the female and the soma plantis the male. They enclose (the Haxnikam. 
Mn to facilitate their union (thinking) “Let this pair have secret mating . 
h> . ft Tb enclose the sadas too for cohabitation (of the vak and the and)- 

(Thev think) "Let this pair have privacy for mating ■ tere tr,^ ^ 

Sama n, ^ ^ cohabitation whrd. hexp-sed. even when 

mate in privacy . Incompl urse even with his ovm wife, sin accrues to him, *»« were. 

door) is made by the gods. 



V.8.4.15] 


TRANSLATION 


399 


11. That soma plant which is the male is longing for the waters, the female, at 
the Havirdhdna. From that seed of that union, the moon is generated. The male, 
Sdman, is longing for the female, the Rk in the sodas. From that seed of that union, 
the Sun is generated. Rk is splendour and splendour is the Sun. So splendour is 
born out of splendour when the Sun is generated by the Rk and the Sdman. He is 
called mighty (Indra). Waters are food and soma plant is food. So from food, food 
in the form of the moon is produced for him (the Sun). For, moon is his (Sun's) 
food. Moreover it is from Rk and Sdman, he produces the Yajamana. Out of the sms 
plant and from waters, he produces food for him (the Yajamana). So this (food) 

produces this (food). . 

12. The Yajus is mind and the Yajus is the sacrifice. *Yaja (meaning worship) 
is what is called as Yajus. The gods performed sacrifice wit h the Yajus ; then with the 
Rks- then with the Sdmans. In like manner, do they now perform sacrifice with them; 
first with Yajus, then with Rks and then with Sdmans. This vidyd which h the Yajus 
has been fully milked (extensively utilised) by the gods and so it is full of 
benidictory words explained. This vidyd has been fully milked by the gods. 

13. They, the gods, said “Ho! we shall replenish this vidya once again, so that 

this vidyd will be on a par with the other two vidyds (namely the Rk and the Sdman ) 
whereby this aerial world (which is of Yajus) becomes on a par im status] wt th^e 
other two worlds (earth and heaven that belong to Rk and Samm) . tThe> said 
“Yes, let us chant this (Yajur Mya) in a low voice". They thus chanted her m > * 
voice and as a result this Yajur vidya became on a par with the other two ano 

hence this (aerial) world became equal with the other two worlds forth "• 
heaven) So this aerial world while being distinct (defined) is yet indefinable. 
Because the (Mantras) are defined but yet indistinct The Tups are dtsunct 

in so far as they are expressed by speech; because speech « d* ^ 1 ^ ^ ° 
define) But Tat the same time) these Yajus are indistinct because even _ _ 
expressing them by speech, they are uttered in a low voice. Fhat which is 

a low voice is indistinct. So he who mutters this vidyd (Yajus) m a low 
• ■ t c it and thus strengthened invigorates him (who utters). And he w ho 

invigorates it ^ invigorate her (the Yajur Thus 

weakened?she harms him (who utters aloud). So one should chant m a tow «kc 
^ 14. Mind is indeed, the Yajus. This mind is indistinct and «ta which »in .to- 

voice is indistinct. So one should chant only in alow ™“ .. {in 

i k Xhe Yaiush mind.The Rk&nd $fiman&te the *mk |spe.. ‘ . 

15 T h , V nerforms with the YajusmA heis the mind. Thane who 

the ^crtfice) the Adhvarvu periortuM^tn tne^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ,, happel » 

perform with the Rk and the , . OTV grant) then he recites. 

Therefore when dm 

andsing.heprave^thusnothmgunauthort.ed 



V.8.4.16] 


TRANSLATION 


401 


by the Adhvaryu is done. What is not approved by the mind, the speech does not 
say- Thus the mind leads as it were (goes in front). So it is called Puraicaranu. Fie 
who knows thus, he stands as it were at the helm, through prosperity and fame. 

16. Now, that Purascaranais none else than the Sun. So, standing in front and 
making the offering (the Adhvaryu) follows the course which is tire cour se of the 
Sun. When he has responded (to the Hotr’s recitation) let him turn round in an 
accordance with the Sun’s course. He verily assumes the form of that (Sun) and 
goes about. For him, there is no pain nor fatigue occurs. He who is capable of 
following that course and turns round in accordance with that course, alone is 
capable of supporting his dependants. He wins identity' with him (Sum) and 
shares his (Surya’s) world. (Fourth Brahmana Ends) 

(Chapter Eight Ends) 


GRAHAKANDAENDS 

« ip 



VAJAPEYA KANDA 


Chapter One 

brAhmana I 

1. (Once on a time) the gods and the Asuras, both descendants of Prajapati, 
vied with each other. Then the Asuras, out of arrogance (thinking) “Unto whom 
should we make offerings (why to somebody else) ”, went on offering into their own 
mouths. By thus offering, they were defeated. So it is said that one should not be 
arrogant. 

2- Now, the gods were not arrogant. They went about offering oblations unto 
one another. To them, who were thus offering, Prajapati gave himself up. Prajapati, 
forsooth, is sacrifice. He became their food, for sacrifice is the food for the gods. 

3. Those gods (claiming) “This will be for me; this will be for me”, could not 
agree in that (in sharing that food in the form of the sacrifice). Not agreeing, they 
said “Let us fight it out, he who will win, for him shall this belong”. (They said) ‘Yes’ 
and fought for it. 

4. Then Brhaspati approached the Savitr, for his impulsion (saying) “Bequeath 
forme. Impelled by you, let me win this". (Savitr said) ‘Yes’ and Savitr impelled him 
for that; so impelled he performed. By performing that, he ascended to this upper 
region. Therefore he who knows so and he who so knows not—they say that the 
upper region belongs to Brhaspati. He who performs the Vajapeya ascends to the 
upper region. 

5. Indra performed that (Vajapeya). By performing that, he ascended to this 
upper region. So he who performs the Vajapeya ascends to the upper region. In like 
manner, these (Yajamanas) who perform this sacrifice, they ascend to this very 
upper region. 

6. Prajapati, the son of Janairuta performed this but he descended again. 
Formerly all were reaching indeed, the upper region. He (Aupavi) became 
everything, won everything and (even) conquerred Prajapati; Prajapati being 
everything. He (who performs this) becomes indeed, everything, wins everything 
and even conquers Prajapati, for, Prajapati is everything (and he is won) by one who 
performs Vajapeya. So they say that (any body) cannot perform this sacrifice. 
Because he becomes everything; wins everything and nothing is left over by him 
here and his subjects here (his offspring) will be worse off. 



TRANSLATION 


VI.1.2.3 ] 


5 


7. Nevertheless, one who correctly knows this sacrifice from the RJis, from the 
Samans and from the Yajus can (verywell) perform this. Those who are know! edge- 
able and well-versed in the Vedic lore should be the priests for this sacrifice. That 
contributes to the wholesomeness of this sacrifice. He becomes entitled for 
happiness in this mortal world. His subjects (progeny) contribute to his own 
prosperity, in the case of one who knows thus and performs it. So let him perform 
(the Vdjapeya) by all means. 

8. Since Brhaspati performed it ( Vdjapeya ), it is a sacrifice meantfor Brahmanas; 
for Brhaspati is Brahma and Brahma means Brahmana. And since Indraperformed 
it, this is a sacrifice meant for Ksatra and Indra is Ksatra. Ksatra means Ksatriya, 

9. Rdjasuya is meant for kings (Ksatriya) for, by performing Rdjasuya, one 
becomes king and a Brahmana is not (to strive) for a kingdom. Rdjasuya is a lower 
one and Vajapeyah higher (in importance). By performing Rdjasuya , one becomes 
a king but by performing Vdjapeya (he becomes) an emperor. Kingdom is lower and 
an empire is bigger. A king would (naturally) desire to become an emperor because 
it is higher. An emperor will not desire to become a (mere) king, because itis lesser. 
Therefore Rdjasuya is lower and Vdjapeya is higher. By performing this sacrifice, he 
becomes possessed of everything and hence he is called emperor (Samrdt). 

10. He offers this oblation belonging to Savitr at the beginning of each rite 
“God Savitr, impell the sacrifice; impel! the lord of the sacrifice unto his share. May 
the heavenly Gandharva, the purifier of thought! purify our thought. Let the lord 
of speech, sweeten our food”. Just as, at that time, Brhaspati approached Savitr, for 
getting impelled, in like manner, this (Yajamana), hastens to Savitr for impulsion . 
Savitr grants that (impulsion) to him. He wins (that sacrifice) after being impelled 
by the Savitr. “Let the lord of speech today, sweeten our food” (he says). The lord 
of speech is Prajapati and vdja is food. He thereby means ‘Let Prajapati make this 
food sweet (or sumptuous) ’! Then after proceeding with the pasu meant for Agni 
and Soma, he makes this offering with this; this sacrifice becomes started and it is 
pleased. (First Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA II 

1. He draws the Athsugraha. He draws the Amsugrahafor completeness sake, for 
making it whole. Therefore he draws the Athsugraha. Then he draws the grahas (that 
are) of Agnistoma, which are well-known upto the Agrayanagraha. 

2. Then he draws the Prsthyds (the three Atigrahyagrahas prescribed for the 
Prstha-stotras ). Whatever the gods (Agni, Indra and Surya) won by them, that the 
Yajamana wins thereby. 

3. Then he draws the Sodasigraha. Whatever Indra won by means of the Sodasz, 
the Yajamana wins thereby. 



TRANSLATION 


VI.1.2.10 ] 


7 


4. Then he draws the grahas (special) for the Vdjapeya (saying) “Thee the firm- 
seated, the man-seated, the mind-seated! Thou art taken with a support, I take thee, 
agreeable to Indra. This is thy womb, thee most agreeable to Indra”, he deposits it. 
This world (earth) is firm. By this firmly seated, he wins the world. 

5. (He says) “Thee the water-seated, the ghee-seated, the ether-seated! Thou 
art taken with a support; I take thee, agreeable to Indra. This is thy womb; thee most 
agreeable to Indra”, and deposits it. That ether is this aerial region. By this he wins 
that (aerial) world. 

6. “Thee, the earth-seated, the air-seated, the sky-seated, die god-seated, the 
heaven seated; I take with a support; thee most agreeable to Indra” (so saying) he 
deposits it. The yonder world is the god-seated, the heaven-seated. That is indeed, 
the world of gods. By this he wins that very world. 

7. “The invigorating essence of the waters, being contained in the Sun; the 
essence which is the essence of waters; thee agreeable to Indra, I take with a support! 
This is thy womb; thee most agreeable to Indra”(so saying) he deposits it. For, the 
essence of the waters is the one who blows (or purifies) yonder (the vdyu) and he 
is contained in the Sun, he flows from the Sun; and that same essence, he thereby 
wins. 

8. “Ye grahas, of energising libations, inspiring the sage with thought! I have 
gathered the sap and energy of thine, the handleless_. I take thee with a support; 
thee agreeable to Indra”—(so saying) he deposits it. Urja or energy is the essence. 
With this, he wins the energy which is the essence. 

9. These are thus the five Vdjapeyagrahas, he draws. He who performs Vdjapeya 
wins Prajapati. There are five seasons for the year and the year is Prajapati. So he 
wins Prajapati. 

10. Then he draws the seventeen grahas of soma and the seventeen grahas of 
surd. Both these, soma and surd are food for Prajapati. Now, prosperity, truth and 
splendour are soma ; untruth, sin and darkness are surd. Those two foods of his 
(Prajapati’s) he (the Yajamana) wins thereby. 



TRANSLATION 


VI. 1.3.1 3 


9 


11. He draws the seventeen Somagrahas, for, Prajapati is seventeenfold. As 
great as Prajapati is, as great as is his measure, with that much he thus wins his 
prosperity, truth and splendour. He draws the seventeen Surdgrahas, for, Prajapati 
is seventeenfold. As great as Prajapati is, as great as is his measure, with that much 
he thus wins his untruth, sin and darkness. 

12- They both together make thirty-four. All the gods (together) come to 
thirty-three and Prajapati is the thirty-fourth. So he wins all the gods and also 
Prajapati. 

13. From where they buy soma, this Parisrut (surd —an intoxicating herbal 
extract) also they buy from that Kesava (a man with long hairs). That Kesava is 
neither male nor female. Since he is a man he is not a female; since he has long 
hairs he is not a male. 

14. He buys it with lead. This lead is neither gold nor iron. So he buys with lead. 

15. They prepare two earthen mounds (earthen platforms on which grab as are 
kept in the Havirdhdnd) ; one at the back of the axle (of the soma cart and the other 
in front of it) (thinking) “lest we mix up the Somagrahas and the Surdgrahas''. There 
on the previous day they pour water by the front door. Bringing from behind, they 
pour this Parisrut by the other door (in the back side). The Adhvaryu, sitting in 
front, facing eastwards (draws the Surdgrahas). First he (the Adhvaryu) draws a 
Somagraha, then (the Pratiprasthata), a Surdgraha. Thus they both draw alterna¬ 
tively each. The last one each draws simultaneously. Adhvaryu holds each Somagraha 
above the axle and the Pratiprasthata holds down the axle each Surdgraha. The 
Adhvaryu should not hold it beyond the axle westwards and the Pratiprasthata. 
should not hold it beyond the axle eastwards. 

16. He (each of them) chants “United Ye are; unite with happiness”. (Think¬ 
ing) “Lest we say (unite us) with evil”. They withdraw them again (saying) 
‘Disunited Ye are; disunite us with evil’. Even as one might tear a reed (out of a reed 
grass) in the same manner they separate that Yajamana from ail evil. Then with a 
golden vessel, they draw the Madhugraha. Then he draws the Ukthyagraka ; then the 
Dhruvagraha. When the last chant of seventeen stotras (prescribed for the third 
savana) has been said, he pours those Somagrahas into the cups of the officiating 
priests and drink them. In the midday savana, this (procedure) is said about the 
Madhugraha and also of the Surdgrahas. (Second Brrihmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA III 

1. For the Agnistoma, he slays ( a pasu) for Agni, for, the Agnislama itself, he 
thereby wins. For the Ukthyas, he slays (a pasu) for Indra and Agni, for the Ukthyas 
belong to Indra and Agni and thereby he wins the Ukthyas. For the Sodasl, he slays 
(a pasu ) for Indra, for Sodasi is Indra and thereby he wins the Sodait 



TRANSLATION 


11 


VI.1.3.6 ] 

2. For this final seventeenfold stotra (Vdjapeya sdman), he slays (a pasu) for 
Sarasvati. By this, even though it is not an overnight performance. It isyet made like 
the night (performance). He who performs Vdjapeya wins everything. The year is 
made of days and nights. They by alternating each other make the year. The year 
is everything and so he wins everything. The fact that it is not an overnight 
performance, he wins the day thereby. The fact that even though it is not over-night 
performance, it is made a night performance, he wins the night, thereby, thus he 
wins both day and night. 

3. Thereupon he slays a spotted sterile pasu for the victorious Maruts. This 
(spotted pasu) is this earth where both the rooted and the rootless are established. 
There she is called Prsni (spotted pasu) . This food is (contained) in (the earth). 
Indeed, this food and drink are in this (earth). By this he wins food and drink for 
the Maruts, the Vis. Maruts are the peasants and peasants are the food for the nobles 
(elites). (So he says) “For Maruts the victorious” for the sake of victory. If he could 
get at two invitatory and offering prayers (Ydjya and Anuvakya ) for the victorious 
Maruts, let him adopt them. If he could not get at two invitatory and offering 
prayers for the victorious Maruts, let him do with (any two) prayers meant for 
Maruts. It is difficult to get a spotted sterile pasu, and so if he can’tget a spotted one, 
any sterile pasu will do. 

4 . This is the procedure in the case of that (sterile pasu) — -when the Hotr 
recites after the Mahendragraha libation, then he should proceed with the vapd of 
this (sterile pasu). Because, this Mahendragraha is the exclusive graha for Indra. 
The prayer ( stotra ) is also exclusive and the sastra thereto is also exclusive. Indra is 
Ksatra (nobility) and the Maruts are the peasantry. With the peasantry, Ksatriya 
becomes more powerful. Thereby (i.e. by following the Mahendragraha) this 
strength comes to be placed in the Ksatra. 

5- Then having made the cuttings (of vapa) into two (portions), they cook. 
The cut piece of one, he smears with ghee and (again) cuts each twice, sprinkles 
with ghee and anoints the cuttings. Then having smeared ghee at the bottom of the 
upabhrt, having cut each once, sprinkles ghee twice. When he cuts two times each 
half, it becomes whole and by proceeding with that, he wins the divine race ( deoa 
visa —the common folk among the gods). Then they present this (other) half to the 
human kind (Manusyavisa — to the common folk among men). Thereby they win 
the commoners among men. 

6. That should not be done so. He (who does so) sways away from the path of 
the sacrifice. He who does thus, indeed departs from the (right) path of the 
sacrifice. So just in the same way as they proceed with the vapds of the other pahis, 
they should follow the same way in the case of the vapd of this pasu . In the same way 
as they proceed with the libations of the other pasus, in the same way they should 
proceed with the libation of this (pasu). So they should not present to the common 
folk among men. 



TRANSLATION 


VI. 1.3.12 ] 


13 


7. Then they seize there seventeen pasus belonging to Prajapati. All of them 
are hornless, all of them having a black spot in the fore-head; all having large 
testicles. This is what directly was Prajapati, when this (kind of pasu) is slaughtered. 
Prajapati is forsooth, food. If food is Prajapati, this (type of) pasu is the visible food. 
If soma is Pr 2 yapati, this (type of) pasuis the visible soma. So directly he wins Prajapati. 

8. They {pasus) happen to be seventeen, for, Prajapati is seventeenfold. They 
are all hornless. This man is the nearest to Prajapati and he is Tupara, i.e. without 
horns. Prajapati is also Tupara, without horns. So all (the seventeen pasus) are 
hornless. All of them are syama (dark grey in colour). Syama consists of two colours; 
the white and the black, the two together forming a productive pair. Prajapati is, 
indeed, productive. So all of them are syama. All of them have large testicles. 
Testicles are the reproductive parts. Prajapati is productive. So all of them have 
large testicles. Let him perform it with all these pasus complete in all these 
(stipulated) respects. If he does not get such complete ones (as stipulated.) 
whatever (type of) pasu he might obtain, let him have them. For, Prajapati is 
everything. 

9. The last one of these (seventeen pasus) is seized for the vak (speech). For, 
if there is anything beyond Prajapati it is only speech. So thereby he wins that 
speech. Let him not do so. Prajapati is all these that form these worlds. This speech 
is what is spoken in these worlds. So by that itself (by winning Prajapati) he wins the 
speech. So all of them should be for Prajapati. 

10. The procedure with these (pasus) is as follows—The Maitra-Varuna recites 
the sastra after the Vamadevya sdman is sung. Thence they should proceed with the 
vapds of these pasus. For Vamadevya sdman is (of) Prajapati. These (pasus) belong 
to Prajapati. So in that context (just after the Vamadevya sdman), they should 
proceed with the vapds of those (pasus). 

11. Now, when the anuydjas (after offerings) are made, and when the pair of 
sruks have not been separated, then they should proceed with their libations. Their 
proceeding with them (libations of the seventeen pasus) is the direct winning of 
Prajapati. This is the end of the sacrifice. Only at the end of the sacrifice, he wins 
Prajapati. If they happen to proceed with these libations earlier, it would be just as 
if a man had already gone the way (and reached his destination) and still intends 
to proceed—and where would he be after that? So only here (at the end) they 
should proceed with these libations. 

12. But let him not do it in this way, for, he who departs from the path of the 
sacrifice, stumbles and he who does it in this way, definitely departs from the path 
of the sacrifice. Hence, whenever they proceed with the vapds oi the other pasus, 
at that same time, let them proceed with the vapds of these (pahs) , Whenever the 
libations of other pasus take place, then only they should proceed with the libations 
of these pasus. There is only one anuvakya (invitatory chant) and one offering 
prayer (ydjya). “These (offerings) belong to only one deity namely Prajapati”. So 
saying in a low-tone, he should loudly say “Recite the invitatoty chant for the 
offerings of the bucks” and again in a low voice “To Prajapati” and again in a loud 
voice “Urge the offerings of the bucks that are standing ready”. (Third Brahmana 
Ends) 



VI.1.4.6 ] 


TRANSLATION 


15 


BRAHMANA IV 

1. At the midday savana, he consecrates (the Yajamana) by pouring water and 
at the midday savana , they run a race. This sacrifice which is being performed is 
Prajapati. Him, the Prajapati who is sacrifice, he wins in the middle (of the 
sacrifice). 

2. (What is being stated below, he does) when the Mahendragrahais not drawn. 
This ( Mdhendrd) is the exclusive graha for Indra. Its stotra is (also) exclusive (to 
Indra) and its sastra is (also) exclusive. Yajamana is indeed, the sovereign (Indra). 
So he wins him (Indra) in his own abode (Yajamana). So it is (to be done) before 
the Mahendragraha is drawn. 

3. He brings down the chariot for him (Indra, saying) ‘Thou art the thunder¬ 
bolt of Indra”. This chariot is indeed, the thunderbolt and the Yajamana is Indra, 
when he says ‘Thou art the thunderbolt of Indra’ he only means ‘You belong to 
Yajamana’. (He says) “Winner of wealth {vdja) " for, vdja means food and he only 
says‘winner of food’. (Hesays) “Let this one (Yajamana) win wealth byyou”.‘By you 
let him win food’ is what he means by saying “Let this one win wealth by you”. 

4. Then that chariot which is yoked, he turns it into the vedi (saying) “In the 
winning of wealth, the great mother”. Vdja is food and thereby he says ‘in the 
winning of food the great mother’. (He says) “Aditi by name, we praise with 
speech”. Now, Aditi is this earth. So he says “Aditi by name, we praise with speech”, 
“In whom all this universe has entered” for, this entire universe has entered into her 
(earth). “Thereon, may the divine Savitr acclaim this our ritual . (It means) On 
her, let the divine Savitr enable the Yajamana to (win the) empire’, for, the 
Yajamana is the ritual. So he says “Thereon may the divine Savitr acclaim this our 

ritual”. 

5. They then bathe the horses (with water). When they bathe them, they 
sprinkle diem with water uttering this Yajus verse. He sprinkles them with water 
when they are bathed or when they are being brought up after being watered. As 
to why they sprinkle them with waters is because at th e beginning, horse originated 
from waters. When it (horse) originated from waters, it emerged incomplete. It was 
indeed, incomplete when originated and hence it never stands on all its legs. What 
part of it was left behind in the waters, by that he is now filling it; completing it. So 

he sprinkles with waters. i 

6. He sprinkles with waters (saying) “O divine waters! what rushing, high- 
peaked, wealth-winning wave you have, therewith may this one win wealth”. Or (by 
saying) “Within the waters is nectar; in the waters is medicine, at the praises of the 
waters, may ye wax strong, ye horses!” 



TRANSLATION 


17 


VI.1.4.12 ] 

7. He having turned them, yokes them (to the chariot). He yokes the right 
one (horse) first and then the left one. According to human (practice) it is the left 
one that is first yoked and in the divine (practice) it is thus (the right one first). 

8. He yokes (saying) “Either the wind, or thought”—for there is nothing 
swifter than the wind and nothing swifter than the thought. So he says “Either the 
wind or thought”. ‘The twenty-seven Gandharvas, they yoked the horse at first”. 
These Gandharvas who are twenty-seven happened to yoke the horse at first. “Those 
who first yoked the horse, let them yoke thee”—that is what he says. They laid speed 
unto him at first—for, it is the twenty-seven Gandharvas, who at first laid speed into 
the horse. So ‘ those who first laid speed in the horse, let them put speed into you’— 
is what he says. 

9. Then he yokes the left one (saying) “Become possessed of the wind’s speed, 
O horse!, when thou art yoked”—thereby he renders him as swift as the wind; as 
swift as the thought. “Be thou possessed of the beauty oflndra’s right (steed) "Just 
as Indra’s right (steed) is prosperous, so you be for this Yajamana to prosper—is 
what he says. “Let the Maruts that know everything, yoke thee; let Tvasta impart 
speed unto your legs”—for, the animals belong to Tvasta. He whose are the animals, 
he is the master of those animals. “Let that Tvasta impart speed unto the legs” is what 
he says. He then yokes the right side (horse). In human practice, the left one is 
yoked first, but in divine practice, it is this way (the right one first). 

10. He yokes it (saying) “What speed has been secretly kept in you, O horse! 
what (speed) has been bestowed in the eagle and what the moving wind has”. He 
thereby says “What speed is concealed in you (O horse!). What speed is bestowed 
in the eagle and into the wind”. (He says) “With that strength, you the mighty”. He 
only says “With that prowess, for us”. When he says “With that strength, you the 
mighty”. (He says) “Become winner of food (for us) and cause us to cross over the 
battle of the sacrifice”. Vdja means food and (he says) “Become winner of food for 
us and enable us to cross over this divine battle (i.e. sacrifice) . Thereby he says Win 
thou this sacrifice, namely Prajapati, for us’ when he says “Become winner of food 
and enable us to cross over this battle of sacrifice”. 

11. Now only those three (horses) are yoked. If the fourth is yoked, it would 
be doing it in the human way. What is a human practice is taboo in the divine 
(context). The sacrifice is threefold and there are three worlds. Therefore only 
these three are yokedThe fourth unyoked, stands by the side of the yoke (when the 
third is yoked). When they (the horses) are given (when the chariot with four 
horses is given to the Adhvaryu) this one (the fourth) is also to be given after using 
it (after yoking to the chariot). 

12. Then they bring this cam (rice-pap) for Brhaspati, made of wild rice 
measuring seventeen sardvas (shallow cups for measuring grains). He (the 
Yajamana) is indeed, winning food when he performs Vdjapeya . Cam is the risible 
food. This is odana (cooked rice) and cooked rice is die ready food. From that, cam 



TRANSLATION 


19 


VI.1.4.13 ] 


is made. It measures seventeen sardvas (of wild rice) for, Prajapati is seventeenfold. 
They are wild rice, for, wild rice is ripened by Brahman, and hence wild rice. This 
( cam) belongs to Brhaspati because it was Brhaspati who first won this sacrifice. 
So it (cam) belongs to Brhaspati. 

13. He makes the horses smell it (cam ). (He says) “Ye horses, the winners of 
vaja” — vdja means food. So he says, ‘winners of food’. (He says ‘Ye who advance 
proceed forward, to the food’. For they do indeed charge forward (as in a battle to 
win-food). (He says) “Smell Brhaspati’s portion”—this cam which he causes the 
horses to smell, belongs to Brhaspati. So he only puts vigour into them. (He says) 
“This food, this sacrifice, namely Prajapati—let me win”. That is how he wins this 
food, this sacrifice, namely Prajapati. (Fourth Brahmana Ends) 


(Chapter One Ends) 



VI. 2.1.6] 


TRANSLATION 


21 


Chapter Two 
BRAHMANA I 

1. Now, while running a race, he thereby wins this (terrestrial) world. And, 
when Brahma mounts the cart-wheel set up at the height of the navel, he (Brahma) 
sings that Sdman and by that he (the Yajamana) wins the aerial world and when he 
erects the yiipa, by that he wins the heaven itself, the world of the gods. That is why 
these are done. 

2. He the Brahma, ascends the cart-wheel (saying) “At the prompting (sava) 
of the god Savitr of true impulsion, may we ascend unto the highest heaven of 
Brhaspati ”. If a Brahmana is performing (the Vajapeya ), Brhaspati being a Brahmana, 
Brahma, a Brahmana (says so). If a Ksatriya is performing ( Vajapeya) (he has to say) 
“At the prompting of the divine Savitr of true impulsion, may we ascend unto the 
highest heaven oflndra”, for Indra belongs to royalty and Ksatriya is also of royalty. 

3. Thrice he sings the Sdman. Having sung the Sdman thrice, he descends 
(saying) “At the prompting of the divine Savitr of true impulsion, I have ascended 
unto the highest heaven of Brhaspati” or ‘I have ascended the highest heaven of 
Indra' (as the case might be). 

4. Then, they tie these seventeen drums (leather-covered musical instru¬ 
ments) (around the altar) from the Agnidhra backwards upto the end of the altar. 
He who performs Vajapeya does win Pnyapati. Prajapati is vdk (speech). This 
(sound) of these seventeen drums is the supreme speech. He thus wins the 
supreme vdk, namely the supreme Prajapati. They (the drums) are seventeen, 
because Prajapati is seveteenfold. 

5. When they run the race, they beat one of these drums (saying) “O Brhaspati! 
win the race you convey your speech to Brhaspati. Make Brhaspati announce 
victory”—this if a Brahmana performs, because Brhaspati is Brahmana and Brahma 
is Brahmana, If a Ksatriya performs (it will read as) “O Indra! win the race. Convey 
your speech to Indra. Make Indra announce victory”. For, Indra is Ksatra and ksatra 
means royalty. 

6. And when those race-running chariots are released, he separates one of 
those drums (saying) ‘This has been your true chorus by which you made 
Brhaspati announce victory. You indeed, made Brhaspad utter the speech; O lords 
of the worlds! be released”. Thus separating one (drum), he unties all the drums. 



TRANSLATION 


VL2.1.11 ] 


23 


7. Having declared the race, when the chariots return, then the Rajanya 
(prince) shoots seventeen arrow’s range. He who performs Vajapeya wins Prajapati. 
As long as is one arrow-range, so much is man lengthwise. As much as is the length 
of seventeen arrow’s range, that much is Prajapati lengthwise. So he shoots 
seventeen arrow’s range, for Prajapati is seventeenfold. Rajanya shoots, for, 
Rajanya is nearest to Prajapati. He is indeed, nearest (to Prajapati) and that is why 
being one, he rules over many. Therefore, the Rajanya shoots. At the seventeenth 
shooting spot, he makes the boundary and it becomes the spot for descending. 

8. Now, the Yajamana, steps upon the chariot (saying) “At the prompting of 
the divine Savitr of true impulsion, may we win the race of Brhaspati, who wins 
races”. Just as once Brhaspati approached Savitr for impulsion, in die same 
manner, this one (the Yajamana) rushes to this Savitr for impulsion. Him, the Savitr 
prompts. Thus prompted by Savitr, he wins. This is chanted by that one (priest) 
who knows this Yajus or the Yajamana himself (chants). 

9. He touches the right-side yoke (saying) “O horses! Ye win vaja” for, these 
horses do win vdja. Vaja is food and he only says ‘win food’. (He says) “Leaving 
behind the roads” because they are running, leaving the roads behind. “Measuring 
the stages” for, they cover the road measuring in stages. (He says) ’’Reach the goal 
(winning post) ”. He says ‘Reach the destination’ when he says ‘Reach the goal’. 

10. While running the race, they beat the drums and Brahma sings the Saman . 
There is great noise. Then the Adhvaryu, with these two chants in Jagati metre, 
either addresses or makes offering. Whether he addresses or makes the offering, 
it is of the same significance. He thereby speeds these running horses. He imparts 
rigour unto them, so that the terrible Raksasas do not get at them. Thus this one 
(the Adhvaryu) either chants or makes offering (saying) ‘That horse speedeth after 
the whip, fettered at the neck and shoulder and mouth, may Dadhikra enrich this 
sacrifice; may his foot-prints fall on the winding roads. Of him (the horse) who is 
running speedily, eagerly advancing, with wings of the bird fanning as of gliding 
eagle, with the velocity of the divine horse (Dadhikravna ), with strength, he crosses”. 

11. With this Trc (collection of three Rks ), he chants but not makes offerings. 
Then (the horses) which are running, he speeds them; he imparts vigour into 
them. These earths are three. This (which is risible for us) is one and there are two 



TRANSLATION 


VI.2.1.16 ] 


25 


others. He wins those two and this. (He says) “Let the horses be auspicious for us 
at the invocations in the divine service; running their measured course, with 
beautiful song; swallowing the dragon, the wolf, the evil spirits; may they ever keep 
away afflictions that approach us”. “Those horses, want to hear the calls; may they 
all hear our call, the horses running their measured course; they, the winners of 
thousands, who by themselves have captured many great gains in the contests”. “In 
every race, help us, ye racers, at the prizes. Ye, wise immortal knowers of the divine 
law; drink of this mead, be gladdened and satisfied, walk ye on the paths trodden 
by the gods”—(thus saying) having reached the goal, he passes the length of the 
horses at the right side. 

12. Then they stand by with the Barhaspatya cant (the rice-pap meant for 
Brhaspati) at the catuala pit. He who performs Vajapeya is indeed, winning food. 
This cam is the evident food, because it is cooked rice. Cooked rice is ready food 
and it is from that, the cam is made. 

IS. He approaches and touches it. He wins food by means of that (cam) . For 
that very reason he touches it. He takes it into himself and owns it within himself. 

14. He touches it (saying) “May gain of wealth come to me” Wealth means 
food; he thus says ‘May gain of food accrue to me’. (He further says) “May these two, 
heaven and earth, of universal form”—for, Prajapati is these two, heaven and earth. 
“May father and mother come to me”—for, Prajapati is both father and mother. 
(He says) “May soma come to me to (confer) immortality”; for, Prajapati is soma. 
With these, he touches his own belly because it is there that the food settles. 

15. Then he makes the horses smell it (cam) (saying) “0 horses! winners of 
Vdja” —for, these horses are of course winners of Vdja. Vdja means food. So he only 
says ‘winners of food’. (He says) “Causing food to flow”; for, at the beginning he 
had said “thosewho let food flow”. So they let flow and hence here they are causing 
food to flow. “Ye (horses)! smell the portion of Brhaspati” because, this earabelongs 
to Brhaspati. (He says) “Take(it) in”. In the beginning, while making the horses 
smell (the cam) he had said, “This is food; enable me to win this sacrifice, namely 
Prajapati" and therefore now, he makes them smell (saving) “This is food. This 
sacrifice, namely Prajapati, I havew'on”. So he says “Take (it) in”. The Yajamana thus 
acquires this food, this energy’ and vigour. 

16. Then through the eastern door (the Adhvaryu and the Yajamana) make 
the Madkugraha emerge out and by the hind door, the Surdgrahas (are taken out). 
Now, on one of those race running chariots, there has been standing aVaisya or a 
Rajanya. To him, he (the Adhvaryu) gives this Madkugraha (saying) “Oh this one 



TRANSLATION 


VI.2.2.5 3 


27 


is yours”. Then he (the Nestr) presents one of the Suragrahas and says “With these 
I buy him (Madhugraha) from you”. Thus he imbues the Yzijamana with truth, 
prosperity and glory and unto that Rajanya or Vaisya, he deposits untruth, sin and 
darkness. He enjoys with them (those Suragrahas) as they have become his own. If 
he wishes, he drinks, if he wishes he pours it, as he would behave with his own 
possessions. Then this Yajamana gives that Madhugraha to Brahma. By giving to 
Brahma, he only owns to himself immortal life. (First Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA II 

1. He goes to the Ahavaniya and with the sruva, he offers these (following) 
offerings from the djyasthdU (pot for melting butter) “To the one obtained (Apaye), 
Svdhd; to the one well-obtained (Svdpaye), Svdhd; to the water-borne, Svdhd; to the 
sacrifice or intention, Svdhd; to theVasu, Svdha; to the lord of the days (i.e. the year), 
Svdhd; to the day which knows no evil, Svdhd; to the innocent who is favourable to 
wrong doers, Svdhd; to the one born last to a wrong-doer, Svdhd; to the youngest son 
bom of the universe, Svdhd; to the lord of the universe, Svdhd; to the over-lord, 
Svdhd V Thus he makes twelve offerings. He who performs Vdjapeya is winning 
Prajapati himself. There are twelve months for a year and Prajapati is the year. 
Therefore he wins Prajapati. 

2. Then he makes him utter or make offerings with these six klrpiis (mantras 
having a verb from the root klrp). Whether he utters or offers with them, in either 
case, the significance is the same. (They are) “May my life prosper through (this) 
sacrifice; let my vital air prosper through (this) sacrifice; let my eye prosper through 
(this) sacrifice; let my ear prosper through (this) sacrifice; let the backside of my 
body prosper through (this) sacrifice; may the sacrifice prosper through (this) 
sacrifice”. He who performs Vdjapeya is winning Prajapati. There are six seasons in 
a year; and Prajapati is the year. By making him utter these klrptis, he wins Prajapati. 
Having strengthened (his sense-organs) he wins Prajapati. 

3. The yupais eight-cornered; for, Gayatri is eight-syllabled and Gayatri isAgni, 
because, Agni has Gayatri as its metre. Agni means all the gods. So thereby, he wins 
the divine world. 

4. Then the yupa has a non-sharp (blunt) top. It has the shape of a pit (at the 
top); pit has the pitrs as its deity. Therefore he wins the world of pitrs. 

5. It (the pit on the top of the yupa) is like a cup made of wheat dough. This 
man is nearest to Prajapati and he is skinless. And among the plants, wheat comes 
nearest to man. They (wheat) have no skin, nor has the man. By that he wins the 
world of men. 



TRANSLATION 


VL2.2.10 ] 


29 


6. That (yupa) is wound or bound by seventeen pieces of cloth; for, Prajapati 
is seventeenfold. So it is covered or bound by seventeen pieces of cloth. It (yupa) 
also measures seventeen aratnis (measures by hand). Prajapati is seventeenfold. So 
he wins Prajapati. 

7. Now, just before he climbs the yupa, they bring the wife (of the Yajarnana). 
While taking her there, they make her wrapped in a garment made of kusa grass or 
in a candataka (a skirt covering half the thighs) made of kusa grass, over the cloth 
(already being worn by her since the initiation). Let it be a garment of grass ( to 
wrap over) now. That part of her body below the naval is impure (unfit for sacrificial 
occasion). She is now advancing to propitiate the sacrifice. The sacrifice is pure, so 
too are the kusa grass. She, this much purified by the pure (kusagznnent) , advances 
forward to propitiate this sacrifice. 

8. Then the wooden scaffold (ladder) is set ready. With that he ascends the 
yupa. In this manner, he ascends northwards. Some climb southwards. That is not 
to be done so. One should climb only northwards, for the north is the direction of 
humans and it is (the quarter) that belongs to the Yajarnana, So he climbs only 
northwards. 

9. While about to climb the yupa, he addresses his wife, “Come wife, let us 
ascend to the sky”. She replies “Let us ascend”. Now, why he addresses thus the wife 
is this—she who is the wife is one half of his own self. She is indeed one half of his 
self. That is why, as long as he is alone, he does not become many, does not 
procreate. He is deficient, incomplete. And only when he gets a wife, then only he 
becomes many, procreates; becomes whole and complete. Climbing this (yupa) , he 
feigns to be climbing to the heavenly world; because he has won the heavenly world 
(by the Vdjapeya) . That which is his half (wife), with that he unites. Having united 
with that (half) he attains that victory and thatamounts to having won the heavenly 
world. Nothing of his is left over (here). 

10. He ascends (thinking) “We have become Prajapati's children”. He who 
performs Vdjapeya does indeed become Prajapati’s child. He touches the wheat (on 
the top of the yupa, saying) “We have reached to the light, O gods!” He who 
performs Vdjapeya indeed, reaches the light. And why he touches the wheat is 
because he who performs Vajapeyav/ias food. Having gone to that (supreme) state 
and having won the heavenly world, he has won this food. So he contacts it and puts 
it into himself, owns it in himself. With that (wheat dough) he smears his belly 
because it is there (in the belly) that food settles. 



TRANSLATION 


31 


VL2.2.16 ] 

11. He then rises by (the measure of) his head above the yupa. By that he wins 
the world of the gods. Raising the headjhe chants “Ours be your power, ours be 
your manliness and your intelligence; ours be your glories'’. He who performs 
Vajapeya does win Prajapati and Prajapati is all these; all these worlds, all these 
quarters. So he having won Prajapati, he gains the power and glory of everything. 
He who thus acquires (everything) is called the Samrdt (emperor). 

12. They throw at him packets of salt. He who performs Vajapeyamns food. In 
this salt, all food is contained; in this all the eaters of food. For salt means cattle and 
cattle is visible food. From them these salt packets come into being. 

13. These (salts) are packed in the leaves of Asvattha, Asvattha belongs to the 
Manits. (Once) Indra addressed the Maruts which were staying on the Asvattha 
tree. Therefore Asvattha belongs to the Maruts. The Maruts are the vits (peasants) 
and peasants are food. Therefore these salts are wrapped in Asvattha leaves. 

14. Along with the peasants, they (salts) are thrown up. Vits are food. They 
(packets of salt) are seventeen and Prajapati is seventeenfold. Because he wins this 
food, he causes that (food in the form of the salt) to touch it (the yupa) . By that he 
enriches. He puts it into it. 

15. Then looking at the earth, he chants “Homage be to the Mother Earth!” 
On that earlier occasion when Brhaspati won this sacrifice, namely Prajapati, he 
became afraid of this earth (thinking) “I have swayed away from her (the earth) by 
my winning this sacrifice, that is Prajapati. I fear lest she may shake me off”. The 
earth got afraid of him (Brhaspati) “Something great surely, hath this person 
become by his winning this sacrifice, that is, Prajapati. I fear lest he may despise me”. 
(Brhaspati) came to an understanding with her (earth) “The mother would not 
harm the son, nor the son would, the mother”. 

16. In like manner this one (Yajamana) gets afraid of this earth (thinking) U I 
have swayed away from her by winning this sacrifice, that is, Prajapati. I fear lest she 
may shake me off”. The earth gets afraid of him (Yajamana) “Something great 
surely, hath this person become by his winning this sacrifice, that is Prajapati. 1 fear 
lest he may despise me”. He (Yajamana) comes to an understanding with her 
(earth) ‘The mother would not harm the son nor the son would, the mother”. 



TRANSLATION 


33 


VL2.3.3 ] 

17. He then descends, trampling upon a piece of gold. Gold is immortal life 
and so he ultimately gets established in immortal life. 

18. Then they bring a seat of Udumbara wood for him (and place it) in front 
of the Havirdhdna and behind the Ahavantya. He who performs Vajapeya gains a 
seat in the upper level, that is, a seat in the aerial region. His winning the upper seat, 
that is the seat in the aerial region entitles him for this (seat of Udumbara at a higher 
level). Him who is thus seated above, these commonfoik ( prajd ) seated below 
attend upon. (This seat) is of Udumbara wood; for Udumbarais sustenance or food. 
Hence it is of Udumbara wood. 

19. He covers it with a goat-skin. He who performs Vajapeya is winning 
Prajapati. Prajapati is the bull among (she) animals. Here in the case of the she- 
goats, the he-goatis the bull and Prajapati is nearest to that Ajarsabha (bull among 
goats). That with which he wins Prajapati, by that itself he makes it touch and 
enriches it with that Therefore he covers it with a goat-skin. 

20. He covers it (saying) ‘This is thy kingship”—whereby he bestows kingdom 
on him, he makes him get a kingdom. Then holding him (the Yajamana) by hand, 
leads him down (saying) “Thou art the controller (of all), you are the ruler". He 
(thereby) makes him the controller and ruler of all these subjects. Then he makes 
him seated (saying) Thou art firm and steadfast”. Thereby he makes him firm and 
steadfast. These worlds (he says) I make you sit for tilling, for protecting (what is 
earned), for wealth and for growth”. He only means ‘for welfare’. (Second 
Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA III 

1. He proceeds with this cant belonging to Brhaspati, The offering is made to 
its deity. Even when its Sxnslakrt offering remains yet to be given, he (the Adhvaryu) 
collects this food. This is the medicine for everything. Thus he collects that food for 
him. He who performs Vajapeya, wins food. What they call Vajapeya is really 
Annapeya, Thus, whatever food he (the Yajamana) has thereby gained, that he 
(Adhvaryu) now brings to him. 

2. In a camasarci 2 .de of Udumbarawood, he brings the food. For, Udumbara tree 
is sustenance, that is food. He indeed collects food. Therefore (he collects) in the 
camasa made of Udumbara wood. 

3. He first collects water, then milk and then other foods that occur to his 
mind. Some say that seventeen (items of food) are to be collected, because Prajapati 
is seventeenfold. He need collect (only) those (types of food) he remembers or that 
he could get. 



TRANSLATION 


35 


VL2.3.9 ] 

4. From these types of food so collected, one (type of) food he should select 
and announce it (by name). That one type of food, he should not eat throughout 
his life. By doing so, all the food of Prajapati is not appropriated, (his abstention 
from that particular food amounts to his not appropriating for himself all the food 
of Prajapati). Which man can (dare to) appropriate all his (Prajapati’s) food? 
Thereby he does not go to the end (exhaust all food) and hence he lives long. That 
food (which he avoids throughout his life) is here left over for his progeny 
(subjects). 

5. Of the food he so collects, these offerings called Vajaprasairya are offered. 
He who performs Vdjapeya indeed, wins food. To which deities he offers 
these ( Vdjaprasavya) offerings, those deities are pleased with him and grant this 
food unto him. Thus granted by them, he wins (the food). 

6. He offers (saying) Tn the beginning, the producer of food granted”—thus 
he offers seven offerings. Then what food is left over, (which remains of the food 
after the seven offerings) with that he bathes him. He, who performs Vdjapeyadoes 
win food. That food which he thus wins, with that he is bathed. He enriches him 
with that. He puts it (food) into him. So he bathes him (with that). 

7. He bathes (saying) “At the impulse of the divine savitr (I bathe) thee, by the 
arms of the Asvins, by the hands of Pusan. Unto Sarasvati I deposit the fourth aspect 
of speech (i.e. vaikhan ) in the form of the stotrahymns containing comprehensible 
letters. Sarasvati is forsooth, vak. So he puts the fourth (aspect of speech) in the 
stotra of Sarasvati whose name is made of four letters. 

8. “O Brhaspati ! I bathe you with the empire”. So it should be said, if it is a 
Brahmana who is the Yajamana. For, Brhaspati is Brahma and Brahma is Brahman a. 
“O Indra! I bathe you, with the empire”. So it is said if it is a Ksatriya who is the 
Yajamana. For, Indra is Ksatra and Ksatra is Ksatriya. 

9. He thrice announces “This one (Yajamana) had become an emperor”. Him 
thus already indicated (associated) as (emperor) he again announces to the gods. 
“This one (Yajamana) is yours; you may protect him, recognise him”. (He says so) 
for, he isjoining the gods. He who performs Vdjapeya does become one among the 
gods. 



TRANSLATION 


37 


VI.2.3.13 ] 

10. Thus he either announces or offers (oblations) to (celebrate) his victory. 
The significance is the same, whether he announces or offers. These gods won by 
those announcements of victory. In the same way, the Yajamana wins by these 
(announcements of victory). 

11. “Agni won the life-breath with one syllable. Prajapati won the seventeen¬ 
fold stotra by means of seventeen syllables and (said), “I have won him”. Just as these 
deities won by these (announcements of) victories, this Yajamana wins with these 
(announcements of victory). 

12. Then he says “Recite (the invitatory chant for Agni the Svistakrt). Pro¬ 
nounce the offering prayer for Agni, the Svistakrt”. He offers when the Vasat is 
uttered. Now why this rite is performed between the two oblations is this—this 
sacrifice which is being performed is of course, the Prajapati. He thereby wins 
Prajapati in the very middle of this sacrifice that belongs to Prajapati. He annoints 
him in the middle. He then puts Ida, (in the Idapatra) and he having sprinkled water, 
draws Mahendragraha. After having drawn the Mahendragraha, he calls for the stotra 
(to be chanted). He (Yajamana) gets down (from the seat) when the stotrais started 
(chanting). He is in attendance at the chant of the stotra and in the end he is in 
attendance at the recitation of the sastra. Stotra is the self and sastra is the subjects. 
He is in attendance at both these. 

13. Some chant the stotra and then perform this rite. It should notbe done so. 
For stotra is self and sastra is the subjects. Thereby, with those two he ruins the 
sacrifice, he goes astray and becomes a sinner by offering. So this ( Vdjaprasaviya 
offering) rite should be done before and only at the end, the stotra should be 
chanted and at the end of it, sastra to be recited. Stotra is self and sastra is subjects 
and they both should be at the end of this rite. He becomes prosperous by (so) 
offering. (Third Brahmana Ends) 


(Chapter Two Ends) 

VAJAPEYA kanda ends 



RAJASUYA KANDA 


Chapter One 
BRAHMANA I 

1. He offers the full offering. He offers the full offering since the full means 
the All. “May I be consecrated after encompassing the All” (so he thinks). He offers 
with the (offering formula) Svaha; for Svaha is undefined and the All is undefined. 
So he offers with Svdhakara. At this he bestows a boon, for a boon means all. ‘Having 
encompassed the All, may I be consecrated” (thus he thinks). He may perform this 
offering if he chooses, or if he chooses he may ignore it. 

2. On the following day, he prepares a puroddsa in eight potsherds, as hams 
(food) for Anumati and he offers it in the same way as the (regular) isti. Whatever 
portion of the grains, while being ground, falls down behind the samya (peg 
attached to the grinding stone) that he collects and throws into the sruva. The other 
portion falling in front (of the peg) he cooks it to make the puroddsa in eight 
potsherds for Anumati. With the others collected in the sruva, goes southward, 
taking a firebrand from the anvdhdryapacana (southern fire) (and reaches) where 
he may find a natural cliff or a marshy place. 

3. There, he kindles fire and offers it (grains collected in the sruva) into that 
fire (saying) “O Nirrtii, this is thy portion; accept it graciously— Svaha ,”. For, Nirrti 
is this earth; whomsoever she seizes upon with evil, him, she seizes upon with 
destruction; hence whatever part of this (Earth) is under the sway of the evil Nirrti, 
that is propitiated. Thereby, while being consecrated, Nirrti, the evil does not seize 
upon him. Why he offers in the naturally formed cliff or marshy place is because 
it is the spot seized upon by Nmti 

4. They then return without looking backward (at that place). Then they 
proceed with the puroddsa in eight potsherds for Anumati. Anumad is this (Earth). 
It is this (Earth) that approves him who is capable of doing that rite or him who 
wishes to do it. He propitiates her (the Earth). Thus approved by that Anumati, let 
me get consecrated” (so he thinks). Now why it is in eight potsherds is this—Gayatri 
is eight-syllabled. This Earth is basically die same as Gayatri. So it is in eight 
potsherds. And now why he offers in two instalments the same havisi s because they 
are unrelated (non-redundant). Both of them form Anumati. For this offering, a 
garment is daksind. One who has a (new) garment does not dare to enter into a 
(lonely) jungle; but haring kept the garment somewhere in safe custody, he escapes 
(the risk of being robbed). In like manner, no evil befalls him while being 
consecrated. 



TRANSLATION 


VII.LI.9 ] 


41 


5. And on the following day, he prepares a puroddsa in eleven potsherds for 
Agni and Visnu and offers it in the same way as in a (regular) isti. As to why he offers 
that ( Puroddsa) of Agni and Visnu is, because Agni is all the gods. For, it is in Agni 
that offerings are made to all die gods. Agni, forsooth is the lower half and Visnu 
is the upper half of the sacrifice. (He thinks) “Let me be consecrated after thus 
encompassing all the gods and the entire sacrifice”. (So thinking) he offers with 
that ( puroddsa) of Agni and Visnu. For this, gold is the daksina. This sacrifice is of 
Agni and Agni is seed and seed is gold. Agni is sacrifice indeed and so this is 
definitely of Agni. Therefore gold is daksina. for this. 

6. And on the next day, he prepares ^ puroddsa in eleven potsherds for Agni 
and Soma and they offer it in the same way as an (ordinary) isti. Now why he offers 
with that {puroddsa) for Agni and Soma is this—It is with this that Indra killed Vrtra 
and thereby he gained that universal conquest which now is his. In like manner, 
does this one (Yajamana) slay his sinful, hateful enemy and in like manner he does 
gain victory. “May I be consecrated when safety and security from evil-doers have 
been gained” (so he thinks). For this a bull set at liberty (after being used as a beast 
of burden) is the daksina. This moon they eat up after letting off. They slay this 
(moon) from the full-moon onwards and then release him (allow to grow) from the 
new-moon onwards. So (because this offering is for Soma, the moon) the bull set 
at liberty is the daksina. 

7. And on the following day, he prepares a puroddsa in twelve potsherds for 
Indra and Agni and offers in the same way as in an (ordinary) isti. And as to why with 
that {puroddsa) Indra and Agni is this—Now, when Indra threw the thunderbolt at 
Vrtra, from him (Indra) who was intending to kill Vrtra, the vigour and energy went 
away. He, by this, regained vigour which is Agni and energy which is Indra and put 
them into himself and owned them within himself. In like manner, this one 
(Yajamana) regains vigour which is Agni and energy which is Indra and puts them 
into himself and owns them within himself. (He thinks)—“May I be consecrated 
after haring put both these into myself’. For this, an ox, that is bull, is the daksina. 
Because he, (the ox) by its shoulder is of Agni’s nature and by his testicles, he is of 
Indra’s nature. 

8. On the next day, he performs the Agrayana isti Because, he who performs 
Rdjasuya , he encompasses all sacrificial rites; all i$tis and all offerings with darvi 
(spoon). This sacrifice is indeed, instituted by gods. The Agrayana isti is instituted 
by gods. “May this also be performed by me. Let me be consecrated by this too” (so 
he thinks). It is for the plants that he who is consecrated is consecrated. Thereby 

__ _ T__X* /__5____I 




“May I, by being consecrated, render the plants healthy and faultless". 

9. And on the following day, he performs the Caturmdsya rites. He who 
performs the Rdjasuya, he encompasses all the sacrificial rites, all the istis and all 
offerings with darvi. This sacrifice is instituted by gods and what are Cdturmasyaszre 
also initiated by gods. (He thinks) “May these be also performed by me and may I 
be consecrated by these (offerings) also”. Therefore he performs the Cdiurmdsyas. 
(First Brahmana Ends) 


VIL1.2.6 ] 


TRANSLATION 
BRAHMANA II 


43 


1. He performs the Vaisvadeva offering. He performs Vaisvadeva because 
Brhaspati by means of Vaisvadeva, created abundance of creatures. In the same 
manner, this one (Yajamana) creates abundance of creatures through Vaisvadeva . 
“After creating abundance of creatures, let me be consecrated”— (so he thinks). 

2. He then offers the Varunapraghasa oblations. For, by means of 
Varunapraghasa, Prajapati released the creatures from Varuna’s noose and thereby 
healthy and faultless creatures were bom. In like manner, this one (Yajamana) 
releases the creatures (progeny) from Varuna’s noose by means of these 
Varunapraghasa offerings and thereby healthy and faultless progeny are bom. (He 
thinks) ‘Let me produce healthy and faultless progeny’. 

3. Then he offers the Sakamedha oblations. For, it is with the Sakamedhas the 
gods slew Vrtra and gained that universal victory which now is theirs. Similarly this 
one (Yajamana) now slays his sinful, hateful enemy and he does gain the victory 
(thinking) ‘Let me be consecrated when safety and security are gained’. 

4. Then he offers the Sundsira offering (thinking) “May I be consecrated, 
having absorbed both (prosperity and sap) Then he offers pancavdtfiya (five 
oblations to the five winds). For that they partition the Ahavaniya fire into five parts; 
eastward, northward, westward, southward and in the middle. 

5 8c 6. He does that offering (saying) ‘To those gods seated at the eastwho have 
Agni as their eyes —Svdhd”, at the eastern (portion of Ahavaniya). "To those gods 
seated at the south, who have Yamaas their eyes —Svdhd (so saying) at the southern 
portion. To the gods seated at the west, who have Visvedevdszs their eyes— Svdhd *; 
(So saying) at the western portion; To the gods seated at the north, who have Mitra 
and Varuna as their eyes, or who have Marats as their eyes— Svdhd”. (So saying he 
offers at the northern portion). To those gods seated above, who have Soma as 
their eyes and who are rich in food—Svdhd” (so saying) at the middle portion (he 
offers). 



TRANSLATION 


vn.1.2.12 ] 


45 


7. Now, as to why he thus offers—when by means of the Sdkamedha offerings, 
the gods gained victory which now is their’s, they said, “These Raksasas are sucking 
up these creatures in the (four) quarters; let us strike at them (with thunderbolt) ”. 
The thunderbolt is nothing but ghee and with that thunderbolt of ghee, the gods 
struck at the terrible Raksasas in the quarters. With that they conquered, which now 
is their conquest. In like manner this one (Yajamana), with this thunderbolt of 
ghee, strikes at the terrible Raksasas in the quarters (thinking) “Let I be conse¬ 
crated when safety and security have been gained”. That is why he offers those five 
prior oblations. 

8. Now as to why he offers those five later oblations is this—while separating 
the (Ahavamya) fire (into five portions), he is tearing it asunder and splitting it as 
it were into five parts. That Agni which he is thus tearing asunder and wounding, 
that he heals by these oblations; he puts them together and propitiates him (the 
Ahavaniya fire). So these five later oblations, he offers. 

9. For this ( pancavdttlya ), a chariot with two horses (yoked) with a third stand¬ 
by horse is daksina. They form five winds, three horses, two charioteers, one 
stationed at the left and another charioteer (on the right). That which is the life- 
breath is the wind. Since these five breathing beings (i.e. three horses and two 
horsemen) form the daksina it is called pancavattiyam . 

10. This {pancavdttlya), one can also offer as incantation (to remove sorcery) 
at the cow-shed where cow-dung is collected. The yonder one which blows (wind.) 
is this vital air. He blows as if he is one and after entering the human body, he gets 
spli t tenfold. Ten are these oblations offered and thereby endows him with the ten 
vital airs. He puts into him (the afflicted) the whole span of life. He thus attains full 
longevi ty of life. Even if he happens to be almost dead, he (the priest) brings him 
round again. 

11. And on the next day he offers the Indra-Turiya. For that he prepares a 
purodasa in eight potsherds for Agni; for Vanina, a cam made of barley; for Rudra, 
a cam of Gavedhuka seed; for Indra, milk of a cow accustomed to be yoked. 

12. And as to why he offers the Indra-Tunya is this—Indra and Agni, once, 
consulted with each other “Verily these Raksasas suck out these (creatures) in the 
quarters; let us strike at them with this (thunderbolt) They, Indra and Agni, with 
this havis, struck at the terrible Raksasas at the quarters and by that they achieved 
this victory which now is theirs. In the same way, this one (Yajamana) with this havis 
strikes at the terrible Raksasas in the quarters (thinking) “May I be consecrated 
when safety and security have been gained”. 



TRANSLATION 


VTI.1.2.17 ] 


47 


13. Then Agni said, “Let three parts of this havis be my share and the fourth 
yours”. Indra said “Be it so”. The eight potsherds of the Agneya {cam) is the share 
of Agni; then that barley is of Varuna. He who is Varuna is forsooth, Agni. That 
becomes his (Agni’s) one share (second share) which is the earn made of barley. 
For, barleys belong to Varuna; then that Gavedhuka cam belonging to Rudra. He 
who is Rudra is forsooth, Agni. That becomes one share (third share) which is made 
of Gavedhukaseeds. That god (Rudra) is (the receipient) of what is in the periphery 
(what is left out on the edges of the sacrificial altar). Gavedhuka grass is (grown) on 
the bunds (of the fields) (as a subsidiary plant). Hence that cam is made of 
Gavedhuka seeds. That milk of the yoke-trained cow which belongs to Indra is the 
fourth share which is of Indra. That fourth share is the Turiya (by-name) and since 
Indra is the owner of the Turiya share of this havis it is called Aindra-Tunya, For this 
(oblation) that same cow accustomed to yoke is the daksind. That cow in respect of 
her shoulder has the nature of Agni. (Though) being a female she draws (burden) 
and hence she is of Varunic nature. Being a cow she has the nature of Rudra. In so 
far as this milk for Indra comes out of it, she has also the nature of Indra. Indeed 
that (cow) represents all that. Therefore she is the daksind for this. 

14. On the next day he performs the Apamdrga offering. It is by means of the 
Apdmdrgas that the gods wiped away (apdmrjata) the terrible Raksasas and hence 
they (the plants) are called Apdmdrgas . In the same way this one (Yajamana) wipes 
away the terrible Raksasas by means of the Apdmdrgas (thinking) “May I be 
consecrated when safety and security have been gained”. 

15. He takes the grains of Apamdrga on a spoon (smva) made either of Paldsa 
or Vikahkata, takes a fire-brand from the Anvdhdryapacana and proceeds eastward 
or northward and offers. 

16. He takes the fire-brand (saying) “O fire! encounter the onslaughts 
(prtand) ”. Onslaughts means battles and he only says ‘Withstand the battles’. (He 
says) “Repel the evil-wisher”. The evil-wisher means enemy. He thereby says 
“Vanquish the enemy”. (He further says) “Unconquerrable, conquerring the foes”; 
for, he is indeed impossible to be defeated by the terrible Raksasas, so defeating the 
foes’. He thus gets over all the evils. (He says) “Bestow glory on the offerer of 
sacrifice” by which he means ‘Bestow blessings on the Yajamana’, 

17. Then he offers (saying) “At the prompting of the divine Savitr, I offer with 
the arms of the Asvins, with the hands of Pusan”. The meaning of this has already 
been told. “I offer the oblation with the vigour of the updthsu ”(he says). Updthsu 
(cup of soma) is the mouth of the sacrifice. It is with the mouth of the sacrifice, that 
he kills the terrible Raksasas. “The Rak$asa has been slain— Svaha *—thereby he 
slays the terrible Raksasas. That direction to which he proceeds and makes this 
offering, in that direction he throws away the smva (used in the offering) (saying) 
“For the slaughter of the Raksasas—thee”. It indeed, slaughters the Raksasas, 



TRANSLATION 


VII. 1.3.2 ] 


49 


18. If that sruva happens to be of Palasa wood, Palasa being Brahman, it is by 
means of the Brahman, he kills the terrible Rak$asas. If it is of the Vikankata wood, 
Vikankata being the thunderbolt, it is by the thunderbolt, that he kills the terrible 
Raksasai (saying) “We have killed the Raksasas” they return. This indeed, kills the 
Raksasas. 

' 19. This (Apamarga) offering, he may also perform at the cow-shed where cow- 
dung is heaped and make a talisman of it (to counter sorcery by an enemy). In 
whatever direction he (the evil-wisher) is and against whichever (evil-wisher) he 
offers, he proceeds in that direction and offers (saying) “For so and so’s death, we 
have killed so and so” announcing his (enemy’s) name. This tree ( Vikankata) bears 
fruits at the bottom. He thereby supresses to the bottom that person who does 
something (sorcery) to him. (Second Brahmana Ends) 


brAhmana III 


1. He prepares this purodasa in eight potsherds for Agni and Visnu, a earn for 
Indra and Visnu and a puroddsain three potsherds or a cam for Visnu. With this he 
performs on the following day that Trisamyukta offering. He offers the ( Trisamyukta ) 
because the gods came to men by means of this. In like manner this one (Yajamana, 
here, the king) now thereby comes closer to men (thinking) ‘Let me consecrate 
after becoming accompanied by men’. For, only with manpower, one would be 
capable of doing that rite. What he wants to do, that he achieves only with (the help 
of) men. Now, why it is (with the purodasa) for Agni-Visnu, Agni is indeed the giver 
and these creatures surround him, the giver and whomsoever as giver these 
creatures surround, him (Agni)—he (Yajamana) propitiates. He (the giver) thus 
propitiated, gives him the men; he provides him with men. Thus he (the Yajamana) 
having acquired the man-power gets consecrated. Now why the cam for Indra and 
Visnu is because, Yajamana is Indra and the men are ofVbsnu. So those very men 
whom Agni as the giver, gives him, with those men, he is united; he takes them into 
him. Now, as to why the purodasa in three potsherds or the cam for Visnu those 
very men whom Agni the giver gives to him, in those men, he gets established 
ultimately* For this (offering) a dwarfish bull is the d&k&tuL A dwarfish bull 

represents the form of Visnu among the animals. 

2. And on the following day he prepares a puroddsa in eleven pothserds for 
Agni and Pusan, and a cam for Indra and Pusan. With these he offers the 
Trisamyukta oblation on the next day. Why he makes this (second Trisamyukta) is 
because the gods obtained cattle by means of this. In the same manner, this one 
(Yajamana) obtains cattle by this, (thinking) ‘Let me consecrate after.possessing 
cattle’. Only a person possessing cattle can perform that nte. What he wants to dlo, 
that he achieves with (the help of) cattle. Now, why this (purodasa) is for Agni- 



TRANSLATION 


51 


VII.1.3.4 ] 

Pusan. Agni is the giver and these creatures throng to the giver. The cattle are of 
Pusan. So whoever is the giver and whomsoever as giver, these creatures throng to, 
him he propitiates by this and he being propitiated, gives him cattle; he bestows him 
with cattle-wealth. He thus consecrates himself after becoming a possesser of cattle. 
Now, why the earn for Indra and Pusan is because the Yajamana is Indra indeed, and 
the cattle are of Pusan, So those very cattle which Agni, the giver, gives, he gets 
united with those (cattle) and owns them unto himself. Now, why there is a cam for 
Pusan—those very cattle which Agni, the giver gives, those (cattle) he ultimately 
gets established. For this, a dark grey bull is the daksind. In the colour of dark grey, 
there are both white and black. The two together form a productive pair. Pusan 
represents re-production and cattle are Pusan and cattle means production. 
Therefore for this, a dark grey bull is the daksind. 

3. And on the following day, he prepares a puroddsa in eleven potsherds for 
Agni and Soma; a candor Indra and Soma and a earn for Soma. With these, he offers 
the Trisamyukta oblation on the next day. Why he makes this (third Trisamyukta) 
is because the gods obtained glory by this. In like manner, this one (Yajamana) 
obtains glory by means of this (thinking) ‘Let me consecrate after becoming 
glorious’. The efforts of an inglorious (person) are of no use. Now, why this 
{puroddsa) is of Agni and Soma—Agni is the giver and these creatures are 
surrounding the giver. Soma is glory. So whosoever is the giver and whomsoever as 
giver, these creatures surround, him he propitiates by this and he thus propitated 
gives him glory; he makes him glorious. He thus consecrates himself after becoming 
glorious. Now, as to why the cam is for Agni and Soma—the Yajamana is Indra and 
Somais glory. So that very glory which Agni, the giver bestows on him, begets united 
with that and owns it unto himself. Now, why there is a rant for Soma is because that 
very glory that Agni, the giver, bestows on him, in that (glory), he ultimately gets 
established. For this a brown bull is the daksind. That brown bull represents the 
form of Soma among animals. 

4. And on the following day, he prepares a pumdasa in twelve potsherds for 
Vaisvanara and a earn made of barley for Vanina. These two offerings he makes 
either on days following one another or (successively) in the same barhis ( the barhis 
grass around the altar is not to be changed if offered in the same day in succession). 
That offering is made to Vaisvanara, because Vaisvanara, Prajapad is forsooth, the 
year. He created abundance of these creatures. In the same way this Yajamana 
creates abundance of progeny; (thinking) let me consecrate myself after creating 
abundance of creatures’. Now, why there are twelve potsherds- there are twelve 
months for a year and Vaisvanara Prajapad is the year. Therefore there are twelve 
potsherds. For this, a bull is Daksind . For the bull is the prajapad for animals. 
Vaisvanara Prajapad is the year. Therefore the bull is daksinafoT this. Now T as to the 
cam made of barley for Varuna, he released these creatures from all the sufferings 



TRANSLATION 


53 


m 1.4.5] 

and sins and ultimately from the noose of Varuna. Then offsprings free from 
decease and faultless are produced. If that (cam) is made of barley, since barley 
belongs to Varuna, (he thinks) ‘Let me have progeny free from decease and 
faultless’. For that a black garment is daksind. Black garment belongs to Varuna. If 
black one is not available, any cloth will do; it becomes fit for Varuna if it has a knot; 
for knot is Varuna. (Third Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA IV 

1. He offers ratninam havis (jewel-offerings). He performs the jewel-offerings 
because it is with them that he who performs the sacrifice (i.e. the king) is 
consecrated. Whatever jewels he has, he sees that those do not go away from him. 

2* He takes two fire-brands (one each from the Gdrkapatyaand the Ahavamya) 
and goes to the commander’s house and prepares apurodasam. eight potsherds for 
Agni, th e Anikavat, for, Agni is the Amka (leader) of the gods and the commander 
of the army is the leader. This commander is one of his (king’s) jewels. So it is for 
him that he is consecrated. Him (the commander) he makes himself. For this, gold 
is daksind. This sacrifice belongs to Agni and gold is the seed of Agni. Therefore gold 
is daksind for this. 

S. And on the following day (i.e. the second day) he prepares a cant for 
Brhaspati at the residence of his priest. Brhaspati is the priest of the gods. In the 
same manner, this one is the priest of his (king). This Purohita is one of his jewels. 
Therefore it is for him that he is thereby consecrated. Him (the priest) he makes 
loyal to himself. For this, a bull with white back is the daksind. This upper region 
belongs to Brhaspati and above that is Aryama’s (Sun’s) path. Therefore a bull with 
white back is daksind. 

4. Then on the next day (i.e. third day), he prepares a puroddsa in eleven 
potsherds for Indra at the house of the one who is consecrated (i.e, at the king’s 
residence). For, Indra is a Ksatra and he who is consecrated is Ksatra. Hence it is 
for K$atra (Indra). For this, a bull is daksind. For, among the animals, the bull has 
the form of Indra. 

5. And on the following day (i.e. the fourth day) he prepares a cam for Aditi 
at the dwelling of the Queen. For, Aditi is this Earth and she is the wife of the gods. 
Similarly this one (the Queen) is his consort She is one of his jewels. Therefore it 
is for her that he is thereby consecrated. He makes her loyal to himself. For this a 
cow (with calf) is daksind. This Earth indeed is milking all desires for men, just like 
a cow. The cow indeed milks all desires. This Earth is like a mother for men like a 
cow is for the animals. So for this, a cow (with a calf) is daksind. 



TRANSLATION 


55 


VII. 1.4.10 ] 

6. On the following day {i.e. fifth day), he prepares a cam made of barley at the 
house of suia (bard). Varuna is the spirituous beverage of the gods and a charioteer 
is the spiriter (energiser) of men. This {cam) is made of barley because barley 
belongs to Varuna. This charioteer is, indeed, one of his jewels. Hence he is 
consecrated by that (jewel). He makes him loyal to himself. For this, a horse is 
daksind . That which is the horse is Varuna. 

7. Then on the next day (i.e. sixth day), he prepares a purodasa in seven 
potsherds for Maruts at the house of the Gramam (the chief administrator of the 
village). The Maruts are the Vis (peasants) since they are the commoners among 
gods. A Gramam is a Vaisya. This is in seven potsherds because the Martus are in 
groups of seven, seven. This Gramam forms one of his (king’s) jewels. Hence he is 
consecrated by this. He makes him loyal to himself. For this, a spotted bullock is 
daksind for, in this spotted bullock there is abundance of colours. Maruts are the 
peasants and a Vit (peasant) is (a symbol) of abundance. Therefore, a spotted 
bullock is daksind for this. 

8. And on the following day (i.e. seventh day), he prepares a purodasa in two 
potsherds for Asvins at the residence of the charioteers. For, the Alvins are of the 
same womb and so are the fighting charioteer and charioteer (savyastha and 
sdrathi). This twin-charioteers form one of his jewels. Hence he is consecrated by 
that (jewel). He makes them loyal to himself. A pair of twin-bullocks is the daksind 
for this. They should be bom of the same womb. If twins by birth are not available, 
they should have bom in succession; they too are of the same womb. 

9. On the next day (i.e. eighth day) he prepares z.puroddsam twelve potsherds 
or eight potsherds for Savitr at the residence of the Chamberlain ( Ksattd , a gaurd 
at the harem carrying a long stick). Savitr is the prompter of the gods. Ksattd is a 
prompter. This chamberlain is one of his (king’s) jewels. Hence he is consecrated 
by that (jewel). Him, he thereby makes loyal to himself. For this, a reddish white 
draught bull is daksind. This Savitr who yonder bums, is reddish white a5 it were, 
when he rises and sets. The draught bull moves drawing (the load). So too the Sun 
moves. Therefore a reddish white bull is daksind for this. 

10. On the following day (i.e. ninth day) he prepares a mm for Pusan at the 
house of the Revenue Officer (Bhdgadugha who levies taxes). For, Pusan is the 
apportioner to the gods; he distributes their respective portions of food by his 
hands. In like manner, this Bhdgadugha is (to the king). He is one of his jewels. 
Hence he is consecrated by that (jewel). Him, he makes loyal to himself. A dark grey 
bull is daksind for this. Dark grey has two colours. The white and the black. The two 
together form a productive pair. Pu§an is (symbolises) procreation, for, Pusan 
means cattle and catde means procreation. Therefore a dark grey bull is daksind for 
this. 



TRANSLATION 


57 


VII.1.4.14 ] 

11. On the next day (i.e. tenth day), he having collected Gavedhtikaseeds from 
the houses of the keeper of the gambling-house and the huntsman (king’s 
accomplice in hunting, who cuts the catch by a knife), prepares a cam made of the 
Gavedhuka seeds for Rudra in the dwelling places of the one who is performing the 
sacrifice (i.e. king). These two (keeper of the gambling house and the huntsman) 
though form two differentjewels, he makes them into one, wishing prosperity. That 
god (Rudra) is one who partakes the remaining (portions in a sacrifice) and 
Gavedhuka are also subsidiary produce (on the periphery of the main crop). He 
offers with this. Rudra is enamoured of that (pasu) which is being made a bet in the 
dice game. Rudra forsooth, is Agni and the gambling again is Agni. Its coals are the 
dice. He (Rudra) is enamoured of this (pasu) . This pleases him. He being pleased 
approves this (pasu being patted). Thus approved, they pat it (as a bet) in the 
gambling house. He who performs Rajasuya and he who has the knowledge of this 
process, each of them has these two jewels (namely Aksdvapa and Govikartta). With 
both of them, he gets consecrated. He makes them loyal to himself. For this, daksina 
is a nail-shaped sword, a dice board tied with the mane of horse and bullock with 
two colours. These are daksina for these two. 

12. On the next day, at the house of the messenger (paldgala ), he offers ghee 
oblation to the pathway (saying) “May the way graciously accept the ghee —Svdha . 
For, the messenger is to be despatched and when despatched he goes on the way. 
He, the messenger is indeed one of his jewels. Hence he is consecrated by him. He 
makes him loyal to himself. A bow sewed over with skin, leathern quivers and a red 
turban are the daksirm for this. For that is what belongs to him (messenger). 

13. These are the eleven jewels (for ratmnam havis).The Tristubh metre has 
eleven syllables and the Tristubh is vigour and energy. These jewels (offering) 
bestow vigour and energy. With these, the man who is consecrated consecrates. 
These jewels which he has, he thereby makes loyal to himself. 

14. On the following day, he prepares a cam for Nirrti with black rice at the 
house of a discarded wife. She is called a discarded wife (parivrttd) who has no issues 
and no husband (not remarried). He splits the grains with his nails and having 
cooked it, offers (saying) “This O Nirrti. is thy share; accept it graciously-Swakd . By 
this he propitiates Nirrti Thus Nirrti, the sin does not confiscate him who is 
consecrated. Now why at the house of a discarded wife is because she is taken 
possession of by Nirrti For this, a black, wandering aged (dry) cow with three 
nipples is daksina. Because, such a cow is possessed by Nirrti He says to him “Let him 
not dwell in my domain today”. He thus drives her away from the whole domain. 
Thus he only removes evil. Thus rid of sins, he is consecrated. (Fourth Brahmana 
Ends) 


(Chapter One Ends) 



VIL2.1.5 ] 


TRANSLATION 


59 


Chapter Two 


BRAHMANA I 


1. After that (offering of jewels), he makes an offering to Soma and Rudra. 
Now, why he makes an offering to Soma and Rudra is this. Once upon a time an 
Asura (called) Svarbhanu, struck the Sun with darkness. Stricken by darkness, he 
(the Sun) did not shine. That darkness of his, Soma and Rudra dispelled. Thus rid 
of evil he bums yonder. Likewise darkness does enter this one (Yajamana). He 
enters into darkness when he associates those unworthy of sacrifice, with the 
sacrifice. He does associate with the sacrifice those unworthy of sacrifice like the Vis 
and Sudras (like charioteer, huntsman etc. in the jewel offerings) and hence 
darkness enters him or he enters into darkness. Soma and Rudra dispel that 
darkness of his. He, rid of evil, becomes consecrated. 

2. That (cam for Soma and Rudra) gets cooked in the milk of a white cow with 
a white calf. Because darkness is black, as it were. That darkness is dispelled. For this 
that same white cow with a white calf is daksind. 

3. With this {cam) one can also offer at the cow-shed where cow-dung is 
heaped, if he, while being qualified for (deserving) fame is not yet famous; one 
learned in Vedic lore, while being entitled for fame is not famous. That darkness 
in him (which prevents his becoming famous), Soma and Rudra dispel. He 
becomes glorious with prosperity and fame. 

4. That (cam to be offered at the cow-shed) gets cooked in the milk of a white 
cow with a white calf. Because darkness is black as it were; that darkness is dispelled. 
For this that same white cow with a white calf is the daksind . 

5. On the next day, he offers a cam for Mitra and Brhaspati. He who associates 
with the sacrifice those who are unworthy of sacrifice, faulters and swerves from the 
path of sacrifice. He (the Yajamana i.e. the king) does herein, associates with the 
sacrifice those unworthy of sacrifice like the Vis and Sudras. Mitra and Brhaspati 
constitute the path of sacrifice. For, Mitra is Brahman and Brahman is the sacrifice; 
Brhaspati is Brahman and the sacrifice is Brahman. Thereby he comes back to the 
path of sacrifice. Having returned to the path of sacrifice he becomes consecrated. 



TRANSLATION 


61 


VII.2.2.2 3 

6. The procedure thereon is this—The vessel (to hold the cam ) for Mitra is to 
be made of a branch on the eastern or northern side, that has fallen on its own 
accord from an Awattka tree. For, that (vessel) made of a branch is hewn by an axe, 
belongs to Varuna; that (vessel made of a branch) broken off by itself belongs to 
Mitra. 

7. Thereupon having curdled the (milk into) curds and poured it into a 
leathern container and having tied that leathern container to the chariot, he says 
“You (horse) run away”. Therein that butter which comes out is the djya (self- 
produced ghee). That (lather) produced by churning with a churning stick 
belongs to Varuna. This one that comes out on its own belongs to Mitra. 

8. Then rice is to be collected in two separate lots. Those which are broken are 
to be collected (separately) and those that are unbroken would belong to Mitra. 
For, Mitra neither injures anybody nor anyone injures Mitra. Him not even a grass 
or a thorn hurts; Mitra is the friend of everyone. So those that are unbroken (of the 
rice) belong to Mitra. 

9. And now in that vessel of Mitra, he brings ghee and throws into it these rice 
grains (unbroken) of Mitra and with that he covers the cam meant for Brhaspati, 
which has been cooked (so that the Mitra one is cooked by the steam of the latter 
cooked one). If the cant were to be (directly) cooked by fire, it would become that 
of Varuna. This cam for Mitra is self-cooked because it is cooked in steam. 

10. Making cutting from both these ( cams) he says, “Pronounce the invitatory 
chant to Mitra and Brhaspati”. Having called for the Srausat he says Tronounce the 
offering prayer to Mitra and Brhaspati” and offers as the Vasatkdra is uttered. For 
this, a cow is the daksind. 

11. This offering, one can also make at a cow-shed where cow-dung is heaped, 
by a person who accepts a gift from one not worthy to be a giver or one who officiates 
in a sacrifice performed by an unworthy Yajamana. For, he who accepts a gift from 
one unworthy to be the giver or who officiates in a sacrifice performed by one 
unworthy to be the Yajamana, does indeed faulter. Mitra and Brhaspati constitute 
the path of sacrifice. Mitra forsooth, is Brahman and the sacrifice is Brahman. 
Brhaspati is Brahman and the sacrifice is Brahman. (Thereby) he again returns to 
the path of sacrifice and thus does not faulter. (First Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA II 

1. He collects (various kinds of) waters. The reason why he collects waters, 
is—water being vigour—-he thereby collects vigour, the essence of the waters. 

(He collects) in a vessel of Udumbara wood. The Udumbara is sustenance, 
(that is) food and waters are food. Therefore in a vessel of Udumbara wood. 



TRANSLATION 


63 


VII.2.2.7 3 


3. He first collects the waters of Sarasvati (river), (saying) “Gods took honeyed 
waters”. Thereby he only says that gods took waters with essence. “Sapful and 
‘knowers of how to make kings”— by ‘sapful’ he means ‘full of essence 5 and by 
‘knowers of how to make kings’ he means to say “which are recognised as making 
the kings” (He says) “Wherewith they anointed Mitra and Varuna”—for, with those 
(waters), they did anoint Mitra and Varuna. “Wherewith they lead Indra overcome 
his foes” (he says). For, therewith they indeed guided Indra to get over his enemies. 
With those waters he bathes him. Sarasvati is (the goddess of) speech. With speech 
itself he then bathes him. By these (waters) he puts speech itself into him (the 
Yajamana). This is one kind of waters. These he now collects. 

4. Thereupon he (Adhvaryu) having taken four ladlings of ghee, enters the 
waters and offers to the waves which part each other (due to a man or animal 
plunging into the water). To the wave which moves in front of him, he offers 
(saying) “Thou art the wave of a male; a bestower of kingship, bestow kingship on 
me—Svaha” or “Thou art the wave of a male, O bestower of kingship! bestow 
kingship on this person (Yajamana). To the wave which rises behind him, (he offers 
saying) ‘Thou hast a host of males; O bestower of kingship! bestow kingship on 
me—Svaha* or “Thou hast a host of males; O bestower of kingship! bestow kingship 
on me—Svahd”, or “Thou hast a host of males; O bestower of kingship! bestow 
kingship on this person (Yajamana) This is indeed the vigour of the waters which 
splits (in the form of two waves) when an animal or a man plunges into it. He 
thereby collects the vigour of those waters. Hfe anionts him (the king) with vigour. 
By these he infuses vigour into him. These are one kind of waters. These he collects 

now. , 

5. Then he makes offerings in flowing waters (saying) ^ou who are purpose¬ 
ful, O bestower of kingship! bestow kingship on me— Svdha ” or You who are 
purposeful; O bestowers of kinghip! bestow kingship on this person . It is with 
vigour that these waters are flowing. Hence it is that nothing obstructs their flow. 
He collects thereby, the vigour of these. He anoints him (Yajamana) with vigour. 
By these he infuses vigour into him. These are one kind of waters. These he now 

collects. ... . , 

6. Then he offers in the waters that flow in the opposite direction near the 

bank of a stream (saying) ‘Thou art energetic, O bestower of kingship! bestow 
kingship on me— Svdha* or “Thou art energetic, O bestower of kingship! bestow 
kingship on this one (Yajamana) With rigour and energy do these waters flow in 
the opposite direction near the bank* He collects the vigour, the energy of these* 
He anoints him with that rigour and energy. By these, he infuses rigour and energy 
into him. These are one kind of water. These he now collects. 

7. Then he offers in the waters (of a stream) that branches off from the mam 
river (saying) “Thou art the over-flowing water, O bestower of kingship! bestow 
kingship on this person”. This is indeed abundance of water. Since it is abundance 
(excess) it breaks away (from the main stream) and takes to another course and 
rejoins (original main stream). In like manner, even one belonging to another 
kingdom, who happens to be in this (king’s) domain, is absorbed in the latter. 



TRANSLATION 


VII.2.2.12 ] 


65 


Thereby he (the Adhvaryu) bestows abundance on him. He anoints him with 
abundance. By these he infuses abundance in him. These form one kind of waters. 
These he now collects. 

8. He then offers in the lord of the waters (sea-water), (saying) “Thou art the 
lord of waters. O bestower of kingship!, bestow kingship on me— Svaha” or ‘Thou 
art the lord of waters; O bestower of kingship!, bestow kingship on this one". He is 
indeed the lord of waters. By these he makes him (the king) the lord of the Vis 
(peasants). By these he becomes the lord of the peasantry. These are one kind of 
waters. These he now collects. 

9. He then offers in a whirlpool (saying) Thou art the offspring of waters; O 
bestower of kingship!, bestow kingship on me— Svaha” or Thou art the off-spring 
of waters, O bestower of kingship! bestow kingship on this person”. He indeed, is 
the offspring of waters. By these, he becomes the offspring of the peasantry. These 
are one kind of waters. These he now, collects. 

10. Then he offers in the water collected in wooden troughs or small vessels 
when it rains, while the Sun is shining (saying) Thou having the lustre of the Sun; 
O bestower of kingship!, bestow kingship on me— Svaha ” or Thou having the 
lustre of the Sun, O bestower of kingship!, bestow kingship on this person”. By these 
he makes him possessed of Sun’slustre. He becomes endowed with the Sun’s lustre. 
Uncontaminated are their waters because they are (collected) before reaching the 
earth. There is pollution in this (earth) since (people) tell lies on this (earth). By 
these, he makes him (the Yajamana) fit for sacrifice. These form one kind of waters. 
These, he now, collects. 

11. Then he offers in a stagnant pool of flowing waters in a sunny spot (saying) 
“Sun-skinned you are; O bestowers of kingship!, bestow kingship on me Svaha or 
“Sun-skinned you are; O bestower of kingship!, bestow kingship on this person . He 
becomes covered by Sun’s lustre, by these, Rajasuya is (the rite) where Vanina is 
anionted and these waters, which though belong to a flowing stream do not flow; 
are arrested by Varuna. These form one kind of waters. He now, collects them. 

12. He then draws waters from a well and in that he offers (saying) “You who 
dwell in the well ( vrajastha ); O bestower of kingship!, bestow kingship on me—Svaha” 
or “You who dwell in the well, O bestower of kingship!, bestow kingship on this 
person”. These waters which are far away from (the surface of) this earth, he collects 
for completeness, for wholeness. These are one kind of waters. He now, collects 
them. 



TRANSLATION 


67 


VII.2.2.18 ] 

13. Then he offers in the dew-drops (saying) “Shining or amenable ( vasdstha ) 
thou art; O bestowers of kingship! bestow kingship on me— Svdhd ” or “Shining or 
amenable thou art, O bestowers of kingship! bestow kingship on this one”. These 
waters (duw-drops) are food. He obtains food. This (rising) yonder Sun, becoming 
a fire, burns up these plants and eatables. These advancing dew-drops (that rise 
from the ground) quench that (Sun’s heat). If these dew-drops do not rise up, this 
yonder Sun becomes unfriendly; turns into a fire and would burn away these plants 
and these eatables. So these waters (saviours of food) are food. Thereby he anoints 
him with food. By these he infuses food into him (the Yajamana). These are one 
kind of waters. He now, collects them. 

14. He then offers in the waters of a pond (saying) “Pleasing you are; 0 
bestower of kingship! bestow kingship on me— Svdhd ” or “Pleasing you are, 0 
bestowers of kingship! bestow kingship on this one”. By these, he makes the people 
steadfast and faithful to him (the king). Those people who are steadfast and faithful 
are prosperous. These are one kind of waters. These he now, collects. 

15. He then offers in the foetal liquid (of a cow) (saying) “Mighty you are; O 
bestower of kingship! bestow kingship on me— Svdhd” or “Mighty you are, 0 
bestower of kingship! bestow kingship on this person”. These waters are indeed, 
cattle and it is with the cattle that he thereby anoints him. By this he invests cattle 
in him. These form one kind of waters. These he now, collects. 

16. He then offers in milk (saying) “You who support human beings; O 
bestower of kingship! bestow kingship on me— Svdhd” or “You supporter of human 
beings, O bestower of kingship! bestow kinship on this one”. These waters are cows 
and with cows in him by these. These form one kind of water. He now, collects them. 

17. Then he offers in clarified butter (saying) “You who support all, O 
bestower of kingship! bestow kingship on me— Svdha" or “You who support all, O 
bestower of kingship! bestow kingship on this person”. These (clarified butter) are 
the essence of cattle. By these he infuses the essence of cattle in him. These Form 
one kind of waters. He now, collects these. 

18. He then offers in honey (saying) “Most excellent art thou; O bestotver of 
kingship! bestow kingship on me— Svdhd' or “Most excellent art thou, O bestower 
of kingship! bestow kingship on this one”. This (honey) is the essence of waters and 
plants. He anoints him with this essence of waters and plants. There with he infuses 
the essence of the plants in him. These form one kind of water. He now, collects 
them. 



TRANSLATION 


VII.2.2.23 ] 


69 


19. With the hollow of his hands, he catches the Sun’s rays and mixes them with 
(all the) waters (already collected). (He says) “You be self-luminous; O bestowers 
of kingship!, bestow kingship on this person”. These Sun’s rays are waters self- 
luminous, because they move about (flow as it were) going up and down seeking 
superiority over one another. By these he infused self-luminousity (self-ruling 
power) in him. With these, he indeed becomes self-luminous. That is called self¬ 
luminosity (self-ruling power) when another rival king does not intrude and get 
benefitted (in his domain). Hence by these, he infuses Svdrdjya (unquestioned sway 
over his kingdom) by these. He becomes self-luminous by these. These form one 
kind of waters. He now, collects these. 

20. These seventeen (kinds of waters) he collects. Prajapati is seventeenfold. 
This one (Yajamana i.e. king) is indeed the lord of the creatures. He is verily made 
the Prajapati. In sixteen waters, he makes offerings. He makes sixteen offerings. 
They together come to thirty-two. So in two of them he does not make offerings. 
They are of the Sarasvatl waters and the waters of the Sun’s rays. That amounts to 
thirty-four. All the gods account for thirty-three and Prajapati is the thirty-fourth. 
So he makes him to be Prajapati (the lord of ceatures). 

21. And so to why he takes (water) each time after offering (ghee)—the ghee 
is verily a thunderbolt; having spread (gained) one by one, by means of that 
thunderbolt and made them his own, he takes them. Why he does not make an 
offering, in the case of the waters of Sarasvatl (river) is this—the ghee is indeed a 
thunderbolt and Sarasvatl is speech. “Lest I should injure speech” thus (he thinks 
and) therefore he does not offer (ghee) on the waters from the Sarasvatl (river). 
Then as to why he does not make (ghee) offering in the (waters of) Sun’s rays is 
because these rays are elusive (doubtful) and ‘Lest I should offer an elusive 
oblation’ (so he thinks). 

22. He mixes them together (saying) “Let ye the honey-sweet! mix with the 
honeyed” He only says ‘Let those full of essence mix with those full of essence. (He 
says) “Winning the great power of Ksatriya”. Thereby he wishes for this great power 
to the Ksatriya (the Yajamana-king) when he says “Winning the great power for 
Ksatriya”. 

23. He deposits them in front of the hearth of Mitra-Varuna (saying) 
“Uninterrupted, ye rest (here) with strength”. He only says ‘Rest (here) undis¬ 
turbed by terrible Raksasas’. (When he says) “With strength” he only means ‘with 
vigour’. (By saying) “Bestowing great power on the Ksatriya”, he only prays for 
power to Ksatriya (the Yajamana) when he says “Bestowing great power on the 
Ksatriya”. (Second Brahmana Ends) 



VII.2.3.5 ] 


TRANSLATION 
BRAHMANA III 


71 


1. He proceeds with offering the vapaoi the animal meantfor Agni and Soma. 
After that he prepares the puroddsa for Agni and Soma. Following that, he prepares 
the oblations which the gods appreciate (approve). 

2. He prepares & puroddsa with fast-grown rice for Savitr, the true impeller, in 
eight potsherds or in twelve potsherds. Savitr is the prompter of the gods. This 
pleases him. Thus pleased, he (Savitr) prompts. Prompted by him, he produces. 
Why it is made of fast growing rice is (he thinks) ‘Let me produce quickly’. 

3. Then he prepares puroddsavAth quick-grown rice for Agni, the lord of the 
homa (Grhapati) in eight-potsherds. Agni is indeed the lord of the house. He rules 
over the Gdrhapatya. Gdrhapatya means prosperity. As much, as much he rales over, 
he is that (much prosperous). He who rules over Gdrhapatya is the lord of the house. 
This pleases him. Thus pleased, he quickens him (to achieve) prosperity and 
lordship of the house. It makes him reach (the status of) lord of the house. As to 
why it is made of quick-growing rice is (he thinks) “Let me be quickly prompted to 
reach the lordship of the house; let it make me achieve the lordship of house 
quickly”. Therefore it is of the quick-growing rice. 

4. Then he makes a cam with syamdka (maze) for Soma, the lord of the trees. 
There are two types of wheels made of trees; those for carts and those for chariots. 
This ( earn) confers perfection to both the types (of wheels made of trees). Him, this 
pleases.Thus pleased, he (Soma) quickens him to gain plants and trees. As to why 
it ( cant) is made of Syamdka—Syamdka among plants, are most manifestly Soma’s 
own. Hence it is made of maze. 

5. He prepares a cam of wild rice to Brhaspati, the vdk (speech). Brhaspati 
indeed, holds sway over speech. Him, this one pleases. Pleased thus, he (Brhaspati) 
quickens him for speech. As to why it is of wild rice—Brahman is Brhaspati 
and these wild rice are cultivated (cooked) by brahmins. Hence it is made of wild 
rice. 



TRANSLATION 


VII.2.3.12 ] 


73 


6. Then he prepares for Indra, the most excellent, a pumdasa made of red-rice 
in eleven potsherds. Indra is indeed the supreme (excellent) and he rules over 
excellence. This pleases him who is supreme and who rales over excellence. Thus 
pleased, he (Indra) quickens him to prosperity and excellence. He makes him 
(Yajamana) attain supremacy. As to why it is made of red-rice—for, Indra excels 
among gods and red-rice excels other plants. So it is made of red-rice. 

7. He then prepares a caramade of Gavedhuka seeds to Rudra, the lord of the 
beasts. Rudra is the lord of the beasts. He rules over the animals. Him, this pleases. 
Thus pleased, he (Rudra) quickens him to (have) animals. Now, why it is of 
Gavedhuka (seeds) is because Gavedhuka is a subsidiary 7 (peripheral) crop and that 
god (Rudra) is (also a partaker) of remnants (in sacrifice). 

8. He then prepares a earn made of Ambd seeds to Mitra, the true. Mitra, the 
true, forsooth, is Brahman. This pleases him. Thus pleased he (Mitra, the true) 
quickens him to (win over) Brahman. This (cam) is of Ambd seeds. These (other 
plants) are produced by ploughing etc. whereas these Ambds belong to Mitra 
(which grow without violence to the earth). So this cant is of Ambd seeds. 

9. He then prepares a cam made of barley to Varan a, the lord of the law 
(Dharmapati ). Varuna is indeed the lord of the law. He rules over law. Lordship of 
law means prosperity. He who is supreme, to him (people) go for justice (legal 
counsel). Hence he who rules over law is the lord of the law. This (cam) pleases him. 
Thus pleased, he (Varuna) quickens him for (attainment of) lordship over law. He 
makes him (Yajamana) achieve the lordship of law. As to why it is made of barley 
is because barley belongs to Varuna. 

10. These (grains) he collects separately, pounds them separately and pulvarises 
them separately because they are different types of grains. The Ho tr follows with the 
chant and the Hotr makes the offering—all in a low voice. The offering is made to 
the deity and the Svistakrt of that (oblation) remains yet unoffered. 

11. Thereupon, taking hold of him (Yajamana) by the right hand, Adhvaryu 
says—“May Savitr quicken you for consecration; may Agni (quicken you) to (be the 
lord of) the house holders; may Brhaspati (quicken you) to (be the lord of) speech; 
may Indra (quicken you) for supremacy; may Rudra (quicken you) to (be the lord 
of) the cattle; may Mitra (quicken you) to truth; may Varuna (quicken you) to (be 
the lord of) law. 

12. (He says) “Mayye gods make this one (Yajamana) consecrated without any 
rival (to his authority) **. Thereby he means “O gods! let this one (Yajamana) be 
consecrated without (being challenged by a foe) “For great kingship, for great 
supremacy”—-there is nothing unintelligible about this. “Him the son of such and 







TRANSLATION 


VIL2.4.2 ] 


75 


such (man), the son of such and such (woman) ” (he says) —for he is consecrated 
from where he originates and from whomsoever he is born. “For such and such 
people” (he says) to mean the people ofwhichever country (he is anointed). “If they 
are Kauravyas, this person is yours (king). UPdncdlas, he is (king) for you, pdncdlas. 
Soma is the king of us (Brahmanas) Thereby he makes these ( Kauravyas, P,ancdias 
etc.) food for him (subjects of that king). Only the Brahmana, he excludes (does 
not make his subject). Therefore the Brihmana is not food (for him). ( Brahmana 
is not subject to his suzerainty) because he has Soma as his king. 

13. All these deities are double-named, for, company means strengths. As 
when one (person) is associated with a second (partner) he becomes stronger. 
“May the strengthened deities (quicken) this (Yajamana) So that the strength¬ 
ened deities (with their double names) may quicken him (for consecration). These 
are the deities whom this cara propitiates, and who are capable of quickening. They 
being propitiated quicken him. Since these deities quicken him, he thus impelled, 
gets consecrated. Therefore they are called Devasya (quickening deities). This of 
course is his preliminary anointing. Him, who is thus quickened by these (deities) 
he (the Adhvaryu) anoints (bathes) on the following day. 

14. He then says “Pronounce the invitatory chant to Agni, Svistakrf . “Offer 
oblation to Agni, Svistakrt” and when Vastakdra is uttered, he makes the offering. As 
to why he performs this rite in between the two offerings is this—verily Prajapati is 
that sacrifice which is here performed. From the middle of this Prajapati, sacrifice, 
he (the Yajamana) is taken and in the middle (of it) he anoints him. Then after 
calling for Ida, they wash. (Third Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA IV 

1. He (the Adhvaryu) bathes (anoints) him at the midday savana. As to why he 
anoints him in the savanais, this. This sacrifice which is performed is verily Prajapati. 
From the middle of this Prajapati, the sacrifice, he takes him and in the middle (of 
it) he anoints him. Therefore he anoints him in the midday savana. 

2« (He anoints) when the Kldhendragrahais not drawn. This Mdhendrais indeed 
the exclusive graha (-sowwcup) oflndra. The slotra for it is exclusive j the sas tm c h an t 
is exclusive. On two counts this one (the king) is Indra since he is a Ksatriya and he 
is a Yajamana. He is bathed in his own abode. Therefore when the Mdhmdmgraha 
is not drawn (he anoints him). 



TRANSLATION 


77 


VTI.2.4.6 ] 

3. He spread a tiger skin for him in front of the Maitra-Varuna hearth (saying) 
“Thou art the brilliance of Soma”, When the Soma flowed through Indra, thence 
he became a tiger. Therefore he says Thou art Soma’s brilliance’. 

4. He then offers the Partha oblations. Now Prthu Vainya was consecrated first 
among men. He desired that he might appropriate to himself all food; both 
cultivated and wild. Therefore he offered these {Partha oblations). Thereby he 
appropriated all food; both cultivated and wild. The wild animals too reached his 
sacrifice (when called thus) “Gome hither so and so animal, the king would cook 
you”. Thus he appropriated all food. In like manner, this one (Yajamana) appro¬ 
priates all food both cultivated and wild. On behalf of him (Yajamana) who knows 
this, these (oblations) are offered which were offered in the case of Prthu Vainya. 
Therefore they are called Pdrthas. 

5. Those are twelve {Partha oblations) which he offers. For, there are twelve 
months for ayear and hence twelve offerings are made. Six of them he offers before 
consecration and six afterwards. This sacrifice which is performed is verily Prajapati. 
From the middle of this Prajapati sacrifice, he takes him (Yajamana). In the middle 
of it he anoints him. Therefore six he offers before the consecration and six after— 
wards. Of the six offerings he makes before anointing, the last one is (for) 
Brhaspati. Of the six he makes after the anointing, the first one of them is (for) 
Indra. Brhaspati is Brahman and Indra is Ksatriya. Thus with Brahmanic (lustre) 
and Ksatriya (vigour) uninterrupted (covered on both sides) he enriches him. For 
him (Yajamana) so covered on either side by Brahman and hsatra, there is no 
suffering, no unsteadiness. 

6. He offers (saying) ‘To Agni— Svdhd”. Agni is glory and with glory he bathes 
him. To Soma— Svdhd ”—Ksatra (grandeur) is Soma and with grandeur, he bathes 
him. To Samtr-Svahd”. Savitr is the impeller of gods; impelled by Savitr, he thus 
consecrates him. To Sarasvati— Svdhd ”—Sarasvati is forsooth, speech. He thus 
bathes him with speech. To Pusan— Svdhd”. Pusan is the cattle. Thus he bathes him 
with cattle. To Brhaspati— Svdhd Brhaspati is Brahmanic (lustre). He thus bathes 
him with Brahmanic lustre. These are the six offerings he makes before the 
anointing. Then he offers (after he) is anointed. 



TRANSLATION 


79 


VII.2.4.13 ] 

7. ‘To Indra— Svetka" —Indra means the vigour of the mighty Indra. He thus 
anoints him with the vigour of that mighty Indra. To Amiu-Svaha —Aihsu means 
prowess. He thus anoints him with prowess. To the Sloka— Svahd Sloka means 
might. He thus anoints him with might. To the Ghosa (noise)— Svahd”, Ghosa 
means strength. He thus anoints him with strength. To Bhaga-Setf/m”—Bhaga 
means vigour. He thus anoints him with vigour. ToAryaman— Svahd" —he thereby 
makes this one (Yajamana) a friend of everything here. He thus becomes the friend 
of all. These are the six (offerings) after the consecration. These are said to be the 
names of Adityas. Then these vessels meant for consecration get deposited (before 
the hearth of Maitra-Yamna). 

8. There is a vessel made of Paldsa wood. With that the Brahmin anoints him. 
For, Paldsa is Brahman and the Brahmin is Brahman. Therefore with the Paldsa 
(vessel), the Brahmin consecrates. 

9. One of his own (kinsmen) anoints him with the Udumbara vessel, Vdumhara 
means sustenance. As long as one has sustenance, till then he is not hungry. So with 
the Udumbara vessel. 

10. A friend (anoints) with that (vessel) made of the bottom (stem) of 
Nyagrodha tree. The Nyagrodha is supported by its stems. The Ksatra is well- 
supported by a friend (by an ally). Therefore a friend (anoints) with that (vessel) 
made of the bottom (stem) of Nyagrodha tree. 

11. With that (vessel) made of Asvattka wood, a Vaisya (peasant) (anoints 
him). Asvattha belongs to the Maruts; because Indra addressed the Maruts while 
they were seated on an Asvattha tree. Therefore Asvattha belongs to the Maruts. Vis 
(peasantry') is food. Therefore Vaisya (peasant) with an Asvattha (vessel). 

12* There are two pieces of gold with holes made in them. Two Pavttros 
(strainers) are inserted into those (holes). The significance of these Pavitras is the 
same as told in (the context of) Darsapurnamdsa (sacrifice) .As to why the two pieces 
of gold with holes are tugged to them (Pavitras) —the immortal gold (stands) for 
longevity of life. Thereby he infuses immortal life into these waters that are (kept) 
for anointing. Therefore they (strainers) are inserted into gold pieces. 

13. He purifies (saying) “With the impulse ofSavitr, I purify you with a flawless 
purifier with the rays of the Sun”. The significance of this is same as before. Not 
overcome by anybody, thou ar t; the friend of speech , born of heat (he saysY He 
means ‘You are not challenged by the terrible Raksasas . When he says Not 
overcome by anybody, thou art”. “The friend of speech”, —as long as there is water 



TRANSLATION 


VII.2.4.19 ] 


81 


in (the body of) man, till then he speaks with speech. Therefore he says “Friend of 
speech”. “Bom of heat”—the smoke comes out of fire and from smoke comes the 
cloud. From the cloud comes rain. Tapa (heat) means Agni. Therefore he says 
“Bom of heat”.. (He says) “(Thou art) the giver of Soma”—when they soak king 
Soma (plant) with waters (and produce so»iajuice) then only he (Soma) becomes 
fit for oblation, fit for drinking. Therefore he says (thou art) the giver of Soma. (He 
says) “ Svahd —spiriters of kings”—for, these waters he purifies by uttering Svdha 

14. He then distributes them over the consecrating vessels (saying) “These 
glorious waters are mutually respecting ones”. He means that they are not over¬ 
bearing when he says “These waters are mutually respecting ones”. He means that 
they are notover-bearingwhen he says ‘These waters are mutually respecting ones”. 
(By saying) “Glorious” he only says “Powerful ones”. (He says) “Unchallenged, 
eager (to participate in Rdjasuya) and thou which envelop (the earth)”. By 
“Unchallanged” he means ‘unchallenged by terrible Raksasas’. (He says) “Whom 
Vanina caused to remain united in the inside of the houses”. Varuna is Ksatra and 
the houses are peasants (Vis) and Varuna established these waters in the peasantry”. 
This is what he says. “The child of waters, inside the best of mothers”. This one who 
performs Rdjasuya happens to be the child of waters and hence he says “The child 
of waters, inside the best of mothers”. 

15. Then he makes him wear these garments. There is that one called Tdrpya 
(a garment soaked in ghee). In that all sacrificial figures (like Camasd, Adhisavana, 
etc.) are sewn. He makes him wear this (saying) “Thou art the Ulba (membrane 
surrounding the embryo) of Ksatra (martial power)". This garment is indeed, the 
Ulba of Ksatra. That is why he causes him to be bom out of it. 

16. Then (he makes him wear) a white shawl (saying) “Thou art the Jardyu 
(outer foetal membrane) of Ksatra”. This is indeed the Jardyu of martial power. 
From that he causes him to be born. 

17. Then he causes to wear a turban with its edges hanging over the chest and 
tucked together and concealed (at the navel) (saying) “Thou art the navel of 
Ksatra”. It is indeed the navel of martial power. From that which is the navel of 
Ksatra, he causes him to be bom. 

18. Some of them wind it around (the navel). That is not to be done so. It 
should be (with its edges) concealed only in the front, because the navel is in the 
front side. He then (puts on him) the mande ( adhivasa ) (saying) “Thou art the 
womb of Ksatra”. This (mande) is indeed the womb of martial power. From that 
which is the womb of Ksatra, he causes him to be bom. By making him wear these 
garments, he causes him to be bom (thinking) ‘I shall consecrate the one who is 
thus born’. 

19. Some of them, having made him wear (these garments) take them off and 
again make him wear the garment of initiation. That is not to be done so. These are 
his limbs by birth (bom with him). They (by doing as above) deprive him of his 
limbs with which he is bom. Therefore he should wear one of those (garments). In 



TRANSLATION 


83 


VIL2.4.26 ] 

doing so he does not separate him from the limbs he has from birth. The initiation 
garment belongs to Vanina. Thus he saves him from the Varunic garment of 
initiation. When he gets down (the water) for final ablution ( avabhrta ), this 
(garment of initiation) they carry along by his side. That is disposed off in the 
prescribed way (as in Sonia sacrifice where the garment of initiation is to be thrown 
in the water at the time of Avabhrta). Then he emerges out (of the ablution) wearing 
one of those garments. That he gives away (as gift) at the offering by Anbandhya vasd 
or at the Udavasamya Isti 

20. He then draws up the string on the bow for him (saying) “Thou art Indra’s 
Vrtra-kilier”. For, this bowis indeed the killer ofVrtra. He (the king) is Indra on two 
counts; because he is a Ksatriya and he is the Yajamana. Therefore he says ‘Thou 
art Indra’s Vrtra-kilier”, “Let this one kill Vrtra with you”. He means “By you, let this 
one (Yajamana) kill his hateful enemy”, by saying ‘Let this one kill Vrtra with you”. 

21. Then he strokes his (king’s) arms (saying) “Thou art ofMitra; thou art of 
Varuna”. The bow belongs to the aims. It is by his arms, a Ksatriya belongs to Mitra 
and Varuna. Therefore he says ‘Thou art ofMitra, thou art of Varuna.’ 

22. Then he gives him (the king) three arrows. They are three arrows of which 
that first one, by discharging which, he pierces (the enemy), that one is the earth. 
That is called Rujd. That (second) one by discharging which (the person hit) falls 
down, not sure whether alive or dead, that is the second and this one is the air. It 
is called Drubd. That (third) one by discharging which (the kmg)_ does kill (the 
enemy) that is the third one. That is the yonder sky. It is called Ksupd. These are the 
three arrows. Therefore he gives these three to him. As to why he gives him the bow 
with arrows—the bow is the might of Ksatriya. It is with the bow, a Ksatriya shows 
his might. This might he (Adhvaryu) invests in him as (soon as) he is bom 

(thinking)‘Him invested with might (let me consecrate)’. 

23. He touches (each of) the arrows (saying) “Protect this one (king) in front; 
protect him behind; protect him from the sides; protect him from all quarters”. 
Thus he makes him safe from arrows on all the quarters. He becomes unassailable 

from all quarters. 

24. Then he makes him (the king) chant (seven) mantras (having the word) 
avid. “In sight ye mortals”. This is a mysterious chant for, Prajapati is mysterious. So 
he thus commends him to Prajapati. He (Prajapati) approves this, his conseci ation. 
Approved by him, he is consecrated. 

25. “Present is Agni, the lord of the house”. Agni is indeed Brahman. He thus 
commends him to the priesthood and it approves of his consecration. Approved by 

him he is consecrated. , 

26. “Present is Indra, possessed of greatfame”. Indra is indeed Ksapra. He thus 
commends him to the martial class and the Ksatra class approves of his consecra¬ 
tion. Approved by it, he is consecrated. 



TRANSLATION 


VIL2.4.30 ] 


85 


28. “Present are Mitra and Vanina, the upholders of holy practice”. Mitra and 
Varuna ar eprana (out-breathing) and uddna (in-breathing). He commends him to 
prana and uddna. They approve of his consecration. Approved by them he is 
consecrated. 

29. “Present are the Heaven and Earth, the all-propitious”. He thus commends 
him to Heaven and Earth on whom all these rest. They approve of this consecration. 
Approved by them he is consecrated. 

30. “Present is Aditi, of Supreme Happiness”. Aditi is indeed this earth. He 
thus commends him to this Earth. She approves of his consecration. Approved by 
her, he is consecrated. Since he commends him to these deities and approved by 
these deities, he is consecrated. These ( mantras) are called Avids. Therefore he 
makes him recite the Avid chants. (Fourth Brahmana Ends) 


(Chapter Two Ends) 



VII. 1.1.8] 


TRANSLATION 
Chapter Three 


87 


BRAHMANA I 

1. He then thrusts a piece of copper-plated (red) iron into the mouth of a long¬ 
haired person (saying) “Removed are the dandasukas (mordacious) He who 
performs Rdjasuyagets rid of all crawling creatures, all types of killings and all types 
of deaths. By (mentioning) mordacious, he is saved from other (causes of) death 
and killings. For him there is no danger or fear from anything in between. He has 
old age alone as death. 

2* Why he (puts into the mouth of) a long-haired person— Kesava is neither 
a female nor amale. These reptiles ( dandasukas ) are neither worms nor non-worms. 
Why the red iron piece is because these snakes are red in colour. 

3. He then makes him ascend the regions (saying) “Ascend thou the east, let 
Gayatri (among the metres) protectyou, Rathantara (among sdmans ); Trvrt (among 
stomas) ; the spring (among seasons) and may the Brahmana (priesthood) protect 
your wealth”. 

4. “Ascend thou the South, let Tristubh (among metres) protect you; Brhat 
saman (among sdmans), Pancadasa stoma (among stomas) ; the summer (among 
seasons) and may the Ksatra (martial class) protect your wealth”. 

5. “Ascend thou the West, let Jagati (among metres) protect you; Vairupa 
saman (among sdmans ); Saptadasastoma (among stomas) and the rainy season 
(among seasons), may the Vit (peasantry) protect your wealth”. 

6. “Ascend thou the North, let Anusthubh (among metres) protect you; 
Vairdjd saman (among sdmans); Ekavimsa stoma (among stomas) ; the autumn 
(among seasons) and may the fruits protect your wealth”. 

7. “Ascend thou the upper region, let Pahkti metre protect you (among 
metres); Sdkvara and Raivata Sdmans (among sdmans :), Trinava and Trayastrimsa 
stomas (among stomas) and the winter and dewy season (among seasons), may 
spiritual lustre protect thy wealth”. 

8. Why he thus makes him ascend the regions, why these seasons, why these 
stomas, why metres and why those sdmans? The form of the year is that of the seasons. 
He thereby makes him (the Yajamana) ascend those seasons which are the year. 
Having ascended these seasons, namely the year, he becomes up above all these. 
Nothing remains higher than him. All other things remain below him. 



TRANSLATION 


89 


VII.3.U4 ] 

9. Behind the tiger’s skin (in front of the Maitra-Varuna hearth) a piece of lead 
is placed. He kicks it, saying “Namuci’s head is kicked off”. Now, there was once an 
Asura called Namuci. Indra knocked him down. Indra trodded upon the head of 
that (Asura) who was thus struck down. When he trodded upon the head, his foot 
cut it and created a fissure-like (wound). That (head with the cleavage of the 
wound) is going about calling the gods, “Wither art thou going? You can’t escape 
me”. Then the gods saw this thunderbolt in the form of lead. With that they hit it 
(the head of Namuci). Hence this lead is bereft of stamina. Though resembling 
gold, lead is valueless, soft, bereft of vigour and wi thout stamina. In like manner, 
this one ( Yajamana) with that thunderbolt beats off the terrible Raksasas (thinking) 
“Let me be consecrated in a place, conquered and free from fear”. 

10. He then ascends the tiger-skin (saying) “Thou art Soma’s splendour, let 
me have splendour like yours”. Thereby, he (the Adhvaryu) infuses in him the 
splendour of a tiger. 

11. He then places a (piece of) gold below (the Yajamana’s) foot (saying) 
“Protect from death”. This saves him from all (types of) deaths that are found on 
this earth. 

12. Then they bring a gold-plate (or a crown) with hundred perforations or 
nine perforations. Why it is with hundred perforations is because, man here lives 
upto hundred years; has hundred energies and hundred powers. Therefore it has 
hundred perforations. If it is with nine perforations, it is because there are nine life- 
breaths in man and hence it is with nine holes. 

13. He lays it (gold crown) on the head (of the Yajamana) (saying) “Thou art 
might; thou art victory; thou art immortality”. For, this (gold) is might; this is 
victory; this is immortality. Since he places gold on both sides (under the foot and 
above the head) gold being longevity and immortality, he thereby encloses him on 
both sides with immortal life. 

14. He raises his (Yajamana’s) hands (saying) “O golden arms!, at the lustre 
of die dawn, you the prosperous two, ascend. The Sun has risen, O Varuna and 
Mitral, (mount) the chariot (the Yajamana)”. The two arms are Mitra and Varuna. 
The chariot is the body (of the Yajamana). Therefore he says “Ascend, the Sun has 
risen”. “Behold Aditi (the unassailable arm) too”. By this he means “Behold yours 
own earth and Dili (the assailable) too”. By this he means “Behold your own 
unassailable arm and (also behold) the assailable strength (of the enemy) ”, 



TRANSLATION 


91 


Vn.3.2.3 ] 

15. Some say that he should raise his hands byjust (saying) “Thou art Mitra; 
thou art Vanina” since the two arms are Mitra and Varuna (respectively). As to why 
he anoints him when his hands are raised—This (pair of arms) is in truth the power. 
It is valour and lustre, which is collected in the waters, with which he is anointed. 
A king’s valour is (in) his arms, because it is with his two arms, he proves his might. 
“Lest that power, the collected essence of the waters cover (eclipse) the valour of 
my arms; let them (waters) not steal away the valour of my arms” (So he thinks). 
Therefore he bathes him while his arms are raised upwards. (First Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA II 

1. First, the Adhvaryu or the priest anoints (him). Then others (follow). 

2. He (Adhvaryu or priest) anoints (saying) “With Soma’s glory, I bathe thee”. 
He means ‘With vigour (of soma) ’ when he says “With Soma’s glory, I bathe thee. 
‘With Agni’s glow’; he means ‘With vigour’. ‘With Sun’s splendour’ he means ‘With 
vigour’. “With Indra’s energy'” he means ‘With vigour’. “With the prowess of the 
Mamts”, he means ‘With vigour’. ‘Be the chieftain of the martial ranks. Become the 
over-lord of kings’ is what he means by saying “Be the chieftain of the martial ranks”. 
“Protect (him) from the darts”. Darts are arrows. Therefore he says, “Protect him 
from the darts”. 

3. “May gods render him unrivalled”. ‘May the gods make him free from 
enemies’—is what he means. “For great valour and for great leadership”. There is 
nothing obscure about this. “For great sovereignity”—By this he means ‘for 
supreme over-lordship over oligarchies’. “Him the son of so and so (father) and son 
of so (mother)”. Thereby he consecrates him from where he originates and from 
where he is bom. “The people of so and so”—(he refers to) the country to which 
so and so people belong. If he is a Kauravya (he says) “This is the king of you, Kuril 
people”. If he is a Pancala “This is the king of you, Pancalas”. (Then he says) “Soma 
is the king of us, Brahmins”. That makes all these (others) the food (enjoyable 
subjects) and only the Brahmin class (priesthood) is kept apart (not subordinate 
to him). Therefore the priestly (class) is not to be fed upon, since it has Soma as its 
king. 



TRANSLATION 


93 


VIL3.2.9 ] 


4. He then wipes the anointed water (over his body) with the horn of a black 
antelope; for, that collected essence of water where with he now anoints him is 
vigour. “May that (vigour) get spread all over me, and for that, let me make it reach 

all (parts) of my body”—(thinking so) he wipes. 

5. He wipes (saying) “From the back of the mountains; of the bull”. Even as the 
mountain stands out and even as the bull stands out among the cattle, this one who 
performs Rdjasuya stands superior. Therefore he says “From the back of the 
mountain, of the bull”. “ (The water) navigable by boats keep flowing drenching his 
body. They (the waters) which (were originally) upward bent (when they were 
dragged upward by the Sun’s rays), have turned back downwards crawling behind 
the dragon”. He is indeed the dragon whom the waters follow -flowing. Therefore 

he says “Crawling behind the dragon”. . . 

6. He then makes him step the Vis?iukramas within the (extent of) tiger s skm 
(saving) ‘Thou art the mighty stepping ofVisnu (the sacrifice)! Thou art the out¬ 
stepping ofVisnu, (the sacrifice)! Thou art the stepping ofVisnu (the sacrifice) 1 
Thereby he makes him ascend these three worlds. Having ascended these woods, 
he becomes higher and higher above everything here. Nothing is higher than him. 

Everything else is below him. . 

7. He then mixes (pours) the remaining water into the Brahmin s vessel. He 
thereby makes the Brahmin worthy of adulation next to the king. Therefore, next 
to the king, the Brahmin is venerable. That is why all these creatures are caused to 
be offered as present to the Brahmin and they say that the off-springs of Brahmin 

are propitiated (by these offerings). . 

8. He (the king) then hands over that (vessel) to his (king s) dearest son, 
thinking “May this son of mine perpetuate this ritual and this vigour”. That is how 
this son of his perpetuates this ritual and this vigour. Due to this, he (the spn) does 

not turn to sinning. , . 

9. Held on by his son, he then offers into the Garhapatya fire (saying) O 

Praiapati! none other than you has encompassed all these forms, for, whatsoever 
object we sacrifice, let that accrue unto you”. (He says) This one, one is the father 
of so and so”. He who is the son, him he makes the father. He who is the father, him 
he makes the son. Thus he interchanges the rigour of the two. By this he becomes 
immune to sinning. This one is so and so’s father” (he says). Thereby he 
interchanges their rigour and put them in the proper order. This one who is the 
father is (made) the father and this one who is the son is (made) the son May we 
be the lords of the riches— Svdha' . Thereby he only seeks a blessing. 



TRANSLATION 


95 


V1I.S.3.4 ] 

10, Then whatever remaining particles of water are there, he offers them in 
the Agnidhra&re. This residual water is excess and Agnidh is an excess. The havis are 
cooked in Garhapatya fire; the offerings are made in the Ahavamya fire. This 
(Agnidkra) being excess is receiving what is declared as excess. That, is why this is 
offered to that God (Rudra) and this (nothern quarter where the Agmdkrais) is the 
quarter of that God. He offers (saying) “O Rudra! that name of yours which is 
effective (in inflicting pain to the enemies) and which is supreme, to that name, O 
waters!, get offered (to that Rudra’s name)”. (Second Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA III 

1. On the northern side of Agnidkra, he places hundred or more than hundred 
of his cows. Having stationed them, he brings down the chariot for him. While 
Varuna was consecrated, his vigour departed from him (Vanina). Vigour is 
forsooth, energy; the essence. It is the essence, his energy that departed from him. 
That collected essence of waters (used for Abkiseka ) washes away his energy and 
essence. That (water) struck off his vigour. 

2. Varuna went in search of that and found it among the cattle. Therefore, the 
cattle are an object of veneration, because Varuna regained his energy, his essence 
from them (cattle). Having found it, he put its back into himself and owned it in 
him. Now, this one (Yajamana) by observing this rite sees to it that by this 
consecration (Abkiseka ), his energy, his essence does not depart (from him). He 
does it because Varuna did so. He does so (follows Vanina’s action) because the 
Rajasuya is Varuna’s consecration. From him who is similarly anointed, his energy, 
his essence might go away to the cattle. That he wins back into him and owns it in 
himself. 

3. As to why he brings down the chariot for him—whatever goes out of a 
warrior, it is chased with a chariot; with a chariot, whatever is to be won over, is 
obtained. Therefore he brings down the chariot for him. 

4. He brings down (saying) “Thou art Indra’s thunderbolt”. This person 
(Yajamana) is Indra on two counts; he is a Ksatriya and he is a Yajamana. So he says 
‘Thou art Indra’s thunderbolt”. 



TRANSLATION 


97 


VII.3.3.10 3 

5. That (chariot) held by its yoke, he turns round inside the vedi, by the front 
side of the wife’s apartment ( patnisdld ) and behind the sodas. Then he yokes it (with 
horses) (saying) “I yoke thee on the orders ofMitra andVaruna, the commanders’’. 
The two arms are indeed Mitra and Vanina. By (the prowess of) his arms, a Ksatriya 
becomes one belonging to Mitra and Varuna. Therefore he says “I yoke thee on the 
orders ofMitra andVaruna, the commanders”. 

6. He yokes the right side horse first and then the left side one. In human 
practice, the left ones are first yoked. In the case of divines, it is this way; that is; the 
right-side ones first and then the left-side ones. In the case of the stand-by horse 
(also), the right-side one if firstyoked and then the left-side one. In human practice 
the side horse at the left is first yoked and here in the divine context it is thus (the 
side horse at right is first). 

7. Having yoked it (chariot) with four (horses) he takes it (chariot) through 
the place where the gift-cows are stationed and halts it in front of the Agnldhraand 
behind the Catvala pit. The Yajamana ascends it (saying) “For tirelessness (I mount 
thee), for Svadha (I mount thee)”. He means ‘For being not fatigued, for being 
steady’ when he says “For tirelessness”. When he says “For Svadha ” he means Tor 
essence’. (He says) “ Phalguna Who is free from harm”. This one (Yajamana) is 
Indra on two counts; he is a Ksatriya and he is Yajamana. This name Arjuna is a secret 
name of Indra. “Who dares to call him by his secret name”—(so thinking) he says 
“Phalguna who is free from harm”. 

8. He then touches the one (horse) yoked on the right side (saying) “Conquer 
thou by the impulse of the Maruts”. For, the Maruts are the Vis (clansmen); (they 
are) the clansmen among gods. A Ksatriya attains what he wants by (the help of) the 
clansmen. He conquers what he wants to conquer with the help of the Vis”. That 
is what he means when he says “Conquer thou by the impulse of the Maruts”. 

9. He then takes it, (the chariot) upto the midst of the cows (saying) “May we 
obtain by the mind” What he wishes for in his mind, he obtains. He wishes for that 
much as he desires. He obtains the energy, the essence, which has departed from 
him. Therefore he says “May we obtain by the mind”. 

10. He then touches a cow (saying) “Together with energy”. Because, from 
him who is being consecrated, the energy, the essence departs and that he puts 
(back) into him and owns it in him. So he says “Together with energy”. 



TRANSLATION 


VII.3.3.14 ] 


99 


11- He then says, “Let me win these (cows) and let me make them mine”. Thus 
he wins his own vigour which has departed from man (him). Because it is his vigour 
that first departs from him, when his energy, the essence goes out while he is 
anointed . That he now, takes (back) into him and owns it in him. For himself, he 
wins the energy, the essence. Later he gives back the same number (of cows) or even 
more. Because by winning (the cows which are meant for daksind) he is doing 
something cruel (unfair). One who performs Rdjasuya is not to do an unfair act. He 
has to act fairly, speak auspicious (words). That much alone he should (act or 
speak). Therefore, he later gives him (the recipient of the gift) same number or 
even more (cows). 

12- He then pulls the (reins of) right side horses and passes along in front of 
the yupa&long the same route by which the daksind cows go; to the front of the wife's 
apartment and behind the sadas. He then pulls the reins (and halts the chariot, 
saying) “O Lord Indra, the wielder of thunderbolt! that chariot on which you have 
mounted, has good horses controlled by your reins. O Lord! who overpowers 
quickly (the enemies), we, unattached to that chariot of yours will not gain 
Brahminical lustre”. Abhisava means reins. Those (reins) he now pulls. Therefore 
he says “O Lord who controls” and vis means food. It is over the vis that is food, his 
kingship (represented by) i.e. chariot, is set free. He offers these Raihavimocaniya 
oblations (thinking) “Let this chariot be propitiated and pleased when unyoked”. 
He stands on the chariot and puts on the shoes made of boar’s skin. 

13. He offers (saying) “To Agni, the lord of the House— Svdha\ That which 
belongs to Agni in that (chariot), he thereby propitiates. The edges of the yokes 
(are the parts) which belong to Agni. He now propitiates them. ‘The position of the 
lord of the House’ means prosperity. As much as he rules, this releasing of the 
chariot-yoke confers that much prosperity on his lordship of the House and on his 
kingdom. 

14. (He offers saying) “To Soma the lord of the trees— Svdha’'. There are two 
products of wood, the wheels of the chariot and the waggon . For both of these he 
thereby ensures safety, whatever is wooden in the chariot, that he propitiates by th is. 
Timber (ingredients) are those belonging to trees (in this). That he propitiates. 
Soma is Ksatra. It is over Ksatra, that his kingship (represented by) i.e. chariot, is set 
free. 



translation 


VII.3.3.19 ] 


101 


15. (He offers saying) To Indra’s energy— Svdhd". He thereby propitiates that 
(part of) of the chariot which isoflndra. The warrior on the right belongs to India. 
Him, he thex eby propitiates. Energy' means rigour. It is over Indra, the energy that 
is, rigour, his kingship (represented by) i.e. chariot, is set free. 

16. (He offers saying) To the strength of the Maruts— Svdhd'\ He thereby 
propitiates that (pax t of) the chariot which is of Maruts. There are four horses; two 
men comprising the charioteer and the (stand-by) wamor on the right, and the 
chariot (thus) seven. Maxuts are (in group of) seven. Ail these are thereby 
propitiated. “The Maruts are Vis (peasantry). Hotr seated at the altar; (thou art) the 
guest dwelling in the house (of one who mounts thee); thou who live in men; who 
dwell in high places; thou the dweller in sacrifice; thou dwelling in the sky (to carry 
the Sun); thou associated with horses; thou bom of thunderbolt; thou born for the 
sake of sacrifice; bom of strong wood—You are (completing) this great (Rdjasuya) 
sacrifice ”•—Thus (he praises) in Aticchandas (excessive metre)—all metre it ex¬ 
ceeds; hence excessive metre. Hence evil does not follow him. 

17. Once the gods placed into the fire a pot of ghee. From there the boar came 
out. Hence the boar is fat. Hence also they say that the cows have attachment to 
boars. Why the cows have attachment to the boars is because they are attached to 
their own milk, in their own essence (which is in the boar). So he establishes himself 
in the essence of the cows. This (shoe made of boar’s skin) puts into him the essence 
of the cows. Therefore he puts on the shoes made of boar’s skin. 

18. Looking down on the earth, he chants “O Mother Earth!, do not harm me, 
nor I will (harm) you”. When Varuxia was being consecrated, he was afraid of this 
earth. “By my getting consecrated, I have made her (earth) weakened and she may 
not shake me off”. This earth also feared (thinking) “By this one getting conse¬ 
crated, something great has happened and he may not slight me”. She (die earth) 
arrived at this understanding “A mother does not harm the son; nor a son harms 
the mother”. 


19. In like manner, this one (Yajamana) is afraid of this earth. “By getting 
consecrated, I have made her (earth) weakened and she may not shake me ofF. 
This earth also fears (thinking) “By his getting consecrated, something great has 
happened and he may not slight me”. She herself comes to this understanding “A 
mother does not harm the son; nor a son harms the mother”. 



TRANSLATION 


VII.3.3.25 ] 


103 


20. He steps down (from the chariot) chanting—“Thou (chariot) art the swan 
dwelling in the sacrificial venue; on you, the Yajamana sits (as it were) in the air; 
(thou art) the good horseswith your reins'’. While the chariotis still yoked, he offers 
the Rathavimocaniya oblations (oblations marking the unyoking of the chariot); 
Why he offers the Rathavimocaniya oblations is (he thinks) “Let this (chariot) be 
propitiated when it is unyoked”. 

21. He takes the chariot along with the charioteer and leaves it in the cart- 
stand. Then he leaps down. Why the charioteer also does not descend is lest he 
should set foot on the same world where he (the anointed king) has descended. So 
here (along with the king) the charioteer does not get down. 

22. Then at the right side of the original fire ( Ahavaniya ) on the track of the 
cart-wheel, hefastens two round (gold) plates (weighinghundred manase ach) and 
hides them by a branch of the Udumhara tree. 

23. He touches one of the plates (saying) ‘You are so big; you are life; bestow 
life upon me”, ‘You are the coordinator (of the sacrifice), You are the lustre; bestow 
lustre upon me”— (so saying) he touches the other (plate); life means immortality. 
Gold is immortal. He thereby puts into himself life, immortal. 

24. Then he touches the Udumbara branch (saying) “You are sustenance; 
bestow sustenance upon me”. Udumbara is indeed sustenance. Thereby he puts 
sustenance unto himself. 

25. He then brings the curd preparation for Mitra and Varuna. He causes his 
(Yajamana’s) hands stretch towards it (curdpreparation) (saying) “I draw you 
down the arms oflndra, the doer of mighty deeds”. Then he bathes him (Yajamana) 
who has his hands strentched upwards, with that (curd preparation). This curd 
preparation is the essence of cattle. He thereby makes him plant his hands in the 
essence of cattle. He endows his hands with the essence of cattle. Now why he says 
‘You the hands oflndra’ is because he (the Yajamana) is Indra on two counts; he 
is a Ksatriya and he is the Yajamana. So he says You the hands of Indra”. (He 
says)—“I draw you by the doers of mighty deeds”. These two arms of the Yajamana 
are indeed doers of mighty deeds. Now why the curd preparation of Mitra and 
Varuna—The two arms are Mitra and Varuna. A king is Mitra and Vanina because 
(of the prowess) of his arms. For this the two round (gold) plates are daksind. For 
the next rite, two oxen (stationed) at the door ot the front-side fire, are the daksind . 
(Third Brahmana Ends) 



VII.3.4.5 3 


TRANSLATION 


105 


BRAHMANA IV 

1. He proceeds with this curd preparation for Mitra and Varuna when the 
Svistakrt is unoffered. They bring this- seat in front of the hearth of Mitra and 
Varuna. He who performs Rajasuyci conquers a seat above (others) or a seat in the 
air. (By placing this seat) he (the king) is made to reach the seat above (others) or 
a seat in the air. Him, who is seated above these Vis (subjects) sene from below. That 
seat has a cleavage or has holes all around and is made of Khddira wood. If it is for 
Bharata kings it is wound round (by strings of tiger skin). Even if one does not get 
such a seat, one can use whichever is available. 

2. He places (the seat saying) “Thou art shining, well-established thou art”. He 
only says “You are quite fitting”, when he says “Thou art shining; well-established 
thou art”. 

3. He then covers it with a mantle (saying) “Thou art the womb of Ksatra”. This 
mantle is indeed the womb of martial valour and hence he says “Thou art the womb 
of Ksatra”. 

4. He then brings him (the king) then by holding his hand (saying) “Be seated 
on this shining one, be seated on this well-established one”. Thereby he only says 
‘Qcccupying this fitting seat’. “Be seated on this womb of Ksatra” This (seat) is 
indeed the womb of Ksatra. That which is the womb of martial valour, on that he 
is seated. 

5. He makes him (king) si. on it (saying) “The upholder of the sacred law has 
sat”. He who performs Rdjasuya should be one who upholds the sacred law. He is 
not to speak all things; not to do all acts. Whatever is auspicious he should do, 
whatever is auspicious he should speak. Those alone he should (do or speak). And 
also he (Brahmin) who repeats (it) should also be the upholder of the sacred law. 
He is not to speak all things; not to do all acts; whatever is auspicious, he should do, 
whatever is auspicious, he should speak. Those alone he should (do or speak). 
Therefore he says, “The upholder of the sacred law”. “O Varuna! be in the home¬ 
steads". Ksatra is Varuna and Vis (peasantry) are the home-steads. He thereby 
establishes him (the king) amidst the subjects. “He has the auspicious will to rule 
over the empire”. To rule over the empire, indeed, he is performing this with 
auspicious will. 



TRANSLATION 


107 


ms.4.12 3 

6. He then places five dice into his hands (saying) “Dominant thou art over 
these dice. This one (the king or dice) overpowers all other dice. That which is his 
enthusiasm, overpowers all others. He becomes the overpowerer of all others. So 
he says, “Dominant thou art over all these dice”—(He says) “May these five quarters 
of thine prosper”. Thereby he makes all regions prosper. 

7. Then they strike him at the back with sticks. By that they render him immune 
to punishment. Therefore the king is not punishable. He indeed is beyond 
punishment. Thereupon he seeks a boon “I wish for such and such boon, let it 
accrue to me; let me be enriched with that”. He thus enriches his wish. He then 
addresses the Brahman (thinking) ‘Let me speak after being approved by Brahman ’. 

8. He addresses “O Brahman! thou art Brahma”. The Brahma replies ‘Thou 
art Savitr, O one of true impeller!” Thereby he puts valour unto him. This indeed 
makes Savitr (the consecrated king), one of true impulse. 

9. He addresses, “O Brahman! thou art, of course, Brahma”. The Brahma 
replies, ‘Thou art Vanina of true glory”. By this he puts valour unto him. This 
indeed makes Varuna (the consecrated king) one of true glory. 

10. He addresses, “O Brahman! thou art, of course, Brahma”. Brahma 
responds, “Thou art Indra, mighty through the people”. He puts valour unto him. 
He thereby makes Indra mighty through die people. 

11. He addresses, “O Brahman! thou art, of course, Brahma”. Brahma 
responds, ‘Thou art Rudra, the most infavourable”. Thereby he puts only valour 
into him. He by that makes (him) Rudra, most favourable. Rudra is indeed the 
master of all these. This one (the king) is master of all these. He thereby propitiates 
this one (king) who is the lord of all these. Therefore this one (the king), the 
master, makes all these happy. 

12- He addresses, “O Brahman! thou art, of course, Brahma”. Brahma 
responds (but his reponse is) not clear. At first he bestows on him limited power 
which is well-defined (clear). Because whatever is definable is limited. All is 
undefinable (unclear). Whatever is undefined is all (inclusive). Now he bestows on 
him all unlimited power. He thus addresses five times. For, sacrifice is same measure 
as the year and for the year there are five seasons. Those (five seasons) he attains 
by five (times addressing). Therefore he addresses five times. 



TRANSLATION 


MI.3.4.19 ] 


109 


13. He then addresses him as one with auspicious names. "Doer of good, doer 
of prosperity, doer of plenty’ (thinking) ‘Approved by Brahman let me speak 
auspicious speech of humans’. 

14. Then the Adhvaryu priest gives him (the king) the sphya (spade) (saying) 
‘Thou art Indra’s thunderbolt; therewith serve me”. This sphya is indeed thunder¬ 
bolt. That Rrahmana, by means of that thunderbolt renders the king weaker than 
himself. For, whichever king is weaker than a Brahmin, becomes stronger than his 
enemies. A king who becomes stronger than Brahmin, his enemies become 
stronger than himself. Therefore a king should be weaker than a Brahmin. 

15. He (the king) hands over that spade to his brother (saying) “Thou an 
Indra’s thunderbolt; therewith serve me”. Thereby the king makes his brother, to 
be weaker than himself. 

16. He (the king's brother) gives it to the Suta (chronicler) or Sihapati (the 
Governor) (saying) “Thou art Indra’s thunderbolt; therewith serve me”. Thereby 
the King’s brother renders the chronicler or the Governor weaker than himself. 

17. He (the Suta or Sihapati) gives it to Grdmani (village headman) (saying) 
Thou art Indra’s thunderbolt; therewith serve me”. Thereby the Suta or Sihapati 
makes the Grdmani to be the weaker than himself. 

18. The Gramam gives it to his own brother (sajdtah) (saving) Thou artlndra s 
thunderbolt; therewith serve me’. Thereby the Grdmani makes his brother to be 
weaker than himself. 

19. And as to why it (the spade) is passed on this way (from the king up to the 
sajdtah )—they do so to maintain these subjects (of different social strata) in their 
proper order to avoid confusion. Therefore these subjects are put in the proper 
social order and without confusion. Thereupon the sajdtah takes it and gives to 
Pratiprasthatr (the first assistant of Adhvaryu). The Pratiprasthatr, with that spade, 
prepares the ground for dice-game, chanting the puroruk verse of Sukra, Sukrais the 
eater and he thereby makes him the eater. 



TRANSLATION 


VII.3.4.24 ] 


111 


20. With the puroruk verse of the Manthin, they then put up a square shed (with 
four doors). The Manthingrahais the first. They thus having made it the eater, from 
that they produce this food. He is the hefty eater who has (enough) food. He then 
puts a piece of gold (in the ladling of ghee) and offers on the ground (meant) for 
dice-game. No offering is to be made without fire. This gold being the seed of Agni. 
This offering becomes one made in a spot with fire. 

21. He offers (saying) ‘This Agni, the hefty is the lord of Dharma (rites), who 
is (in the form of) dice-game”. Therefore when they do not, recognise Dharma 
elsewhere, let them go to the sabha (of dice-game) because it is the Agni, the hefty, 
the lord of Dharma. “Thus propitiated, Agni the hefty, the lord of Dharma , drink 
ghee— SvahcT. 

22. When he thus offers, Rudra approves of that which is placed as bet (here 
a cow) in the dice-game. Because, Rudra is Agni and this game of dice—is Agni. Its 
coals are the dice. He (Rudra) approves of her. She who is thus approved, he strikes 
at the sabha. He who performs the Rdjasuyaand he who knows it thus (strikes at the 
cow) * 

23. He then throws the dice (saying) “Offered with (the utterance of) Svdhd; 
you (dice) endeavour, with the help of the Sun’s rays, for the middle-most place 
among brethern”. He only means ‘For supremacy among kings’ when he says ‘For 

the middlemost place among brethern*. „ 

24. Then he says, “Pronounce the invitatory prayer to Agni, the Svistakrt. 
“Make the offering to Agni, Svistakri He offers when vasatis uttered. Now,why this 
rite is performed between two’oblations—this sacrifice which is being performed 
is forsooth, Prajapati. This one (the king) is taken from the middle of the Prajapati, 
the sacrifice. He is anointed in the middle (of the sacrifice). After the invocation 
of Ida, he washes with water. The two drought oxen by the side of the original 
(frontal) fire are the daksina for this. (Fourth Brahman a Ends) 


(Chapter Three Ends) 



VII.4.1.6 ] 


TRANSLATION 


113 


Chapter Four 


BRAHMANA I 


1. Now when Varuna was being consecrated, his lustre departed from him. 
Lustre being vigour, it is the same as Visnu, the sacrifice. The essence of the 
collected waters (used for consecration) perhaps washed away that glory', that 
vigour. That perhaps drove away that lustre. 

2. Varuna went in search of it. He chased it along with these deities—with 

Savitr, the impeller; with Sarasvati, the speech; with Tvastr, the forms (of being) 
with Pusan, the cattle; with Indra himself (Yajamana); with Brhaspati, the Brahman; 
with Varuna, the might; with Agni, the glow; with Soma, the king; with Visnu, the 
tenth deity. He found it (lustre) and having found it, he put it unto he 

owned it in himself. Therefore he finds it out only with Visnu, the tenth deity. 
Having found it, he puts it unto himself, he owns it to himself. 

3. This one (the king) becomes consecrated on the tenth day. Because he 
gains it by the tenth deity, it is called dasapeya. Each time, ten men steal forth each 
graha. Thence too it is called dasapeya. He steals forth enumerating ten of his 
forefathers who had drunk soma. It is thus that he obtains stwtO'd.raugh t for himself, 
because he recalls ten forefathers who had drunk soma. 

4. If he is a Brahmin, he might (recall) only three, four, five or six (of his 
forefathers and in the case of a Ksatriya much less number). So he should only 
enumerate these deities while he steals forth. Only with these deities, Varuna 
chased and found it. This one (king) also obtains the status of a somapilhl (drinker 
of soma draught) only by (enumerating) these deities. Therefore he sould steal 

forth enumerating the names of these deities. 

5. Now when he offers the completing oblation related to the consecration, 
he prepares the purodasa for Savitr in twelve potsherds or in eighteen potsherds. 
Savitr is the impeller of gods. Impelled by Savitr, Varuna chased it. Therefore this 
one (Yajamana) steals forth behind it only on being impelled by Savitr. He offers 

only one (golden) lotus and that is the dahsind. ^ 

6 . On the next day, he prepares a catu for Sarasvati. Sarasvati is indeed speech. 
It is with speech that Varuna chased it Therefore this one (king) steals forth with 
speech. He gives only one (golden) lotus. 



TRANSLATION 


115 


VII.4.1.13 ] 

7. On the next day, he prepares a puroddsa for Tvasty in ten potsherds. With 
Tvastr, the forms (of the beings), Vanina chased it. Therefore this one (Yajamana) 
steals forth behind it, with those forms of Tvastr. He gives only one (golden) lotus. 

8 . On the next day, he prepares a cam for Pusan. Pusan is the cattle. It is with 
the cattle that Vanina chased it. Therefore this one (Yajamana) steals forth behind 
it with the cattle. He gives only one (golden) lotus. 

9. On the next day. he prepares a puroddsa for Indrain eleven potsherds. Indra 
is energy, the vigour. It is with energy, that is vigour, Varuna chased it. Therefore 
this one (Yajamana) steals forth behind him with energy, that is vigour. He gives 
only one (golden) lotus. 

10. On the next day he prepares a caru for Brhaspati. Brhaspati is Brahman. 
Ills with the Brahman that Varuna chased it. Therefore this one (Yajamana) steals 
forth behind it with Brahman. He gives only one (golden) lotus. 

11. On the next day, he prepares a caru made of barley for Varuna. That glory 
with which Varuna seized these creatures, with that glory, Varuna chased it. 
Therefore this one (Yajamana) steals forth behind it with that glory. He gives only 
one (golden) lotus. 

12. In those seven oblations, he gives seven (golden) lotuses. In addition, he 
gives five (lotuses). Then he makes a garland of twelve lotuses and makes him 
(king) wear it. What Fibres there are, they are a form of this earth. What seed-stalks 
there are, they are a form of the aerial region. The lotus flowers are the stars and 
they are a form of the sky which is of the stars. He initiates him with these (three) 
regions. These regions encompass all. So he initiates him with all. Now, as to why 
there are twelve lotuses—a year has twelve months. The year is all and he is initiated 
with all. 

13. When he buys (the soma) for consecration, he divides it into two. Having 
divided it into two, he drives him around (on the cart). Having taken round, he 
places one half here (on the throne-seat) and the other half, he takes and keeps it 
in the house of the priest or the Brahman. That he brings here and places it on the 



TRANSLATION 


VII.4.1.21 ] 


117 


throne-seat. Having placed, he proceeds with offering honour due to the guest. 
After proceeding with honouring the guest, he performs the upasads. 

14. Some prepare only these offerings—The puroddsa in eight potsherds for 
Agni; the rum for Soma; and ( puroddsa) in three potsherds ora cam for Visnu. That 
should not be done so. Because he who swerves from the path of the sacrifice, 
faulters. He who does this way is swerving from the path of the sacrifice. So let there 
be ghee oblations only. 

15. Now he offers to Agni. Agni is glow. It is with glow that Vanina chased it. 
Therefore this one (Yajamana) steals forth behind it with glow. 

16. Then he offers to Soma. Soma is Rsatra (valour). It is with valour that 
Vanina chased it. Therefore this one (Yajamana) steals forth behind it with valour. 

17. Then he offers to Visnu. It is with Visnu, that tenth deity, Varuna found it. 
Having found it, he put it into himself; he owned it to himself. Therefore this one 
(Yajamana) with Visnu, the tenth deity, finds it out and having found it, puts it unto 
himself, owns it to himself. 

18. Thus it becomes seventeenfold (stoma) for, Prajapati is seventeenfold. This 
sacrifice is indeed Prajapati. Hence it becomes seventeenfold. 

19. Twelve cows in their first pregnancy are the daksindfor the Brahmin. A year 
has twelve months. The year is sacrifice i.e. Prajapati. Therefore twelve cows in their 
first pregnancy are the daksina. 

20. They (the cows) with their twelve embryo calves become twenty-four. 
There are twenty-four half months for a year. The year is sacrifice i.e. Prajapati. 
Therefore with embryo they become twenty-four. 

21. He gives the golden garland (as daksina) to the Udgatr; a gold plate to the 
Hotr; two golden mirrors to the two Adhvaryu; a horse to Prastotr; a sterile cow to 
Maitra-Varuna; a bull to the Brahmanaccamsin; garment to Nestr and Pota, each; 
to theAcchavaka, a cart laden with barley and yoked (by an ox) on one side and an 
ox to Agnidhra. Thus he gives twelve or thirteen (items as) daksina. A year has twelve 



TRANSLATION 


VII.4.2-5 ] 


119 


or thirteen months and the sacrifice, Prajapati is year. Thus he directly obtains the 
sacrifice, i.e. Prajapati, having acquired him, he puts him into himself and owns him 
to himself. (First Brahman a Ends) 


BRAHMANA II 

1. The puroddsa for Agni is in eight potsherds. He places it on the eastern side. 
There is a puroddsa in eleven potsherds for Indra or a earn for Soma. He places it 
on the southern side. There is a caru for Visvedevas which, he keeps on the Western 
side. There is a curd preparation for Mitra-Varuna which he places on the northern 
side. There is a caruiov Brhaspati. He keeps it in the middle. For these five oblations, 
there are five bilas (holes or conclave depressions to hold the dishes). Therefore 
(the collection of five offerings) is called pancabila (five-holed). 

2. Now as to why he (priest) makes him offer these (panca-hila oblations) is 
this—because he had made him (the Yajamana) ascend these regions, these 
seasons, these stomas, these metres and these samans , therefrom he now redeems 
him (Yajamana) by these offerings. If he were not to perfrom these offerings, then 
he would become arrogant or die or he may collapse. Therefore he should make 
these offerings. 

3. He then proceeds with this puroddsa, in eight potsherds for Agni. With this, 
it was he who made him ascend the eastern region; those seasons, those stomas, 
those metres and those samans (corresponding to it). From those, he redeems him 
(Yajamana). After making the offering, he pours the residue in the cam for 
Brhaspati. 

4. He then proceeds with the Puroddsa in eleven potsherds for Indra or with 
a caru for Soma. By either of these had he made him ascend the southern region, 
those seasons, those stomas, those metres and those Samans (corresponding to it). 
From those he redeems him (Yajamana). After making the offering he pours the 
residue in the caru for Brhaspati. 

5. He then proceeds with the caru for Visvedevas. By that had he made him 
ascend the western region; those seasons, those stomas, those metres and those 
samans (corresponding to it). From those, he redeems him (Yajamana). After 
making the offering, he pours the residue in the cam for Brhaspati. 



TRANSLATION 


121 


VIL4.2.13 ] 

6 . He then proceeds with the puroddsa in eleven potsherds for Indra or with 
a cam for Soma. By either of these had he made him ascend the southern region, 
those seasons, those stomas, those metres and those sdmans (corresponding to it). 
From those he redeemds him (the Yajamana). After making the offering, he pours 
the residue in the emu for Brhaspati. 

7. He then proceeds with the cam for Brhaspati. By that he had made him 
ascend the upper region. Each time after making the offerings, he pours the 
residue into the cant for Brhaspati. Thereby he causes food to be bestowed upon 
him (Yajamana) and hence food offerings reach him (the king). 

8 . For this {puroddsa offering) in eight potsherds for Agni, gold is daksind. For 
this sacrifice belongs to Agni and gold is Agni’s seed. Therefore gold is daksind for 
this and it has to be given to Agnidh, for he (Agnldh) is virtually Agni himself. So 
it is to be given to Agnidh. 

9 . For this ( purodasa offering) in eleven potsherds for Indra, a bull is daksind. 
For it (bull) is the Indra’s form among animals. If it is the cam of Soma, then a 
brown ox is the daksind. Because it (brown ox) is the Soma s form among animals. 
Whichever of these happens to be (the daksind) , it is to be given to Brahma. Because 

Brahma is the protector of the sacrifice from the south. 

10. For this (offering) of cant for Visvedevas, a spotted cow is daksind. That 
which is a spotted cow, has abundance of colours. Visvedevas form a multitude. 
Therefore for this, a spotted cow is daksind. That is to be given to H otr, bee ause Hotr 
means abundance. 

11. For (the offering of) the curd preparation for Mitra-Varuna, a sterile cow 
is daksina. She, sterile cowis sacred to Mitra-Varuna. If one does notget asterile cow, 
it can be a cow which has not yet conceived. For a sterile cow is also not 
impregnated. She should be given to Adhvaryu. Mitra and Vanina are the prana 
(out-breathing) and uddna (in-breathing). The (two) Adhvaryus are prana and 
udana. Therefore she should be given to Adhvaryu. 

12. For (the offering of) the cam for Brhaspati, a white-backed bullock is 
daksind. This upper region belongs to Brhaspati and above that is the path of 
Amman (Sun). Therefore, white-backed bullock is daksind for this. That is to be 
given to Brahma. Brhaspati is the Brahma for the gods. In the same way this one is 
Brahma for this (sacrificer). Therefore it should be given to Brahma. 

13. With these (oblations), one desirous of food can offer (in a non-sacrificial 
context) at a cow-shed heaped with cow-dung. By those, food offerings from all 
regions are caused to reach him. From all regions food offerings converge on him. 
He verily becomes the eater of food from all quarters. (Second Brahmana Ends) 



vn.4.3.5 ] 


TRANSLATION 
BRAHMANA III 


123 


1. He performs the oblations of prayuja (offering associated with prayuja 
chants). The reason why he performs the oblations of prayuja is that the anointed 
(king) thereby yokes the seasons. Those seasons thus yoked carry rum. 

2. Thev are twelve (offerings). A year has twelve months. So they are twelve. 
By them he offers each month. He yokes the seasons monthly. Thus those seasons 

SCt '^That (above injunction of offering each month) should not be taken note 
of Moving eastwards, he offers six of them, each at the distance of the yoke-pin s 
throw from the other. (Moving from the Ahavaniya, he performs six offerings at 5 ,x 
different spots each at a distance measured by throwing the yoke-pm). Thus he 
yokes the seasons at the eastern side. Thus yoked, the seasonscarry lmeas • 

Then he moves (in reverse) each time at a distance measured by the 
yA "pin;Xt yokes the seasons at the western side. Thus yoked, these seasons cany 

him 4/This (procedure) is not to be followed. On the previous day, he should 
prepare the six oblations on a common barhis (on a single fi r e );That yokes * 
seasons eastwards. Thus yoked, these seasonscarry him eastwards. Two of the oxen 
drawing the original fire are the daksind for them. Yoked are die seasons. An ox 
yoked draws (the carriage) - On the next day, on a common barhis (on asmgle fire). 
he should prepare six oblations. That yokes the seasons westwards. Thus yoked, 
these seasons carry him back. For them, two of the oxen.drawing the magjnal fire 
are the daksind. Yoked are the seasons. An oxen yoked, draws “rrage).. 

5. The first six oblations represent the sixmonths from Sts,m (winter) onwards 
unto Prdvrt (rainv season) proceeding towards east for the summer. 

oblations represent the six months from Prdvrt (rainy season) “j^supm 

fh ^ rsiinv season* This is what the Knrxi-r an.caias 



said once, “The seasonsyoked, carry us; we follow tne 

to this (procedure in this sacrifice) because their (kuru-Pancaia s) kings w ere those 
who performed Rtij&suya* (Third Brahmana Ends) 



VII.4.4.3 ] 


TRANSLATION 
BRAHMANA IV 


1. He then seizes awhile (cow) visibly pregnant or Adm. She is ndeeilAi ^ 
whose embrvo he causes him (the king) to be is Ad.tt, this earth S> this (cow ; he 
becomes the embrvo of this earth. The procedure regarding her (white cow is die 
sameasfor eight-footed barren cow. The daisina for dtis is that same type (of cow) 

2. He then seizes a spotted (cow) visibly pregnant for Maruts. Marutsare Vis 

(commoners); the commonfolk among gods. By this, he causes hint B ,?this 

be the embrvo of Vis (make the king one to be nourished by the subjects) By tins 

(cow) he becomes the embryo of tire Vis. The “ f j%£ 

cow) is the same as for eight-footed baiTen cow. The icOrnna for it is (a cow) of that 

Vhen they say that becomes 

"^taTtiTe::procedure £ tire saL and the 4** U 
same When they say that she (spotted cow) be seized for Maruts, they m <=an “lze 
her for Viivedevas. Visvedevas a!re all. So by this he is made tire embryo of all. He 
becomes the embryo of all thereby. For that the procedure rs the same and the 
daksina is same. (Fourth Brahmana Ends) 


(Chapter Four Ends) 



VH.5.1.5 ] 


TRANSLATION 


127 


Chapter Five 


BRAHMANA I 


L He seizes a reddish white (pasu) for Asvins. Asvins are reddish white (in 
complexion). Then ash e-goat with teats in the dewlap for Sarasvatl, a bull for Indra, 
the Sutraman (one who protects well), because the bull is the form of Indra among 
animals. These (pasus) may be seized if available with such specifications. If these, 
with such specifications are not available, any (three) she-goats would suffice. For 
they are easier to cook. But in that case, die she-goat for Asvins should be reddish 
white in colour. 

2. Now, as to why he makes offerings with these in this—where Indra killed 
Visvarupa, the son of Tvastr, that Tvastr got furious, (shouting) “Has he realiy killed 
my son” and organised a Soma sacrifice in which Indra was discarded. (In that) that 
(soma juice) was pressed in the same manner as how this ( soma for this occasion) 
has been pressed. 

3. That Indra saw through (and thought) “This is how they exclude me from 
the sacrifice”. Just as a stronger person would do with a weaker one, he (Indra), 
though uninvited, quickly drank from the drona kalasa the pure soma. But it hurt 
him. It flowed all around from the openings of the vital airs (in his body), Onlyfrom 
his mouth it did not flow out; but through all other openings of vital airs (it flowed 
out). Hence that was (an event) to be atoned. If it had flown out through his mouth, 
there w T ould not have been a need for atonement, 

4. There are four castes; the Brahmin, the Ksatriya, the Vaisya and the Sudra. 
Not one of them vomits soma. If any one of them were so (as vomitter of soma) there 
would have been atonement (prescribed for that too) (i.e. since Indra did not 
vomit soma but it came out through other openings of his body, he deserved 
atonement). From out of what flowed out through his nose, there arose a lion; what 
(flowed) from his ears, a wolf (came out); what (flowed) from his hind openings, 
beasts starting with tigers came out; from that which flowed out of his productive 
organ, the parisrut (fermented liquor) came into being. Thrice he spit out; thence 
w r ere produced the (fruits called) karkandku, kuvala, and badara. It so happened 
that all around they oozed out from the openings. 

5. That Indra got emptied of everything. Because he got emptied of soma, and 
soma being everything, he was bereft of all soma, move about, as though lifeless; 
unsteady in his steps as if he were lame. Him the Asvins treated. They made him 
recouped with everything once again by means of this (Sautrdmanx) . He having 
performed that Isti (of Sautrdmani) became prosperous. 



TRANSLATION 


129 


VIL5.1.13 ] 

6. They (the gods) said “Wonderful, they (Asvins) have saved him and 
rendered him well-protected”. Since they (Asvins) recouped him who was com¬ 
pletely emptied of everything, by this (rite), it is called Sautramani. So he who is 
emptied of soma should be made to perform this ( Sautmmam ). He from whom soma 
flows out, gets emptied of everything. Because soma is everything This ( Sautmmam) 
again enriches him with all that is emptied from him. So this one (Yajamana) having 
performed like that (the Sautramani) becomes prosperous. 

7. Since this one (the Yajamana of Rajasuya) performs this ( Sautramani) , the 
soma does not flow out of him. He is not emptied of anything. He who performs 
Rajasuya is assured of gains for himself, all sacrificial rites, all offerings, all the 
offerings with daroi. This offering (of Sautmmam) is instituted by the gods. So he 
performs the Sautramani thinking “May this be also performed by me, may I be 
consecrated by this rite as well”. 

8. Now as to why the pasu is meant for Asvins here—because it is the Asvins who 
cured him (Indra). In like manner, they (priests) get this one (Yajamana) cured by 
Aivins themselves. 

9. Why there is one (pasu) for Sarasvati?—Sarasvat! is speech. It was with 
speech that Asvins treated him (Indra). Therefore, they (priests) cure this one 
(Yajamana) by speech. 

10. Why there is one (pasu) for Indra?—Indra is the god of the sacrifice. That 
which was the deity of the sacrifice, by means of that very deity, Aivins, cured him. 
Hence the priests cure this one (Yajamana) with that same deity (of the sacrifice), 
i.e. Indra. 

11. When these animals are being cooked, (Some) one throws hair of a lion, 
hairs of a wolf and hairs of a tiger; (also) the hairs of all other animals available. 
Because, these (animals) came out when (soma) everything flowed out of the 
openings (of Indra’s body). So with that he now enriches them and makes them 
complete. 

12. It should not be done like that. For, he who throws them (hairs) thus, urges 
the animals on from behind with a clawed fire-brand. Let him therefore rather 
throw them into the fermented liquor ( parisrut) . So doing he does not urge on the 
animals from behind with a clawed fire-brand; and thus alone he enriches it 
therewith and makes it complete. Let him therefore throw them into the parisrut 
only. 

IS. He now mixes up the spirituous liquor ( parisrut) . He touches that (parisrut) 
prepared (saying) “Get done for the Aivins; get done for Sarasvati, get done for 
Indra, the Sutraman”. just as he addressed that deity, holding up the haws far it, in 
the same manner, he addressed this deity. When she (that deity' namely the Vapa) 



TRANSLATION 


VII.5.1.20 ] 


131 


arrives and is proceeded with. There are two fires, (thinking) ‘Let us offer the 
sacrificial vapd oblation and the surd oblation (liquor of parisrut) together’. On the 
northern part of the altar, they lay the northern fire and the other fire in a raised 
manner (on a mound) (in the south). 

14. There they bring that parisrut and purify it with stalks of darbha grass 
(thinking) ‘The sacrificial grass is pure and I shall proceed with this ( parisrut) 
purified by the sacrificially pure (grass) ’. 

15. He purifies (saying) “The inviting vdyu purified by this pavitra (strainer) 
which is purifying in nature, has overflown backwards; Indra’s mated friend”. Then 
he puts into it (parisrut), the flours of karkandhu, kuvala and badara, because these 
came out there from when he (Indra) thrice spit. By those (very fruits) he enriches 
it and makes it whole. 

16. Then he takes those grahas. He takes three (grahas) or one. If he takes 
three, he takes with equal number of puraruk chants. If he takes one, he takes 
separately. One should take only one (graha) . There is only one puroruk, one 
invitatory prayer and one offering chant. Hence only one (graha) should be taken. 

17. He takes (the graha saying) “Yea, even as the harvesters of barley cut their 
barley crops and other produce spreading around in due order, so you bring foods 
here”—here for these (Yajamanas) who pay their obeisance to this sacrifice (with 
barhi grass spread around). ‘Thou art taken with a support for the Asvins, for 
Sarasvati and for Indra, the Sutrdman \ (Then he says) “Reci te the invitatory chants 
to Asvins, Sarasvati and Indra, the Sutrdman". 

18. He recites (after the Hotr) “O Asvins!, you both having together consumed 
the varied, charming soma. With Namuci, become the masters of the auspicious rite 
and protect Indra to act”. Having called for the Srausat, he says “Pronounce the 
offering chants to the Asvins, to Sarasvati and to Indra, the Sutrdman 

19. He prays “Just as parents protect their son, these Asvins protected you, O 
Indra! They have stood by you with eulogies of your deeds and with their action. 
Whilst you gulped the charming soma, O Indra! Sarasvati cured you by her services”. 
He makes the offering on the uttering of Vasat. He again makes an offering when 
a second time Vasat is uttered. 

20. They now bring a pitcher with hundred perforations or with nine. If it is 
with hundred holes (it is because) man has a life-span of hundred years. He is 
hundredfold strong, and has hundredfold effulgence. Hence it is with hundred 
perforations. If itis one with nine holes (itis because) these are nine vital airs in mail 
and hence it has nine holes. 



VII. 5.1.27 ] TRANSLATION 133 

21. They hold it, placed in a sling, up above the southern fire. Into that he 
pours the residue of the parisrut (left over after offering). 

22. While it (parisrut liquor) trickles through (the holes of the pitcher); he 
stands by worshipping with three Rk mantras propitiating the pitrs who are associ¬ 
ated with Soma ( Somavantah pitarh) ; the pitrs seated on the barhi grass (seats); and 
the Pitrs who are Agnisvdttas (consigned to fire); whence soma flowed out of Indra, 
that part ofit which went to the pitrsirom theemptied Indra; pitrs being (of) three 
categories; with that very same part he unites him (Indra) now; he propitiates him; 
and enriches him with that. Therefore he thus stands by (worshipping). 

23. Then he prepares the purodasafor Savitr in twelve potsherds or in eighteen 
potsherds; Savitr is the impeller of the gods. Impelled by Savitr it was that the Asvins 
treated him (Indra). In like manner, this one (Yajamana) being impelled by Savitr, 
cures him (Indra). 

24. Then there is (a puroddsa) for Varuna in twelve potsherds. For, Varuna is 
the piercer and whatever wound is there it is due to Varuna piercing. This 
(puroddsa) appeases him (Varuna). By him (Varuna) the piercer, he enriches him 
(cures him). 

25. Then there is (a puroddsa) for Indra in eleven potsherds. Indra is the deity 
of the sacrifice. Asvins cured him by that very deity of the sacrifice. In the same 
manner this one (Yajamana) cures him by means of that (very deity). 

26. And if he makes this offering to the one emptied of soma, then after the 
Anuydjas (animal offerings are made) and the two srucas are separated—they 
should proceed with these oblations. Soma flow'ed out (of Indra) at the back side 
and this is the hind part of the sacrifice. These oblations are the fat (of Indra). 
Hence with these fats he thus reinforces him at the back. In that case he should 
prepare a puroddsa in two potsherds for Asvins and proceed to the fore-side. 

27. Let him, however, not do itin that way. For whoever departs from the path 
of sacrifice, faulters. One who does like this swerves from the path of sacrifice. When 
he proceeds with the other vapd offerings of pasus, at that veiy time, he should 
proceedwith these oblations. For that a bull (casterated) is daksind. For, itis neither 
male nor female. This parisrut is neither liquor nor is it soma. Since it is said that they 
take the grahas for this (offering) and is offered into fire, it is not liquor. Since they 
do not eat (drink) it, it is not soma. (Alternatively, daksind can be) a draught-mare. 
Since it draws a chariot, it is not female and since it is a mare, it is not a horse. (First 
Brahmana Ends) 



VII.5,2.6 ] 


TRANSLATION 


135 


BRAHMANA II 

1. Having performed the consecration ceremony, he does not shave his hair 
for a year. Why he does not shave is because that collected essence of waters with 
which he was bathed (at the consecration) is rigour and glory. When he is 
consecrated, the flow (ofw 7 aters) first reaches the hairs. If he is to shave, it renders 
that (rigour) fickle and destroys that glory 7 and make (him) bereft of energy 7 . 
Therefore he does not shave the hair. 

2. He does not shave for a year. The observance of vow 7 is one year duration. 
Hence he does not shave for a year. After one year, he performs the offering to mark 
the termination of the vow; namely the discarding of the hairs. That is the day meant 
for stoma (praising). 

3. There are twenty-one stomas in the morning savana ; seventeen in the 
midday savana, twelve in the third savana . With three Uktha stotras, one Soddsland 
twelve Ratriparydya stotras. At the end of the previous night, there is one Trivrt to be 
sung in Rathantara which is called Sandhistotra (sung at the dawn of the day). This 
should be connected with Trivrt stoma. Thus they are fixed. With that which is thus 
ordained, the one who performs Rdjasuya goes to that one who burns (Sun), 
Having gone there and conquered the heavenly world, he comes back to this 
(earth, i.e. the Rathantara) ; which is his firm settlement and remains there for the 
duration of the human life-span. 

4. The morning savana has twenty-one stotras. This one who burns yonder 
(Sun) is twenty-onefold. There are twelve months, five seasons and three worlds 
and Aditya is the twenty-first. By this morning savana with twenty-one stotras, he gets 
separated from the twenty-first one (i.e. Aditya). 

5. He returns to (the midday savana of) seventeen stotras and from seventeen- 
fold, he reaches fifteen-fold and from fifteen, he moves to the Trivrt This (earth) 
is Trivrt and it is the firm settlement. Thus he gets established in this. 

6. Rathantara indeed is Prstha (stotra) of this (sacrifice). Rathantara is this 
(earth) which is well-established. So he ultimately gets established in this firm earth. 



TRANSLATION 


137 


VIL5.3.5 ] 

7. He only clips his hair after making this offering. He should not shave the 
hair. He who shaves, makes that vigour fickle and make that glory to fall and get 
uprooted. By (cutting and not shaving), he retains that glory connected to himself. 
He carries that prosperity in himself. Therefore he should only clip and not shave 
the hair. 

8. He gets down with the shoes (put on); and with shoes (he mounts) the stool 
and gets down from the stool with shoes on; or he mounts the chariot with shoes 
on or gets down from the chariot into the shoes. Because he who performs Rajasuya 
is above everything. (Second Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA III 

1. Everything here was within Vrtra, the Rks, the Yajus and the sdmans. All that 
was in Vrtra, Indra wished to strike him. 

2. He (Indra) told Visnu, “I will hurl this thunderbolt at Vrtra; you stand by 
me”. He (Visnu) said‘‘Yes you strike and I shall stand by you”. Then Indra aimed 
the thunderbolt against him. Vrtra got scared of that raised thunderbolt, 

3. He pleaded, “Don’t strike me. There is this prowess in me and that I will give 
to you” (Indra said) “Yes”. He (Vrtra) gave him the Yajus mantras. He (Indra) raised 
it (the thunderbolt) for the second time. 

4. He (Vrtra) said, “Don’t strike me. There is this prowess in me and that I will 
give to you”. (Indra said) “Yes”. He (Vrtra) gave him the Rk chants. He (Indra) 
raised it (thunderbolt) for the third time. 

5. He (Vrtra) said “Don’t strike me. There is this prowess in me and that I will 
give to you (Indra said) “Yes”. He (Vrtra) gave him the Sdmans, Now that part of 
Indra’s body, (i.e. the heart) of Vrtra which was the seat of these (Yajus etc.), he 
(Indra) spotted out and tore it off. That became this isti (offering). This is called 



TRANSLATION 


VIL5.3.11 ] 


139 


Traidhatavi because this spot happened to be the seat where this three-fold Vedic 
knowledge abided as three humours ( dhatus)\ each humour distinctly settled and 
hence it is called Traidhatavi. Because of that, this sacrifice is pervaded by this three¬ 
fold vidya, (in due order); first by Yajus, then by Rks and then by Sdmans. This is how 
(the order in which) it was given to Indra. 

6. And now% as to why this puroddsa in twelve potsherds for (the duo) Indra- 
Visnu?—It was Indra who raised the thunderbolt and Visnu stood by him. Why 
there are twelve potsherds is because there are twelve months for a year and this isti, 
is of die same measure as the year. Hence there are twelve potsherds. 

7. He prepares it (puroddsa) with both barley and rice. First he makes a ball of 
rice which is the form of Yajus. Then he makes a ball of barley (placed adjacently 
to it) which is the form of Rks. Again (next to it a ball) of rice which is the form of 
Sdmans. This is how it forms the source (seat) where the three ( dhdtus) abide and 
that constitutes the form of the threefold Vedic knowledge. 

8. This (istior Traidhdtava offering) will be the completing rite (to be made) 
by the one who performs the Rdjasuya. He who performs Rdjasuya does indeed 
block for himself all the sacrificial rites, all offerings, even the offerings by darvi. 
His sacrifice becomes exhausted (putrified), as it were and he turns away from it. 
As it were, now the whole sacrifice is as extant as this threefold Vedic knowledge. 
Therefore by this offering with that threefold vidya, he (actually) again starts the 
sacrifice. By that his sacrifice becomes one that is not exhausted and he becomes 
one who has not turned away from it. 

9. And, for him, who gives thousand (cows as daksind to the priests), this (isti) 
shall be the culminating rite. Because he who gives thousand (cows) becomes 
emptied, as it were. That triple Veda is the thousandfold progeny of vdk. Since 
Indra-Visnu uttered it in three (forms of Yajus, Rk and Saman) It is called Trayi-vidyd 
(triple knowledge). With these hundred-fold (Veda-vidyd), he re-invigorates the 
sacrifice and (hence) his sacrifice does not get putrified nordoeshe turn awayfrom 
it. 

10. Those who sit through (observe) a long sacrificial session (DirgkaSatra) for 
a year or more, this (very same Traidhdtava isti) shall be the cultiminating rite. 
Everything becomes accessible to them who sit through in the Dirgha Satra. 
Whether it is after an year or more (there too) this isti, being everything, shall be 
the culminating rite. 

11. One can exorcise with this ( isti). It is by means of this that Aram bewitched 
Rhadrasena, the son of Ajataiatm. Yajriavalkya also said “Quickly spread (the barhis 
grass for performing this isti”. It is by means of this ( isti), Indra pounded the citadel 
of Vrtra. Therefore one who knows thus and exorcises by means of this (isti ), 
pounds (smashes) the citadel (of his enemy). 


TRANSLATION 


141 


VII.5.3.13 ] 

12. And, indeed one can also heal (treat) with this (isti). Whomsoever, one 
would treat with one Yajus mantra, one Rk chant or one Saman . that (person so 
treated) will become free from disease. So what about (doing so) with the 
(entire) three-fold vidya ? One who is treated by the three-fold vidyd, even if he is, 
as though dead, his (ailments) are removed by this Traidhdtava Isti). 

13. There are (prescribed as daksina) three gold pieces weighing hundred 
mdnds (units of weight). This is the daksina for Brahmana. The Brahmana (though) 
does not perform (the offerings like Adhvaryu) nor recites (Sdmans like Udgata), 
nor chants (F&slikeHota) (but) is the very embodiment of fame (and honourable), 
.And gold, they do not eat nor do anything. But still it is respectable. For the Hota, 
three cows (with calves) are daksina. Three cows (with calves) are abundance and 
the Hota signifies abundance. Three garments (are the daksina ) for the Adhvaryu. 
Adhvaryu spreads, as it were, the sacrifice and the garments spread themselves 
(over the body). The Adhvaryu takes (gets as daksina) three calves (as well) because 
they are connected with the cows. He gives a cow or a steed (as daksma) to Agnidh. 
Thus he gives twelve or thirteen items as daksina. There are twelve or thirteen 
months for the year. Sacrifice, i.e. Prajapati is the year. Thus having obtained the 
visible Prajapati in Yagha form and having acquired it, hq puts it into himself and 
owns it himself. (Third Brahmana Ends) 


(Chapter Five Ends) 
RAjASUYA KANDA ENDS 



UKHASAMBHARANA KANDA 


Chapter One 
BRAHMANA I 

1. There was here, in the beginning, the non-existent, indeed. To the query, 
as to what that was non-existing, it is said that assuredly, the Rsis were the non¬ 
existent to begin with. x4gain for the question “Who were those Rsis ? ”, the Rsis were, 
no doubt, the vital airs. Because, before (the advent of) this universe, they desired 
it and wore themselves out (Rs) with toil and austerity. Hence (they are) Rsis. 

2. The vital air which is in the centre, doubtless, is Indra. By his power, he 
kindled (activated) those other vital airs from the middle. In as much as he kindled 
(indh ), he is the kindler (activator) and indeed, he being the kindler is called Indra 
i.e. esoterically, for, the gods like concealing (in mystic appellations). Thus 
activated, they (the vital airs) produced seven separate individuals (persons). 

3. They said, surely, being in this state, we shall not be able to generate; let us 
make these seven individuals into one person. They made those seven into one. 
Two of them constituted the portion above the navel and two of them below the 
navel. One individual went to make one side and one the other side; while one 
formed the base (feet). Then what excellence (Srz), life-essence that all those seven 
had, went to constitute the top. Because the excellence or .Sbwas pressed into it, it 
is being called Sira or the head. In this head, the vital breaths positioned themselves 
and because the vital airs which are excellence or Sri pervaded the entire system, 
it is called Sarira or body. 

4. That same person became Prajapati and that person who became Prajapati 
is none else than Agni (altar) who is now being built. He verily comprises in him 
seven individuals; for this Agni is made of seven persons; because four constitute 
his frame (trunk) and three go to form his side (wings) and tail (base). Indeed his 
trunk is made offour and his wings and tail of three. Since he makes the body larger 
by becoming one person (from seven), by that (increased) vitality, the body raises 
its wings and tail. Into the fire that is kindled on the altar above, whatever excellence 
and whatever essence was in those seven persons, accumulate and that is his 



TRANSLATION 


145 


viii.1.1.10 ] 

(Prajapati’s) bead. In that head abide (Srita) all the gods (because) here it is that 
offerings are given to all the gods and hence (since the gods abide) it is the btra 

(head). ... , 

5. Now this person, Prajapati desired “May I be born as many (Mayl multiply/ . 

He toiled and practised austerities. Worn out by penance, he firstly created 
Brahman, the triple Vedic science. It itself became his foundation. 1 herefore they 
say that Brahman (Veda) is the basis of everything here. For that reason, one 
becomes steady after learning the Vedas, since Veda became his foundation, he 

(Praiapati) having settled on it, practised penance. 

6. He created the waters from the region of speech and they (waters) are venlly 
vdk which pervaded ( dp) whatsoever was then here. Therefore, they are called 
Apah. They are also called vdk (speech) because they encompassed (everything). 

7. He desired “May I be reproduced from these waters”. He, with the three-fold 
Vedic science entered the waters and thence an egg appeared. He fondlingly 
touched it and said, “Let it be and let it exist purposefully".’Then, he first produced 
(gave out) Brahman i.e. the triple Vedas. So they say, that Brahman is the fust born 
of this all From that person, indeed, the Brahman was first produced and since it 
emanated from his mouth, one who studies the Vedas is called Agm-hke, for \ edas 

are Agni’s mouth. ,. r . 

8. Then that embryo which was inside (the egg) was created as Agm dire , in 

as much as it was created foremost (<zgra),it became (agm) the foremost. That ^ 
called Agni in an esoteric way. Concealing (in mystic appellations) is liked by Gods. 
The liquid that oozed (from the egg) became tear (mm) which is indeed esoten- 
callv called asva (horse) for, the gods love concealing (in mystic appellations). And 
that which, were cried (ms) became the ass (rdsabha) and the juice that was 
adhering to the shell (of the egg) became the he-goat (aja) and that which was me 

shell became the earth. . , . 

9. He desired “May I further produce (in a refined way) this earth in i 

waters”. He crushed the earth (pieces of the egg’s shell) and threw it into the waters. 
The liquid that flowed from it became a tortoise. That which spirted upwards and 
settled dowm became all one with the waters and so there was only one f orm {that 

of the water) this (earth) multiply". He toiled and practised 

austerities. Worn out with penance, he created foam. He knew this form (of loam) 



TRANSLATION 


147 


VIII.1.2.3 ] 

will further change; (He thought) ‘Let me toil more’. Worn out with austerity, lie 
created day, mud, silt, sand, pebbles, rocks, ores, gold, plants and trees. With these 
he covered this earth. 

11. This earth is made of these nine creations. Hence they say this Agni (earth) 
is Trivrt (three-fold) and on it all the fires (fire-altars) are constructed. 

12. This earth has indeed become the foundation (Mil); so it is called BkumL 
It was spread out (prath) and hence became Prthivl The earth considered itself 
complete (perfect) and sang (go) and in as much as it sang, it is Gayatri. They also 
say that it was Agni on the back of her (earth) which considered itself complete 
(perfect) and sang and hence became Gayatra. That is why, indeed, if one feels 
complete (perfect) he sings merilv or rejoices by songs. (First Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA II 

1. That Prajapati desired “May it (the earth) multiply again,” He caused a pair 
by uniting with the earth in his form as Agni. There came into being an egg. He 
caressed it saying “May you grow! May you further multiply”. And the embryo which 
was inside was created as vayu (the wind). The tears that flowed became the birds; 
the juice that was adhering to the shell (of the egg) became those Sun-motes and 
that which was the shell became the atmosphere. 

2. He desired “May it multiply and reproduce”. He caused a pair by uniting 
with the atmosphere in his form as vayu. Thence, an egg appeared. He caressed it 
saying “Bear thou glory”. From that, yonder Sun was produced. He is indeed glory. 
The tears that flowed became the muld-coloured pebbles (asma ). It is tear (asm) 
itself which is called asman (pebbles) in esoteric terms, since gods like concealing 
(in mystic appellations). Then the juice that was adhering to the egg’s shell became 
those rays and that which was the shell became the sky. 

3. He desired “May it multiply and reproduce”. He caused a pair by uniting 
with the sky in his forpi as the Sun. Thence, came into being an egg. He caressed 
it saying “Bear thou seed”. From that was created the Moon. Moon is indeed the 



TRANSLATION 


VIII. 1.2.8 ] 


149 


seed. The tears that flowed became those stars. And the juice that was adhering to 
the egg s shell became those intermediate quarters and that which was the shell 
became the quarters (dims). 

4. Having created these worlds, he desired “May I create such progeny as shall 
be mine in these worlds”. He caused a pair by uniting his speech { vak) with his min d. 
He, with eigh t drops, became pregnant. Those (eight drops) produced eight Vasus; 
he stationed them on this earth. He caused a pair again by uniting his speech (vak) 
with his mind. He, with eleven drops became pregnant. Those (eleven drops) got 
produced as eleven Rudras. Fie placed them in the atmosphere. He caused a pair 
again by uniting his speech (vak) with his mind. He, with twelve drops, became 
pregnant. Those (twelve drops) got created as the twelve Adityas. He stationed 
them in the sky. He caused a pair once more by uniting his speech (vak) with his 
mind. He became pregnant and produced the Visvedevas (all-gods). He settled 
them in the quarters. 

5. Hence they say Agni was created and then followed the creation of Vasus, 
w T hom he placed on the earth. After the creation ofVayu, the Rudras came, whom 
he stationed in the atmosphere. After the creation of the Sun, the Adityas came into 
beingand were placed in the sky. Following the creation of the moon, the Visvedevm 
(all-gods) were created, who were stationed in the quarters (dims). 

6. So they say, Prajapati himself haring created these worlds got firmly 
established on the earth. From him, these plants matured to bear fruits (food) 
which he ate. He became pregnant. From the upper vital airs, he created gods and 
from those vital airs which were lower, the mortal beings. He thus created whatever 
has come to life. Prajapati himself, therefore, created all these and whatsoever that 
came to exist. 

7. He having created the beings and having run the full race, became 
exhausted. That is why one who exerts to the full extent gets exhausted. From him, 
who was tired, the vital air departed from inside. When that went out, the gods 
abandoned (him). 

8. He told Agni, you put me together (rerive me). “What will I gain” he asked. 
Prajapati said, “They shall call me along with you. For, which one of the sons 
succeeds, by him they refer to his father and to his grand-father (and also refer to 
him) as the son (of so and so) and the grand son (of so and so). So let me be called 
after you; hence revive me”. Agni said “So it be” and rerived him. Therefore (since 
thus revived by Agni) being Prajapati, he when revived, is called Agni. Whosoever 
knows this, after him they call his father and grandfather (him) as son and 
grandfather. 



TRANSLATION 


151 


VIII.L2.15 3 

9. Agni asked him, “Where shall I settle you?” "Settle me on the hita (a suitable 
good location) ” he replied. The vital air is, indeed, hita (suitable) because the vital 
air is good for all beings. Since Prajapati was set up on hita, (even now while setting 
up the Cityagni) one says, “I shall set up; I am setting up and I have setup” (in future, 
present and past tenses). 

10. They ask: “What is hita and what is upahitd ?" The vital air is the hita and 
speech is upahita', for, it is indeed on the vital air, this speech depends (upahita ). The 
vital air is of course, the hita and the limbs are all upahita, because the limbs are 
dependent on the prana. 

11. That Prajapati was the citya (one to be revived) by Agni. Because he was to 
be revived, he became (known as) citya: for the sacrificer (Yajamana) too, he 
happens.to be citya (one to be revived on the brick altar). 

12. Now those were the five parts of Prajapati’s body that were weakened 
(when he got exhausted; viz. hair, skin, flesh, bone and marrow. These form the five 
layers (of the five altars) and by building up the five layers, he revives him by those 
body-parts. In as much as they are built up (d) they are citis (fire altars). 

13. That Prajapati who got exhausted is the year and those five parts of his body 
which were weakened are the seasons; for, seasons are Five and these layers (of the 
altar) are five. When five layers are being built up (for the altars), he is being revived 
verily by the seasons. In as much as they are built up, they are citis (fire altars). 

14. That Prajapati, the year, who became exhausted is that very vdyu (wind) 
which blows and those five parts of his body which got weakened, they are the 
quarters. Of course, the quarters are five and the citis (layers of the altar) are five. 
Therefore, when he builds up the five layers (of the altar) he actually builds them 
up with the quarters. In as much as they are being built up (a) they are citis (fire 
altars). And the Fire that is installed on that built up altar is that Yonder Sun. That 
same Agni is (now) set up. In this manner (process) Agni revived him. 

15. They say—Prajapati, when exhausted, said to the Gods “Revive me”. The 
gods told Agni—“In thee (with your help) we will cure this Prajapati, our father”. 
He (Agni) replied—-“Then, I shall enter into him as a whole". They said “Yes". 
Hence, while being Prajapati, they yet call him Agni. 



TRANSLATION 


153 


VIII. 1.2.23 ] 

16. They treated him by offering oblations into the fire. Whatever oblations 
were offered, they became baked bricks and entered into him. Because they were 
produced from the oblations (ista) , they are called istakas (bricks). That is why they 
bake the bricks with fire. By so doing they are actually offering oblations. 

17. He said 11 As much as you offer oblations, so much I got * karri \ happiness 
(cured) ”, As happiness or cure was due to the offering (ista ), therefore also, they 
are istakas (bricks). 

18. That is why, Aktaksi said “Only he who knows numerous istakas (bricks) 
endowed with the Yajus mantras (formulas) should build up the fire-altar. Abun¬ 
dantly indeed, he cures father Prajapati”. 

19. On the other hand, Tandya used to say “The bricks endowed with Yajus 
mantras Tire of royal class. It is the peasant class that fills the society 7 (with plenty of 
food). The royal class is the eater and the peasantry is the food. When there is 
abundance of food for the consumer, that country is indeed rich and prosperous. 
Let him, therefore, have plenty of space-filling variety of bricks (piled up with the 
mantras starting with lokampma )”. These were their respective views but the 
accepted practice is quite different (from either). 

20. Now that Father, Prajapati, is (also) the son. In as much as he created Agni, 
thereby he is Agni’s father; and in as much as Agni revived him, Agni is his father. 
Since he created the Devas he is their father and because the gods revived him, 
therefore, they are his fathers. 

21. Two-fold verily is this to those who understand (that). Father and son are 
Prajapati and Agni; Agni and Prajapati. (So too) Prajapati and the gods; gods and 
Prajapati. 

22. He builds up with that deity 7 . That deity is, doubtless, speech (vak) which 
(is indicated by) the Rk mantra —starting with angirasvad. Angiras is no doubt the 
vital air. “(O Prana). ) be seated firm ‘or’ be seated well-entrenched”. So with words 
(meaning) be well-settled and with the vital air, he builds up (the altar). Speech is 
Agni and vital air is Indra; and the fire (on the altar) is of both Indra and Agni. As 
great as the Agni is and as great as is his sway, by so much he thus builds him up. 
Moreover, Indra-Agni (duo) is all gods and Agni covers all the deities. Thus, as great 
as the Agni is and as great as is his sway, by so much he builds him up. 

23. Now they ask, “Why is the Agni (altar) built of this (earth)?” Surely, when 
that deity (Prajapati) fell exhausted, he (in the form of his) life-sap flowed along 
this (earth) and when the gods revived him, they gathered (parts of his body) from 
this earth. This earth is alone that single brick; for, Agni is this (earth) indeed. That 





TRANSLATION 


155 


VIIL1.2.28 ] 

is why the whole Agni is built up on this (earth). Now, this earth is four-cornered. 
That is why all bricks are like that (four-cornered). 

24. They say, “If thus, there is only one brick, then how come he is five- 
bricked?” (Agni is referred to as Panca citikaor five-altared and so pancestakahscetavydh 
or five bricks are to be built up). Now surely, the first brick made of day is this 
(earth) and with whatever is made of day he builds up (this altar) that is only one 
brick. And when he puts thereon the heads of the sacrificial animals, they form the 
bricks (made) of animals. When he puts on the gold plate and man and when he 
scatters gold files thereon, this is the golden brick. WTien he puts on two spoonfuls 
(of ghee) and puts on the mortar and pestle along with fire-wood sticks, that forms 
the wooden brick. And when he puts on a lotus petal, a tortoise, sour curds, honey, 
ghee and any other eatable, all that forms the fifth brick of food. Thus there are five 
bricks. 

25. They now say “Which is the head of the brick?” “Where he touches it and 
chants the Yajus mantra". Some say thus: “On the one end of the naturally 
perforated (brick) alone, indeed should he chant a Yajus mantmwhile touching it”. 
In this process, all those (bricks) of his get turned towards the naturally perforated 
one. One should not do like that. These bricks are the limbs of Agni; the joints of 
Agni. This would (chanting the Yajus while touching the brick) amount to make 
a head at each limb and at each joint. Because, that Agni which is installed on the 
altar is indeed the head of all these (limbs). 

26. Here they ask, “How many sacrificial animals are laid upon the fire 
(altar)?” He should reply “Five”, because he indeed lays five sacrificial animals. 

27. Or he may say, “One”, “an ewe” (aw), for, an ewe is this earth, because (the 
earth) protects (av) all these creatures. This (earth) is indeed the Agni (fire-altar). 
Because the entire fire-altar is built up thereof. Hence he may say “One”. Or else, 
he may say “Two”. “Two sheep"for, thisearth is one (ewe) and that (sky) is another. 
Then two protect (av) all creatures. What is as day (in thebrick) isofearthandwhat 
is as water (in the brick) is of the sky, and the bricks consist of day and water (the 

two avis) .Therefore, he may say “Two”. 

28. Or lie may say, “A cow”. These worlds are indeed cow, for, whatever walks 
(gam) that moves, towards these worlds. This fire (altar) that is being built up also 
encompasses these worlds. Therefore, he may say “A cow . 



TRANSLATION 


VHI.1.3.6} 


157 


29. To this they said, “For what purpose is this fire (altar) being built up”. 
“(This Agni) having become a bird shall bear me to the heavens”—so say some. Let 
him not think so. (Because) by assuming that form, the vital airs became Prajapati; 
by assuming that form Prajapati created the gods and by assuming that form the 
gods became immortal. Therefore, what the vital airs became, what Prajapati and 
what the gods became, that indeed, he (the sacrificer) will thereby become. 
(Second Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA III 

1. Verily, Prajapati was here in the beginning, alone and he desired “May I 
become multiplied”. He toiled and practised austerity. From him, who was worn out 
and heated, the waters were created. So from that person, who was worn out and 
heated, waters were bora. 

2. The waters asked “Wither shall we be”. He said, “Get yourself heated 
(practise austerity')”. They got heated and they created foam. Hence foam is 
produced from heated water, 

3. The foam asked “What shall become of me”. He said, “Get yourself heated”. 
He got heated and produced clay. For indeed, foam is heated when it gets tossed 
about on the waters by the wind and by getting beaten about, it, indeed, becomes 
clay. 

4. The clay asked “What is to become of me”. He said, “Get yourself heated . 
She got heated and she produced sand. Indeed the day gets heated when they 
plough it; and if only they plough it fine, then it becomes (produced) like sand. 
Upto this (point) the question “What shall become of me”. “What shall become of 
me”. (Hereafter Prajapati directly creates without heating of the raw materials) . 

5. From sand, he created pebbles. Therefore, sands finally, indeed, become 
pebbles. From the pebbles, the stone; whence the pebbles finally indeed become 
stone. From the stone, the metal ore, whence from the stone they smelt ore. Fi om 
ore, gold. That is why, the ore when intensely smelted gets as it were, the appearance 
of gold. Now that which was created was flowing and in as much as it was flowing 
(aksarat ) the syllable (aksara) resulted therefrom. Since it flowed eightfold, that 

Gayatrl of eight syllables was produced. 

6. (He thought) this has become the foundation and so it became bhum 
(earth). He spread it out (pmth) and it became the broad earth (prthm). On this 
earth which was a firm resting base, the beings and the lord of the beings settled 
down in austerity for one year. The lord of the beings was the master of the house 
and Usas (the dawn) was the mistress. Now, these beings are those seasons and that 
one who is the lord of the beings is the year {sanwatsam) and that Usas, the mistress 
ausast. These beings and the lord of the beings, the samvatsara, impregnated seed 
into the Usas. In a year, a boy was bom and he cried. 



TRANSLATION 


VIII. 1.3.15 ] 


159 


7. Prajapati said to him, “O Son! Why do you cry' when you are born of toil and 
austerity”. He said “I am not rid of evil, nor I have any name given unto me. Give 
me a name”. This shows that one should give a name to the son that is born; for 
thereby the evil (in the new born) is removed. He may be named for the second 
time or even for the third time and (each naming) destroys the evil in him. 

8. Prajapati said to him, ‘You are Rudra”. And because he gave him that name, 
Agni acquired his (Rudra’s) form. Verily Agni is Rudra. Since he cried (Arodtt) he 
is Rudra. The boy said, “With this (naming), I have become greater; so do give me 
a name (again)”. 

9. He said, “You are Sarva”. And that, because he gave him that name, waters 
assumed his form. Indeed, waters are all (sarva) ; from waters all these are born. The 
boy said, “With this (naming) I have become greater, so do give me a name (again)”. 

10. He said, “Thou art Pasupati”. And that, because he gave him that name, 
the plants assumed his form. Indeed plants are Pasupati; because the cattle get 
(consume) plants and become virile (get the urge to mate). The boy said “With this 
(naming) I have become greater, so do give me a name again”. 

11. He said unto him “You are Ugra". And that because he gave him that name, 
Vayu assumed his form. Indeed Vayu is fierce (ugra). That is why when the wind 
blows strongly it is said the fierce is blowing (the wind is blowing fiercely). The boy 

' said, ‘With this (naming) I have become greater. So give me a name”. 

12. He said, “Thou art thunderbolt (Asani)”. And that, because he gave him 
that name, the lightening assumed his form. Lightening indeed, is the thunderbolt. 
That is why when some one is struck by lightening, they say that the thunderbolt 
killed him. The boy said, “With this (naming) I have become greater. So give me 
a name (again)”. 

13. He said, “You are Khava”. And that because he gave him that name, 
Paijanya (the Rain God) assumed his form. Indeed Parjanya is Bhava. All these 
came into being (bhavati) from the Rain God. The boy said “With this (naming) I 
have become greater. So do give me a name (again) ”. 

14. He said, ‘You are Mahadeva (the Great God)”. And, because he gave him 
that name, the Moon assumed his form. Prajapati is indeed the Moon. Verily 
Prajapati is the Great God (Mahandeva). The boy said, ‘With this (naming) I have 
become greater. So give me yet a name”, 

15. He said to him, “You are Isana (the Ruler) ”. And that because he gave him 
that name, the Sun assumed his form. Indeed the Sun God is the ruler. The Sun 
rules over all this. The boy said, “I am this much (great) and don’t give anymore 
names”. 



VIII.l .3.18 ] TRANSLATION 161 

16. These are the eight forms of Agni. The boy is the nin th and that is Agni’s 
threefold state. 

17. But because there are these eight forms of Agni, Gayatri, has eight syllables. 
So they say that Agni is Gayatri. That boy entered into these (eight) forms and that 
is why no one sees Agni as a boy. Only in these forms (we) see him. He indeed, 
entered into these forms—one by one. 

18. One ought to build him (the fire-altar) in one year and in (that) one year 
he should recite (the Veda before the preceptor). Some say it should be for two 
years. The impregnation into Ifozswas done for one year and the boy was bom in 
one year thereafter. So the building up (of the fire-altar) should be for two years and 
recitation also for two years. (No) Let him build up in one year and for (that) one 
year let him recite. Because, die same seed which is implanted is brought forth. It 
then lies changing and growing; hence let him build for one year. When built up, 
he gives a name to that Agni by which he wards off evil from him. He calls him by 
a wonderful name saying, “Thou art brilliant”, for Agni is all brilliance. (Third 
Brahmana Ends) 


(Chapter One Ends) 



VIII.2.1.6] 


TRANSLATION 
Chapter Two 


BRAHMANA I 


1. Prajapati contemplated on Agni’s forms. He searched for that bov who had 
entered those forms (one by one). Agni became aware of it-—“Surely Father, 
Prajapati is after me. Alright, I will assume such a form (in) which he will not 
recognise me”. 

2. He saw those, five pasus —the man, the horse, the bull, the ram and the he- 
goat. In as much as he saw ( apasyat) them, they are pasus (cattle). 

3. He entered into those five pasus and became those five animals. Prajapati 
still searched for him. 

4. He (Prajapati) saw those five pasus. Because he saw ( apasyat) them. 
Therefore they are pasus-, or more probably, because he saw him (Agni) in them, 
they are pasus. 

5. He saw that these (animals) are of course Agni and I will refine myself with 
these. Even as Agni, when kindled, glows. So their eyes glow; even as Agni’s smoke 
rises up, so too the vapour rises from them; even as Agni burns what is put into it, 
so they consume (what they are fed with); even as Agni's ashes get shed, so do their 
excreta drops down. These are surely Agni and with these, I shall refine myself. He 
desired to make them over (offer in sacrifice) to different deities. The purusa to be 
ofVisvakarman; the horse to be of Varuna; the bull to be of Indra; the ram to be of 
Tvasta and the he-goat to be of Agni. 

6 . He considered—T shall sacrifice them to different deities now, became I 
desire to have the forms of Agni. So I will offer them to Agni to achieve my desire”. 
By “Agnis” (in plural) he meant the many forms of Agni. It was ‘to achieve his 
desire’—because he had a desire to be realised by the sacrifice. Having appeased 
them (the pasus ) and having done the Paryagm karana of them (having taken the 
fire around them thrice) he then led them northwards and slew them. 



TRANSLATION 


VIII.2.1.12 ] 


165 


7. He considered “Which glories I had contemplated are contained in the 
heads (of the pasus ). Well, then, I will only take up the heads". So he chopped off 
their heads and offered. The remaining trunks he then let float in the water. And 
by (offering) ahe-goathe brought the yajna to its completion, thinking “Let not niv 
yajna he pulled to pieces”. Because, he himself is the yajna and he thought ‘let not 
my own self be pulled to pieces’. After hating performed the sacrifice with that he- 
goat, Prajapati realised that he had not yet reached the end of (searching for) the 
fire-altar. 

8. He considered, “I must search for that self of mine (the trunks of the pasus 
whose heads were chopped of!) which I let float on the water”. He searched for it. 
He collected those waters in which those cut-off (parts of the bodies) had settled. 
(Those parts) which were (settled) in this earth. That clay (he gathered). And 
having gathered, both that clay and water, he made a brick. Hence brick consists 
of these two, clay and water. 

9. He considered, “If I refine myself with this (brick) as it is (unbaked), I shall 
become a decaying carcass with evil unremoved. Well then, I shall bake itwith fire”. 
So saying, he baked it with fire and rendered it undecaying (immortal). For, the 
havis (sacrificial offering) which is cooked by fire is indeed, ambrosia (undecaying). 
Hence they bake the bricks with fire. They thereby render them, indeed, ambrosia. 
And is as much as he saw them after offering ( istva ) the pasu (he-goat) in sacrifice, 
therefore they are istakas. So bricks are to be made only after performing the 
sacrifice with pasu. Those (bricks) that are made before (without) the animal 
sacrifice are anistakas (non-bricks or non-favourables). So doing like that is 
incorrect (making bricks without doing animal sacrifice is taboo). 

10. Those which are the glories are (same as) these heads of the pasus and 
those trunks (of the pasus) are those five layers of the fire-altar. That he puts on 
those heads of the pasus and builds up the altars, (virtually) amounts to uniting 
those trunks with those heads. 

11. Since all these pcius constitute what is Agni (altar), the jfczftudelightm (the 
vicinity of) the Agni-altar. Pasus sport with pasus. Hence the sacrificial fire is set up 
with him who possesses cattle. Since Agni itself is pasu, Prajapati (the Lord of 
creatures) became Agni. 

12. Here, then, some say, “It is in this context that one should offer up all those 
(five) pasus. For had Prajapati offered sacrifice with all of them, he would have very 
well reached the completion of the fire (altar) *. Hence if one were to offer all those, 
he would certainly reach the completion of the fire (altar). He should not do so. 
In that case he would be swerving from the foot-steps of gods; (he would have) 
departed from his (Prajapati’s) path. In that case with what he would gather (the 
material for bricks) ? Because the gathering is done of those trunks and those lay ers 
of the altar. Therefore, one should not do so. 



TRANSLATION 


167 


VIII.2.1.19 3 

13. Now when he makes offering of those pasus, he indeed, makes a home for 
the Agni. One does not, of course, enjoy in a place which is not his home. But the 
home means food (available). That is (anna) what he lays down in front and when 
Agni sees that, he turns unto it. 

14. There are—a man, a horse, a bull, a ram and a he-goat. They together cover 

all animals (used for sacrifice). Since they constitute the food, he lays down all of 
them and seeing that, Agni turns unto it. They are five, for there are those five Agnis 
corresponding to the five layers (of the altar). (Accordingly) he thus lays down five 
homes for them. Seeing that, Agni turns unto it. And when (he offers) “To the 
Agnis” he means many Agnis (altars) corresponding to those many layers. (When 
he offers) “For the achievement of desire”, he means that the sacrificer may achieve 
that desire for whose achievement, he performs this ritual. ^ 

15. He offers first a man ( purusa) ; for, man is the foremost among pasus. Then 
the horse; because horse comes after man. Then a bull; since bull follows the horse. 
Then a ram. Since it comes after bull. Then a he-goat, because the he-goat follows 
the ram. Thus they are offered in that order and according to their importance. 

16. Their (tethering) ropes may be unequal. That of the man being the 
longest, then shorter and shorter. According to the size of the pasus, he makes the 
ropes to avoid confusion. Or all these (ropes) maybe equal; all similar. Because all 
these (pasus) are equally called Agnis and all are indeed called anna (food). So they 
are equal and similar. 

17. Here now they ask “How is that the entire five-bricked Agni is obtained in 
the pasus? Well, in the potsherds of the purvddsa (cake) it is, that the first brick of 
day (is obtained). The pasvistakm (bricks made of pasus) are obtained when the 
pasus are offered. When the two gold pieces are placed on the sides of the v-apd 
(omentum), thereby the golden brick is obtained; and with the fire-wood, yupa 
(stake) and enclosing sticks (forming the paridhts) the wooden brick {vdnaspa- 
tyestaka) is obtained. Then, with the ghee, sprinkled, water and pumddsa (cake), the 
fifth brick (namely) food is obtained. It is in this way that this Agni becomes thefive- 
bricked whole in the pasus. 

18. For these (pasus), there are twenty-four kindling chants (sdmidhenis). For, 
the year has twenty-four half-months and Agni is the year. As great as Agni is, as 
great as is his size, by so much he thus kindles him. 

19. Then' (the reason) for the (number) twenty-four, is, Gayatrl consists of 
twenty-four syllables. Agni is Gayatrl and as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, by 
so much he thus kindles him. 




Tiistubh metre (he kindles) the self (energy). The Tristubh chants are in die 
middle and the Gayatri chants are on both sides thereof. For, this body (self) is in 
the middle and the vital, airs are around. He utters more Gavatri chants in the 


beginning and fewer after the Tristubh chants. Because, these vital airs are more 


in the front and few in the rear. 


22. He recites “ May the months, O Agnilf May the seasons make you grow”. 
When Agni revived the exhausted Prajapati, the latter said, “You revitalise (kindle) 
me with such of those sdmidhem chants which are equal (in measure) to me”. He 
(Agni) saw these chants-—“May the months, O Agni!, May the seasons make you 
grow". (It means) ‘let the months and seasons make you grow’. “May these years, 
the vital airs (Rsis) and what, are the good deeds (Satyds) (make you grow)”, (It 
means) ‘let the years, the vital airs and good deeds make you grow’. “With heavenly 
brilliance you shine”. ‘The heavenly brilliance is indeed, yonder Sun and thus with 
that (Sun) you shineforth’ (it means). “Lighten up all around, make bright these 
four intermediate quarters”. (It means) ‘lighten up everywhere including the four 
intermediate quarters’. 

23. These chants have one and the same explanation referring to him (Agni 
or Prajtpati). (They deal with) how to make him complete, how to revive him and 
how to make him up. These are the common refrains of these chants referring to 
Agni—Prajapati. They are of Agni because Agni saw them. They belong to Prajapati 
because they were used in reviving Prajapati. 

24. There are twelve dpn chants (propitiating formulas). There are twelve 

.t i . * « A • A * . __ 









TRANSLATION 


171 


YTII.2.1.30 ] 

26. And again why twelve? Jagati metre is of twelve syllables and the Jagati is 
all mantras (because other mantras are of lesser number of syllables, they fall within 
jagati). All the mantras are Prajapati who (in turn) is Agni. As great as Agni is, as 
great as is his size, by so much he thus propitiates him. 

27. Those kindling sticks of his (Agni) are upward pointing. When Agni 
revived the exhausted Prajapati, he said to him, “You propitiate me with those dpn 
chants which are equal to me”. He saw these (chants)—“ Upward pointing are his 
kindling sticks” and so the kindling sticks of Prajapati who is kindled are upward 
pointing. “Upward pointing are the bright flashes of Agni”—for, his bright flashes, 
flames are tending upwards. “They the most shining" (which means) the most 
powerful. “He the most fair-looking”, because he is indeed, the most charming on 
all sides. (.And is said) “Of the son” is as much as he (the sacrifker) produces him, 
therefore he (Agni) is his son. 

28. These verses have one and the same explanation referring to Agni. 
Prajapati; (they deal with) how one would make him complete, how to revive him 
and how to wake him up. These (chants) belong to Agni and Prajapati. Because 
Agni saw them, they are of Agni and because they axe (meant to) please Prajapati, 
they belong to Prajapati. 

29. They (dpn chants) are unequal and consist of unequal feet and unequal 
syllables. Because the metres (in which they are couched) are dissimilar. Whatever 
unequal limbs there are in his (Agni's) body, those (limbs) of his, he propitiates 
with these chants. 

30. The puroddsa (cake made of animal meat) belongs to Vaisvanara (Agni), 
Vaisvanara being all the forms of Agni, it is for the obtainment of all the fires. Why 
to Vaisvanara? Those layers of the Agni-altar are no doubt, the seasons; for the 
seasons are the fires; and seasons are the year. The year is Vnisvanaia (alt 
emcompassing). If offered to Agni (individually) it will become limited (less 
comprehensive). That it is (offered) on twelve potsherds is (only) because the year 
has twelve months and the year (as a. whole) is Vaisvanara. The offering as well as 
the accompanying formula (a?iuvdkya) relate to Agni so that all the forms of Agni 
can be included. The anumkyas contain the word “ kamd ” in order to obtain the 
desires. 



TRANSLATION 


VIII.2.2.3 ] 


31. Some, having obtained those heads of pasus, put them on the fire-altar 
(without sanctifying them with prayajas ). It is (on the assumption) that they are 
pasus (fit for offering) on two grounds. (That they have been obtained and 
slaughtered). But those (who do thus) become decaying carcasses, for those heads 
(they offer) are unsanctified. In this (prohibited) way they did in the case of Asddha 
Sausromateya and he soon died thereafter. 

32. Some others adopt golden bricks saying that they are immortal (amrtestahas 
made of placing two gold pieces on either sides of the remains of the pasus which 
are considered undecaying). Though they may be, no doubt, amrtestakas, they are 
not (same as) the heads of the pasus. 

33. Some others adopt bricks of day, thinking that those animals are already 
slaughtered since earth is the refuge of all that is dead; the pasus must have (after 
being slaughtered) gone into this earth and from thence we should collect them. 
One should not do so. He who is not aware of the courses (by which the pasus after 
the slaughter) went and (does not know) the Brahmanas (explanatory 7 texts on 
those courses), for him they are (merely) dead. Till such time, he masters those 
(causes of departure of the slaughtered pasus 2 nd the Brahmanas thereon) Tie has 
to offer those five pasus (slaughtered). That is why, Prajapati, to start with, 
slaughtered them and SyaparnaSayakayana, the last (did so). In between (the two) 
also they (fi ve-pasus) were being slaughtered. But nowadays only these two are 
being offered viz. the one for Prajapati and the one for Vayu. Why these two are now 
being explained. (First Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA II 

1. The Caraka’s offer (a he-goat) in sacrifice for Prajapati; (they do so) since 
Prajapati having built up the fire-altar became Agni. So, one who siavs that (he- 
goat) reaches the completion of the fire-altar. It is a dark grey one. The grey 7 one 
has two kinds of hairs; die white and the black. These two make a productive pair. 
That productivity is what makes it prdjdp/atya (fitfor Prajapati). It is hornless because 

Prajapati is hornless. _ , ,. , r 

2. For this (animal-sacrifice), there are twenty-one smmdimus (kindling 

chants). Twelve months, five seasons, these three worlds and yonder Sun-—-these 
twenty-one (together) make up Prajapati; Prajapati is Agni. As great as Agni is, and 
as great as is his size, by so much, he thus kindles him. 




TRANSLATION 


VHL2.2.8 ] TRANSLATION 175 

S. And again why twenty-one? Pumsa (man) indeed, is twenty-onefold. Ten 
fingers of the hands, ten toes and the body (self)—these twenty-one make tip the 
pumsa who is Prajapati. Prajapati is Agni. As great as Agni is, and as great as is his 
size, by so much, he thus kindles him. 


4. He recites (the accompanying) chants in both Gayatrl andTristubh metres. 
Their significance has been (already) told and also has been told about the order 
of those chants. The sprinkling of ghee (on the northern sruk) is done with the Rk 
mantra starting with ‘ Himnyagarbkah Of course, Hiranyagarbha is Prajapati and 
Prajapati is Agni. (Here too) there are twelve apn chants (propitiating mantras ): 
their significance has been told (already). The order of those chants also has been 
told. The puroddsa prepared from the pasu (the cake made from the meat of the 
pasu) belongs to Prajapati. To whom the pasu belongs, its puroddsa also belongs to 
him. There are twelve potsherds. The year has twelve months and the year is 
Prajapati. The anuvakyas of (chant accompanying) the oblations contain the word 
u ka (in kasmai derma ), for Prajapati is “Ah”. 

5. He then, offers in sacrifice for Vayu, the Niyntvat (the wind-god driven by 
a team of horses), that white hornless one (he-goat). When Prajapati after creating 
the beings, looked around and experienced excess joy, due to which semen fell. It 
became that white, hornless he-goat with a (distinct) white mark on the fore-head. 


For, semen is life-sap and as far as there is life-sap, so far the life lasts. And when he 
offers that (he-goat produced out of his seed) he reaches the completion of the 
Agni-altar. That (goat) is white because the semen is white. It is hornless because 
the semen is hornless. It is meant for Vayu since Vayu is prana (in-breathing). It is 
for Niyntvat. (the team of horses) because the rdyutis the outbreaking of uddna. He 
thus puts into him both prana and uddna. 

6. And again why he slays that white, hornless one (he-goat) for Vayu? When 
the gods revived die exhausted Prajapati by means of this pmu, they put into him 
that prana which had gone out of his middle part Similarly this one now puts prana 
into him. It belongs to Vayu because Vayu is the prana (in-going breath) and to 
Niyutvat since the team of horses (niyut) is uddna (outgoing breath). He thus puts 
(both) the prana md the uddna into him. He is white because Vayu is white. He is 
hornless because Vayu is hornless. 

7. For this (animal sacrifice) there are seventeen sdmdhmh (kindling mantras ). 
For, the year is seventeenfold. There are twelvemonths and five seasons. The year 
is Prajapati and Prajapati Is Agni. As great as Agni is and as great as is his size, by so 
much, he thus kindles him. 

8. And again why seventeen? Pumsa (man) is seventeenfold. There are ten 
vital airs, four limbs; die body is fifteenth; the neck forms the sixteenth and the head 
is the seventeenth. Pumsa (Man) is Prajapati: Prajapati is Agni, As geat as Agni is, 
and as great as is his size, by so much he thus kindles him. 


TRANSLATION 


Vin.2.2.14 ] 


177 


_ He recites (the accompanying chants) in both Gayatri andTristubh metres. 
Their significance has been (already) told; also has been told about die order of 
those chants. There are twelve a/m chants (propitiating mantras) and their signifi¬ 
cance has (already) been told and also has been told about their order. The pasu- 
puroddsa (the cake made of the animal’s meat) belongs to Prajapati. Mahitthi once 
said that therein that desire was achieved which the Carakas said in the case of the 
prdjapatya pasu (earlier). 

10. Why the pasu belongs to Vayu and the purodasa made of that pasu belongs 
to Prajapati? One half of Prajapati is Vayu no doubt, and the other half is Prajapati. 
If both (the pasu and purodasa ) were to be made over to Vayu or were to be offered 
to Prajapati, then only one half of him would be made up and the other half would 
not be; (on the other hand) in so far as the pasu belongs to Vayu and the Purodasa 
to Prajapati, he puts together (revives) Prajapati in his entirety. 

11. Again, why the pasu is of Vayu and the purodasa is of Prajapati? When the 
gods revived the exhausted Prajapati, they, by means of this pasu, put (back) into 
him the prana which had gone out of the middle region and with this purodasa they 
restored his self (body). And as to why it belongs to Prajapati, it is because the self 
(body) is Prajapati. Why (there are) twelve potsherds is because twelve months 
make a year and Prajapati is the year. One offering chant (yajya) and one associate 
chant ( anuvakya.) contain the word “Ka". For, Prajapati is 'Kg' (First of the yajya 
chants and the last of the anuvakya chants end in kasmai dsvdya havisd vidhemaJf). 

12. When he first: offers the vapa (omentum) he puts into him this prana which 
is here in front. He offers this ( purodasa) in the middle (after the vapa and before 
the havis) because that this trunk is in the middle. And lastly when he offers the kavis 
(meat) oblation, he thereby puts into him the vital air which is behind. The 
remaining offering chants and associate chants should contain the word * sukla' 
(bright) for the obtainment of bright forms and the word ‘ niyuf for the obtainment 
of (that form of Prajapati) which has a ‘ niyuf or a team. 

13. Some (others) say—only for the offering of the vapa, the offering and 
associate chants should contain the word 'sukla’, because ontv to this extent (vapa 
portion) it is white in the animal. Havis (meat) should be accompained by both 
chants (viz. with the word ‘sukla’ and with the word ' niyutvat *) because it is for the 
obtainment of his form which has a team. 

14. And again why he slays the pasu? Because in this animal, indeed, you have 
the form of all the pasus. In as much as it is hornless and bearded, it has the form 
of the purusapasu (Man); since purusahzs no horn and has beard. That it Is hornless 
and bears mane, it has the form of asvapdsu (the horse); because the horse has no 
horn and has mane. In as much as it is eight-hoofed it has the form of gauh (bull), 
for, the bull is eight-hoofed. In as much as it has hoofs resembling those of the avi 
pasu (sheep) it has that same form (of avi). Being itself the he-goat, it has that form. 
Thus when he slays this one ( aja pasu) it amounts to slaying all the (five) pasus. 
Whichever of these may suit him—those five pasus or that (he-goat) for Prajapati 
or that one for Vayu Niyutvat, let him perform that. 



TRANSLATION 


VIH.2.2.25 ] 

15. Let him slay it in a full moon day’, “Let him slay it in a ne w moon day”. So 
say some. This moon is, of course, Prajapati. He dwells for this night (of new moon) 
here (in this earth) in the form of herbs and it would amount to slaying it when he 
is stationed here. 

16. But this is done in a full moon day. Yonder moon is the pasu. Him the gods 
slay in a full moon day. “I shall slay him when the gods slay him”—Thus (arguing), 
therefore, he slays him at full moon. And again, why in full moon day? The full 
moon, no doubt, was the first to shine forth. Hence in the full moon day. 

17. That too on the Phdlguni day (when full moon and uttara phatguni star 
coincide). This Phdlguni which is the latter {uttar) (associated) with the full moon 
is the first night of the year. And that Phdlgunmhlch is the former {puma) is the last 
night of the year. He thus does at the very mouth (start) of the year. 

18. Now, let him soon after performing the full moon offering, slay the pasu. 
Because, Indra slain the evil Vrtra by the full moon offering and having cleansed 
(himself of) all evil, started this sacrificial ritual (of Pasvdlamhhn). 

19. This is performed in muffled voice. Because (when) Prajapati attempted 
the work (of laying the altar), it was then as it were, undefined or indistinct; hence 
in a muffled voice. 

20. And again why in a muffled voice? This performance, assuredly, belongs 
to Prajapati because it is Prajapati whom he enriches by this; and Prajapati is 
undefined, indeed. 

21. And again why in a muffled voice? There is seed here in the sacrifice and 
seed is cast silently. Vapa (omentum), pasu-puroddsa and the havis —these together 
constitute the animal (i.e. the core of the sacrifice). 

22. On the eighth day (after the full moon), he collects ^prepares the 
material) for ukhd (the fire-pan), for that day, the eighth day is sacred to Prajapati 
and this part of the ritual i.e. ukhd (preparation of the fire-pan) is sacred to 
Prajapati. On a day sacred to Prajapati, he thus, performs the ritual sacred to 
Prajapati. 

23. And as to why on the eighth day (after the full moon) ? Because the eigh tJh 
day is the joint of the year (link of the year) and that ukhd (fire-pan) is joint (link) 
of die fire-altar. He thus makes a link on a link. 

24. And again why on the eighth day? Eightfold, no doubt, is die fire-pan. It 
has the bottom, the two sides, the horizontal rim— together make four and with the 
four vertical belts become of eight (parts). So he makes the eightfold {ukhd} on the 
eighth day. 

25. He starts the vow on the new moon day, for, from the new moon the yajna 
(here, the moon) expands (grows). “Whence the sacrifice ( yajna , the moon) grows, 
I start generating the sacrifice (by getting into the diksa) ” —so he thinks. 




VIII.2.2.30 1 


translation 


181 


26. And again, why on the new moon day (he starts the diha) ? When he enters 
he vow, he verity deposits his own self as seed into the fire-pan i.e. the womb. Thus 
re w o enters the vow is (actually) preparing (for himself) the abode beforehand 
and he is born into the world (abode) made by him (in advance). Hence they say 

Man is born into the world created by him”. ' 

27. If he observes the vow for less than a year (duration), he would have bricks 
which would not have space (each of the 360 bricks will find its space only if the vow 
is for one full year). T he bncks will outnumber the spaces. If the space created is 
more (by exceeding the duration of the vow beyond one year), without the 
corresponding number of bncks, then the spaces created will outnumber the 
bncks. So if one starts the diksa on a new moon day and performs the somakrayana 
(buying the soma) on the new moon (a year after), he piles the same number of 
bncks as the spaces he creates. And on the bright fortnight (following), when the 
wmg of the altar is filled with upasad (loose soil) the entire Agni-akar is built up. 

28. As to this they say—“As many bricks are utilised in the building up of the 
altar, so many days and nights, are covered till the day of somakrayana", What about 
the days after the somakrayana, the spaces produced during which will not be filled 
by bncks? Or (in other words), having started the vow on Amdvasya, he purchases 
soma on the Amdvasya of next year, by which the number of spaces created and the 
niimber of bricks exactly tally. And during the days afte r somakrayana, the Ad hvarvu 
is building up the altar. Where will he build up, if there is no space? (Not so). 
Whatever the number of days and nights of a year, that number of bricks are piled 
up for the altar and the exceeding (period after somakrayana) forms the thirteenth 
month. The days beyond (the Amdvasya on which somakrayana is performed) 
constitute indeed, the thirteenth month. The bricks that are available will go to fill 
up the spaces created by the (days of) the thirteenth month and thus the number 
of bricks and spaces created do tally. 

29. Thus then, that which happens to be the first full moon, on that day he si a: vs 
the pasu and what first Astami (eighth day) there comes, on that day, he prepares 
the fire-pan, what happens to be the first new moon day. On that day he enters the 
vow {dikya). 1 hus whatever first days of the year, those he takes possession of (for 
the Agni-altar) and he thereby gains. Now about the correspondence (of number 
between slaying of pasu and piling of altar). 

30 . Here now 1 they ask—“How does that the P&svdlarnhha of his (animal 
sacrifice done by him) gain the year, i.e. Agni? Well, for those five pams, there are 
twenty-four sdmidhenichants (offering mantras) and twelve dj&richants (propitiating 
mantras ). They (together) form thirty-six. There are eleven anuydja chants and 
eleven upayajas. (Adding them) it becomes fifty-eight (Out of this) forty-eight 
(barring ten out of the fifty - eight) form the jagati metre, for Jagatl consists of 



TRANSLATION 


VIII.2.2.32 ] 


183 


twenty-eight syllables (having twelve for each of its four quarters) .Jagati, doubtless, 
is this earth, because it is on this that everything moves (jagat) . And. Agni-altar also 
is this earth, because it is thereof that the whole Agni-altar is built up. As great as 
Agni is, as great as is his size, so great does this become. And again, why forty-eight? 
Because JagatT contains forty-eight syllables andjagatl covers all the metres. All the 
metres are Prajapati and Prajapati is Agni-altar. As great as Agni is, as great as is his 
size, so great does this become. An d now (what about) those (remaining) ten?.That 
is Virad consisting of ten syllables; and the Virad is Agni. There are ten quarters and 
quarters are Agni. There are ten vital airs and vital airs are Agni. .As great as Agni 
is, as great as is his size, so great does this become. With the vapd and the pasu- 
purodasa, it comes to sixty (fifty-eight plus two). Sixty are the days and nights 
together for a month. So those sixty 7 gain the month and the months so gained make 
the itus (seasons) and the seasons lead to the year i.e. Agni (because year is Agni). 
So that sixty 7 (starting from samidhenis upto vapd^nd pasu-puroddsa) take the shape 
of samvatsara i.e. Agni. So all the desires (that arise) of that year are attained and 
what other food (prosperity) than that there is in the year, he gains. 

31. And for this pasu meant for Prajapati, there are twentv-one sdraidh^rii 
(kindling) chants, twelve apri (propitiating) chants, which together make thirty- 
three. Eleven anuyaja (after offerings); eleven upayaja (associate offerings) which 
(with the earlier thirty-three) make fifty-five. Then the vapd (omentum), pasu- 
puroddsa (cake made for ritual of that name) and havis (cooked heart etc. of pasu) 
(added) make fifty-eight. Whatever wish is contained in these fifty-eight, he realises 
it here itself. With the two sprinklings of ghee (one each of smk and sruxm), it 
becomes sixty. Whatever wish is contained in sixty, he realises it here itself. And what 
other food (prosperity) than that there is in the samvatsara, (he gains) all that. 

32. And for that pasu of (Vayu) Niyutoat —there are seventeen sdmidheni 
(kindling) chants; twelve apn (propitiatory) chants, together they make twenty- 
nine. Eleven anuydjas (after offerings), eleven upaydjds (associate offerings), 
together (with twenty-nine already mentioned) make fifty-one. With vapd ., pasu- 
puroddsa and havis , account for fifty-four. With the two sprinklings of ghee (one 
each from sruvaand smk) and with the two svistakrt oblations (to Agni) it comes to 
fifty-eight Whatever wish is contained in the fifty-eight; he realises it here itself. 
With the Vanaspati (tree) offering (done with prsaddjya before the svistakrt) and the 
Vasa homa (to be done in the midst of the chanting of ydjya for havis offerings), it 
adds up to sixty. Whatever wish is contained in the sixty, he realises it here itself and 
whatever other food (prosperity) than that, there is in the samvatsara (he gains) all 
that. Thus that sacrificial performance gains for him the year, Agni. Thus the 
animal sacrifice corresponds with samvatsara, the Agni. 



pusus. Avabhrtha marks the completion- (He should notdo these two) lest he should 
at the very commencement, dismiss the deities and complete the sacrifice. (No. 
This is not so.)—Let him, by all means, complete (the sacrifice) ” Prajapati, having 
sacrificed that pasu realised thathe had not reached the end of theAgni-altar. Let 
him therefore, complete the same. And again why he completes it? This animal 
sacrifice is his vital air. And if anything were to intercede in it (between him and the 
sacrifice) it would cut him off from the vital air and if anything were to cut him off 
from the vital air, he would die by that. Let him therefore complete (the animal 
sacrifice). Now to the austerities (rites of abstainance)! 

34. Here they say—“After he has performed that animal sacrifice, he must not 
sleep upon a cot. He should not eat flesh; nor engage in sexual intercourse. For, 
that animal sacrifice is the first Diksd (vow). It would surely be i mproper if the diksita 
(the one under vow) were to sleep upon a couch, or were he to eat flesh or engage 
in sexual intercourse” But this isnotat all a diksd (vow), for, there is neither a girdle, 
nor the skin of black antelope. He is (only) making this first brick. So let him, If he 
likes, sleep on a couch. These that are the pasus, constitute all food. All that he has 
already acquired and started (eating), he can eat, other than honey. Of all those he 
may eat at pleasure, if he can get them. Sex, of course, he may not indulge in, prior 
to the (offering of) dotted curds to the twin gods Mitra-Varmia. The Duroort of 


(will be explained) in due course. 

35. Here now they say—At this sacrifice, he should give a daksind (gift) 
thinking “Let not my sacrifice be without a daksina/. Let him give to the Brahmana 
due daksind since Brahmana is the entire sacrifice and the entire sacrifice of his gets 
invigorated. “No, let him not do so. Here he is only making a brick”. This would 
mean that he is to give a daksind with each brick. Only at that later stage of the act 
of building up the altar, he should give daksind (not now itself). (Second Brahmana 
Ends) 



vr#i 







TRANSLATION 


187 


VHI.2.3.7 3 


2. Agni told him (Prajapati) —“Let me come near to you”. The latter asked 
“With what (would you come near)?”. Agni said, “With cattle”. Prajapati agreed and 
said “do so”. What he (Agni) meant was ‘with cattle brick or Pa&vistaka . Because the 
Pasidstakdis the same z&Duwestaka (a stalk of Durnz grass). The Durvahnck. is placed 
close to the naturally perforated (clay) brick, so that it is not separated from the 
plants, from the cattle. Of course, Agni leaves no gap. (That is how) he (Agni) came 
near. 

3. They said—“(Let us) meditate”, whereby they said “We seek a layer (in the 
fire-altar) By this they (in effect) said “seek to build upwards”. While they were 
meditating, Indra, Agni and Visvakarma saw the air (dyauh) as a second already- 
perforated brick. Therefore, he (Yajamana) lays it (the air brick) with the chants 
related to Indragni and Visvakarma. 

4. Vayu told—“I will come near you”. They asked, “With what would you come 
near to us?” He said, “With the regions”. They said, “do so—what he (Vayu) meant 
by that was ‘with the bricks produced by the quarters (disyas) ’ Hence for the second 
(layer) of already perforated bricks, the regional bricks are placed adjacent to 
(without leaving any gap) the earthen brick; so that the regions are not separated 
from the sky, nor from the quarters. Of course, Vayu leaves no gap. (That is how) 
(Vayu) came near. 

5. They said—“(Let us) meditate again”, whereby they said “we seek a layer (in 
the fire-altar) ”, In other words ‘seek to build upwards .Whilst they were meditating, 
Paramesthl saw the sky on the third already perforated brick. Therefore, he (the 
Yajamana) lays it (the sky-brick) on that (altar) with the chants related to Paramesthl 
(the most high). 

6. Thatyonder Sun told—“I will come near you”. He (Paramesthl) asked,“With 

turtle of/irl tfrtl 1 iTAtVI A fSnnl said. “With the soace-fillinj? brick”. He said 





TRANSLATION 


VIII.2.5.10 ] 


189 


8. They said, “We will come near”—“Where with?”—they said “With what is 
over and above these worlds”—“Do so”. Now what there is above the earth and. 
below the air, therewith the gods came near and that is this second layer. And what 
there is above the air and below the sky, therewith the jRsiscame near and that is the 
fourth layer. 

9. Now% when they said, “Meditate ( ceiayadhvam) ” they doubtless, meant to say, 
‘Seek a layer (in the fire-altar— aiimicchata ) 5 and in as much as they saw there (the 
bricks) while meditating, they are called dtls (layers). 

10. Prajapati saw the first layer. Prajapati is naturally its (spiritual) originator. 
The gods saw the second layer; the gods are naturally, its (spiritual) originators. 
Indra, Agni and Visvakarma saw the third layer; they assuredly are its (spiritual) 
originators. The Rsis saw the fourth layer; the Rsis are of course, its ancestors. 
ParamesthI saw the fifth layer; Paramesthi is assuredly its (spiritual) originator. And 
verily, whosoever so knows that (spiritual) ancestry of the layers (of the fire-altar) 
or ritis, his citis (abodes) indeed, can claim to have (spiritual) ancestry and to have 
relatives (in their homes). (Third Brahmana Ends) 


(Chapter Two Ends) 



Vffl.S.1.7 ] 


TRANSLATION 
Chapter Three 


191 


BRAHMANA I 


1. The gods then said, “(Let ns) Meditate’ , whereby they said “You seek a 
layer”. Whilst they were meditating; Savitr saw those Savitra chants and in as much 
as Savitr saw them, they are called Savitras. He offered libation of eightfold ghee 
(ghee collected into the main spoon eight times from the reservoir) and he had 
offered it, he saw the eightfold bricks of Asadha which was already created. 

2. Now when they said “(Let us) Meditate” they doubtless said “Seek a layer” 
and in as much as they saw it while meditating (cetayamandk), it is called Gti The 
libation is a sacrifice, having offered (istm) which, they saw it, it is called Isi&ka 
(brick). Now that same (ghee) offering, though a single one, he offers it eightfold 
with eight chants. Therefore this single brick is rendered eightfold in nature. 

3. He offers (the libation) raising (the ladle) upwards. He thereby raises this 
(earth) upwards in all its forms. That is why this (earth) is elevated (above the water) 
by its forms. 

4. He offers it (the ghee offering) continuously (without break). For at that 
time the gods were apprehending the Raksasas the terrible, to be after them. They 
offered it continuously to prevent terrible Raksasas from chasing them. 

5. And again, when he offers that libation, thisAgni is Savitr whom he gratifies 
at the outset by this offering. And having offered and propitiated him (Savitr), he 
then builds him (Agni i.e. Savitr) up. In as much as he, by this offering, propitiates 
Savitr, they the chants (used) are called Savitra. That is why he offers this libation. 

6. And again, why he offers this libation —this Agni is Savitr and him, bymeans 
of this ghee offering at the outset, he pours out this libation as semen. What kind 
of seed is impregnated into the womb, that kind (of offspring) is borne. In as much 
as he pours out Savitr as seed by this libation, (the offering chants) are called Savitra. 
That is why he offers the libation. 

7. Here both the sruk (offering ladle) and the sru-m (dipping ladle) are 
employed. Speech is smftand vital air is Sniva, And gods searched for this sacred rite 
in die beginning with both speech and vital air. Therefore sruk and sruv&. are used. 



TRANSLATION 


VHI.3.1.14] 


193 


8. And again, why these are the sruk and sruva} That Prajapati who was (there) 
is this sruva and sruva is the vital air and (so) the vital air is Prajapati; and that what 
was (there) speech is this sruk. For speech is a female and the srukis afemale. What 
waters that flowed from the world of speech, they are this (ghee) with which this 
libation is offered. 

9. That (libation) is offered continuously (without break); for, those waters 
flowed continuously. And in as much as that Prajapati entered the waters along with 
the threefold vidya (Vedic knowledge) that is, these propitiatory chants ( Yajus ), 
with which this (priest) now offers. The first three (chants) thatare these (uttered), 
are these three worlds and what fourth chant there is that is the threefold vidyic, that 
is the Jagati—the Jagati covers all the metres and ail the metres (constitute) the 
threefold vidya. And those that form the last four chants, they are these quarters. 
Now, Prajapati indeed is those (three worlds) and the quarters and that (jagati) 
chant (in the middle) is the threefold vidya. 

10. He offers (the libation) (saying), “Harnessing first the mind”, Prajapati is 
indeed the one who harnesses. He harnessed the mind for this ritual. Therefore 
Prajapati is Yunjdnah (the hamesser). 

11. Savitr (harnessed) the thought for the sake of Agnihood; for, Savitr is the 
mind and the mind is the vital air. “Gazing reverently at Agni’s brilliance” that is 
haring seen Agni’s brilliance, “lifted up (held high the offerings) from the earth” 
for, upwards from the earth, indeed, he lifts this offering. 

12. “With harnessed mind we” with this, he harnesses the mind for this ritual. 
Because with unharnessed mind one cannot, presently do any thing. “We are on the 
approval of God Savitr”, thereby is meant (we are) ordained by God Savitr. “For the 
sake of heavens with (all) might”—thus it is said (to mean) “We may go to the 
heavenly world”. Hence (it is said) “with might”, because one goes to the heavenly 
world by (one’s) might. 

IS. “Savitr having harnessed the Gods”—Savitr is the mind, and the gods are 
the vital airs. “With the thoughts they wen t to the heavens”—for as such as are going 
to the heavenly world by thought, he has harnessed them for this sacred ritual. 
“Going to produce a mighty brilliance”—mighty brilliance is doubtless, the yonder 
Sun and he is of course, this Agni-al tar and him they are going to put together (build 
up). “May Savitr ordain (encourage) them”-—that is, “May they perform this sacred 
rite encouraged by Savitr”. 

14. They harness the mind and harness the thought—i.c. they harness the 
mind as well as these vital airs for this ritual. “The wise ones of the wise"—the wise 
is Prajapati and the wise ones are the Gods. “The great intellectual”—Prajapati 
indeed is the great intellectual. “He hath assigned the priestly duties”—for, the 
priestly duties are assigned on the built-up (fire-altar) ”. “He who knows what is to 



TRANSLATION 


VIII.3.1.18 ] 

be known (of the rites) ”—for, he indeed knows this rite. “He alone”—for, he alone 
knows this sacred rite. “This is the great praise of god Savitr”—that is, “Great indeed 
is the praise of god Savitr”. 

15. “I harness you old Brahman with this food (oblation) in this ritual of you 
two”—Vital air is the old Brahman and food is the nama (oblation). (Savitr) has 
harnessed anna (food) along with the Brahman of the two (patni and Yajaman a) for 
the purpose of this rite. “May the praise of the learned spread far into the Lord’s 
path”—that is, “May the fame (of the Yajamana) well-versed in the ritual proliferate 
among gods and men”. Thus it is said—“May all sons of immortality' pay heed”—the 
immortal one doubtless, is Prajapati and all the gods are his sons. ‘Those who are 
stationed in the heavenly abodes”—the heavenly abodes are these worlds and this 
is said with reference to those gods who are in these worlds. 

16. “Whose path, others followed suit”—for, Prajapati was the first to perform 
this rite. Then the gods performed it. “The gods with vigour pursued the glory”the 
glory is the sacrifice ( cayana ). The gods with vigour (followed) the glory (of 
sacrifice) of Prajapati’s energy. “He (Savitr) who measured (brightened) whatever 
is on the terrestrial (regions) by his rays as he moved about (on his horses) ”•—what 
all is there on this earth is terrestrial and that he measures (lights up), for, with his 
rays,he reaches down to them. These worlds, he (the Savitr) by his greatness 
(measured) ”—these worlds are the regions ( rajayhsi ) and god Savitr is the yonder 
Sun. By his might he measured (lit up) the worlds. 

17. “God Savitr, encourage the sacrifice; encourage the lord of the sacrifice for 
the sake of glory”. This Sun is god Savitr. Sacrifice is glorious. Therefore it is said, 
“Encourage the sacrifice; encourage the lord of the sacrifice for die sake of glory”. 
The divine Gandharva, the purifier of thoughts, purify our thoughts”— the 
heavenly Gandharva is yonder Sun and thought is food. Thus (it means)—may the 
purifier of food clean our food. “May the lord of speech make our speech 
pleasing”—this sacred rite is speech and the lord of speech is prana (vital air). Thus 
it is to say “May the vital air render pleasing, this rite of ours”. 

18. “O God Savitr! effectively lead this sacrifice*—yonder Sun is die Deva 
Savitr and whatever sacrificial rite he leads (encourages) that will reach its 
culmination safely and auspiciously. “As one {Devavya) pleasing to the gods”—that 
which pleases the gods is (called) Devavya. It shall be sakhivid (one begetting 
friends); satrajit (an ever victorious); dhanajit (one begetting wealth) and svmjit 
(one that wins the heavens)”. That is, one that will beget all this by the hymn. 
(Hence it is said) “Make the hymn tuned to the Rk mantra; the Rathaniara Soman 
in tune with the Gayatri metre; the Brhat Saman—-in tune with the Giyatra 
measure-combine the chant Sva/wjwith the Yajus formula thus the threefold Veda 
Vidyd is produced (put to use) for the first time; even as it was there and then 
produced (put to use). The Agni who was thus produced, he is the fire-altar who 
is built up from hence upwards. 



VIII.3.1.25 ] 


translation 


.Jk. 9 

» . ? 9 ‘T hese 111115 the eight Sdvitra, chan ts—the Gayatri has eight syllables and 

^ 8”®* asishissize :4'so much he impregnates 

Therlarl rZ,7 ^ ^ mimher) ™ the **** <*»«* * *e ninth. 

There are nine regions and Agm is the regions. There are nine vital airs and Agni 

!!/thwh?t tT* ^ Agm 1S? ? f eat ^ is his size > b y 50 mu ch be impregnates 

T 1 tK Th \r -a/ , f re ten of them ( m number), the offering (itself) is the 

tenth. The\ trad (metre) hasten syllables. Agni isVirad (thewidelvshining). There 

are ten quarters and Agm is the quarters; ten vital airs and Agni is the vital airs; as 

great as 1S ’ ff ^r eat 35 1S bis size, so great does this become. 

.. ??’ T* 1611 th . ls offe nng was made, Agni went away from the Gods. The gods 

f* ItTv 311 Tl 61US f Carch for him b > r ( am idst) the animals because 

he will manifest hunself for (assuming) his own form”. They searched for him bv 

(amidst) cattle and he (Agni) manifested for (assuming) his own form. And hence 
even to this day the animal reveals its own form (to co-animals) (like) cow to cow 
horse to horse and man to man. 


21. They (gods) said. If we search by (amidst) all the (five) animals, they will 
become stale and sapless (hence unfit for livelihood). If on the other hand we 
(search) by a few of them, we would have sought for only an incomplete (part oft 
Agm (Hence) they saw single animal (as a substitute) for each two animals. 
Namely, the ass (as a substitute) for the cow and the sheep. And because they found 
out that one beast (would do) for two beasts, that (the he-ass) although it is that one 
is having two productive seeds (for producing the she-ass and the mare). 

22. The effigy of a man (they found out to be a substitute) for man. The effigy 
of a man is no doubt, one who pleases neither the Gods, nor the fathers, nor the 
humans. Thus they searched by means of all the beasts without rendering them 
(beasts) stale and sapless, (hence) unfit for livelihood. 

23. (Here) he (Yajamana) searches with these animals (a horse, an ass and a 
he-goat)™-because, Agni is threefold. As great as Agni is, as great as is his size, with 
so much he searches for him. They are five in aggregate (the ass being taken, for two 
animals, as already stated). Agni (the fire-altar) has five layers; five seasons are there 

for a year and the year is Agni. As great as Agni is, as great as is his size, so great does 
this become. 


24. They are fastened by halters made of Munja grass. Agni, having deserted 
the gods entered into a. Munja reed. Therefore, it (the reed) is hollow and in the 
interior it is as itwere stained by smoke. Thus that reed is Agni’s womb. Agni is these 
animals and the womb does notinjure the foetus. Because the womb does not harm, 
that which takes birth is borne through the womb. (So they think) “From its womb! 
let him (Agni) be born when he takes birth”. 

25. They (halters made of the Munja grass) are threefold (turned in three 
strains). They are in the form of a horse’s halter. The horse’s halter winds all around 
the mouth. So too the womb winds all around the foetus. Thus it (the halter) is 
made in the shape of a womb. 



VIII.3.1.32 ] translation 

then fte «“*• < in *« “der of) first the hot's!! 
the tear ( a f ra ) that h °" e “ 

"n&thSct c s r y t- h r at is the /-“at: ^ tr 

|>VZt hiLXT 5 that he was first 

that the te^Sle d«ttOTthe?^ t' S ° dS Were scared 

bolt (which is) none else than yonder Son ^ n fi “' They saw that thunder- 
with the thunderbolt they chased away the terrible Sta^Tfred, yonder Sun and 

theleftiide.Fo^hfi^^ ^ " '>™S W ' 

lies on the rightside of the ^ ma!e 

the male lies by the female at a cubit’s distance 6 *“ dbowTOOm >-Indeed 

into a 

made those 

wherever he burn t, there was the black stain (marks of burning) 

30.That spade should be stained (spotted) because that is (die mark) of Atmi 

be hollow; because that is the one (belLing to ofA^r The h** ° uld 

one) is the womb of Agni. And this SS fn dl^ l a barabo ° . (hoUow 

+ i , . * . . ^ A§ni and. the womb docs not injure the 

foetus. That which takes birth .s indeed bom from a womb. “(So) he (WlihaJl 
be born from the womb when he is to take birth”. ' (AgW) h 1 

r- r L R 3 Spa ^ e i distance between the tip of the thumb and the tip of the 

it is (hrttT) °r^ tXe ^ he J i) lor * g ’ for or ^ an ^ speech is of a spade’s length. But 

the irm^dhiZT hlt ^ A iS * e SUnc M m ^ ( Cllbit is measured by 

s t n Z h?f,™rlTT B r emire arm >- The ann is indeed that shows 
strength. It thus (the span being of aralm me) becomes equal to his strength. 

■ “ ( s P a d e ) may be sharp on one side only, for this speech (tongue) of ours 

ouSsoihZTnboA ( -H° Ut may \* hZTP 011 b0Ul Sides ’ since speech of 
ours is also sharp on both sides, m as much as it speaks both what is divine and what 

bo“r a “ d b ° th ,TUth and untruth ' There ^ e «spade) 



VIII.. 3.1.37 3 


translation 


201 


d oubt^;;:r,tr L S sha fP on u «d«_the striking power of the spade, 
doubtless, on that side where it is sharpened. He thus lays power into it on both 

him both ^sides-flust;as) god s,:having discovered 

he (Yaiamana^ after H C ^ ^ °/ Ut ^ rom l ^ ese worlds* In the same manner* 

worlds^ ^ discovering him (the Agni-altar) digs him out from these 

Het f? s h ( s P ad «) U P saying—“At the behest of God Savitr, I take thee by 

AAmwLjh ^f vlnS ’ and h l ±e hands of Pusan, with the Gayatri metre just as 
" t tk \> - eS f .^U^hetakesitupatthe behest of god Savitr with the Gayatri 

SflTfr Jm e tb^ m fh > e Jl he “f £re “ t0 k ‘ ToU brin g A S ni ’ the Puns* (loose 

Ssl f sSlf b ° SOn ?-i? St 35 ^ giraS (wouId brin ^ " CatUe are Meed the 

jCst as Ahgiri (didr meanS ™ ^ Wng ^ favourable t0 

m f tre ’ as wou H he thereby takes her (the 

it P i2 1 be T?1? j ubh ® etre and ( m the process) infuses the Tristubh metre into 

vT ‘Thn,f e t Spa « e r iS and hence he takes k hy the right thing 

( thfully). “Thou art a woman —(it means) the thunderbolt is the spade which 

L auv * and L* f !. ma e never in J ures anybody (the spade, even though a 
thunderboh used to dig the earth is essentially feminine in characteristic and will 

injure anybody or for that matter, the earth). It (womanhood) only 
calms down (the cutting effect of the Vajra) to avoid injury. “By vou (the spade i e 
the woman) we maybe enabled to dig out Agni from the bosom of the earth”" 

I tie bosom is indeed the spot (where the digging is done). 

, ( usbl S) jagati metre, as Ahgiras (would) ”, he thereby takes her (the 

s^. e) wr e Jagati metre and (in the process) infuses the Jagati metre into it, 
lhus with three (formulas) he takes up the spade. Threefold is Agni; as great as 
^gm is, as great as is the sire, by so much he thus takes it Haring taken it up with 
the three (formulas), he consecrates it with a fourth (chant) because the gods 
having taken it up with the three formulas, infused rigour into it by a fourth 
formula. In the same way, he haring employed three chants for taking it up, infuses 
vigour into it (the spade) with a fourth (formula). 



TRANSLATION 


Vffl.5.2.2 3 


208 


38. “Savitr having taken into his hand”—it is indeed taken into his (Adhvaryu’s) 
hand. “Bearing the spade”—for, indeed, he bears it. “The golden one” because it 
consists of metres, it is indeed golden. “Beholding the glory of Agni*—(means) 
seeing the light of Agni—“He lifted it up”. 

39. By the Anustubh metre (he lifted it up) just as Ahgiras (would)—He thus 
takes it up by means of the Anustubh metre and (in the process) he infuses the 
Anustubh into it. Because this speech is indeed these metres and for the sacrificial 
purpose it is made of bamboo. 

40. Some indeed make it of gold, saying, “It is described as golden”. Let him 
not do so. Because the speech itself is the metres and hence it is gold and immortal. 
Therefore the metres are (themselves) gold and deathless. 

41. He takes it with four formulas. For, all speech consists of four syllables. The 
word ‘yak’ is of one syllable and the word ‘aksard is of three syllables, which again 
is the same as the tri-syllabled Anustubh ultimately. That tri-syllabic ak&ara is the 
same as those (three) chants mentioned above. So he digs up Agni by all this speech 
and enriches it with the whole speech. Hence (it is said) “With four formulas”. 

42. And again why “With four formulas”—-the quarters are four. He thus lays 
the speech in the four quarters. (Thus) he takes it up (the speech) both with the 
metres and the formulas. That makes them eight; the four quarters and the four 
intermediate quarters. Hence he lays the speech in all the quarters and therefore 
the speech is spoken in all the quarters. (First Rrahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA II 

1. This spade is in his hand when he addresses the animals. For, the gods, when 
once searched (for Agni) in these (animals), they held their rigour in front. In the 
same manner does this person hold his vigour (the spade) in front while searching 
for Agni in these animals. 

2. He addresses the horse thus—“ O horse! run hither most speedily* 5 . That 
which is swift is speedy and that which is much quicker (praturta) is most speedy. 
"Towards this greatest worship (of ours) ”—this (sacrifice) is indeed the greatest 
worship. Hence it is said “Towards this greatest worship". "Your highest abode is in 
the sky, in the air is thy navel and in the earth is thywomb*.—(By saying so) he makes 
it (the horse) into all these divinities, namely Agni, Vayu and Aditya. This infuses 
rigour into the horse. 


TRANSLATION 


205 


VHI.3.2.10 ] 

3. Then (he refers to) the ass—“You two yoke the ass"-—thus he says to 
Yajamana and Adhvaryu, “In this ritual, you showerers of wealth (yoke the ass) 
“(Yoke) him who bears Agni and is helpful to us”. This means the bearer of Agni 
who is urged forward by us. Thus he imparts rigour into the ass. 

4. Then (regarding) the he-goat—“As every time you are yoked and at every 
function we adore your prowess”. (It means) food is strength and so at every 
performance and every offering of food (strength) we adore his prowess (by saying) 
“To the friend Indra for help”, (which means) the one who is mighty, (we resort to) 
for help or sustenance. He thereby imparts rigour into the he-goat. 

5. With three formulas he consecrates them (the animals). For, Agni is three¬ 
fold, as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, by so much he thus imparts vigour into 
them. 

6. He then makes them move forward to the east. He then searches for Agni 
by means of these animals. He does not touch them because these animals are Agni. 
In order that Agni may not injure him (he does not touch them). 

7. He makes the horse go forward with (the chant)—“Come on speedily 
treading down (our) sins”—Sins are evil thus (it means) “Come running treading 
downtheeril”. “Come delighting into (the role of) the chief of the Rudras*—animals 
belong to the Rudras. “Thus (it would mean) come thou delighting into (the role 
of) the chief of them (Rudras) who are your deities”. He thus searches for him by 
means of the horse. 

8. Then (he makes) the ass (make forward) with (the chant)—“Traverse the 
vast expanse of the air, thou rendering the pasture land prosperous and safe”—as 
the text, so its meaning. “With Pusan as your partner”—Pusan indeed, is this (earth) 










TRANSLATION 


VUI.3.2,18 ] 


207 


11. These fires become kindled and then (the Yajarnana, the Brahma and the 
Adhvaryu) proceed towards tlie lump of clay. Those (fires) are indeed these worlds, 
when they are kindled. For, formerly the gods were seeking (to build up the altar) 
outside (east of) these worlds and when he brings the lump of clay passing beyond 
these (three) fires, he is seeking him from outside (east of) these worlds (the 
regions of the three fires). 

12. They proceed facing the east, because the east is the quarter of AgnL So 
they search for him in his own direction and obtain him in his own quarter. 

13. They approach him with (the chant). “Just like Arigiras, we approach Agni- 
Purisya ”—That is, like Agni (Angiras) we are approaching the Agni-altar, favour¬ 
able to cattle. 

14. He then looks at the pseudo-man (the proxy for human animal mentioned 
earlier) (saying)—“That like Angiras we shall take Agni-PunsycT- (It amounts to 
saying). Like Agni, we shall carry Agni-altar favourable to cattle. He thus searches 
for him by means of the pseudo-man. 

15. After that a mound of ant-hill with a hole made in it is placed in between 
(the lump of clay and the Ahavamya-a I tar). He looks through it (the hole of the ant¬ 
hill) , for this ant-hill is this (earth) and this earth is these worlds. Because the gods 
searched for him (Agni)—in these worlds (combing) at each place. In the like 
manner does this one now search for him in these worlds (combing) at each place. 

16. “Agni shines at the tip of the dawn (Sun) ”—by this (chant) they searched 
for him in die dawns. ‘Thou the first enlightened shining in the day's”—thereby 
they sought him in the days. “And often shining along the rays Sun in various 
places”—thereby they searched for him in the rays of the Sun. “Along the sky and 
the earth, hast thou spread”. By this they sought him in the sky and the earth and 
they found him (Agni), where he beholds him (the lump of clay) from afar 
(through the hole in the ant-hill), he smashes that(ant-hill) and they proceed to the 
clay. 

17. He then addresses the horse—so the gods too addressed—-“Let us drive 
away his evil”. Now evil is fatigue. Thus (it means), “Let us remove his fatigue, the 
evil and they (gods) drove away his fatigue, the evil”. In the like manner does this 
one remove his fatigue, the evil. 

18. “The horse having started on its stride”—for, his path has been reached, 
“He shakes off all, the combats”—combats mean evils. Thus (it mean s) he shakes 
off all evils and that is why indeed, the horse shakes itself while running. He desires 



TRANSLATION 


VIII.3.2.23 ] 


209 


to see with his eyes. Agni seated on this great seat (this earth). The great seat, 
doubtless,is this sacrificial place and he desires to see him thus, with his eyes. 

19. He then makes the horse step on (the lump of day). For, having discovered 
Agni, it (the horse) then indicates to the gods as it were “Just here he is" (by placing 
its foot on it). 

20. And why they make him step on — because the gods were worried “The 
terrible Raksasas would slay here this our Agni”. So they placed this thunderbolt on 
it as a protection. It (the thunderbolt) is yonder Sun. That yonder Sun is the same 
as this horse. That is why he (the Yajamana) puts this thunderbolt (of the horse) 
on it as a protection. 

21. “Having stepped up on the earth, O horse! search for Agni by your light”. 
Eye indeed is the light. (It means), you the horse, having stepped up on the earth, 
search for Agni with your eye. “By pawing this earth, you tell us where we may dig 
him (Agni) out”—that is, by pointing out (that exact spot) of the ground, tell us 
(indicate) where we can dig him out. 

22. He then touches him (the horse)—for, the gods, on his pointing out the 
spot (where Agni is to be dug out), endowed it with vigour, and in the like manner 
does this one endow it with vigour (for) having indicated (Agni) to him. He does 
so (saying)—‘The sky is thy back; the earth thy abode, the air is thy body; the ocean 
thy womb”—by this he says “You are such, you are such”. “Looking about with your 
eye, withstand the fighters”—that is (to say) watchful with your eye (identify’ and) 
challenge all attackers. He does not touch it (the horse) (i.e. he chants without 
touching the horse) since the horse is thunderbolt and “Let it not harm me (by 
touching) ” (so he thinks). 

23. He then makes it step off (the lump of clay), for the gods now said. “For 
what purpose we shall make him step off?” “(For) great prosperity (beauty) ”—they 
caused it to acquire great prosperity (by saying)—“Step off for great prosperity” 
meaning ‘step off (to acquire) great beauty’. That is indeed why the horse is the 
most lucky among the beasts (as it carries kings). “From this pedestal”—that is 
‘From where you now stand’, “O wealth-giver!”—for it does give them wealth. “O 
darting one! ” for he (horse) is a courser. “May we be in the good books of the earth 
while we are (engaged in) digging out Agni from her bosom”—it means, ‘let us be 
in her favour whilst digging (out) Agni from her lap’. 



TRANSLATION 


VIII.3.2.27 ] 


211 


24. To that (horse) which has stepped off, he says, for, the gods now praised 
it, as one would eulogise him who has given a gift. They flattered it (the horse). In 
the same manner, he eulogises it; flatters it by saying “He has stepped ofF, 'The 
giver of wealth has stepped off”—because he indeed bestows wealth on them. “The 
racing steed”—because he is running and is a horse. “Thou hath rendered this 
earth a good world and well-set”. It means, you have made this earth into a good 
world, well prepared. “Therefore, we shall dig for Agni of auspicious form "-—he 
says, auspicious form “because Agni indeed is charming on every side”. “(As) we 
ascend to the highest heaven”—(that is to say) the heaven being the world bereft 
of misery, climbing the heaven which is free from misery, and is the highest 
(abode). He then makes it (the horse) move to the right side (of the lump of clay), 
where the other two beasts (the ass and the he-goat), are stationed. They stand on 
the right side facing the east. The significance of the right side position here is as 
already mentioned (in VIII.3.1-28/29). 

25. Sitting down, he now offers on the lump of clay (with Reds intermixed so 
as the first half of one Rki s connected to the second half of another)—for, the gods 
then said ‘Meditate’, whereby, doubtless, they meant to say “Seek ye a layer (of the 
altar) ’—whilst meditating, they saw 7 this libation and offered it. After offering, they 
saw the fire-pan ( ukha ) in the form of these (three) worlds. 

26. They said, ‘Meditate’ whereby, doubtless, they meant to say “Seek a layer 
(of fire-altar) ”—whilst meditating; they saw this second libation and they offered 
it. On offering it, they beheld the Visvajyotis (the three bricks called Visimjy&tis ), the 
lights of the universe. They saw these deities Agni, Vayu and Aditya which are 
indeed, the universal light. In the like manner, this Yajamana, offering these 
libations sees the fire-pan {ukha) (which is) these worlds and those deities who are 
universal light. He offers with ( Rks ) intertwined (thefirsthalfofone linked with the 
second half of another) and thereby intertwines these worlds and these deities. 

27. And again, why he offers these two libations—he thereby propitiates both 
the clay and the water. Having offered to and propitiated, he brings them together. 
With two interlinked (chants) he offers and thereby he interlinks the day and the 
water. 



VI1L3»2.33 ] TRANSLATION ^ 

28. He offers with ghee; for ghee is truly a thunderbolt. Thereby he makes the 
thunderbolt itself its protector. The ghee is truly the semen. So he (virtually) 
implants the semen with the svuva spoon. Stxwq, is a male and the male deposits 
semen. 'With the Svdhd chant Svdhd (itself) is male and the male deposits the 
semen. 

29.1 sprinkle upon you the ghee with my thoughts (concentration) —that is 
I sprinkle you with my thought and with ghee”. “Thou who dwellest within all the 
beings for he (Agni) indeed dwells in every being. “You are extensive and mighty 
(big) with your smoke for large (extensive) he is and great and mighty with 
smoke. Most pervasive by the food (offerings) and shining (charming to look at) 
by being enthusiastic that is, capacious with food and shining (with eneigy). 

30. “I sprinkle ghee on thee who appears in the inner-self everywhere (from 
all sides) that is, I offer to you who from every where is the inner-self with 
spiteless mind, let him relish this that is ‘with ungrudging mind, let it be accepted!’ 
“Agni who is the resort of human beings and of likable hue”—he is indeed the 
refuge of all beings and is of pleasing colour. “Not to be touched while in his 
glowing form”—for, not to be touched is he, whilst in his flames. 

31. “With two (chants) he offers; for, the sacrificer is a biped; and the sacrificer 
is Agni; as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, by so much he thus deposits unto 
him (the ghee) what is semen”. “With two chants relating to Agni”—it is Agni that 
he thereby deposits as semen. In as much as they relate to Agni, they are .Agni: and 
in as much as they are of the Tristubh (metre) they are Indra. Agni, the fire, belongs 
to Indra and Agni; as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, by so much thus he 
sprinkles (ghee) that is semen. Moreover, Indra and Agni are Visutdeoas (encom¬ 
passing all the gods) and Agni (therefore) contains all the deities; as great as Agni 
is, as great as is his size, by so much he thus, sprinkles that (ghee) which is semen. 

32. He offers (the oblation) on the horse’s footprint The horse is the same as 
that Agni and hence, indeed, these two oblations happen to be offered to Agni. 

35. He draws lines around it (the lump of clay) by which he delimits the Agni 
as if saying “You are this much (within these limits) ”. 



TRANSLATION 


VTII.3.2.36 ] 


215 


34. And again, why he draws lines around it—the gods were afraid, thinking 
The terribie Rahsasas may not smite here this (Agni) of ours”. They drew a wall 
around it. In the like manner this one (Yajamana) encloses it within the walls 
(made) by this spade. Because spade is thunderbolt, thereby they make the 
thunderbolt itself the protection (fence) for it. They draw lines all around and all 
around they provide protection by this thunderbolt. They draw lines thrice (each 
around the other) and by that they make threefold strong hold with the thunder¬ 
bolt. 


35. With the chant (in Gayatri metre) parivdjapatih kavik with the chant (in 
Anustubh) pan tvdgnepuram vayam; with the chant (in Tristubh) tvamagnedyubhih, 
he praises Agni himself as the protecting enclosures and thus with the chants 
related to Agni, he provides a fiery fencing all around. This fiery fence stands 
blazing. By these walls (of fire) he makes it threefold strong. Each outer line is wider 
(than the inner), with a larger metre (smallest is Gayatri, then Anustubh and then 
Tristubh). Thus each outer line is wider, for lines are the rampart walls, 

36. He then digs for him (Agni ) in the earth. For the gods "were then afraid, 
thinking The terrible Raksasas will not smite him here”. For the sake of protection, 
they made this earth itself a body for him, on the belief that he will protect his own 
self. The earth is (dug) into a hole of the same size as the lump of clay. (It means 
that the digging should be limited to the requirement for making the ukhd). Semen 
is the clay (dug out). The hole should be just so large to contain the clay (semen). 
So much is to be dug so that the clay' (semen) does not spill out. Therefore, there 
should be a four-cornered pit (well). For, these are four quarters and from all 
quarters it should be dug. (Second Brahmana Ends) 


(Chapter Third Ends) 



VHI.4.1.7 ] 


TRANSLATION 

Chapter Four 


217 


BRAHMAIStA I 


1. He now digs it (the lump of clay) out from there (the hole). For, the gods 
having found him, dug him out. In the same manner, he, having located him, digs 
out (saying) “At the prompting of god Savitr, bv the anns ofAsvins and by the hands 
of Pusan, I dig thee, the Agni-Purisya out of the bosom of the earth, just as Ahgiras 
(did) ”—of course, prompted by Savitr, he digs out Agni, friendly to- the cattle, with 
the help of these deities (Asvins and Pusan) from the lap of the earth, just as Agni 
(Ahgiras) did. 

2. (While digging, he says)—“Thee, Agni of brilliance, and charming”—for, 
this Agni is indeed brilliant and is of charming looks. “Glowing most (brilliantly) 
with inexhaustible light”—it means shining with undying lustre. “Thee, pleasant® 
the creatures and unharmful, I dig you out, O Agni-Purisyal from the lap of the 
earth, just as Ahgiras (did)”—it means ‘You, who bestows peace on the creatures 
and who never harms them, the Agni, friendly to the cattle, we dig thee out as 
Ahgiras (did), from the bosom of the earth 1 . 

3. With two (chants) he digs—the Yajamana is biped and Yajamana is Agni, as 
great as Agni is; as great as is his size, with so much he thus digs him out. And two¬ 
fold is that form of his (Agni-altar) because it has clay and water. 

4. “Let me dig—let us dig”. So saying he digs. Because Prajapati dug him out 
saying “Let me dig” and the gods dug him out, saying “Let us dig”. Set he says “Let 
me dig—Let us dig”. 

5. While he digs with the spade, he byword (orally) says “Let me dig—let us 
dig". For, the speech is spade. Only symbolically (for practical purpose) it is made 
of bamboo. Gods dug with (only) speech as this spade. In the like manner this 
person (actually) digs with the speech, that is the spade. 

6. He then collects it on the skin of the black antelope—for, the black 
antelope’s skin is itself sacrifice—so he collects it only on the sacrifice. “On its hairy 
side”—because the hairs are the metres and so he collects it on the metres. “He 
spreads that skin silently—for, the black antelope’s skin is sacrifice and sacrifice is 
Prajapati and Prajapati is undefined (and so he spreads it silently). “On the 
northern side (of the hole, he spreads that skin) die significance of this (will be 
explained) later. (He collects it) on the skin whose neck (portion) is in front. For, 
thus it faces the gods”. 

7. And he deposits it on a lotus-leaf (placed on the skin); for, the lotus-leaf is 
the womb and in the womb he deposits that semen and the semen which is 
deposited in the womb, becomes fertile. He spreads that leaf with a chant, for the 
chant isspeech and the lotus-leaf in speech (since the lotus-leaf is from waters which 
are produced by %mk). 











TRANSLATION 


VIIL4.1.12 ] 


219 


8. “You are the back of the waters (lotus-leaf floats on waters) and you are the 
womb of Agni”—“It is indeed the back of the waters and is the womb of Agni". “You 
have the waters serging around you”—for the waters serge around it, ‘Thou art 
mighty, originating (as you are) from tire lotus”—it means ‘grow in your greatness 
as your very' origin is the lotus’. “You expand in width to the measure of the sky”. 
With this (formula) he strokes along it (spreading it evenly). Agni is yonder Sun and 
doubtless, none else can contain the Sun than (the vast) sky (so) this amounts to 
saying “Having become the sky, you hold him (Agni) ”, 

9. He then spreads it on the black antelope’s skin. For the black anteleope’s 
skin is the sacrifice and the earth is the black antelope’s skin and the sacrifice is the 
earth, for it is on the earth, the sacrifice is set-up. The sky is the lotus-leaf and waters 
are the sky and waters are the lotus-leaf. So the sky is above this earth (when the 
lotus-leaf is spread over the black antelope’s skin). 

10. He then touches both of them—he thereby unites them together with (the 
chant) “A resort thou art; an armour thou art”. For these two are indeed both a 
resort and an armour, “You two are undamaged and large”—that is “both are intact 
and spacious”, “You both become broadened and cover”—it means ‘become 
spacious and enclose this Agvi-Purisyat —in other words ‘hold this Agni, friendly to 
the cattle’. “You two cover this (Agni) for the attainment of heaven (for the 
Yajamana) by closing up chest to chest and body to body”. It means ‘enshrine him 
(Agni) for the attainment of heaven, by coming close in your chests and bod ies, 
enclosing betwixt you two, the everlasting, brilliant Agni’. This Agni is yonder Sun; 
and this Agni is brilliant and everlasting. Hence you hold between you two. Hence 
it is said the brilliant and everlasting, 

11. He touches them with two (verses) —two-footed is the Yajamana and the 
Yajamana is Agni; as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, by so much he thus unites 
these two. And again, (he does so) because that form of theirs is twofold, (there 
being) a black antelope skin and a lotus-leaf. 

12. He then touches the lump of day—"Thou art Purisya ”—that is ‘thou art 
friendly to the cattle. Thou bearest the entire universe’—for he (Agni) supports 
everything here. “O Agni!—it was Atharvan who first churned you (produced 
you) Atharvan doubtless, is the vital air and it is the vital air that first churned out. 
(produced) him —it means ‘You are that Agni and thus he makes it (the lump) to 
be’. 



TRANSLATION 


VIII.4.2.2 3 


221 


IS. He then takes it (the lump) standing on the right side (of the 
Adhvaryu) —with his right hand holding the spade at the right side and with his left 
hand at left side, “Atharvan (the churner) churned you out from puskara”. Puskara 
is waters and Atharvan is the vital air, which for the first time churned him out of 
the waters. “From the head of the universe”—it means ‘from the head of this all". 
“Also the sage Dadhyang, the son of Atharvan, produced thee” Dadhyang (son of) 
Atharvan is, doubtless, the speech and he did produce him therefrom. “As the 
slayer of Vrtra, the destroyer of enemy fortress ”—Vrtra is evil. Thus (it means) the 
slayer of evil and destroyer of enemy fortress. “Also pdthya , the bull kindled thee, 
the greatest killer of enemies” pdthya , the bull is, no doubt, the mind and he did 
produce him therefrom. “Him, the winner of wealth in every battle”-—as the text, 
so its meaning. “With Gavatri chants (he performs) ”—Gavatri is the vital air, he thus 
lays vital air with him. “With three chants”—for these are three vital airs; (namely) 
prana, uddna, and vydna, those he lays into him. These (chants) together have nine 
feet, for these are nine vita! airs; seven in the head and two downwards, these (nine) 
he lays into him. (First Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA II 

1. And these following two (chants) are in Tristubh (metre). Now the Tristubh 
is the self (body) and it is his (Agni’s) self. He refines it (the lump) with these two 
(chants). “Be seated O Hotr! in your own home, knowing our action*—Agni 
indeed, is the Hotr and this black antelope’s skin is, no doubt, its abode. Knowing 
our action (of sacrificial activity) be seated in this womb of the rite which is being 
performed well. The womb of this well performed rite is the black antelope’s skin. 
‘Thou gladdening the gods, make offerings to them”—it means, becoming a god, 
you worship, the gods with oblations. “O Agni! bestow plenty of wealth upon the 
Yajamana”. Thereby he implores for blessings upon the sacrifice. 

2. “O Hotr! knowing (our activity), being seated in the abode of the Hotr”. 
Agni is indeed the Hotr and the black antelope’s skin is the abode of the Hotr- 
Viddna means one who knows (the import of our action). “The shining and efficient 
one is seated”—(means) This Agni, shining and trim is seated (on the black 
antelope’s skin). ‘The one who is thorough about an unsullied ritual, the most 
prosperous. For, he indeed thoroughly knows about unsullied rites and he is the 
most wealthy”. The bearer of thousands and the brilliant-tongued-—thousand 
means all and thus it is to say who supports everything (or who is referred to in 
thousand ways) and one with glowing tongue, with two chants in Tristubh relating 
to Agni (he praises); the meaning of this has already been told. 



TRANSLATION 


VIIL4.2.7 ] 


22S 


3. Then there is the Brhatl (chant) in the last-—for this fire-altar, when built 
up assumes a big size (like the Brhatl metre). What like the seed is implanted into 
the womb, such like is (the progeny) bom. Since the Brhatl metre is employed for 
this chant it (the altar) when completed, becomes big (as the Brhatl). 

4. “Re seated, thou, art great”—he thus causes the implanted seed to settle 
down. That is why the semen deposited into the womb settles down (establishes 
itself)—“Shine forth (O Agni!) the best producer of joy to the gods”—it means 
“shine in flames O gladdener of gods! ”. “Send forth O Agni! worthy partaker of the 
sacrificial offerings, thy lofty’ charming smoke”—for when Agni is kindled, he sends 
forth his lofty smoke which is charming to look at, because it shows itself as it were. 
These chants (aforesaid) amount to six. Six seasons (make) a year and Agni Is the 
year. As great as Agni is, as great as is bis size, so great does this become. 

5. And what is made up in ayear becomes made up of the Brhatl metre—because 
Brhatl is the year. There are twelve Pumimas (full moons); twelve Astakas (eighth 
days of black fortnight) and twelve Amavasyos (new moons); all together thirty’ six 
and the Brhatl metre has thirty six syllables. He takes it (the lump of clay ) from the 
right (south) to the left (north) because it is from the right side the semen is 
deposited into die womb in the left side. And this hole is Agni’s womb. He takes it 
there without pause so as to have an unbroken (flow). 

6. He then pours water there, for whatever wound is caused or whatever is 
broken in the earth, that isjoined (healed) by water. So with water he joins or heals 
die wound and breakage. “O Agni! sprinkle (yourself) with divine sweet waters, for 
the health of the progeny”. Sweet is the sap (essence). It means ‘progeny’ to be 
freed from ailments, from their (water’s) sources. Let plants grow with well-ripened 
fruits; for indeed from the sources of waters, the plants spring forth with well- 
ripened fruits. 

7. He then joins her (earth) with air, for whatever wound or damage is there 
in it, is healed by air. For indeed Vayu joins together or heals whatever wound or 
damage is caused. “May Vayu Matarisva, join (heal) you”—Vayu Matarisva is, 
doubtless, the one who blows yonder. “The broken heart of thee (earth) which is 
gaping upwards”—for, this broken heart (die hole) of hers is gaping upwards (and 
let it be joined by Vayu). “You (Vayu) who moves about as the life-breath of gods 
(like Agni, as well as gods like speech) It means, ‘You move about as the life-breath 
of all gods’. “O God ‘Ka’l let there be Vasat for thee”— *Ka' doubtless is Prajapati. 
For him, he makes this earth to be Vasat (oblation) because there is no other 
oblation as this one (in the matter of healing). 



Vffl.4.2.13 ] 


translation 



__ J&nr* 'i / 

8. He then joins her by means of the diks (quarters)—for, whatever is there as 
wound or broken m this earth is joined (cured) by the quarters. By means of 
quarters, he then joins and heals the wounds and the breakage in her. He joins this 

di^« tw’o^rHoine^Th sod fr° m the east and die west)*by wh^ch 

hesetwo are joined. Then he joins this quarter and this quarter (bv pushing loose 

tar tiZZ i* S Ti and n Z tk) ’ hy Whkh * £hese quarters adjoined Thus 
t] . rf, , s . t? tIlus l and then thus from the south and thus moving f from 

?£ ‘A*"? * atdi T don ****.' to - ^ds. (All Aescdone) with 
( ng finger). Thus healing is done with this (finger)* 

. , takes up together the black antelope's skin and the lotus-leaf, for 

6 k ^ 1S u^ e - womb and therefore he takes the implanted seed along with the 

womb When the implanted seed is taken up by the womb, he does so dianting- 

^ e ,n°? 1 Wlth u SpendoUr (thisAgni) settlesdown in thishome of heavenly peace". 

1U. I hen he ties it up (the lump). He thereby secures the seed in the womb, 
so that the seed kept safely m the womb does not escape. With a string (he ties it) 
for, with a string they yoke that which is to be tied (the beast). With a triple reed of 
grass (he ties); the significance of this has been told. 


i , He winds 11 ( £he string) around the skin saving— u O Agni of wealth!, of 
lustre! , clothe yourself with multi-coloured garment”. In the sacrifice, the r ope is 
(usually) ofVaruna (the noose of Varuna). But here, it is made non-Vantnic. And 
lie makes him wear it just as one would put on an attire. 

12. He then gets up taking it. The Agni being yonder Sun, he makes this Sun 
nse up saying, Get up (O Sun!) of good rites”. The sacrifice is no doubt, a rite. Thus 
{it means) nse thou well-worthy of a good sacrifice. “Protect us with (your) divine 
wisdom , that is ‘whatever divine wisdom you have, with that you protec* us’ To 
be seen with great lustre”—that is ‘extremely shining’. “Hither OAgni! with well- 
trained”. Thatis (the steeds) that carry you are well-trained. It means ‘OAgni! come 
here on the steeds’. 


13. From hither (earth), he lifts him upwards towards the east; for this Agni 
is yonder Sun . He thus places yonder Sim upwards from him in the east and by this 
the yonder Sun is placed high above from here in the east, saying “Stand up thou, 
like god Savitr for our happiness”. As the text so the meaning. “Stand up as a 
bestower of strength for, indeed that Savitr bestows strength, food, standing up. 

(Identified) by your distinct rays when we call you in different ways*-—the rays are 
his distinguishing features this is what he means. He lifts it up beyond the reach 
of his arms, for that (Sun) is beyond the reach of his arms. He then lowers it and 
having brought it down, he holds it above the navel. The significance of this will be 
told later. (Second Brahmana Ends) 



VHI.4.3.7 ] 


TRANSLATION 


BRAHMANA III 

. ** ** (the lump of clay) in his hand, he addresses the animals. This 

is because, the gods while collecting it (Agni) first of all imparted vigour into them 
and in the like manner does he (the Yajamana) now, while collecting him (Agni). 
first impart vigour into the cattle. 

2. He addresses the horse—“Thou art the foetus born of the twin worlds” 

(Rodasj)— the twin worlds are doubtless, these two, sky and earth. .And he (Agni) 
born of these two. O Agni! the charming child, deposited among the plants'"—for 
this lovely child is, indeed, delivered amidst all the plants. “A shining child amidst 
darkness and night for, he (Agni) shines as a child (despite) darkness and night 
“Thou proceeded crying aloud towards your mothers”. His mothers, doubtless, are 
the plants and towards them he comes forth crying aloud. Therebv he imparts 
vigour into the horse. ' r 

3. Then (he addresses) the ass O Courser I be steady, strong-limbed, fast- 
moving’—that is ‘be thou steadfast, firm-limbed and swift racer O courser!’ ‘Thou 
become stout and be one with a comfortable seat (a cozy sitting space on the back), 
because, you are the carrier of provisions for Agni”. He thereby imparts vigour into 
the ass. 

Then (he addresses) the he-goat. Be thou propitious to human-beings O 
Ahgiras! for Agni is Angiras and the he-goat is sacred to Agni. He thus appeases 
him so that he may not cause any harm. “Don’t harm the sky and the earth, nor the 
air, nor the plants . It means don t scorch any of these. Therebv he imparts vigour 
into the he-goat. 

5. With these (chants) he addresses (the animals) for, threefold is Agni; as 
great as Agni is, as great as is his size, with so much he imparts vigour into them. 

6. He then holds it (Agni, the lump of clay) over these animals; whereby he 
energises him with these catde. He does not touch them (with it). For cattle are 
thunderbolts and this Agni is the seed; lest he should harm that seed by thunderbolt 
(he does not touch them) or (perhaps) this (lump of clay) being Agni and they 
animals, lest Agni should not harm these cattle (and so he does not touch them with 
it). 

7. He holds it over the horse saying—“Let the racing horse start forth neighing 
loudly”—that is, ‘let (the horse) come forth neighing loudly*. “Let it (like a) 
trembling ass make resounding voice”. He thus mentions the ass in the context of 
addressing the horse and that makes the ass pensive (makes the ass feel proud). 
“Bearing Agni-Purisya, may he (the horse) not perish before the foil span of 
time”—that is bearing Agni, friendly to the cattle, may he not perish before 
(completion of) this sacred rite. He thus energises him with the horse. 



VIIL4.3.33 ] 


translation 


4 .^. ~y 


8. lhen (holds it over) the ass saying—“Thou the male (iniDretmatnrl 
carry,ng Agm, the male’-for Agni is male and the he-ass is a male Tim, tha, 

imprecator yThoubelonging to the o^i th' 
« <Agm) “ ‘ he ^bon, foetus of the waters. Him he thus 

9. He then takes it (the lump of clay) (from above the ass) saving—“0 4W 

come (away from the ass) for feasting'. Byusing the word vitaye hmhelw^C 
feasting ) which occurs in the Brahmanic Vapts chant t 

removes him (Agni) from the Sudia caste (of the ass). 4 J ' ' 

imth” 0 * R, hen i he h °, lds a °T? the he * oat swing “Hta, the truth— Ria, the 
Zt dra " e la " dou “ ess * this Agni and the truth is yonder Sum or 

[ i Sr s'i “ d * C is *»(Agni). (More precisely) thcAgid 

^t l S^r SayS ’ thC ,mh ' the Eruth ‘he 

11. With three (animals), he energises (Agni)—threefold is Agni; as great as 
Agm, as great as is his size, with so much he energises him. With three chants he 
hrstly addresses (the beasts)—that makes a total of six and the significance of thi, 
(number six) has been explained. 11 

Ti i 12 ' Th f- y ? en make th , e beastS retllrn < to the5r positions near the Akamnm), 
he he-goat is first among them to return; then the ass anti then the horse. For the 

horse ts Ksatra (nobility); the ass is the Vaisya and Sudra and the he-goat is 
Brahmana. In as much as the horse, among those that go (towards the hole), goes 
first, the Rsatnya who goes ahead is followed by the other three castes. In as much 
as, while returning (towards the Ahavanzya), among those that return, the he-goat 
first, the Brahmana who goes in advance is followed by the other three castes. And 
since the ass does not lead either while going or while returning, never do 
Brahmana and Rsatnya follow the Vaisya and the Sudra. Hence they go In this order 
to avoid sinning. Thus the priesthood and nobility enclose these two castes (Vaisya 
and Sudia), thus these two are made non-transgressors, 

a • • ^‘/ be ^°° ks at tbe P seuc *°~ man saying “Agni-Punsya, we bear just as 
Angiras (did) —that is “Agni (the lump of clay), friendly to the cattle, we bear like 
Agm (Angiras) . He thereby energises him with the pseudo-man. 



VIII.4.4.4 ] translation 

(Third Brahmana End” (pne " ho ° d >. "«* the Brahmana, he energises him. 


BRAHMANA IV 

SSSEXS 

'-A. A. 

coming) removing all impediments for food (productions) and ah diseases and 
(once) he is seated here, will drive away all evil thoughts (in us) That is he will be 

fhals'-forto a their perf™ fom^wLn wil.llll.'rrld'UTf'lh 

opened fruits. So, it means, in your full (well-decked) form, you receive him “Th s 
child of yours who has arrived at the right time and has got settled in his origins 

Seat Iwll ° f >' OUrS has settled d °™ in his eternal seat 

... 3 : Wl . th , two < chants > he brings it down, for, the Yajamana is two footeS 
iajamana ts Agm; as great as Agni is and as great as is his she, with so much he 
takes tt down.He takes ,t down from the right (south) to the left (north The 
purport of this has been explained. “The placewherehe isbroughtdown happens 
to be raised and sprinkled —for the Agni is laid down on a mound sprinkled 
(cleaned). Sand is strewn thereon. The significance of this (will be told) later. 

* Itisendosed on all sides—for at that time, the gods were afraid thinking—“Let 
these terrible Raksasas not smite here this (Agni) of ours”. They enclosed him with 
a rampart. In the like manner, this one (Yajamana) encloses him in this boundary. 
And again this is a womb and this Agni is the semen and in secret is the semen 

infused into the womb and that is why, only in privacy, that one would seek 
intercourse with his own spouse. 



VIII.4.4.5 ] TRANSIATION 23S 

5. He releases it (the lump of clay is untied). Thereby whatever pair he (Agni) 
was having by beingjied, is now expelled from him and him he causes to be born 
from its own womb. Shining with firm strength, that is brilliant with great strength. 
Drive away these hateful Raksasas and ailments'’—that is (to say) ‘drive away all 
evils . May I be under the benign protection of Agni, of auspicious invocation, the 
great one, the protector of the pious”. Thereby he seeks a blessing. He then cuts off 
some hair of the goat and lets loose the animals towards the north-eastern 
direction. The north-east is the quarter of both gods and humans. He thus offers 
the cattle to that region and that is why both gods and men subsist in cattle. (Fourth 
Brahmana Ends) 


(Chapter Four Ends) 



VIII.5.1.6 ] 


TRANSLATION 


235 


Chapter five 


BRAHMANA I 


1. The waters (used for working the clay) have been boiled with the resin of 
the Paldsa tree. This is for providing firmness. And as to why with Paldsa 
resin—because, Paldsa, is doubtless, the Soma and Soma is the moon. And that 
moon indeed, is one of Agni’s manifestations. He pours this water (on the 
clay)—saving “Q waters! you are refreshing”. To whichever deity a Rk mantra 
belongs or a Yajus chant (is addressed), that Rk mantra itself is that deity and that 
Yajus chant itself is that deity. Hence (in the present context) the triplet (starting 
with Apohisthdmayohhuvah) is itself these waters and they manif est in one single 
form. He now makes them into that one form (by using the three mantras). 

2. He then produces foam and pours it on it (the lump of clay). That which 
is the foam is its (water’s) second manifestation. Into that form, he makes it and 
mixes it with that day. That day (thus mixed with water and foam) is itself the third 
manifestation he has created. It was out of these (three) forms that he (Agni, the 
lump) was created (even) at the beginning and from those (same three) he 
produces him now. 

3. He then mixes it with the goats’ hair. It is for the sake of firmness. Why with 
goats’ hairs—because gods then collected him from among the cattle. In like 
manner (Yajamana) collects him from the cattle. Then why only with goats’ 
hair—because the he-goat includes (contains) all cattle. Then why the hair-—because 
the hair is the form. 

4. “Mitra having mixed the earth and the ground with light (here it means 
goats’ hair) *—Mitra is indeed the vital air. It is the vital air that did this noble act 
at the beginning. “I mix thee, O well-bom Jatavedas! (one who knows everything 
bom) for freeing from ailment, the living beings”. As the text, so its meaning, 

5. Then these three are in powdered form—sand, stone and iron-rust. With 
them, he mixes the day. That is for firmness. Why with these (powders) because at 
the beginning, the earth was created with these and therefore he makes it (the 
earthen fire-pans) with these same. 

6. “The Rudras having mixed the earth (with the dust of sand and gravel) , 
kindled, the great light (in the fire-pan) for, this Agni is yonder Sun and this is 
that great luminary which the Rudras kindled by mixing the earth. “That never- 
failing effulgence of those Rudras shines forth brilliantly among the gods”—for 
that non-failing brilliant, effulgence of theirs (the Sun) indeed shines among gods. 










TRANSLATION 


VIIL5.U1 1 


237 


7. He mixes (the clay) with two chants for the Yajamana is biped. And 
Yajamana is Agni; as great as Agni is; as great as is his size, so great he shapes him 
(by mixing). 

8. He then kneads it (makes a paste of it) saying, “Mixed by the Vasus and the 
Rudras”—for this (clay) has indeed been mixed both by Vasus and the Rudras. In 
as much as it was mixed by Mitra (in the form of the chant Mitrezh saihsrjya). It is 
mixed by Vasus (devas); In as much as it was mixed by Rudras (in the form of the 
chant Rudrah samsrjya) it is mixed by Rudras. ‘The clay fit for this work (of making 
the ukhd) is mixed by the wise”—for they (the Vasus and Rudras) are indeed wise 
and this clay is fit for the job. “May Simvali fashion it by making it soft with her 
hands”—Simvali, doubtless, is speech. May she make this clay soft by her hands and 
render it for the purpose. “Sinivall of beautiful hair-lock, beautiful head-dress and 
charming hips”—for, Simvali is a woman and that is the perfect form for a lady to 
have beautiful lock ofhair, beautiful head-dress and charming hips. These indeed, 
enrich her. “O Aditi! in the form of earth, may she (Simvali) deposit the fire-pan 
into thy hands”. This Aditi indeed, is earth, and it is addressed to her. “Let Aditi 
fashion the ukhd (fire-pan) by her skill, by the deftness of hands and by her 
wisdom”—for by her skill, by the deftness of hands and by wisdom, she does, indeed, 
fashion it. “May she bear Agni in her womb even as a mother (bears) her son in her 
bosom”—that is, just as a mother would bear her son in her lap, so may she (Adi ti) 
bear Agni in her womb. 

9. He kneads it (makes a paste of it) with three chants—for Agni is threefold, 
and as great as Agni is, and as great as is his size, so much he then kneads him. With 
two chants he mixes it—thus it totals to five. For the Agni-altar is five-layered and 
five seasons (constitute) a year. The year is Agni; as great as Agni is, as great as is his 
size, so much it becomes. With three chants, water is poured and that makes it eight 
and Gayatri has eight syllables. Gayatri is Agni; as great as Agni is, as great as is his 
size, so much it becomes. Moreover, in the beginning among the eight created, this 
earth was one (after withering away, Prajapati decided to produce and brought out 
eight, viz., water, foam, earth, sand, pebbles, granite, iron and gold). As great as this 
(earth) was created, so great he makes this ukhd (fire-pan) (representing earth). 

10. He then takes a lump of day, as much as he thinks would be enough for 
the bottom part (of the ukhd) saying “Thouartthe maMd'shead”— makhd —doubtless, 
is sacrifice and this is its head. Ahavaniya is the head of the sacrifice and that 
Ahavaniya altar, he is now going to build. (This lump of clay to be made into a seat 
of Agni in that Ahavaniya is as much the head of the sacrifice as the Ahmmmya altar 
itself). So he says “Thou art the head of the sacrifice”. 

11. And again as to why he says “Thou art the head of the sacrifice”-— because 
when he (the Agni-altar) is built up, then he is born and whatever is bom comes out 
with its head in front. So thinking, Let him be bom by the head first appearing while 
being bom, he says, “Thou art the head of the sacrifice". 


VIII.5.1.15 3 TRANSLATION 2Hq 

12. He spreads him {the clay) saying “May the Vasus make you bv the Gayatri 
metre, just as Angiras (did) . This bottom part is this (terrestrial) world and this, 

asus ™ a e ^ I f eans °* rhe Gayatri metre and in the like manner, this one, 
(\ajamana) now makes it (the bottom of the ukhd) bv means of the Gayatri Metre 
‘Thou art Dhmva" that is thou art firm or thou art fixed. Therefore ‘thou art" 
Pnthwi (the earth) For, this bottom part of ukhd is indeed the earth. “Confer on 
me offspring, increase in wealth; ownership of cattle and true valour and brothers 
for the Yajamana” Vasus, after producing the (terrestrial) world, prayed for these 
blessings from it. In the like manner does the sacrificer, haring fashioned this world 
(of ukha s bottom) seek the blessing from it. Haring spread it (the day) to the size 
of a span (in each direction) he turns up the edges on each side. 

13. He then lays thereon the first side-part (of the spread day) saving, “May the 
Rudras shape you with the Tristubh metre, just as Angiras (did)”. This part of the 
lump is the air. This air region, the gods fashioned with Tristubh metre. In like 
manner, this one (Yajamana) shapes this with Tristubh metre. “Just as Angiras 
(did) ” Angiras is vital air. ‘Thou art steady” that is ‘You are firm; You a~c fixed’. 
“Thou art air” for this part of the lump is air region. “Confer on me offspring, 
increase in wealth, ownership of cattle and true valour and brothers for the 
sacrificer . For, the Rudras, having fashioned the world of air, prayed for these 
blessings from it. In the like manner, does this sacrificer having shaped this side of 
the lump, seeks these blessings from it. Having stroked and smoothened it all over. 

14. He then lays thereon the upper side-part (of the spread clay) saving “May 
the Adityas shape you with thejagati metre just as Angiras (did)”. In the like 
mannei, this one (Yajamana) shapes this with the Jagati metre. Just as Angiras 
(did); Angiras is vital air. Thou art sky”—for this part of the lump is the sky; region. 
“Confer on me offsprings, increase in wealth, ownership of cattle and true valour 
and brothers for the sacrificer”—for, the Adityas, having fashioned the world of sky. 
prayed for these blessings from it. In the like manner does this sacrificer, having 
shaped this side of the lump, seek these blessings from it. 

15. He then gives finish to it with this fourth Yajus chant—“May the Visvedeim, 
friends of all humans, shape you with Anustubh metre, just as Angiras (did) "—This 



TRANSLATION 


VIII.5.2.3 ] 


241 


chantis, no doubt, (meant) for the quarters. Because this the Visvedevas, the friends 
of all humans, then with fourth Yajus chant, invoked blessings of all quarters into 
these worlds (namely) into this fire-pan. Just as Angiras (did); Angiras is vital air. 

16. With that same chant, he shapes it both inside and outside. Thereby he 
creates unlimited quarters both inside and outside, these worlds (parts of the ukha) 
for, unrestricted are the quarters. He makes it raised to the measure of a span and 
extended side-ways to the measure of a span. Because Visnxi in the foetus stage, was 
of the size of a span and this ( ukha ) is the womb. He thus makes the womb equal 
in size with the foetus. If it is larger than a span, with this Yajus chant, he would make 
it smaller; and if it is smaller, he would make it larger with this Yajus chant. If it is 
only one pa.su (sacrificial animal), he will make it one span size and if there are five 
pasus, he will make it five spans size. Or he will make it (as wide as) an arrow’s width. 
Because the arrow means strength he thus makes it possessed of strength. But once 
the arrow, indeed used to measure five spans. (First Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA II 

1. Then he winds round the horizontal girdle. The girdle is, of course, the 
quarters. For, the Gods having made these worlds (parts) of the ukha, tied it with 
the quarters or strengthened it by the quarters. In the like manner, this Yajamana, 
having made these worlds of ukha, strengthens it and encircles it wi th die quarters. 
He lays this girdle at the upper part of the mid-portion, not far from the mouth pan. 
Here are the ends of the worlds (parts of ukha) meedng. He thus makes them firm 
(dividing the ukha into three parts, the horizontal belt, the uppermost part where 
the ends of the different clay plates meet). 

2. (He does so saying) “Thou art the girdle for Aditi”—in the sacrifice 
(usually) a string (belt) refers to Varuna’s (noose). Here he thus winds this belt of 
a string after making it non-Varunic (i.e. not as a noose). 

3. He then makes four upward (bands) silently. They are the (four) quarters. 
For, gods having made these worlds, the ukha, made them firm by means of the 
quarters. In the like manner the sacrifker, having made these worlds, the ukha, now 
makes these firm by means of the quarters. 


TRANSLATION 


VIII.5.2.9 ] 


4. Those (vertical bands) run up to her (the horizontal girdle). (Thus) they 
(die quarters) rendered it firm (when woundby the Gods). Likewise, these (vertical 
bands) keep it firm. Thus the upper part (of the ukhd ) becomes firm bv the 
horizontal string and the lowerpart becomes firm by means of these vertical ones. 

5. At the tips (of the bands), they form breasts (breast-like projections), for, 
the gods having made these worlds of ukhd (in the shape of a cow’), by these breasts 
they milked all their desires. In the like manner, this Yajamana, having made these 
worlds of ukhd , milks from these breasts all that he desires for. This ukhd is indeed 
a cow, for the ukhdis these worlds and these worlds are a cow. That horizontal band 
is its udder and she (udder) is in the one-third part of its body and a cow's udder 
is in the one-third part (of its body). 

6. He makes nipples on it, whereby he provides the udder with nipples. It has 
four nipples because the cow has four of them. Some make it to have two nipples 
or eight nipples. But it should not be done that way. Those animals which have less 
or more than the cow 7 are less useful for the livelihood (of its dependents) and so 
by that they make this (ukhd) less useful for livelihood; and indeed, (by making it 
to have two or eight nipples) they do not make a cow of it but a hitch, or an ewe or 
a mare. So let him not do so. 

7. He then holds its neck saying “May Aditi hold thy neck”—Aditi doubtless, 
is speech. The gods having then made it, perfected it by means of speech i.e. Aditi. 
In the like manner, this one (Yajamana) having shaped it, perfects it by means of 
speech i.e. Aditi. 

8. He then grapping it, places it down saying, “She having made this mahim- 
ukhd”i.e. Aditi having fashioned die great ukhd. ‘The ear die n womb for Agni”—For 
this is indeed Agni’s earthen womb. “(She), gave it to her sons to bake”—after 
making the ukhd (she, Aditi) gave it to the gods, her sons for baking. In the like 
manner, this one (Yajamana) having made it, gives to the Gods for baking. 

9. Some make three ( ukhds ) saying that there are three worlds and these 
worlds are ukhds and also (they argue that would help) for mutual substitutions i.e. 
‘if one breaks, we can collect Agni in another and if that too (breaks), we can collect 
Agni in the third*. Let him not do so. For, that first bottom part (of ukhd) is this 
world and thatfirst lower part is the air and the upper portion is die sky. This fourth, 
namely the Yajus chant is the quarters and this much is all this (encompassing) all 
these worlds and quarters. But were he to add anything to it, he would make it spill 
out (superfluous). Whatever is over-done in a sacrifice, itwoulcl be an advantage to 
his (Yajamana’s) spiteful enemy. The expiation, in case of breakage (appre¬ 
hended) , that is in the next chapter. (Second Brahmana Ends) 



VTII.5.3.5 ] 


TRANSLATION 
BRAHMANA III 


245 


1. Out of that same clay, the Asadha brick (the brick to be consecrated with a 
chant having the word Asadha) is first made. For the Asadha (the invincible) is this 
earth and this earth was the first to be created of these worlds ( ukha) . That {Asadha) 
is made of this same clay (as the ukha) for, this earth is (one) of these worlds- She 
(the Asadha brick) is made the consecrated queen (of the Yajamana) because she 
is indeed, the queen. Who (among the wives) is the first-wedded, she is the queen 
She (the Asadha) measures one foot (in length); for, the foot is the base. She being 
the foundation is marked with three lines, because this earth is threefold. 

2. Then he makes the ukha. Thereby he makes these worlds. He then makes 
the (three) Visvajyoti (bricks consecrated with the chants containing the word 
Visvajyoti) . These are the deities—Agni, Vayu and Aditya, which are, of course the 
universal lights (Visvamjyoti). They are (also) made ofthe same day (by which ukha 
is made). That means, he produces these deities from these worlds (because ukha 
is in the form of the three worlds). The Yajamana makes them. Three lines are 
drawn on them, for the deities are threefold; so much with regard to gods. 

3. Now as regards the atman (self, body). The ukha , indeed,is theself (of Agni). 
The Asadha brick is the speech ( vdk) . She is made first; for, this speech is indeed the 
first in this self. She is made of this same clay (as the ukha ) for, this speech (vdk) is 
the self. The Yajamana’s queen makes it, for this vdkis the queen. Three lines are 
drawn on it, because the speech is of three kinds (namely) the Rks, the Yajus and 
the Samans. Because of these three kinds of speech, we have it in three forms i.c. 
muffled, half-loud and loud. 

4. Then he makes the ukha (fire-pan). He is making the self (body of Agni). 
Then he makes the Visvajyoti bricks. The Visvajyoti bricks are the offspring, for 
offspring indeed is the universal light. He then causes procreation to take place. He 
makes them from the same clay (as ukha). He produces these Praia bricks 
(offsprings) from the self (ukha). He thus produces offspring from the body. The 
Yajamana makes them. That is, the sacrificer thus produces offsprings from his own 
self- He makes them without any interruption. Thereby he produces uninterrupted 
progeny from his self. He makes them afterwards (subsequent to making the ukha). 
That means, he produces the offsprings after theself is made. He draws three lines 
on them, because threefold is the generation viz., father, mother and the son. 
Hence (there are) the foetus, the membrane covering inner and die outer 
placenta. 

5. He makes these from (clay) prepared with prayer; the others from (clay) 
prepared without prayer; for these are defined, the others undefined; these are 
limited (in number), the others unlimited. 



VIII.5.3.10 ] 


translation 


247 


<4 * f 

r *, 6 j Th ^ tAg ? 1 iS p rajapati; but Prajapati is both of this, defined and undefined 
limited and unlimited: thus when he imk« , a unaenntd, 

prayer, he thereby makes up Cfro m „th hSLSa <££ 

limited* and when he ma v P! L m r , , * tprajapati s) which is defined and 

makes up thatfoi^of^b^vhich is un^fin!^d an^u ^ £ ^ ere ^y 

knowingthis does it on t ul! undefined and unlimited. Verily then whosoever 
knowing this does it on this wise, makes up the whole and complete Asmi From *he 

(day) lying ready prepared, he leaves over a lump for expiatfon^ ™ ^ 
7. He (the Adhvaryu) now fumigates it (the fire-pan) --just for the sake of 

thaXp^lThoido?rr e r of t,,e ;T k - And asain ' - »«»*■ 

into the h“d 6 and ,hesmoke its breath; he thus puts breath 

sacred to ^PraHpSi^dPraiaoah'** T*’' 0 T" * ag!rin “ in J url - for horse is 
racrea to t rajapati, and Prajapati is Agm, and one does not injure one's own seif 

And with dung (he does it) because that is what was eaten (bv the“^„d fc 

useless; and thus he does not injure the horse itself, nor the orher cattle 

M-.V ,h S Ae Va . sus f ake * ee fragrant by the Gayatri measure, Ahgiras - like’ 

Aditvas e ma]^diee a fi^^anfif^r ailt ^ tHe Tri .- ubh metre ’ Atigiras - like! May the 
Adityas make uiee fragrant bv Tagati metre Antrim* „ kw ^ _ v 



t , ; r 7 — Aia 5 iaiU u r “tc Anusiuon metre, Arimras-like 11 \fav 

offh e e e ddir t! May Va ™ha make thee fragrant!" he thus fumigate it 

Z tn d” hS’ 

Though there are thus several sevens (many sevenfold objects), each of them is onlv 



just as Arigiras (did). So now through them (through the chants sacred to the wives 
of gods) only, it is deposited. But surely these are the plants; for, surely the wives of 
gods are the plants; for it is by the plants that everything here is sustained. So by 
means of plants, he sustains this ukhd. He then silently places the Visvoh&ii bricks. 
Having then placed fuel thereon, he sets fire to it, 

5. (While kindling) He says “May the divine Dhisanas, dear to all the Gods, 
kindle you in the bosom of the earth, just as Ahgiras (did)”. For, at that time, the 
Goddesses Dhisanas, dear to all the Gods, heated it in the lap of the earth, just as 
Ahgiras (did). So through those (very) Dhisanas he is now kindling it That 
(Dhisana) is only the vuk (speech). For, it is by speech everything is kindled here. 
Thereby by means of speech, he now kindles him. These three Y&jus chants are 
recited whilst looking at it 







¥111.5.4.13 ] TRANSLATION 251 

7. “May the divine Grids (goers) f dear to all the gods, cook thee 0 Ukh&, in the 
lap of the earth, just as Angiras (did)”—for, they the divine Grids, dear to all the 
Gods, were those who at that time, cooked him in the lap of the earth .just as Angiras 
(did). So he now cooks him here by means of those (very ) Gnds. Those { Grids) are 
indeed the metres, for metres are, surely (called) Gnds. Because it is by means of 
metres, they go to the heavens (gacchardi and hence gnd ). Therefore, he cooks him 
by means of the metres. 

8. O Ukha! may the divine/ants (Goddesses of that name), with unclipped 
wings, dear to all the gods, bake thee in the bosom of the earth, just as Angiras 
(did) At that time, they the/anwwith unclipped wings, dear to all Gods were those 
who cooked him in the lap of earth, just as Angiras (did). So he now cooks him by 
means of those (very) Jdnis. These (Jdnis) are indeed the stars. For the Jdnis are 
doubtless, the stars. For, these are the ones that lead the meritorious to the heavenly 
world, and these (stars) are the rays of those (meritorious persons who go to 
heaven). Therefore he cooks him only by means of the stars. 

9. He digs with one chant; deposits (the ukha) with one chant; kindles it with 
one; heats it with one and bakes it with two.That is why, twice in the year, the grains 
ripen (in the field). These come to six; six seasons (make) a year and Agni is the 
year; as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, so great does he become. 

10. He tends it (by adding or stirring the fuel) with the chant sacred to Mitra 
(starting with) Mitrasya carsanidhrtah. Since a friend never harms any one, nor 
anybody harms a friend, whatever he does and whatever extent he does (by way of 
tending), he does not harm her (the ukha) nor she harms him (the Yajamana, who 
tends). By day he should kindle it and put it off by day, because the day is sacred for 
fire (because the effulgence of the Sun and Agni are one and mutually 
complimentary). 

11. He takes her (ukha) out with the Yajus chant sacred for Savitr. For, Savior 
is the impeller. Encouraged by Savitr indeed, he is taking her out saying “May the 
divine Savitr, who has good palms, good fingers and good hands, take you out by 
his prowess”—for, Savitr is all that. 

12. He then turns her (ukha) round saying “Without getting exhausted, you 
fill up all the directions and quarters on this earth”—it means ‘without getting 
fatigued, you fill up with sap (rasa) all the directions and intermediary quarters’. 

13. He then takes it up saying “Having risen up, you become great". For, these 
worlds, have become great (expanded) after rising up. So “Get up; thou art 
steady*—that is ‘Stand erect (as) you are firm and well-established’ (folly baked). 



A v r I -”—w 4,ra&v*«*fr$ A ^AAJUA IL4#V UEIAO ^ 

to your care, so that this may not break”. For Mitra is this vdyu, who blows yonder 
and to him, this ukhd is entrusted. “For your protection”, for, these worlds are, 
surely, protected by Mitra and that is why nothing is harmed in this world. 

15. Then he drenches her (ukhd) (with milk). That is for the sake of firmness 


or to mark the continuity of the rite. Why he drenches it (with milk) is because, the 
ukhd ds the head of the sacrifice and milk is for vital air (prana ). He thus puts life into 
the head. Moreover, ukhd is a female, he thus pours milk into the female. That is 
why there is milk in a female. 

16. He drenches it with goat’s milk, the goat came out of Prajapatf s head, 
Prajjapati is Agni. Self does not harm itself. So for the sake of non-injury, goat’s 
(milk). Moreover, the goats eat all the plants. So he is drenching this {ukhd) with 
the essence of all the plants. 

17. (He drenches by saying) “May the Vasus drench you with the Gavatii metre 

•__A *_2_^ . - - * 




VIII.6.1.6 ] 


translation 

Chapter Six 


255 


BRAHMANA I 


1. Many are the oblations in the construction of the fire-altar and in other rites 
not connected with the construction of the altar. For, there are innumerable rites. 
The other rites are several; among them (to mention some) are the Agniatya, 
Rdjasuya; Vdjapeya and Asvamedha. Since they are other (than the construction of 
the altar) they are Atikarmdni (supernumerary rites). 

2. A punrdasa on eleven potsherds to Agni-Visnu—-that is the havis connected 
with the diksd (initiation) for the Soma sacrifice; a puroddsa in twelve potsherds to 
\aisvanara and a cam (a cup of cooked food) to Aditya—-these two belong to Agni 
(the rites connected with Agni-altar). Now, when he prepares the oblations for 
Agni-Visnu and not the other two, he would be preparing the offering connected 
with die diksd (initiation) for Soim- sacrifice, (On the other hand when he prepares 
only the other two oblations (i.e. the puroddsa in twelve potsherds and the ami),he 
would be preparing the offerings for the diksd. (initiation) of Agni (rites connected 
with Agni-altar). 

3. He prepares both—i.e, is for the Adhvara (Soma sacrifice) and for the Agni 
(rites to the altar). Because both the Adhvara rite and the Agni rite are (involved) 
here. First comes the sacrificial rite (Adhvara) and then follows the Agni rite; 
because the latter is an accessory rite. And that puroddsa (in eleven potsherds) 
which is for Agni-Visnu has the same significance as what is mentioned (earlier) in 
the Agnistoma. 

4. Now' (regarding) the puroddsa in twe Ive potsh e rds for Vaisvanara— Vmk^dmm 
being all the fires, it is for the obtamment of ail the fires. It is in twelve potsherds, 
because twelve months (make) a year and Vaisvanara is die year. 

5. And again why he prepares for Vaisvanara is because, he is about to produce 
the Vaisvanara fire (dear to all men). In the diksd offering, he first offers that which 
has become (assumed the status of) the semen. Whatlike the seed is that is 
implanted in the womb, such like is the (offspring) bom out of it. Now, here, he 
offers the Vaisvanara in the form of semen, it is later (on accomplishing the 
Guyana ), is born as Vaisvanara fire. 

6 . And why he prepares the other two oblations is because Vmhmmm 
(puroddsa) is the ruling power and this Aditya {cam) is the people; he thus makes 
the ruling class and the ruled. The Vaisvanara parados® he makes first, and having 
made the ruling power, he makes the people. This (Vaisvanara puroddsa) ii one 
(unit). It is for one deity and is a single oblation. He thus makes the ruling power 
to be concentrated in one and the glory in one (place). The other, i.e. the mm has 
many deities, for, the earn is (made) of numerous rice grains and those Aclityas are 
a multiplicity of gods. Thus he imparts multiplicity to the people (to be ruled). This 
much is to the deities. 



translation 


VIII.6.3.14 ] 


257 


^ et us (deal) with the self (or body of the Agni), The Vmsvdnara 
(puroddsa) is the head and that Aditya ( cum) is the body. He thus makes both the 
head and the body. The Vaisvanara puroddsa, he prepares first and having thus 
made the head, he makes the body afterwards. That ( VaisvdTuzra purodusa) is one 
single (unit), for, the head is, as it were, one only and the other, the cam has many 
deities for, that cam is made of numerous rice grains and this body has a m ultiplicity 
of limbs. He thus gives to the self a multiplicity of limbs. The cam is (cooked) in 
ghee, for, the Adityas are indeed consumers of ghee. He thus gratifies each of them 
by his own share of his beverage. These offerings are prepared silently for this 
sacrifice is the semen (implantation). Indeed, the semen is implanted silently. 

8. He then offers the Audgrabhana (libations)—for, it is by these Audgrabhana 
oblations that the gods levitated from this world to the heaven. Since thev levi tated 


(udgrhnata) these are (called) Atidgra.bh.ands. In die like manner, this Yafamana, by 
means of the Audgrabhanalibmom, will raise himself from this world to the heaven. 

9. They (Audgrabkanas) happen to be numerous, in the building up of the fire- 
altar and in other rites not connected with the building up of the altar. The 
significance of this has been told. They are of two kinds; the purport of both has 
already been told by distinguishing those of the Adhimm and those of the Apt* 


cayana. 

10. He offers five of the Adhvara category—for the sacrifice (Adkvam) is five¬ 
fold; as great as the sacrifice is, as great as is its size, by so much thus he offers it which 
is in the form of semen. He offers seven libations of the Agni category—for the Agn*- 
altar has seven layers and th ere are seven seasons for a year. Agni is the year, as great 
as Agni is, as great as is his size, by so much thus he offers it which is in the form of 
semen. They two together become twelve. Twelve months (make) a year and Agni 
is the year; as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, so great does this become. 

11. He offers (the oblation) saying—“Hail to thee Agni! in the form of akuli 
(sahkalpa or intent purpose), the impeller”—for, from smkalpa (intention) in¬ 
deed, this rite originated and that same (sahkalpa) is impelling to perform this rite. 

12. “Hail to thee Agni! in the form of medhd (analysing mind), the 
impeller”—because it is from the mind that this rite originated and it is the same 
(mind) that is impelling to perform this rite. 

13. “Hail to thee Agni! in the form of the VijMtam tittam (the deliberating 
thought), the impeller”—because it was from the thought that this rite originated 
in the beginning and it is that same (thought) that is impelling to perform this rite. 

14. “Hail to thee Agni! in the form Vtdhrti (distinct speech), the impeller'jfor. 
from speech, indeed, the sacrificial rite originated and it is that same (speech) that 
is impelling to perform this rite. 


MIL 6.1.20 ] TRANSLATION «r,q 

15. Hail to Prajapati! to Manu”—-Matin is, no doubt, the Prajapati, for he 
conceived ( amanuta) all this (universe). And Prajapati. indeed, performed this rite 
at the beginning and he himself is now prompting him (the Yajamana) in the 
performance of this nte. 

16. Hail to these Agni-Vaisvanara! '—Agni, Vaisvanara is doubtless, the vear; 
and the year, indeed, performed this rite at the beginning and he himself is now 
prompting him (the Yajamana) in the performance of this rite. 

then offers the oblation to Savitr. Savitr, indeed performed this rite at 
the beginning and he himself is now prompting him {Yajamana) in the perform¬ 
ance of this rite. (He offers) saying Every mortal would seek the friendship of the 
divine guide, (for) everybody wants riches and fame to prosper, hail’”—he who 
chooses the friendship of the god Savitr gains both glory and prosperity’ and he* who 
performs this rite, indeed wins his friendship. 

18. Some offer these Audgrabhaiia libations with the ukhd itself. They say 
“These offerings are made for (specific) desires and that ukhd isYajamana’s self. So 
we shall deposit all his desires in his own body”. But that is not to be done so. This 
flame that is shining (in the ukhd) is the essence of the imitative offerings and of the 
completed sacrifice, men the sacrifice is completed and the Audgralmana offer¬ 
ings made (into the Ahavamya), then only the ukhd is placed oil it. Then this 
sacrifice mounts the ukhaznd bears the sacrifice (from then on). So only when the 
sacrifice is completed and the Audgrabhanas are offered, the ukhd should foe 
mounted (on the fire). 

19. It (ukhd) is covered by a layer of munja grass. That is done, so that it may 
blaze up. And as to why with a layer of munja grass, is to avoid any injury . The layer 
of munja grass is a womb and the womb does not harm the foetus. For, he who is 
bom is emanating from a womb. So he thinks “May this Agni who is bom, emanate 
from the womb”. 

20. Inside (the ukhd) there is a layer of hemp, so that it may blaze up. And as 
to why a layer of hemp—because that womb from which Prajapati (the ciiydgni) 
came out had the flax umah) (a variety of grass from which silken threads are made) 
as its foetal membrane and the hemp (munja) as its placenta (outer cover of the 
embryo), The placenta is foul-smelling because, it is the ou ter cover of the embryo. 
The layer of hemp is to avoid injury, for the placenta does not harm the embryo. 
It is from out of the outer cover that he who is bom, emanates. So he thinks "May 
he (Agni) when he is bora, be bora from the outer cover (so that it comes out 
unhurt)”. (First Brahmana Ends) 


YIII.6.2.6 ] 


translation 

BRAHMAN A II 


1. Standing, he places it (ukha) on the fire. The ukha is these worlds These 
worlds are as it were, standing. So (by placing it) standing, he is more strong. He 

is standing facing the north-east, for standing towards north-east, Praiapati created 
the beings. J r 

2. And again as to why standing, facing north-east is, because the north-east is 
the quarter of both gods and men. 

3» And again as to why standing, facing north-east—because in this direction 
is the entrance to the heavenly world. Therefore, he offers oblations standing with 
his face towards north-east. Standing with face towards north-east, he gives ddbtttd 
(gifts). He thus offers oblations and distributes gifts through the very gate to the 
world of heaven. " ' 

4. “You do not break and may you not get injured”—as die text so its meaning. 
“O mother! be brave and heroic”—for ukha is a female and amba (mother) is the 
term Jor addressing a woman. Be bold, thou and Agni will accomplish this 
work”—for the ukha and fire will indeed accomplish this work. “O Divine Earth! 
be stead-fast for our well-being”—as the text so its meaning. “Thou art a divine 
(asun) wonder made by practical wisdom”—the vital breath is am This (ukha) is the 
workmanship of prana (vital breath) and made by means of practical wisdom. “May 
these offerings be acceptable to Gods”—whatever offerings of oblations are made 
into this Agni, are meant by that. And moreover that ukhaitse If is an offering. ‘Thou 
come out in this sacrifice, unscathed”—this he says wishing that it may emerge 
unhurt and uninjured in this sacrifice. 

5. With two (chants) he heats it (on the fire). For the Yajamana is a biped and 
the Yajamana is Agni; as great as Agni is, as great as is his size. By so much he heats 
it thus. He (does) with a Gayatri and a Tristubh chant. For, Gayatri is the vital air 
and Tristubh is the body. This is all in a pasu (sacrificial animal), the vital air and 
the body and thus by as much as the pasu consists of, by so much he beats it, 
Moreover Gayatri is Agni and Tristubh is Indra and the fire belongs to Indra-Agni 
duo. So as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, by so much he thus heats it Indra 
and Agni together cover all the gods and Agni is of all the Gods, As great as Ago! 
is, as great as his size, by so much he thus heats it Those two (Giyatrl and Trifprbh) 
together have seven feet and the Agn^aStar is seven-layered. There are seven seasons 
for a year and Agni is the year. As great as Agni is, as great as is his size, so much it 
becomes. 

6. When the fire heats it (the ukha) , then the flame mounts upto it. For the 
ukha is a female and the fire is a male. So when the male heats up die female, he 
implants the seed into her. 



VIII.6.2.12 ] translation 263 

7. If the flame takes time to mount on the ukhd , some (persons) throw coals 
on it ( ukha) thinking that by means of both (coal and flame) this will be heated. But 
let him not do so. For, when an animal is bom, it is indeed born with bones (in its 
body). But (on that count) bones are not inserted (inside the mother) as it were, 
at first. Only the seed is infused. What is flame (here) is of course the seed without 
bones. So only the flame should mount up to it (and not the coals). When the flame 
mounts on it, then he places a samidh (kindling stick) on it. Thereby the seed enters 
it (the ukha) and that fire effects the development of the seed (in the shape of the 
samidh) 

8. That samidh should be of the Kramuka tree. The gods and demons both 
descendants of Prajapati, fought with each other. Those gods, having placed Agni 
in front, confronted the Asuras. The Asuras cut off the edges of his (Agni*s) flames 
that had come to their grip. That (cut edges of the flames) settled down on this 
earth. It became the Kramuka. Since it is the essence (of Agni), it is sweet and it is 
red, because, it is indeed, the flame. So that which is Kramuka is Agni itself. 
Therefore Agni (is the form of the Kramukatwig) itself is placed here to develop him 
(the fire). 

9. It (the Kramuka twig) is a span long. For, Visnu as an embryo, was of a span 
size. So he thus makes the fire develop to its own size (the fire is as long as the 
samidh). 

10. It (the Kramuka samidh) is soaked in ghee. The foetal membrane of the 
womb from which Agni was produced was of ghee. Hence, he (Agni) is now- made 
to blaze up towards it (ghee). It (the samidh ) being the self of Agni, has no ash. It 
(Agni) is now entering its own self—to avoid injury; for the foetal membrane does 
not harm, the embryo. Whatever is bom, emanates from the foetal membrane. So 
(he thinks) ‘When the Agni is bora, may he be born from the foetal membrane*. 

11. He places the samidh saying—“The eater of wood; the consumer of 
ghee”—it means the one for whom wood is food and ghee is the drink”, “The 
earliest and endearing Hotr”—i.e., he is the primeval and lovable Hour. “The 
wonderful son of strength”—for he is produced by might and is wonderful (Agni 
is the product of the strength used in churning Arani) . Thus while standing, he 
offers with Svdhd. This will be explained later. 

12. Now that ukhd is itself the body (of Agni); the reed grass (Afenp) the 
womb; the hemp (sana) the foetal membrane; the ghee the outer placenta and the 
samidh ( Kramuka twig) the embryo. Outside is ukhdmd inside is Muhja; therefore 
the self (body) is outside and the womb, inside. Outside is Munja and inside is 
thereby the womb is outside and the placenta inside. Outside ii Miwtand inside the 
ghee; therefore the placenta is outside and the foetal membrane, inside. Outside 
is ghee and inside is the samidh; hence the foetal membrane is outside and the 
embryo is inside. Through these, whoever is born, emanates. So through these Agni 
is made to be bom. 





TRANSLATION 


VHI.6.2.18 ] 


265 


IS. He then offers a V ikahkata twig (stick of the Vxkahkaia tree). Prajapati made 
the first offering and after the offering he washed (his hand). From there the 
Vikahkata tree grew. So the first offering happens to be of Vikahkata. That he now 
offers into this (ukha fire). By that he gratifies him (Agni) (saving) “From distant 
settlements come thou, over to the near ones (O Agni!) thou protect the regions 
where I am”. As the text, so its meaning. 

14. He then offers an Audumharistick (stick from the Udumhara tree). The gods 
and Asuras, both of them the progeny of Prajapati, mutually quarrelled. Nowall the 
trees lined up with the Asuras but the Udumhara alone did not foresake the gods. 
The gods having conquerred Asuras, captured their trees. 

15. They (gods) said—“Alright, let us enrich this Udumhara with whatever 
energy and sap that these trees have. If they (the trees) leave us, they would foe worn 
out (bereft of all sap) just like a milked-out cow or like an ox that is exhausted by 
carrying (load)”. Accordingly they put into the Udumhara tree what energy and 
essence there was in those trees. It is on account of that energy, it ( Udwnbamtrte) 
equals all other trees in (the matter of) ripening (putting forth fruits). That is why 
it (Udumhara tree) is always moist and ever milky. So Udumhara is all that is food, 
because it is indeed all the trees. He thus gratifies (Agni) by all kinds of food and 
kindles him bv all trees. 

it 

16. “(O Agni!) come from the farthest place”—that is from that place which 
is farthest. w O Agni! with red horse, you come hither”—because the horse of Agni 
is indeed, red. “G Punsyal the much loved”—that is beneficial to cattle and liked fey 
many”—“O Agni! cross over all encounters”—that means ‘overcome all evils’. 

17. Then he offers the samidh not cut by an axe. That (Agni) is bom when he 
is built up. It is bom for (consuming) all food. This samidh not cut by axe is one food. 
By that he gratifies him. “Q Agn i! whatever kinds of wood we offer you, let all that 
(turn to) be ghee to thee and you enjoy it, O Agni the youngest!”—as the text so 
meaning. Whatever (wood) not cut by an axe, that he makes relishable to him. 
Having made it the food for him, he places it before him. 

18. He then offers the samidh lying on the ground (Adhah say® i.e. the twig that 
has fallen on its own). That (Agni) when being built up is born (as it were). He is 
bom for (consuming) all kinds of food. Now he is gratifying him with the twig lying 
on the ground. “O Agni! that (wood) which the red ant eats, which the white mat 
crawls over”—for, the red ant indeed eats it or the white ant crawls over it, “Let all 




TRANSLATION 


VIII.6.3.4 ] 


26? 


that become ghee for you; you relish it, O youngest P. As the text so the meaning. 
Thus whatever samidh is Adhah soyat, (lying on the ground) he makers it relishable 
to him, and having made it into food, offers it (to Agni). (Second Rrahrnana Ends) 


brAhmana III 

1. The samidhs to follow are of Paldsa tree. Paldsa is Brahman and by the 
Brahman, he thus kindles him (Agni). And as to why there are Paldsa {samidhs) is 
because the Paldsa tree is soma and that made with soma is, doubtless, the supreme 
offering. It is that he now offers into this (fire) and by that he gratifies him (Agni). 
(He offers then saying) “Every day meticulously carrying’'—it means collecting and 
bringing daily untiringly. “To him (Agni) like grass to the horse that is stay put”*—it 
means (food in the form of Paldsasamidh is broughtfor Agni) just as grass is brought 
for a horse in the stable. “We rejoicing in wealth, prosperity and good food”. *0 
Agni! do not injure your close neighbour (me)”. “O Agni! see to it that this 
(Yajamana), your obliging neighbour, is not harmed”—that is what It means. 

2. “While Agni is kindling on the earth’s navel”—this (AhavasSya) is indeed 
the navel of the earth where he is being kindled. “We call for great increase of wealth 
and prosperity”—it means, ‘we appeal for abundant wealth and prosperity’, 
“Rejoicing in draught”, for, he is indeed, inebriated with draught (food in the form 
of samidh) . “Of high praise”—for he is indeed highly praised. “Fit for oblations”— 
it means to be propitiated in Yajnas. “Agni the victorious one who can stand his 
ground in battles”—for, Agni is indeed, the conqueror and can withstand on¬ 
slaughts in battles. 

3. “Whatever advancing armies there are, whatever is attacking (us), and what 
thieves or robbers or criminals all of them, O Agni! I throw into your mouth. You 
eat them with your crushing tusks”. “What wav-layers there are among men and 
what gangsters and decoitsare there in the jungles, what miscreants are concealing 
in the hide-outs, I throw them into your jaws, eat them with your jaws m such a 
manner that nothing is left of them. O Bhagavan! (of six divine prowesses) lie who 
conspires against us and whosoever hates us—abuses us or wants to hurt us—every 
one of them, burn thou to ashes”. 

4. For, the gods made food of whosoever hated them and whomsoever they 
hated and offered to him (Agni) and with that they gratified him. It became food 
for him and he burnt up the evils of the gods. In die like manner, this Yajamana 
makes food of whosoever hates him and whomsoever he hates and offers to him 
(Agni) and by that he pleases him. That becomes food for him and he bums up the 
sins of the Yajamana. 





TRANSLATION 


VTII.6.4.1 ] 


269 


5. Eleven of these (samidhs) he offers in the case of n.on«-Ksatriyas and non¬ 
priests. Because, eleven is incomplete and imperfect (in their power) are those 
other than Ksatriyas and priests. In the case of Ksatriyas and Purohits, they are 
twelve (samidhs), because twelve is the whole (complete) for the Ksatriyas and 
Purohits are complete (they have the competence to protect everybody). 

6. In the case of Purohits, he offers them saying—“May my Brahman 
(Brahminhood) be sharpened (attain perfection)“May my efficacy and vitality be 
sharpened”; “May the Ksatra (the prowess of the warrior class), ever eager to 
conquer, whose priest I am, get sharpened (attain perfection) ”, Thereby he 
perfects the Brahman and the Ksatra. 

7- Then in the case of Ksatriya, he offers saying—“I have raised their arms, 
their glory and their might”. I shall vanquish the enemies by the (spiritual) power 
of Brahman and elevate his own men. Both these ( samidhs meant for Brahman and 
Ksatra) he may offer. For, this Agni is both Brahma and Ksatra. This very Agni, is 
kindled with both the samidhs, namely, those of Brahman and those of Ksatra. These 
samidhs, amount to thirteen. Thirteen months (constitute) a year and Agni is the 
year; as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, by so much he thus gratifies him. They 
(samidhs) are of span length, for, Visnu as an embryo was as long as the span; and 
this is food which is of his (Agni’s and Visnu’s) measure and he is pleased with the 
food of his own measure. That food which is of one’s own measure is conducive (to 
health) (because) that does not harm. That which is more (than proportion) is 
harmful and that which is less (than one’s measure) does not nourish. He offers 
(while) standing. The significance of this will be explained later. (He offers it) with 
Sud/wi chant. (These offerings) are the pouring of the semen and this (m kha) is Agni. 
Into that, if fuel sticks are put without the Svaha chant, they would of course, harm 
him (Agni). When they are offered with Svaha chant, they are food, for, Smka is 
food (Svaha imparts to it the quality of food). And hence, he does not injure him, 
when he offers samidhs with Svaha. (Third Brihmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA IV 

1, Having then stridden the Visnukramas and stood in attendance (before the 
fire) with PSfsa/trochantings, when the Sun has set, he first removes the ashes. For, 
just then (a while ago), he has gratified him (Agni) with mmidhs. The rejected part 
of that consumed food, which has settled down, is the ash. This (Agni) is separated 
from that (ash) and now that he is rid of the dirt, he infuses speech into him. Haring 
infused speech, he places a samidh on it and pleases him with food for the night, 
(This he does saying)—“Night after night carrying untiringly” The meaning of this 


TRANSLATION 


VXIL6.4.6 ] 


271 


has been told. Bv this, he seeks the same security and well-being for the night and 
whatsoever he offers (in the nature of fuel) afterwards during the night, he offers 
only by way of supplementing to the libations. 

2- And in the morning, when the Sun has risen, he in the first place removes 
the ashes. Forjust then (awhile ago), he has gratified him (Agni) with s&midhs. The 
rejected part of that consumed food which has settled down is the ash. This (Agni) 
as separated from that (ash) and now that he is rid of the dirt, he infuses speech into 
him. Hating infused speech he places a samidh on it and pleases him with food for 
the day. (This he does sating) “ Day and day carrying untiringly”. The meaning of 
this has been told. By this, he seeks the same security and well-being for the day. And 
whatsoever he offers in the nature of fuel) afterwards during the day, he offers only 
by way of supplementing to the libations. 

3. Verily,day and night passing on in succession make up a year and the year 
includes all (the days and nights). So here, he seeks security and’well-being for all 
the days. 

4. When they offer him (the Yajamana) the vrata milk (milk to he taken while 
fasting), he dips a samidhm that (milk) and places it (on the fire). But some say let 
him not dip it (into the milk) because that would amount to his offering a libation 
and such a libation would be irregular on the part of one who is initiated ( Msita). 

5. Let him certainly dip it, because this (Ahavaniya fire) is the divine body of 
the Yajamana and this (physical) body is the human one. By not dipping it (and 
taking the milk all for his human body) he would not be gratifying that divine body 
of his. By dipping, he satisfies his divine body. That which is (undipped) mmidhd oes 
not become a libation. Only when dipped in the vrata milk, it {mmdk) becomes 
food, for tire vrata milk is food. 

6. And having offered the samidh, he drinks the t/rate milk; for, that (fire) is his 
divine body and this (physical body) is his human body. Thus the gods come first 
and then the man . Therefore after offering the (dipped) samidh, he drinks the vrato 
milk. He places that Samidh saying—“O Lord of food!, give us food”—that is b O 
Lord of eatables! give us eatables’. “That which removes the pain (of hunger) and 
nourishing”—meaning that which wards off hunger and gives strength. “Encourage 
the one who gives us more and more”—(here) the Yajam&aa is the giver and it 
means prompt (the Yajamana to give more and more). “Give us energy, for the two- 
footed as well as the four-footed”—-thereby he seeks a blessing. Now regarding the 
expiation in case of the ukhd getting broken, about which it w m aid that it will be 
explained later. 



TRANSLATION 


273 


Vffl.6.4.12 ] 

7. If the ukha gets broken, let him transfer this {fire in. the mJbfel) to an 
unbroken new vessel with a wide mouth, that may be (available) there. The ukha 
which breaks is defective (infirm), and uninjured is this divinity (i.e. Agni). The 
perfect has to be in an uninjured (container) so he does (transfer). Into that (new 
pot), he first throws a broken piece (of the ukha) and thus the Agni is not separated 
from its own womb. He then takes the clay (left out) and having pounded both the 
(broken) ukha and the left out clay and makes a paste and produces (remakes) the 
ukha in the same way (as earlier) without uttering any chant, silently. Having baked 
it, he transfers (back) the fire into it. The expiation is only in the Form of action (re¬ 
doing). Then that potsherd (piece of the broken ukha which was originally 
transferred to the other pot) is replaced into the new ukha, he pounds the 
temporary pan (the pot used to store the fire during the remaking of the ukha) with 
the left out clay and making a paste of it, keeps it aside for expiation . 

8. And if the fire in the ukha is to get out (extinguished) it doubtless, goes to 
the Gdrhapatya, for it is from the Gdrhapatya it was taken. So it is taken (again) out 
of the Gdrhapatya eastward in the Ahavamya and having placed fuel on it, the ukha 
is deposited on it as before without uttering any chant, silently, whence the fire rises 
up to it. 

9. Then he performs two expiatory rites. For, it is for the attainment of all his 
wishes that he makes it (the fire). Now whichever of his wishes have been cut off by 
the fire getting extinguished, is thereby connected and restored. He performs the 
expiatory rites; the one for the sacrifice and the other for the fibre. First he does the 
one for the sacrifice and then the one for Agni, The reason for doing so has been 
told. 

10. Having taken some ghee on a samidk, he offers a libation sitting, saying, 
“Svahd to Visvakarman”. Then going near (the altar), he offers the s&msdk saying 
“Again, let the Adityas, Rudras and Vasus, kindle thee; again, let the Brahmanas, 
with sacrifices, re-kindle you”. “With ghee may you fatten your body and let the 
wishes of the Yajamana, (come) true” i.e. ‘you make your body grow with ghee and 
for (the attainment) of whatever wishes the Yajamana makes you up, may they all 
come true’. 

11. And if the Gdrhapatya fire is to go out (get extinguished) it certainly goes 
to the churning sticks only, for, it is from the chruning sticks it has been produced. 
Having (again) churned it out from the chruning sticks, and put fuel on it, he 
performs two expiatory rites. 

12. And on the Sutya day (during pressing soma), if the Akmmwm fire is to go 
out (get extinguished), doubtless, it goes to the Gdrhapatya, for it was taken from 
Gdrhapatya . Having collected it (again from Gdrhapatya) and having carried it 
straight eastwards and along the sdhkdsin ( the string that connects the entrance to 
the said upto the northern end of the sodas) and put fuel on It, he performs two 
expiatory rites. Whatever type of (Soma) sacrifice is (being performed) at that dine, 
the expiation prescribed for that sacrifice, he should perform. Same is (the 
procedure) for expiatory rite for the fire-altar. 



Vffl.6.4.13 ] TRANSLATION *>*?= 

13. And if the Agnidhnya fire were to go out (get extinguished) it is doubtless, 
to the Gdrhapatya, it^ goes; for, from the Gdrhapatya It has been taken. Having 
collected from the Gdrhapatya eastwards and along the sdhkdsin (upto the northern 
end of the sadas) and put fuel on it, he performs two expiatory rites. And if the 
Gdrhapatya is to go out, the procedure has been explained. (Fourth Brahmana 
Ends) 


(Chapter Six Eads) 



VIII.7.1.7 ] 


TRANSLATION 

Chapter Seven 


277 


brAhmana I 


_ r ^ le ^ a j amana , wearing a golden ornament (around his neck) carries the 
iikhu. This mkma or gold is reality (never perishing even in extreme heat) and 
because it is reality, it deserves to carry this (ukhd ). Because gods carried it by means 
of reality (truth) and so by means of reality he carries it now. 

2. The gold which is reality, is yonder Sun and he (Sue) isgolden. For, his light 
is gold and this light is immortality and gold is immortality (indestructible). This 
(gold) forms a circle, for, he (the Sun) is round. It (the gold chain) has twenty-one 
knobs and he (the Sun) is the twenty-first. He wears it (in such a way) so that the 
knobs (project) outwards. The rays are the knobs of the Sun and the rays indeed, 
are (projecting) outwards. 

3. And again why he wears a gold piece for carrying it (the ukhd) is because that 
gold is yonder Sun and man in his human form is unable to bear that fire. It is only 
in this divine form (solar form got by wearing gold) that he carries it (Agrii) of 
divine form. 

4. And again why he wears gold for carrying it (the ukha) is because the fire is 
the semen deposited here and this (the gold) is brilliance and vitality. Thereby he 
imparts brilliance and vitality into that semen. 

Atid again why he wears gold and carries it (ukhd} ? Once the gods became 
apprehensive lest the terrible Raksasas maynotdestroy here that fire of theirs. They 
made, by his side, yonder Sun to be his (Agni’s) protector. Now, indeed, yonder Sun 
is what is gold here. In like manner, he (Yajamana) makes that (gold necklace) by 
his side as protector. 

6. It gets packed in a black antelope’s skin, for, the black antelope *s skin is the 
sacrifice and sacrifice, indeed deserves to hold it. Because the gods carried it by 
means of sacrifice. So he now holds it with the sacrifice. (He carries him) with the 
hairs (inside), for the hairs are the metres and the metres deserve to hold him. 
Because the gods carried it by means of the meter. So he holds it by means of the 
hairs. 

7. He gets packed by the white and black hairs (of the skin), for, these two are 
the forms of Rksand Sdmans and the f&sand Sdmans deserve to hold him. Because 
the gods carried him by means of Rks and Sdmans, So he carries them by means of 
Rks and Sdmans. The hemp-made string of the gold piece is threefold and its 
significance has been told. 


TRANSLATION 


VIII.7.1.15 ] 


279 


8. He wears it (the gold piece) above the navel. This gold piece is yonder Sun. 
He (the Sun) is above the navel (Sun in the form of Jathara Agni is situated above 
the navel). 

9. And again, why above the navel is because below the navel is the semen (the 
source of semen); the procreating region. In order that the gold may impart bri¬ 
lliance and vitality to it (the procreating region) (it is now above the navel). 

10. And again, why above the navel is because the region above the navel is the 
purer part in an animal. The region below is in greater proximity to the foul¬ 
smelling part. So this (gold) is worn on that part which is purer in an animal. 

11. And again why above the navel is because that which is the immortal part 
of the vital air is upward-moving. It ( the immortal part) is moving up along the vital 
airs above the navel. That which is the mortal part of the vital air is downward and 
it moves below the navel. He thus makes him (the sacrificer) obtain the immortal 
part of the vital air (by wearing the gold above navel) and then carries it (the fire). 

12. He then carries him (fire) on a seat—the seat is doubtless, this earth. For, 
on her (earth) every thing here is settled (asanna) and she (the earth) indeed 
deserves to sustain him (Agni) because gods carried him by means of her (earth) 
and therefore he carries him on her (the earth i.e. seat}. 

13. It (the seat) is made of Udumbara wood, for, the Udumbara tree is vitality 
and life-sap and by means of vitality and life-sap, he thus carries him (Agni). 
Moreover, that Udumbara is (representing) all the trees here (on earth) and thus 
all the trees are engaged in sustaining that (fire). The gods carried him by means 
of all the trees. So he (Yajamana) carries him by means of all the trees. 

14. It (the seat) is a span-high, for Visnu, as an embryo was span-sire. This 
(seat) is a womb and the womb is made proportionate to the size of the embryo. It 
(the seat) is a cubit-broad, for a cubit is the length of the fore-arm and strength is 
exercised by the fore-arm. So it is proportionate to the strength. Strength, it is, that 
deserves to carry him (Agni), because it is by means of strength that gods carried 
him. So this one (Yajamana) carries him by means of strength. 

15. The feet (of the seat) make it four-cornered and the four comers are the 
entrances; for there are four directions. The directions, indeed, deserve to carry 
him (fire) because the gods, carried him by means of the directions (quarters). So 
he carries him by means of the quarters. It (the seat) is wound round by cords made 
of reed grass. The cords are threefold (three-threaded) and the significance of this 
has been told. It is smeared over with clay and this has also been explained. It is also 
to prevent over-heating. 



TRANSLATION 


VIIL7.1.I9 ] 


281 


16, Now he carries him (the fire on the stool) by means of a sling (loop made 
of coir). Agni is these worlds and the quarters are the sling. It is by means of these 
quarters that these worlds are enabled to remain steady. So they are enabled (to 
stand steady or sakniwanti) it is called sihya (sling). He thus carries him by the 
regions. So it (the sling) has six cords; for, there are also six regions. (Each) cord 
is threefold (made of winding three strings) and its significance has been told. It 
(the sling) is smeared with clay and this has also been explained. But it is also to 
prevent getting burnt (due to over-heating). For that sling, waters are the support 
(here the word pratisthd or support or foundation refers to the base of the sling 
which is matlike bottom formation made of cords). Because it is in the waters that 
these worlds are established. The Sun is the top (beam from which the sling is 
suspended) and these worlds are tied to (linked to) the Sun by means of these 
quarters—whoever thus knows this, is carrying this form (of Agni) by this form (of 
a sling made of waters, quarters and Sun). 

17, And again why carries him by means of a sling is because this fire Is the year. 
The seasons are the sling. It is by means of the seasons that the year is enabled 
(saknoti) to stand and hence it (the seasons) is called sikya (sling). So he carries it 
by means of the seasons. There are six cords corresponding to six seasons. For the 
year, the day and the night are the support (the matlike bottom of the sling); 
because the year is established on days and nights. The moon is the top (beam) 
wherefrom the sling (the year) is suspended. This year is suspended (or linked to 
the moon) by these seasons. He who knows thus, carries this form of Agni 
(ukhyagni) by this form (of the year i.e. sling). For him (who knows thus), the 
ukhyagni becomes one that is carried for a whole year (even if it is carried for a 
duration less than a year). But whoever does not know thus, for him, the ukhyagni 
becomes one that is (only) worshipped for a year (and not the one that is carried 
for a year). Thus it applies to the deities. 

18. Now (let us deal with) as applied to self (body). Agni, doubtless is the self. 
The vital airs are the sling. It is indeed by means of the vital airs that the body Is 
enabled { saknoti ) to sustain and hence it is sikya (sling). He thus carries him 
(ukhyagni) by means of vita! airs. It is having six cords for, there are six vital airs. 
Mind, doubtless is the support (matlike bottom of the sling); because this self is 
established in the mind. Food is the top (beam) from which the sling Le. the vital 
airs are suspended). This self is linked to the food by these vital aim. He who knows 
thus, is carrying this form of ukhyagni by means of this form (of a sling made of 
pranas, mind and food). 

19. Now he carried him (fire) by means of the ukha. The ukh& is these worlds 
and these worlds, indeed, deserve to carry him. The gods carried him by means of 
these worlds. So he carries him only by means of these worlds. 



TRANSLATION 


283 


VTII.7.2.2 ] 


20. And now why it is called ukhd — because at that time, the gods dug out 
(produced) these worlds by doing this act an d by this techn ique .Since they d ug out, 
it became ( utkha ), and therefore it is called ukhd in a mystic style. For, gods like to 
be concealed (in mystic appellations). 

21. Now (the word) uMahas two syllables; the Yajamana is twc»*footed and the 
Yajamana isAgni; as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, by so much, he thus carries 
him. That same ukhd is a vessel (kumbhi ), it is a cauldron {sihdIPi. This makes six 
syllables (two each of the three). Six seasons (make) a year and the year is Agni; as 
great as Agni is, as great as is his size, so great does this become. 

22. He then holds him (the ukhydgni) with two Indvas (pads made of grass to 
hold a hot plate). For, he (Agni), is yonder Sun and the two pads are the clay and 
the night. So he holds that Sun by means of the day and the night. So he (Agni) 



becomes one held by day and night. 

23. And again why he holds him with a pair of pads is because this Agni is 
yonder Sun and these worlds are the pair of pads, he thereby holds that Sun with 
these two worlds. So he becomes held by these two worlds. They form a circle 
because these two worlds are circular (halves). (These two pads) are made of triple 











is, whatever belongs to the day and the night, with that, they together, indeed, 
nourish him (Agni). “This gold shines between the sky and the earth"—this chant 
he utters while taking it (fire), For, heaven and earth are those two; the sky and the 
earth. He shines, moving between these two. That is why, while taking it (fire), he 
utters this chant— “The wealth-giving gods held Agni"-—with this chant, he? holds 
it by both hands and places it down. The vital airs are the gods who bestow wealth. 
They held him (Agni) then, in this fashion (chanting these mantras). So he 
(Yajamana) holds him, now with those very (chants). 

4. Then he puts round (his neck) the string of the sling (sikpa), saying, “The 
wise one puts on all forms”. The wise one, doubtless, is yonder Sun and the ding is 
the multiple forms. “He delivered good to the two-footed and the four- 
footed”—because (the Sun) while rising, bestows what is good for the two-footed 
and for the four-footed. “That prompter of all, and the adorable Savitr, illuminates 
the naka (heaven) ”■—the heaven is mka (free from misery') and that he illuminates 
even while rising. “He daily flashes forth behind the dawn"—for, the dawn shines 
forth in advance and enlightening her, he rises up. 

5. From that state, he (Yajamana) shapes him (Agni) with the Vtkrtt chants 
(chants that describe the transformed state of Agni as a bird) (hence) called Vikrtu. 
He thereby gives shape to that infused seed. By this, the seed (Agni) inside the 


womb (ukha) attains a shape. 

6. “Thou art the divine bird (supreme) with mighty wings"—-The supreme h 
vigour (i.e. by conceiving the fire as supreme), Agni is endowed with vigour. “The 
Trivrta stoma is thine head”—-by this, he makes the stews (hymn with nine 
called Trivrta (which is chanted first), his head, is thine eye”. He thus 

makes the Gayatri metre his eye. “The Brkad and the Rath@mtm& simmm are your 
pair of wings”—thereby he makes the twin Sdtmms called 


wi 

h) 


th 













TRANSLATION 


VHI.7.2.11 ] 


287 


Yajnayajniya sdman is your tail ”—he thus makes th e Yajnayajniya soman h is tai I. “The 
fires on the various altars are your hoofs’—because he (Agni) is established in this 
world through the various fires in their respective altars. “O divine bird of mighty 
wings! Go to the heaven, fly to the higher world”. Thus having shaped him as a 
divine bird with mighty wings, he asks him to go to the heaven, fly towards the higher 
world. 

7. He shapes him here (in the womb i.e. ukha) as one with wings and tail; for, 
what way the seed is shaped in the womb, suchlike, it is bom and because he shapes 
him here as (a bird) with wings and tail, therefore he is, hereafter bom as one with 
wings and tail. 

8. Now, some people, having addressed (shaped) him with these Vikrti chants 
(meant for making a bird of him), build up another (type of) fire-altar like the drona 
(of a trough shape) altar; kanka (wheel shaped) altar, pmuga (kite shaped) altar, 
ubhayatah prauga altar or samukyapunsa altar. Let him not do so. It is like killing a 
foetus with wings and tail. Therefore, he should build up only the eagle-altar 
(Suparnacilt). 

9. With this WArtz chant, he should hold him up from here eastwards. This Agni 
is yonder Sun. Thus this Sun is held high towards the east. Thereby that Sim is held 
upwards in the east. He holds him ( ukkyagni) up so as it is beyond the reach of the 
arms; because he (Sun) is beyond arm’s reach from here. Then he brings him 
down. Having brought down, he holds him above the navel. The significance of this 
has been told. 

10. He then takes the Visnu strides, for, the gods, having assumed the form of 
Visnu walked through these worlds. Since they strode in the form ofVisnu, these 
strides are called Visnukramas. In the like manner, this Yajam ana, having assumed 
the form of Visnu walked through these worlds. Now (he strides) standing with Ms 
face north-eastward. For, Prajapati, standing and facing north-east, created 
progeny by means of the Visnukramas, In the like manner, this Yajamana, standing 
and facing north-east, creates offsprings by striding the Wtm&fersjms. 

11. “Thou art Visnu’s stride” (says he); for, it is in the form ofVistm, he takes 
the strides. ‘The killer of enemies’—for he does here, destroy those efsentieal (to 
him). “Mount thou the Gayatri metre”—-for, he does mount the Gayatri metre. 
“Stride on the earth”—for, he is indeed traversing the terrestrial region. He 
stretches forward (his right) foot and strides. Thereby he lifts the fire upward 
because he is growing upward. 


TRANSLATION 


VII1.7.2.17 ] 


12. Thou art the stride of Visnu"—for, he strides, doubtless, after becoming 
Visnu. “O Slayer of the enemies!”—for, he is now killing those who hate {him}. 
Thou mount the Tristhubh metre”—for, he is mounting the Tristhubh metre. 
“Stride over the air”—for, he is indeed, traversing the mid region. He stretches 
forward his foot and strides. Thereby he lifts the fire upward because he is indeed, 
growing upwards. 

13. Thou art the stride of Visnu”—for, he strides, doubtless, after assuming 
the form of Visnu, “O slayer of the evil-minded!”—for he now does kill the evil- 
minded. Thou mount the Jagad metre”—for, he is mounting the Jagati metre. 
“Stride on the sky”. For, he is traversing the sky. He stretches forward his foot and 
strides. Thereby he raises the fire upward, because he is indeed growing upwards. 

14. Thou art the stride of Visnu”'—for he strides, doubtless after becoming 
Visnu, “O killer of those who harm!”—for, he is now killing those who harm {him}. 
Thou mount the Anustubh metre”—for, he is mounting die Anustubh metre. 
“Stride over the quarters”—he looks around all the quarters but does not stretch 
his foot (to take the stride); thinking, “Lest I devastate these worlds”. But (though 
not stretching the foot) he raises the fire upwards; thereby ascends completely 
(reaches the top). 

15. Then he holds him (fire) thus (towards north-east). At that time, the gods 
were wishing “May we have the form of parjanya (cloud)”. They with this body (of 
Agni) assumed the form of cloud. In the like manner, this Yajamana with this body 
(of ukkyagni) takes the form of the cloud. 

16. “Agni (as cloud) roared like the thundering sky”—for, the cloud (Agni) 
thundering, roars as it were. “Agni (the cloud) repeatedly licking and drenching 
the plants and creepers”—for, the cloud is indeed k$amd (tire scorcher of earth 
when not raining) and he is licking the plants and creepers, making them wet. “fust 
born and well-kindled, he brightens”—for, this fire (cloud) is Just bom, he 
brightens all these. “With his light he shines between the two worlds®—for, sky and 
earth are these two worlds and they are lighted by his rays. He holds it (the mfehm ]i 
up, so as to be beyond the reach of his arms, For the cloud is indeed, beyond arm’s 
reach. 

17. He then brings it down, for, (when it was raised up) whatever sap and 
whatever sustenance there is in this earth, has risen up with it to those worlds (the 
Dyauk and aerial regions). It is indeed Agni which is the sap and mtunaoe in this 
world (earth). If that were to be there (in the raised position) there won’t be any 
sap or sustenance (left over) in this earth. So by bringing it down, he restores sap 
and sustenance to this world. 



TRANSLATION 


VIII.7.3.2 3 

18. And again why he brings it down is because, he is indeed rising up to those 
worlds from this world (earth) he is as it were returning to those respectable worlds. 
But this earth is the abode and if he (Agni) were to (continue) there (other worlds). 
The Yajamana, would be removed from this world. But when he is lowered, he 
comes back to his abode and settles down in his own abode (thereby keeps the 
Yajamana here). 

19. And again why he brings it down—indeed rising up to those worlds from 
this world (earth ), he is as it were conquerring those respective worlds upwards (in 
one direction). Other (enemies) occupy those regions (left behind by him as he 
advances). But he who conquers both ways (while advancing and while returning) 
he holds his sway in those regions. So, when he (Agni) comes down, he conquers 
the worlds upward from here and those below from there. 

20. “O Agni who is returning! turn thee back to me—with energy, with rigour, 
with offspring, with prosperity, with gain, with wisdom, with wealth, with plenty”. 
OAgni Angiras! you return unto me with all these Thus chanting he lowers the lire 
in four stages; for, it was raised in four stages. Thus as many stages as it was raised 
upwards in so many stages it is lowered. Haring lowered it, he holds it above his 
navel; the significance of this has been told. (Second Brahmana Ends) 


BRAHMANA III 

1. He then addresses him (Agni)— for Agni is vital power. He thus lays vital 
power into his self— “Hither have brought thee’; for they do indeed bring him 
hither. ‘Thou hast entered*— he then lavs vital power into his self-— ‘Stand thou 
firm, never staggering!’ — he thus lays the vital power firmly into his self}— "May 
all the people long for thee! 1 — the people are food. Titus 'May all food long for 
thee!*— ‘May thy rule not fall away from thee!’ — rule means glory. Thus ‘May thy 
glory not fall away from thee!* 

2. He then unties the sling of the netting, and the ding of the gold plate — for 
the sling belongs to Vanina: he thus frees himself from Vanina s noose. He does 
so with averse to Vanina. He thus frees himself from Vanina s noose bv its own self, 
by its own deity. ‘Take off from us, O Vanina, the uppermost cord, down (take) the 
lowest, away the middle one!’ — as the text, so the meaning — and so, “O Adilya! 
may we be sinless in thy service for safety (Aditi) . Aditi is this earth, thus. Sinless 
may we belong to thee and to her (the earth)!’ 



VIII. 7 

3 

formei ac reuses mm upwards towards t 

If that had ended with that, he (the Sun) would 

itself. But in as much as he thus holds him up (in this way towards south-east) this 
(Sun) having gone (northwards) thus, comes back thus (towards the south). (He 
does so saying) “The great one hath stood up erect before the dawns” for before the 
dawn, the great one (Agni) indeed stands up erect. “Emerged from the gloom he 
hath come with light”—for emerged from the gloom, die dark night, he indeed 
COnies with lisrht. with the dav. “Well shaped with shinincr hrillianre”— fnr h#=\ 

b 


chant, for the jagati brings down these worlds from above. 

4. “The swan dwelling in the light”—the swan dwelling in the light indeed, is 
yonder Sun. “The vasu dwelling in the aerial region”—the wealth dwelling in the 
aerial region, is doubtless, the wind. “The priest seated on the altar”*—die priest 
seated on the altar is indeed Agni. “The guest” because he (Agni) is the guest of all 
beings. “One dwelling in this uneven abode”—that is, dwelling in a nigged place. 
“The one dwelling in man”—the one who dwells in man is indeed the vital air; and 
man means human beings. He who lives in human beings as vital air or Agni is 
meant here. “The one who dwells in space”—for he (Agni) is indeed seated in all 
spaces. “Seated in eternal law”— that is the one seated in truth. “The sphere 
dwelling”—for he is indeed found in all spheres. ‘The one bom of water; born by 
cow”—for he is indeed water-born and cow-bom. “ One bom of eternal truth” -— 
means one bom of truth. “One bom of the rocks'*—- for he is bom from the rock. 
“He is eternal truth (itself) ”— that is he is truth (itself), The one who is great ”*—m 
saying he deposits him (on the seat). He is indeed great and having made him thus 















chants. In the like manner, the Yajamana having produced the creatures by means 
ofVisnu strides, endows them with longevity of life by Vatsapra . 

2. Vatsapra is the hand (bestower) of longevity of life associated with life- 
breath . That is why in the case of a new-born, if one wishes “Let him live the full span 
of life”, he should be touched with chanting of Vatsapra and he thereby blesses him 
with longevity. By that the new-bom lives the full span of life. If one desires, let the 
new-born be vigorous, let him first utter the Vikrti chant (and then the Vatsapra) 
and that one accordingly becomes vigorous. 

3. “From the sky, Agni was first born and sky, doubltess, is the breath”. So from 
the breath indeed, Agni was first bom. “From us, for the second time, that knower 
of all Heines fAcmi was born') ”—for. he (Yaiamlna) produced him in the human 


way; it is his second (birth). “Third time from waters"—-because he was generated 
from waters for the third time. “He who is gracious to men and unhurt”—-Pntjapati 
is indeed gracious to human beings and Agni is unhurt. Kindling him, the wise one, 
generates him “For, he the wise one generates him* for kindling. 

4. “We know, O Agni, thy threefoldness in your three (forms) *—Agni, VSyu 


situated all around"—in as much as he (Agni) is here distributed, many ways, w 
know thy supreme name which is in secret”—for “The youngest”—that is that 
(supreme) name. “We know that supreme secret abode whence thouart come 1 "—the 
abode doubtless, is the (heavenly) waters, for from the waters he came first. 

5. Tn the sea, the one gracious to human (produced) then in the waters"—the 
one gracious to humans is Prajapati, thus in .the waters Prajipad (kindled) thee. 
“The one who watches the men kindled thee, O Agni! in the udder of the sky”—the 

* « • * * ,1. - 3 ,J8 JTx’L. a, t 

d 




? Visnu 
Vi ssi u 
bv the 
: Visnu 
Visnu 
h shall 
• Visnu 
►trkies, 
; by the 
tihs; bv 
it; thus 
sy even 













vm.7.4.15 I 

that world of heaven an 
the fire for one half, he 


12. He proceeds w 
distance, unyoking (int< 
end (after die diksa ), he 
Visnu strides are find t 












































TRANSLATION 


VIII.&1.17 ] 

IS. He places the samidh while chanting ‘‘This Agni of Bharata is famous . 
Bharata is Prajapati, who sustains this entire universe. He further says that “His great 
glory shines brightly as the Sun”. 11 means that the Agni is shining like the Sun. “He 
who vanquished Puru in the battle”. Puru is the name of an Asura-Raksasa whom 
Agni vanquished in the battle. He further chants “The divine guest who bestows 
benefits to us”, “This guest (Agni) being our benefactor shines forth”. This mantra 
containing the verb ‘ sthd ’ (in ‘ tasthdviti j ensures his stay at his home. 

14. This is the symbolic correspondence. With one mantra, he places the samidh 
on the Agni on the cart; with another he lifts the Agni (from the cart); with t he third, 
he conveys the Agni; with the fourth, he sprinkles water on the dais and with the fifth 
he places a samidh on the Agni placed on the dais-—thus it totals to live , correspond¬ 
ing to the five layers of the altar; five seasons for a year and year is Agni. As great 
as Agni is and as great as is its measure and to that extant lie is fashioned. 

15. Now about the taking down of the ashes (the ashes removed from the ukhd 
are collected in a basket made of some leaves mid thrown into the water in two 
instalments, mile the ashes float,a pinch of it is taken from the water and put on 
the ukhd). On that occasion, the gods threw out the ashes from the ukhd. They 
reasoned out thus “If we own this (ukhd) as it is and make it a part of our seif, we 
will become mortal corpses and will have our sins unwashed. If we cast it away, we 
will be throwing away a part of Agni. So what should we do with these ashes?” They 
said,“Meditate” which virtually meant seek a layer or altar and find out how we can 

do it. 

16. By meditation, they found out ‘Let us take the Agni down to the water and 

water being the foundation of this universe, by floating it on the waters we can 
reproduce what isleft over as Agni’s nature from this heap of ashes. That is hew they 
threw it into the water. In the same manner, this Yajamlna throws the ashes into the 
water (and by taking a pinch of it recovers what is left of Agni s nature). ^ 

17. mile throwing the ashes into the water, they diant "O Divine Waters! 
receive these ashes and put them in a soft and fragrant place” Being the remnant, 
the ashes are spent out. With reference to that he says “Reach it in the most fragrant 
place”. Further, he says “O Wives! prostrate to them (ashes) *. Why he.says this is 
that water is the wife because it is from the water that all things get produced. O 
Good Wives!” he says—meaning waters are the wives of Agni Tire next mmtm says, 
“Bear this as a mother would for her offspring” meaning ‘just as a mother would 
keep her child in her lap, you carry him (Agni) in your bosom’. *Q Agm! waters 
your womb”. “Alongwith the herbs, you get attached to the waters*, “tou will be 
bom again in the womb* which means ’the ashes will be born again as Agni out of 



the womb of waters’. The mantra further justifies this. “Waters proside the womb 
for the herbs and for the flora. Waters are the womb of the entire living creatures. 
You (Agni) are in the womb of waters”. In this way, it is established that the Agni is 
the child of the entire universe. 

18. With the three mantras (quoted above), he throws the ashes into the water. 
Agni is threefold and as great as Agni is, as great as is his measure, by so much he 


tie tnen picks up some oi me asnes irom me waters ana mereoy recovers 
whatever there is of Agni’s nature in that heap of ashes. He collects the ashes with 
his ring finger. It is this finger used to prepare the medicines. By this he treats the 
A 

and the earth as ashes, O Agni!” By his ashes, he is indeed settled in the womb viz. 
the waters and the earth. Further he says, “Having united with the mothers you are 


waters and the earth, Q Agni! vou are safe in her (the earth or the ukka) most cosy 


again from sins. With wealth you come back O Agni! overflowing with prosperity to 
feed every-one”. He prays to Agni in this maimer to return. 

20, He takes (some pinches of the ash) chanting four mantras and thereby 











VIII.8.2.3 

the Agni, a 
you. I revere your body so that you may sh 
rich. You may keep away my enemies. H 
prosperity, most wealthy and intelligent 


e on me as you are very 


enemies. 


and one m Fnstubh metre, the significance of this has been explained. 

23. Thus, there are (4 + 2 + 3) nine mantras corresponding to nine regions and 
Agni is regions. There are nine vital airs {frranas) and Agni is pranas. As gr eat as Agni 
is, as great as is his measure so much this becomes. 


■e 














TRANSLATION 


VIII.8.2. II ] 


311 


4. He sweeps with a palma branch. Palma tree, being Brahman, he vacates all 
those already settled, with Brahman and the prayer he mutters is also Brahman. 
(After sweeping) he throws that (branch) towards the north. 

5. He then scatters saline earth (over the site). Garhapatya represents this world 
and salt stands for cattle. Bestowing cattle (salt) on this earth he endows the world 
with cattle. 

6. Again, why he scatters salt is because of this— Prajapati created living beings 
and along with them different kinds of sloughs. They did not look similar. He 
desired that they should be similar. He then made them to be same. He who offers 
(oblations) thinks “May I be born with the same kind of foetal cover as the gods”. 
While scattering the saline sand on the site of the dti he becomes of equal slough 
of the gods. 

7. He chants “Thou art similar” because it is thus they (cattle) became similar. 
He further chants ‘Abu are the fulfilment of desires". Salt is cattle and the fulfilment 
of desires means cattle. Further he says “Let your fulfilment of desires be on me~ 
meaning let your cattle be for me. In this way, he covers the entire Garhapatya 
(which is of a round shape) because the Garhapatya altar is the womb and the saline 
clay is the slough (the membrane enveloping the foetus). In effect, he covers the 
entire womb with slough. 

8. Over that, he scatters sand as protection for the saline clay (slough) from 
being scorched. This sand is the ash of Agni Vauvanam and it is this Agni which is 
about to kindle. The sand being Agni, does not scorch his own self. 

9. Why he scatters the sand - sand is the seed of Agni Vaimanam whom he wants 
to build up here and nothing is produced without the seed. He scatters the sand, 
thinking of generating Agni from its own seed, 

10. While scattering he says, “You are the ashes of Agni; you are the soil of Agni". 
The ashes are useless, whereas the soil is not useless. Thus, he makes it useful. By this 
he covers the entire Garhapatya . Garhapatya is the womb and the sand is the semen. 
Thus he fills the whole womb with the seed. 

11. He then encloses it with stones around as boundary. The enclosing stones 
are the womb and he thus encloses the seed cast in the womb and ensures its right 
placement. 









TRANSLATION 


VIIL8.2.I8 J 


313 


12. VVhy he places the enclosure stones? The Garhapatya altar is this world and 
the enclosing stones are the waters. He virtually surrounds the world with water as 
the ocean surrounds the earth on all the sides. Hence the ocean flows round the 
world. He places the stones by the right (clockwise) towards the south. The ocean 
flows round the world from the east, southwards in the form of a dug-out moat and 
hence the ocean forms a ring of moat around the earth. 

13. Be well- arranged” so saying he arranges the stones. Further he savs “You 
he the boundary” because he places them around from all the four sides. "You get 
arranged facing upwards” because he places them in vertical formation. That is why 
the ocean always rises upwards. If he had placed them horizontally, the sea waters 
would have inundated the earth and they will not have allowed this barrier to 
remain strong because waters are not stable. For the same reason he does not recite 
the sudadoha mantra. 

14. The enclosing stones are the bones and the sudadahai s the life breath. There 
is no life breath in the bones. He chants the same mantra for placing each of the 
bricks because one and the same form are the waters. The stones are many and the 
same waters take many forms. 

15. The covering stones form the womb. The saline earth is the amnion and the 
sand is the semen. The enclosing stones form the womb outside and the saline 
earth, the amnion is inside. In turn the saline earth covers the seed namely the sand. 
Whatever is bom is from these three. It is from these he causes the Agni to be bom. 

16. Thereafter, he builds the hearth and thereby allows the infused semen to 
take shape in the womb. 

17. He places four bricks on the eastern side, two behind from south to north 
and two in front. The four bricks facing east are the body. Why there should be 
four? Because this body of ours consists of four parts. The two at the back represents 
the thighs and the two in the front are the arms. In this body form, there is also the 
head. 

18. Here, he Fashions Agni with v»ings and tail. As the seed is fashioned in the 
womb, the offspring bom will be so. The Agni generated will have wings and tail. 



TRANSLATION 


VUI.8.2.24 ] TRANSITION 335 

19. Though furnished with wings and tail, we do not see him as such. One 
cannot see the child in the womb in its proper shape. In the same way, we see him 
as having wings and tail after being produced just as we see the full shape of the child 


after its birth. 


20* He places Four bricks at the first instance because that which is produced 


(he became)' like a cavalary horse”, because the waters are of thousandfold 
strength. “You having gained, become exalted and you are aware of all the living 
beings.” The Agni being built is a knower of all living beings. 

22. “O Agni! that which forms your splendour in the skies”—of course, the Sun 
is .the Agni’s splendour in the skies. ‘On earth’ that, splendour on earth is this fire 


that is both m the plants and in the waters. “That splendour thou has spread over 
the wide air” — by this he means the wind. “Brilliant is that light, that surges forth 


heavens”. This refers to the wide expanse of water on the skies. The Agni converts 
these waters into vapour and brings down to him “You go upto the vast expanse of 
water of the heavens”. This refers to the waters of the atmosphere and he recalls 
them in the form of vapours. “These beckon the pure Devas and hence inspire 


waters 


are the 


with hi 













TRANSLATION 


317 


VTIL8.2.28 ] 

25. He then goes behind and sits at the northern side Facing the south. Out of 
those two, he takes the one that is on his right and places it before him with the 
mantra “O Agni! portent nourishment,, which is ida the producer of many desires 
connected with cows”. It means the food which nourishes the cows and by this he 
blesses it with the blessings associated with cows. “You grant unto him who invokes 
you, all his desires”. He who invokes is the Yajamana here and for him the blessings 
are invoked. “May there be a son to us, the perpetuator of the race”. He seeks an 
offspring and invokes Agni’s blessings by saying “O Agni! let that be your boon to 
us . 

26. Then he takes the northern one and chants “This is your womb from which 
you are bom and shines forth”. It means this is the eternal source of Agni from 
where he emanates and shines forth. Further he says, “O Agni! you realise this and 
grow and also make our wealth grow”. The meaning of the mantra is dear. These 
two are the arms of Agni. He puts them on separately and installs them separately. 
He also chants the sudadoha mantras separately because these are the two separate 
arms represented by the two bricks. He places them in the front because the arms 
are in front of the body. These two are connected to the central bricks at their ends 
just as the two arms are connected to the body (at the shoulders). Correspondingly 
these two touch the main body at their ends. 

27. Subsequently, going round in the same way, he sits on the southern side 
facing north and places the first of the two bricks in front and chants. “O Agni! you 
are built. Along with that deity you be seated steady like Angiras". These two are 
Agni’s arms. He places them separately; arranges them separately and chants the 
sudadoha individually. These are the two separate arms and always the arms are in 
pair. They are placed in front since the arms are in the front and connects them at 
the tips just as the arms are connected to the body. He places them from north to 
south and arranges the thighs from south to north from the right side to the left. 
This is the order with the gods. 

28. He places eight bricks (on the sides of the hearth) corresponding to eight 
syllables of Gayatri and Agni, Gayatra. As great as Agni is, as great as is his measure, 
so great he builds him up. Five times he places the bricks correiponding to five 
layers of the altar and five seasons of a year, Agni is the year. As great as Agni is, m 
great as is his measure, so great he builds him up. Eight bricks he settles five times 
and that are thirteen, there are thirteen month in a year, thirteen are the earthen 
layers in the fire altar. As great as Agni is, as great as is his measure, so great it 
becomes. 



TRANSLATION 


VIII.8.2.33 ] TRANSLATION gjg 

29. He then places one space filler and the significance of this will be mentioned 
later. There are three in the front corresponding to threefold Agni. As great as Agni 
is, as great as is his measure, so great he builds him up. Ten more he places and the 
purpose of this will be explained later. Two in front, then ten and then one— thus 
the altar is built. They come to thirteen, the significance of which has already been 
explained. Together it comes to tweny-one. Twelve months, five seasons, three are 
these worlds and the Sun is the twenty- first. It is that Sun whom he establishes on 
this fire-altar. Further, there are twenty-one enclosing stones symbolising the twelve 
months, five seasons, these three worlds and that Agni from above (Sun) as the 
twenty-first. As much as he puts on those bricks in this way, he establishes those two 
(the Sun and the fire) in each other. Thus those two are established in each other 


by making each of them the twenty-first. Thus both of them are here as the 
Akavamya and the Gdrhapatya. 

30. He then spreads a layer of earth; the reason for this will be mentioned later. 
He collects this earth from the edge of the catvalapit. The catvala is the same as Agni 
and so this way it amounts to Agni’s nature, being bestowed on Agni. The 
Gdrdhapatya altar should be equal to the dimension of the fire pan. The 
justification for this has been explained earlier. The Gdrhapatya hearth measures 
a fathom in diameter and a human body is one fathom high and man is Prajapati 
who in turn is Agni. He thus makes the womb equal in size to Agni’s body. It is 
circular, since the womb is circular. Moreover, Gdrhapatya is this terrestrial world 
which doubtless is circular. 


31. He then places fire in both ( Gdrhapatya and Ahavamya } simultaneously and 
brings about coordination. He chants, ‘You two get united and get on together, 
loving, radiant, well disposed and be partakers of food and drink together. I have 
brought your minds together; together your rites and together your thoughts, O 
Agni Purisya of same mind I ” He thus pacifies them for mutual amity so that they shall 
not injure each other. 

32. With four mantras he brings them together. Because the cattle are four 
footed, he brings about concord be tween the cattle and the fire. Cattle being food, 
it amounts to bringing together the food and fire. Let him not look at that ttkhm 
while it is empty. ‘I must not look at the empty one’ so be should think. Were he to 
look at this empty pan, it would devour him. 

33. He then throws sand into it, for, sUmtds are the semen of Agni VmitMmm . 
In effect he sprinkles Agni Vaisvdnara in his seed form. Ibis sifetashould come up 
to the brim of the ukhxt, the significance of this has been explained. 



TRANSLATION 


VIII .8.3.5 ] 


321 


34. Then he leaves it free so that it does not get burnt. That which is yoked will 
get charred if not unyoked. When yoked, the ukkd bore this Agni within it as seed 
and Him it has now brought forth. The ukhais the female and when she delivers the 
first seed, it conceives a second time. He unlooses it by chanting the mantra “Even 
as a mother her son, so has the earth borne Agni Puiisya; i.e. Agni favourable to 
cattle - she the ukkd in her own womb”. It means the ukkd has conceived Agni in 
her own womb. “May Prajapati the creator of all, release here with the approval of 
all—gods and the seasons”. Thus Prajapati releases it in concert with the Vihmdevas. 
all t$us. He releases it towards the north of the fire at a distance of an ambit. (The 
explanation for this is already given). 

35. He then pours milk into it. Having first received the semen, it now receives 
milk; for, the ukkd is afemale. Afemale secretes milk when she is impregnated. The 
sand is below and the milk above which means the seed is below (first) and then the 
milk (secretes). He pours it into the middle so that thereon the human head can 
be placed on it. (Second Brahmana ends) 


BRAHMANA III 

1. Prajapati created the creatures and having gone all out in creation, he 
became exhausted. In his exhaustion, the vital air went out from him and so too his 
energy. By the departure of vital air and energy, he fell down. As he fell down, food 
oozed out; it emanted from his eye on which he lay. Consequently there was no 
stability for anything at that stage. 

2. Then the Gods conversed “Indeed there is no o ther foundation than him and 
let us restore him, our father Prajapati, so that he can afford stability”, 

3. They told Agni “There is no scope for stability and so you will restore our 
father, Prajapati. He shall be our foundation”. Agni said “What will I gain by 
that ?” 

4. They said “Prajapati is food. You be our mouth, and we will eat that food. Thus 
we will have the food through you as our mouth”. Agni agreed. That is why the Gods 
eat through the mouth in the form of Agni. 

5. Now the vital air which wen t out from die middle of the body is no other than 
the vdyu which blows yonder. The energy which oozed out of him is the Adilya and 
the food which flowed from him is all the food (produced during the year). 



up. That same vital air which escaped from within him came back to nun a: 
deposited it into him. The energy which had gone out of him was also rest 
him; and the food which had flown from him got replaced into him. Thus in 
time, they replenished him completely and lifted him upto an upright position. By 
this raising him upright, he is (encompassing) these worlds. 

7. This terrestrial world is his foundation. The fire that is in this world is 
Prajapati s downward vital air and the ether is his "body and the wind which is there 
up in the air is the vital air (prana) in his body. The- skv is his head and die Sun and 


oozed out) that is the Moon and it is slightly closed since food flowed out. 

8. Now r that the same foundation which the Gods thus revived is even tod 
foundation (for the universe) and will remain so even hereafter. 

9. The Prajapati who got exhausted is this same Agni (altar) which is now 

ore being heated, isj 

air, energy ana rood navine cone out of him 


'ore w 


fire rises over her, then that same vital air which went out comes back and he 
restores it unto her. When he removes the gold piece and puts it into the ukkd, he 
restores the energy that had gone out. When he places the samidhs (fueb&ticks) he 

e foo 













TRANSLATION 


VIH.8.3.16 ] 


12. This terrestrial world is Prajapati’s Garhapatya al tar and the fire that is in this 
world is the Garhapatydgni. What space is there between the Ahavaniya and the 
Garhapatya is the ether. The wind in the ether is for him the fire on the Agmdhnya 
The sky is his Ahavaniya and the Agni in the Ahavaniya are those two, the Sun and 
the moon. This then is his (Agni’s) full self. 

13. The Ahavanlyais his head and the Agni which is on the Ahavaniya is the vital 
air of his head. Now, why this Ahavaniya has wings and tails ? It is because the vital 
air of the head has wings and tail. The eye is its head, the right ear its right wing, 
the left ear its left wing, the vital air its central body, and the voice is die tail and the 
foundation in as much as the vital airs subsist by eating food with the vocal organ, 
it is the tail or foundation. That face which is the Ahavaniya and Garhapatya is the 
trunk (of the body) and the fire on the AgnUhnya is to him that vital air inside the 
body. The Garhapatya altar is its foundation and the fire thereon is the downward 
vital air. 

14. Now there are some who build it ( Garhapatya) in three layers, saying ‘there 
are three downward vital airs.’ It should not he done so. Those? who do so are doing 
in excess. One amounting to twenty-one, one amounting to Anustubh and one 
amounting to Brhatl but this altar is one single en tity - a womb. This downward vital 
air is that Prajapati, i.e. the delivering energy. It delivers urine, faeces and also the 
foetus. 

15. Now the total—twenty-one bricks, nine Yajus- that makes thirty. The 
placing of these bricks ( sadana ) and the sudadaha mantra when added become 
thirty-two. Anustubh also contains thirty-two letters. Therefore, even this altar with 
twenty-one bricks is equivalent to Anustubh. The Prnrimt, the bricks placed on the 
sides are twenty-one. The Yajus-mantra is the twenty-second which is used for 
cleaning the altar. Then comes iisa and its mantra, the sand and its Yajus, the puma 
(filling soil) and its mantra, with four mantras he pours the two fires together; with 
a fifth one he unites the ukha and then releases this nirrti with three— total thirty- 
two and the Anustubh consists of thirty-two syllables so then this is an Anustubh 
(despite the twenty-one it is equivalent to Anustubh with thirty-two syllables). These 
two Yajus are also Anustubh because Anustubh is speech. Thus that twofold form 
of speech : there is the divine and the human, loud and low, i.e, those two. 

16. Thus this Garhapatya altar that is built up is made up of three Anttftubhs. 
Why this altar is made of three Anustubhs is because they correspond to these three 
worlds. All the three come in this. Out of the first two Anustubhs, the first one with 
twenty-two syllables is taken to the Ahavamya. 'Phis Ahavaniya is that sky, i.e. that 
head of Prajapati. Then one of the two Anustubhs remains here (on the earth) to 



TRANSLATION 


Mil. 8.3.19] 


327 


be this Gdrhapatya which is the foundation of this terrestrial world. Then the two 
i ff/MSwhich is between the Ahavantyaand the Garhapatyafonn the aerial world, that 
body of Prajapati and because there are two of them making up one Amistwbh, that 
space and hearth between the Ahavaniyaand Gdrhapatya {viz. Agrmlhma hearth) is 
smaller. Therefore, the aerial world is the smallest of the three. 

17. This Anustubh in the form of speech is of three kinds. This Agni becomes 
the prana and goes along with the speech. The fire which is on the Akavamya altar 
is the prana breathing out and is the same as the yonder Sun. The fire which is on 
the Agiiidhnya is the breath that pervades ( vyana) and is the same as the wind that 
blows yonder. The fire which is on the Gdrhapatya is the in-breathing (udana) and 
is in the form of fire in this world. He who knows this secret achieves for himself the 
full speech, full vital air and full self. 

18. Then this Brhati—there are two Yajus mantras consisting of thirty-two 
syllables. That becomes thirty-two. The two Yajus mantras added to it becomes thirtv- 
four. Agni the thirty - fifth. One syllable less or more does not alter the metre; 
neither by one nor by two. Moreover that Agni consists of two syllables and that 
makes thirty-six, Brhati consists of thirty-six syllables and it is this Brhati that the 
Akavamya altar amounts to. For, whatever the nature of the seed which is infused 
into the womb, such like offspring is bom therefrom. Thus in that he makes up that 
Brhati metre, out of this Gdrhapatya and there by the Akavamya fire-altar amounts 
to the Brhati. 

19. In this context, they say, “As the Gdrhapatya is this terrestrial world; the 
Dhisnyd hearth, the aerial world and the Akavamya, the sky, the aerial world is not 
separated from earth. So, why should he construct the Ahmxmya after Gdrhapatya 
and then come to the middle one i.e. the aerial world of Dhimy&s} Well, at first these 
two worlds, heaven and earth were together. When they parted, the space which was 
between, i.e. antara, became antariksa because this iksawmin the antaramd hence 
called antariksa . There is another reason for building the Gdrhepatyamd Akavamya 
first because this world and the sky were created first and in between, the Dki$ny£s 
are built so that there is no void or gap between these two and this pious act has a 
continuity. In this way, after constructing the two hearths the inter-space is also 
built. (Third Brahmana ends) 


(Chapter Eight ends ) 



HASTIGHATA KANDA 

Chapter One 


BRAHMANA I 


1. They now bring the nirrtistakas because the gods after building 
the Garhapatya -altar ascend it. This world (earth) is Garhapatya. This 
very world they ascended after building it up. They saw only darkness 
and nothing could be seen. 

2. They said (to themselves) “Think as to how we may dispel this 
darkness, i.e. evil.” They decided to meditate, whereby they meant to 
build an altar. In short, they desired ‘we shall dispel this darkness which 
is sin.’ 


3. While contemplating, they discovered these istakas called nirrti 
bricks; they piled them up and they dispelled that sinful darkness. Nirrti 
is indeed sin and by these bricks they destroyed the sin ( nirrti) and 
hence they are known as nairrtyah. 

4. Exactly what the gods did is being done now. This is indeed 
that darkness which was dispelled by the gods. So he does (thinking) 
‘What the gods did, let me do.’ Therefore, what is sin and nirrti, is 
destroyed by these bricks. As the sinful nirrti is destroyed by them, they 
are called nairrtyah. 

5. And again why they bring the nirrti bricks is this — where the 
gods restored the emaciated Prajapati, they put him as seed into the 
ukha which served as the womb. Indeed ukha is the womb and in the 
course of the year they prepared the foundation; that is, they made this 
terrestrial world the same as the Garhapatya-<i\\.<iT and generated him 
there. That which was dirt, the placenta, the mucus and the outer 
membrane (of the embryo), these they removed by these bricks. All 
these (unwanted residual matter surrounding the embryo) stand for 
nirrti, who was destroyed and hence these bricks are those of nirrti. 



IX. 1.1.9] 


TRANSLATION 


5 


6. In the same manner, this Yajamana pours himself in the form 
of a seed into the womb namely the ukha. Womb indeed is ukha, and in 
that, over a period of one year, he sets up a firm ground for him in the 
form of this world which is Garhapatya - fire and from that he makes 
himself be born. In the process, whatever is dirt, placenta and outer 
membrane, all these he destroys by these bricks and since they enable 
him to dispel nirrti they are called nirrtistakas. 

7. They (the nirrti bricks) measure a square foot ( pada) and 
symbolically he crushes nirrti under the foot {pada). Those bricks have 
no marking. That which is non-existing will have no marking. The 
sinful nirrti is made non-existent (hence no marking). These bricks are 
baked by husks because husks belong to nirrti. So, that action meant for 
nirrti is done by those (husks) which belong to nirrti. They are baked till 
they become black because that darkness is black and hence the nirrti 
bricks are black in colour. With those bricks, they proceed to this 
(south-western) direction because that is the quarter of nirrti. Thereby 
nirrti is installed in his own place. There again a spot with a natural 
cavity or cleft is to be chosen or it should be a spot where the earth has 
split or where the plants do not grow. Such a spot is possessed by nirrti 

and so nirrti is established in his own place. He places them sitting 
himself away. 

8. He says, “Seek one who does not press soma and who does not 
perform sacrifice.” He who does not press soma nor offers oblation, 
nirrti catches hold of him. He further says “You take the path of the 
thief or of the cheat.” It means, nirrti the sin should hide himself like a 
thief or a cheat.“ Seek thou someone else; that is your way.” It means 
‘You seek one who does not know thus (as sin to be despised)’. Again 
he says “O Goddess Nirrti! let this salutation be to you.” Thus he dispels 
him by means of namaskara. 

9. I bow to you; nirrti the sharp-edged” and hence he bows to it. 
Further he says“ Loosen this strangling iron-fetter.” Because nirrti 
binds whomsoever he wants to bind, with an iron-fetter. He again says, 
“Thou who have one mind with Yama and Yami”. Yama is, of course 
Agni and Yarn! is the earth and by these two, all the universe is kept 
under check. United with them in your mind, raise him (Yajamana) 
upto the highest firmament. Heaven indeed is the highest firmament 
and so saying he means that Yajamana should be elevated to the 
heavens. 



IX.1.1.13] 


TRANSLATION 


7 


10. “Thee, awful one, into whose mouth I offerNirrti is indeed 
awful and into her mouth, he now offers by performing this sacred rite. 
“For the untying of those bonds” — that is (with reference to) the 
bonds by which he is bound. “ Thou whom people rejoice to call ‘the 
earth’ she is indeed this earth and whoever exists, exists thereon. But I 
know thee, nirrti present everywhere”. That is, I know you as nirrti in 
every respect. Now nirrti is this earth and this earth causes the decay of 
that which is condemned. By saying thus it amounts to stating, “You are 
so and so, the son of so and so; you are familiar to me and hence do not 
harm me.” Because one whose familiarity is established does not 
injure the other. 

11. He does not touch the bricks. Nirrti being sin, he avoids sin by 
not touching them. Nor he arranges them, since arranging means 
establishing and he would not like to establish sin. Nor he chants the 
Sudadohasa verses. Because Sudadoha are vital airs and does not want to 
infuse vital airs into sin and join them together. 

12. Some others lay them (bricks) from the farther end towards 
him. Nirrti being sin they do not want to follow the way of sin. But it 
should not be done so. They have to be arranged down in the direction 
away from him. Then only the evil is driven away from him. 

13. They arrange three bricks, since Agni is threefold and as great 
as Agni is, as great as is his size, by so much he thus drives away the sin. 
Then he places the seat, the sling, the thread tied with a gold piece and 
the pair of holding pads ( indve pads, made of grass to hold hot vessels), 
on the farther sides of the bricks . The thread is indeed the noose of 
nirrti and he is freed from the noose of nirrti. (He says) “This noose, 
which never breaks, goddess Nirrti has tied on your neck”. Because for 
him who does not know thus, the noose is indeed unbreakable. (Again 
he says)- “I will loosen that noose of yours from the middle of your life 
span ( ayu )”- here ayu means Agni and his middle portion is the 
Garhapatya which has been built. The Ahavaniya has not yet been set 
up. Therefore whether it is a young man who builds the altar or an old 
man, he only says, “As from the middle of the ayu'. (Further he says) 
“Now being prompted, eat this pitu"- pitu means food and he only says, 
“Being set free, eat thou this food”. This rite he performs with a Tristubh 
metre which is indeed a thunderbolt. It amounts to dispelling the sinful 
nirrti with a thunderbolt. 



IX. 1.2.1] 


TRANSLATION 


9 


14. There are three bricks; the seat, the sling, the thread with a 
gold piece and two pads altogether eight in number, and Gayatii has 
eight syllables. Agni belongs to Gayatrl, as great as Agni is; as great as is 
his size, by so much he thus repels the sin. 

15. He pours water from ajar in between (the Yajamana and the 
nirrti bricks). Waters are thunderbolt and it is with thunderbolt he 
demolishes the sinful nirrti. (He says) “ I bow to that prosperous one 
which did this.” So saying, he stands up. Once upon a time gods 
performed this rite for prosperity and they did salute for the sake of 
prosperity. (Here too) the Yajamana does this rite for prosperity and he 
bows for prosperity. He then proceeds without turning back, because 
he gets rid of that sinful nirrti, so that he no more has to see him. 

16. Having returned, he worships the fire. Earlier when the altar 
was half ready, he went away to that direction (of Nirrti); now this was 
improper. For that he now atones, lest it should harm him. 

17. He worships Agni for another reason also —Garhapatya is this 
terrestrial world and it is the firm foundation. Now when he goes into 
that direction (of Nirrti), he goes where there is no path (which means 
he digressed from the path and went astray). Now when he stands by 
the fire, he comes back to this firm foundation of the earth and gets 
himself established on the earth. 

18. (He worships by saying) “Thou art the storehouse and procurer 
of wealth.” This earth is indeed the storehouse and procurer of wealth. 
(He further says)“ You see all the forms (living beings) with compassion”, 
which means he casts his benevolent look on all beings. (He again 
says) “He of true valour like Savita and Indra took his position on the 
challenger's roads.” This text is self-explanatory. (First Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMAN AII 

1. Then he prepares the prayaniya ( inaugural sacrifice). He 
releases his speech by haviskrt and having broken silence, he throws 
away the fistful of grass called stambayajus. Thereafter he draws the 
enclosing line to the east and says “Throw it (the spade) thrice.” The 
Agnldhra accordingly throws the sphya (the spade) three times. 



IX.1.2.5] 


TRANSLATION 


11 


2. Having returned, he proceeds with the prayaniya and he yokes 
the plough. Gods while fastening the plough, first enriched it with food. 
In similar manner, this Yajamana, fastening the plough, enriches it 
with anna. Sira (plough) itself means sa + ira i.e. one with anna so he 
endows it with anna. The plough is made of udumbarawood. L/dumbara 
stands for essence or energy. It reinforces it with energy. The string of 
the plough is made of munja grass and it is wound three times. The 
significance of this has already been told. 

3. He then stands behind the right side hip of Agni and addresses 
the plough which is being yoked in front of the northern shoulder of 
Agni, thus -- “The wise men assemble the plough and stretch across 
the yokes.” Those who are wise are learned. They assemble the plough 
and fix the yokes accross. (He says) “The skilful men perform sacrifice 
for gods.” Sumna is sacrifice and it means that those who perform 
sacrifice to the gods are dhiras (skilful or wise) and yokes (saying) 
“Connect the plough and stretch across the yokes.” They connect the 
plough and do stretch across the yokes. (Again he says) “Implant the 
seed into the womb which is made ready”— this womb, namely furrow, 
is indeed prepared for the seed. Sowing seed in an unploughed land 
will amount to depositing the semen at a place other than the womb. 
(He says) “With these words of praise of ours, let there be a good 
harvest”- word means speech and srusti means crop. (He says)“ Let 
the ripe crop be within the reach of the sickle.” When the crop gets 
ripe, people approach it with sickle (for harvesting). He yokes the 
plough with mantras; one in Gayatri and the other in Tristubh and 
their significance has already been told. 

4. He first yokes the right side ox and then the left side one. This 
is the order in the case of divine beings. In human practice it is the 
other way. It is a team of six oxen or of twelve or of twenty-four; the 
purpose is to obtain a year (the six seasons, twelve months or twenty- 
four half months). 

5. He then ploughs . Ploughing means food. When the gods were 
treating Prajapati, they first put food into him. In the same way, this 
Yajamana developing the site for the altar, puts food into it. He actually 
ploughs through the body of the altar and not the wings and the tail. It 
means he puts food only into the body but naturally the food put into 



IX. 1.2.10] 


TRANSLATION 


13 


the body benefits the body, the wings and the tail as well. If he were to 
put food only into the wings and the tail, it would not benefit the body, 
nor even the wings and the tail. 

6. He ploughs the first furrow on the right side of the altar 
eastwards within the enclosing stones (saying) “Let the ploughshare 
which is auspicious, split the earth and let the farmers drive the oxen in 
an auspicious manner.” Here ‘auspicious’ means plentiful and he 
thereby makes it (furrow).plentiful. 

7. Then on the hind part towards the north, he ploughs a furrow 
(saying) “ Let the furrow be filled with sweet ghee”-as the mantra is, so 
its meaning. (He further says)“Approved by the Visvedevas and the 
Maruts”- indeed the Visvedevas and the Maruts control the rain.“Let it 
be associated with nourishing milk”— milk is essence full of energy 
when associated with staple food.“0 Furrow! see us kindly with sap.” It 
only means that the furrow should bestow essence. 

8. Then on the left side he ploughs a furrow eastwards (saying) 
“O Plough! with fixed metal shord.”-(it means)the plough abounding 
in wealth. (He further says)“Propitious as thou art, you are the 
consumer of soma and destroyer of sin”— food indeed is soma. (He says) 
“The cow, the sheep, the hefty wife, the waggon with fast moving 
wheels - all these are generated by you, O Furrow!” 

9. Then on the front side he ploughs southwards (saying) “O wish- 
yielding Cow! grant the desires to Mitra and to Varuna, to Indra, to 
Asvins, to Pusan, to creatures and plants.” Agriculture is for all deities; 
and so he says ‘fulfil the desires’ of all gods. He first ploughs thus(south- 
west to north-east) then thus (north-east to south-west) thus clockwise 
because that is the order in the case of gods. 

10. Four such furrows he ploughs with the chanting of Yajus. 
Thereby he bestows on it the food available in all the four quarters and 
that with prayers. Prayers always come true and trustworthy are these 
quarters. When he ploughs through the body and thereby endows it 
with what food there is in the year; he does silently and that which is 
done silently is undefined -‘AH’. All is undefined and thus universal 



IX. 1.2.1-4] 


TRANSLATION 


15 


(unlimited) food is put into it. He thus ploughs in the front first, and 
from there thus - does in the clockwise way. This is the order in the 
case of gods. 

11 . Three furrows he ploughs at each time, for Agni is three- fold. 
As great as Agni is, as great as is his size, with so much he enriches him 
with food. He ploughs twelve furrows silently because there are twelve 
months in a year and the year is Agni. As great as Agni is, as great as is 
his size, with so much he puts food into him. Both of them together 
account for sixteen and Prajapati has sixteen parts. Prajapati is Agni 
and thus he puts into him food proportionate to his body. That food 
which is adequate to the body, protects the body and it does not harm 
it. That which is in excess, harms the body and that which is inadequate 
does not protect the body. 

12. And again, why he ploughs (through the altar site)- the gods 
being about to set right Prajapati, first put the vital airs into him. In the 
same manner this Yajamana, about to put together the sacrificial ritual, 
first puts the vital airs into it. They (the furrows) are the channels 
through which the vital airs move into it. 

13. Four furrows are ploughed with Yajus chants. Thereby he puts 
in the four well-defined vital airs of the head portion and this he does 
with the prayers and prayers always come true and hence truly the vital 
airs get placed in the head. When he ploughs the body, he puts in those 
vital airs which belong to the inner body. This he does silently because 
who knows how many vital airs are there inside the body. 

14. Now he unyokes the oxen after achieving the purpose for 
which they were yoked (saying) “You get released, O Aghnyah ! (those 
that do not deserve to be killed) indeed they are inviolable since they 
belong to the gods. (So he says) “You who stride towards gods.” This 
rite with these oxen is indeed divine. (He says) “We have come to the 
end of this darkness.” Darkness is indeed famine (and by ploughing or 
agricultural operation) he has come to the end of scarcity of food. (He 
says) “We have reached the light”- for he who attains the gods i.e. 
sacrifice, indeed reaches light. He thus releases them (oxen) towards 
north-east. The significance of this has been explained. He offers them 
to the Adhvaryu, for it is Adhvaryu who does the work with them. They 
have to be assigned to him at the time of distribution of daksina. 
(Second Brahmana Ends.) 



IX. 1.3.4] 


TRANSLATION 


17 


BRAHMANA III 

1. Then he places darbhastamba (a fistful of darbha grass) on the 
middle of the altar-site. These ( darbhas) are the plants which gods, 
then, laid down. In like manner this Yajamana places these plants 
thereon. 

2. As to why he places the fistful of grass is this—this Agni- altar 
which is being built up here is (actually) caused to be born for 
(consuming) food of all kinds. These kusa grass constitute both types of 
food; for, they are waters as well as plants. The waters loathing Vrtra 
(when slain by Indra, Vrtra's body emitted stinking excretions which 
flowed towards waters and the waters, to avoid contamination) rose up 
to the dry land and there grew as kusa grass in the bushes. Since they 
rose up ( drbhantya ) they came to be called darbhas. Hence darbhas 
remained pure and fit for sacrifice, when Vrtra flowed towards them. 
They are (in the category of) plants, since they are grass. By both kinds 
of food (water and plants) he thus gratifies him (altar). He places it 
where the furrows meet; because the joint where the furrows meet is 
the mouth and the furrow channels are the pranas and this is their 
place of meeting. Food is provided for the pranas at the mouth. He 
places it in the middle because food is supplied to the middle (of the 
body). He places it silently since what is done in silence is undefined 
and undefined means ‘all’. Thus with all he puts food into it. 

3. He then makes offerings thereon. When the Agm-altar is built, 
he is (actually) born and is born for (consuming) all food. This ghee is 
the essence of all this (universe). It is the essence of waters and of 
plants. He thus propitiates him with the essence of this universe. As far 
as the life-sap extends, so far the body extends. Thus he gratifies him 
with all this. He offers five ladlefuls of ghee because the Agm-altar has 
five layers and there are five seasons in the year. Agni is the year; as 
great as Agni is, as great as is his size, with so much food he thus 
gratifies him. 

4. And again why he makes the (ghee) offering - when on the 
earlier occasion, the rsis, namely the vital airs fashioned this Agni, they 
got for themselves that foremost share in him. So they ( pranas ) are the 
claimants of the foremost share. Thus, when he makes the offering on 
the fistful of darbha, he satisfies these rsis {pranas) who are entitled for 
the foremost share in him. With five ladleful ghee he offers and the 
significance of this has already been told. 



IX. 1.4.1] 


TRANSLATION 


19 


5. And again why he makes the offering thereon - whatever 
forms he is going to bestow on the Agm-altar, whatever stomas (modes 
of chanting), whatever prsthas (prayers),whatever metres (he is going to 
adopt) all those,he makes this foremost share (worthy of) and it is 
them he thereby satisfies. With five ladleful he offers and the significance 
of this has been explained. 

6. Further why he makes the ghee-offering is this — once at that 
time, the gods became apprehensive thinking ‘this performance is a 
long drawn one and the terrible Raksasas would smite it here this altar 
of ours.’ They then discovered this (process of) immediate conclusion 
(a concluding ritual at the beginning itself so that any affliction 
thereafter will not amount to discontinuation ol the rituals) and 
brought that entire altar to completion even at this point and built it up 
there and then itself. In the same way, this Yajamana brings it to 
completion here itself and builds it up at this point itself. 

7. (He says) “The year”- this is a layer of bricks. “ Sajur ,, the year 
united with the dark fortnights”. This became a layer of earth. “Sajur, 
the dawn” meaning the altar united with the ruddy rays, (horses). This 
became a layer of the earth. “Sajur, Asvins ” meaning ‘this altar united 
with the dawn endowed with marvellous acts and this became a layer of 
earth’. “Sajur, Sura" meaning ‘this altar united with the colourful horses (rays) 
and this became a layer of earth’. “Sajur, Vaisvdnara meaning ‘this altar united 
with ida (food grains) and this became a layer of earth. “With ghee, this layer of 
bricks, sua- this is the layer of earth and “ha this is again a layer of bricks. 

8. These became the thirteen vyahrtis (utterances). A year has 
thirteen months and the layers of the earth for the altar are thirteen. 
As great as Agni is , as great as is his size, so great he thus builds him up. 
He offers five ladleful as (of ghee) for, the altar consists of five layers 
(of bricks) and a year has five seasons and the year is Agni; as great as 
Agni is, as great as is his size, so great he thus builds him up. He offers 
with the raised ladle and thus builds Agni upwards by means of the 
layer (super-imposed). (Third Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAIV 

1. He then drenches with water poured out of jars (over the altar- 
site) . The gods then said, “Meditate”, by which they doubtless, meant to 



IX. 1.4.4] 


TRANSLATION 


21 


say ‘discover a layer’. While meditating, they saw rain as a (suitable) 
layer. They placed it on the altar-site. In the same manner,this 
(Yajamana) now places it(the rain), thereon. He pours twelve jarfuls of 
water on the ploughed site. The year has twelve months and the Agni- 
altar is the year; as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, by so much he 
drenches him. They are jarfuls of waters (he drenches with); for, rain is 
water and thereby he places rain on it. The jar is of udumbara wood and 
its significance has already been told. It is four-cornered (jar); for, 
there are four quarters and from all quarters he brings rain. Each time, 
he pours out three jarfuls; for, Agni is threefold; as great as Agni is, as 
great as is his size, with so much he thus places rain thereon. 

2. He pours out (water) on the ploughed ground and that is why 
it rains for the ploughed land. If he were to pour only on the ploughed 
area and not on the unfurrrowed area, there will be rainfall only on the 
cultivated land and not on the uncultivated. If he were to pour only on 
the unploughed area (of the altar-site) and not on the ploughed, there 
will be rain only on uncultivated land and not on the furrowed land. 
Therefore he drenches with water, both the furrowed and the 
unfurrowed areas and hence it rains both on the cultivated and 
uncultivated lands. He pours water thrice on both the ploughed and 
unploughed areas. Because Agni is threefold; as great as Agni is, as 
great as is his size, by so much he brings rain on that. 

3. Again, why he pours jarfuls of water is this - once the gods, at 
the point of fashioning the Agm-altar put water into him, initially. In 
like manner, this one (Yajamana), starting to fashion him (altar) pours 
water. Each time he pours three jarfuls of water; for, Agni is threefold; 
as much as Agni is, as much as is his size, by so much water, he 
drenches him. He (in all) pours twelve jarfuls of water on the ploughed 
site; for, the year has twelve months and the Agni -altar is the year; as 
great as Agni is, as great as is his size, by that much he drenches him. 

4. He pours water on the furrowed area and thereby puts water 
into the pranas. If he were to pour only on the furrowed area and not 
on the unploughed, he would be giving water only to the pranas and not 
to his body. Now, if he were to drench only the unploughed area and 
not the ploughed, there would be water only to the body and not to the 
pranas. He pours water both on the ploughed and on the unploughed 


IX. 1.4.7] 


TRANSLATION 


23 


areas of the site; there is water to both; to the pranas and to the body. 
He pours water thrice on the ploughed and on the unploughed. 
Because Agni is threefold; as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, so 
much water he supplies into him. He pours fifteen jarfuls of water. 
Thunderbolt is fifteenfold. With this fifteen which is a thunderbolt, he 
destroys all his sins. 

5. He then sows all (kinds of ) seeds of herbs. For the gods then 
said, “Meditate”, by which they only meant to say ‘discover a layer’. 
Whilst meditating, they discovered food as a (suitable) layer and placed 
that on him (Agni- altar). In the same way, this (Yajamana) now puts it 
(food) on him . It consists of all seeds (of all kinds of herbs). All seeds 
mean all food. Thus, he places all food on him. Let him take out 
(exclude) one (type of) seed and not eat it as long as he lives. He sows 
with a vessel made of udumbara wood and its significance has been 
explained. It is a four-cornered vessel; for, there are four quarters and 
thereby he places food collected from all quarters, on him. He sows 
whilst reciting verses in Anustiibh metre. Anustubh is speech and it is 
by means of speech (organ i. e. mouth), one eats food. He sows reciting 
three-three Rks at each time. Because, Agni is threefold; as great as 
Agni is, as great as is his size, so much food he places on him. He sows 
with twelve Rk mantras on the ploughed ground. The year has twelve 
months and Agni -altar is the year; as great as Agni is, as great as is his 
size, so much food he puts on it. 

6. He sows on the ploughed ground and that is why food grains 
ripen on ploughed ground. Were he to sow only on ploughed ground 
and not on the unploughed, food grains would ripen only on the 
former and not on the latter. Were he to sow only on the unploughed 
area and not on the ploughed, food grains would ripen only on the 
former and not on the latter. So he sows both on the ploughed 
ground and on the unploughed and hence food grains ripen on both 
of them. With three (verses) he sows on both the ploughed and on 
unploughed ground. Threefold is Agni; as great as Agni is, as great as is 
his size, so much food he places into him. 

7. And again, why he sows all (kinds of) seeds — the gods at that 
time, fashioning Prajapati, first treated him with all (kinds of) herbs. 
Similalry, this one (Yajamana) fashioning this (Agm'-altar), in the first 



IX.1.4.10] 


TRANSLATION 


25 


instance, treats him with all herbs. Seeds of all herbs (are used); for, all 
herbs are the same as all (kinds of) medicine. By all kinds of medicinal 
herbs, he thus heals him. He sows (each time) with three-three Rk 
mantras. Because Agni is threefold; as great as Agni is, as great as is his 
size, with so much he heals him. He sows on the ploughed ground with 
twelve Rk mantras; for, the year has twelve months and Agni -altar is the 
year; as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, with so much he heals him. 

8. He sows on the ploughed ground and he thereby heals the 
pranas. If he were to sow only on the ploughed ground and not on the 
unploughed, he would be healing only the pranas and not the body (of 
the altar). If he were to sow only on the unploughed ground and not 
on the ploughed, he would be healing only the body and not the 
pranas. He sows on both the ploughed and unploughed grounds and 
thus heals both the pranas and the body. With three (mantras) he sows 
both on the ploughed and on the unploughed (area of the altar site). 
Threefold is Agni; as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, with so 
much he thus heals him. He pours out fifteen jarfuls of water and with 
fifteen (Rk) verses he sows - that makes thirty. The Virad metre has 
thirty syllables and all food is Virad (far-shining). Thereby he places all 
food into him (the altar). 

9. (He sows while reciting)-“Those herbs which came into being 
first were three yugas (time cycles) before the gods”— for, the gods are 
indeed the seasons. These herbs used to grow from them (seasons) 
thrice; i.e. in spring, in the rainy season and in the autumn. I set my 
mind upon the brown” for, soma is brown and the herbs are related to 
Soma and Purusa is made of herbs. “ The hundred powers — because 
he (Purusa) lives for hundred years and he has hundredfold merit, 
hundredfold energy and so he is of hundred powers. “And seven — he 
thereby speaks of those seven pranas in the head. “O Mother! Yours are 
the hundred powers and yours are the thousand growths”- because 
(the herbs) here are shooting out “a hundredfold and sprouting in 
thousands.” ‘You of a hundred virtues, you render this one of mine free 
from ailment’- referring to him whom I am now healing (i.e. the Agnt-altar). 

10. These verses (fifteen in total starting with the two above) have 
the same puport with regard to this Agni — (Prajapati, i.e. the altar); 
(concerning) how he may heal him and preserve him. They are all in 
Anustubh metre and speech is Anustubh and speech indeed is all the 
herbs. Thus, he treats him with all the medicinal herbs. 



IX.1.4.12] 


TRANSLATION 


27 


11. Now about the defined and undefined (rites) with Yajus formu¬ 
las, he yokes two oxen and the others silently. With Yajus formulas, he 
ploughs four furrows and the others silently. He puts on the fistful of 
grass silently and chants a formula while making oblation thereon. He 
pours the jarfuls of water silently and with Yajus formulas, he sows (the 
seed). 

12. This Agni -altar is Prajapati and Prajapati is both defined and 
undefined; the limited and the unlimited. Now, whatever he does with 
(the accompaniment of) Yajus formulas,therewith he restores that part 
of his which is defined and limited. Whatever he does silently, there¬ 
with he restores that part of his which is undefined and 
unlimited.Whosoever, knowing this, performs thus, restores the whole 
and completes Prajapati. The outer parts (of Prajapati) happen to be 
defined and the inner parts, undefined. Ths Agni is indeed a pasu 
(animal) and hence the outer parts of a pasu are defined and the inner 
parts undefined. (Fourth Brahmana Ends.) 

(Chapter One Ends) 



Chapter Two 


BRAHMAN AI 

1. The Garhapatya is built and the Ahavanlya is not yet built, at that 
time, he brings the king .(Soma) . This world is Garhapatya and Ahavanlya 
is the sky, the wind that blows is Soma. Thereby, he places this Soma in 
between these two worlds and that is why the vayu blows between these 
two regions. 

2. And as to why he buys soma when the Garhapatya is set and the 
Ahavanlya is not built is because Agni is the body and Soma the vital air. 
He thus places the vital air in the middle of the body and that is why this 
vital air is in the middle of the body. 

3. Again why he purchases soma when the Garhapatya is built and 
the Ahavanlya is not built—Agni is the body and Soma is the essence. He 
thereby reinforces the body with the essence. That is how the body is 
permeated by the essence all over. 

4. Having purchased soma and driven it along (on the cart) he 
prepares the havis (offering) due for the guest. He releases speech with 
the Haviskrt chant meant for the (Atithya havis). 

5. Thus he interlinks the sacrificial rite and the altar-building rite 
to bring about unity of performance; thinking - ‘let this be an unified 
act.’ 

6. Why he interlinks the two rites - is because Agni is the body and 
the sacrificial rite is the vital air and thereby he places the vital air in the 
middle of the body. That is why this vital air is in the middle of the body. 

7. Again, why he interlinks the two rites — Agni is the body and 
sacrificial rite is the essence and thereby he makes the essence spread 
into the body. Thus, he makes the essence permeate all over the body. 
Having thus made it permeated by the essence, he approaches the site of 
Ahavanlya. 



IX.2.1.12] 


TRANSLATION 


31 


8. Some people clean both the sites (of Garhapatya and Ahavaniya) 
with a p alas a branch thinking that altar-building is to be done at both the 
sites. It should not be done so. By (building ) Garhapatya, he settles and 
by the Ahavaniya, he rises up. Therefore, let him not do so (sweep both the sites). 

9. Only on the Garhapatya he throws salty soil ( usa) and not on the 
Ahavaniya. Garhapatya is this terrestrial world and usa are the cattle. 
Thereby he places the cattle in this world and hence the cattle are 
(thriving) in this world. 

10. Only in the Ahavaniya, he places a lotus-leaf and not in the 
Garhapatya. Because lotus-leaf is indeed the waters (dpah) and Ahavaniya 
is the sky. Thereby he places waters in the sky. On both the sites (of 
Garhapatya and Ahavaniya) he scatters sand. Sand is, of course, seed. At 
both the altars, Agni is being produced and this Agni is thereby produced 
from the seeds. 

11. He scatters with different formula (for the Garhapatya and 
Ahavaniya). For, Garhapatya is the human world and Ahavaniya is the 
divine one. Human and divine are of different nature. Hence, with a 
bigger formula he scatters on the Ahavaniya and with a shorter one on 
the Garhapatya. Because, the life span of gods is longer and that of 
humans is shorter. First , he scatters sand on the Garhapatya before it is 
enclosed with parisrit (enclosing stones). That is because sands being 
seeds, (he desires) the parisrit to come out of these seeds. 

12. Some say, “If sands are the seeds and parisrit is the womb, when 
he scatters sand in Garhapatya before laying of the parisrit (enclosing 
stones), won't the seeds get lost (wasted) since they won’t be held by the 
womb?” (This is the answer for that)- usa (saline soil) is the vulva 
membrane and usa had already been scattered; hence the seeds are not 
lost but they are received in the vulva membrane. Now, he addresses 
the parisrit (enclosing stone) at the Ahavaniya. The significance of this 
has been told. Then he scatters sand. Sands are indeed seeds. In this 
manner the seeds are not wasted; they get safely deposited in the womb. 
He then touches the Ahavaniya with special Rks called Apyanavati (Rks 
containing the word apya). He does not do this in the case of Garhapatya. 
This world is Garhapatya and Ahavaniya is the heaven. The Yajamana is 
born in this world and aspires to be born in the heaven. That is why the 
Ahavaniya is touched while chanting the two Apyanavati Rks and not the 
Garhapatya. Thereby he enables the Yajamana to be born in the heaven. 



IX.2.1.18] 


TRANSLATION 


33 


13. Now he places the logestakas (special type of bricks) in it 
(.Ahavanlya ). This fire is these worlds and the logestakas are the quarters. 
Thereby he places the quarters for these worlds. That is how these worlds 

have quarters. 

14. He now takes Agni from outside the (site of fire-altar). For, the 
regions which are in these worlds are already possessed by Agni. Now, he 
places those quarters which are beyond these worlds in him (Agni). This 
is outside the altar-site. This earth being an altar, its quarters are already 
obtained by him. Now, those quarters belonging to (the space) outside 

this vedi are put into it. 

15. And again, why he places the logestakas — when Prajapati got 
exhausted, his vital s&p flowed out in all directions. While the gods 
restored him to health, they by means of those logestakas collected that 
vital sap and put it back into him. In the same manner, this Yajamana too 
revitalises him with the vital sap by means of these logestakas. 

16. Why from outside the altar he takes it, is because the vedi being 
this earth and the essence which is of this earth being already possessed 
by him, he now bestows on him that essence which is beyond this earth. 

17. He brings it with the wooden sword ( sphya ) . The sphya is indeed 
a thunderbolt. Vital sap is thunderbolt. This earth is wealth. In this way 
he attains wealth by means of vital sap. 

18. He brings it ( logestaka ) from the front side thinking ‘he who is 
the begetter of this earth, let him not harm me.’ Prajapati is indeed the 
creator of the earth. He only means that Prajapati may not harm him. 
“He with truth for his virtue has pervaded the sky” (-the says). He means 
‘he who has created the sky with truth as his virtue.’ (He says) “He who 
first created the glittering waters” - for, human beings are the glittering 
waters and he only means ‘he who first created human beings’, “Let me 
worship that ‘ kd with oblations”. Prajapati is indeed ‘kd and let me 
worship him with oblations. Thus, having brought it he puts it on the 
body (of the altar) inside the enclosing stones. That vital sap which 
flowed eastwards, he has thus put back into him. Thereby he bestows on 
him the eastern direction. 



IX.2.1.21] 


TRANSLATION 


35 


19. Then (he brings a logestaka) from the southern direction (say¬ 
ing) “O Earth! return hither, with sacrifice and milk”. As is the text, so is 
the meaning. (He says) “Agni who has been commissioned has got over 
your skin”. Whatever is on the earth is her skin. When Agni is sent forth, 
he mounts; i.e. when it blazes forth, it climbs on that skin (of the earth). 
Having brought it he puts it in that spot where the body and the wings 
join. In this way whatever sap had flown towards the southern direction, 
that is restored into this Agni. Thereby he brings the southern direction 
under his sway. 

20. Then (he brings a logestaka) from the western side, (saying) “O 
Agni! whatever part in thou is pure, shining and clean and worthy for 
sacrifice” — really this earth is Agni. It is with reference to that all these 
are said, “Those you bring for the Gods.” “We are bringing those (parts) 
for this divine rite.” Bringing it ( logestaka) he places it on the body of the 
altar where it joins with the tail. This way, whatever sap had flown towards 
the western direction, that is restored into Agni. Thereby he brings the 
western direction under him. Here, let him not place exactly from the 
backside, the vital sap from the path of the sacrifice (because havirdhana 
etc., are exactly at the west of the fire and this sap is what had flowed out). 
So he takes it from near about the western direction. 

21. Then from the northern side (he brings a logestaka saying) “I 
have taken (eaten) this sap and strength from hither.” It means ‘I have 
collected sap and strength from here.’ “The womb of the eternal law”— 
truth being eternal law, it means the womb of truth. (He further says) “I 
take the stream of mahisa" — Agni is the mahisa because it becomes great 
on this earth and renders everybody strong. “May it accrue to me in the 
cows, in the bodies” — Body is the self, so (it means) ‘let it accrue to me 
in the form of cows and in my own self (in the form of health and 
progeny). (He says) “I cast off emaciation, weakness and ailments”— 
(with-this) he scatters sand over the altar. Thus, whatever emaciation, 
weakness or ailment is there in him he discards them at the northern 
direction. That is why hungry' people inhabit that region.Having brought 
that ( logestaka) he places it inside the body of the altar at the junction of 
the wings and the body. Thus, he restores to him that vital sap which 
flowed out towards the northern direction. Thereby he brings the north¬ 
ern direction itself under his sway. 



IX.2.1.26] 


TRANSLATION 


37 


22. These ( logestakas) are the quarters and are placed on all sides 
and that is why the quarters are there on all sides. These bricks are 
placed in such a way that they face each other and in effect he places the 
quarters facing one another. Hence the disas face each other. They are 
kept separately; placed separately and consecrated with Sudadoha chants 
individually; because the quarters are separate from each other. He 
places them standing because the quarters are also standing. Moreover 
while standing a man is stronger. These bricks are Yajusmatyah (having 
individual Yajus formula for each) which he places in the body itself and 
not in the wings or the tail because those with Yajus formula are meant 
only for the body proper and not for the wings or tail. 

23. Some ask, “How these logestakas become baked, burnt and 
handy (since they are only clods of wet clay)?” They form the vital sap 
and being the vital sap it is naturally heated and moreover, whatever 
comes into contact with Agni-Vaisvanara becomes as good as baked. 

24. He now raises the uttaravedi (high-altar). This vedi is the earth 
and the uttaravedi is the sky and the logestakas form the quarters. By 
placing the logestakas in between this vedi and the high-altar, he estab¬ 
lishes the quarters in between the two worlds. That is why the quarters 
are between these two worlds. He makes it either a yoke-long on each 
side or forty feet long on either side, as he chooses. Then he scatters 
sand over it. The purpose of this has been explained. 

25. He throws the sand on the high-altar which is actually the 
womb. Thereby he drops the seed into the womb. The seed deposited 
into the womb germinates. He covers the whole body (of the altar) with 
sand. Thereby he implants the seed into the whole body and the seed 
originates from the whole body. 

26. (He says)“ O Agni! This glory and strength are yours.” His 
glory and strength are doubtless the smoke: for, it is the smoke that 
makes him known in yonder world. “O Beaming One! thy flame shines 
forth profusely” - (meaning) brilliant as you are, your flame shines forth. 
“You abounding in wealth: you with might and rich with rays as you are, 
bestow power worthy of praise”- ‘Might’ means strength and (he means) 
‘with your strength bestow food worthy of praise.’ “O wise one ! You 
bestow upon the one who worships you”—here the one who worships is 
the Yajamana and he means, ‘you bestow (food) on the Yajamana, wise 
as you are. 



IX.2.1.31] 


TRANSLATION 


39 


27. (He says) “You pure-flamed and bright-flamed !”— for, Agni is of 
pure and bright flames. “With copious flames you shine forth with your 
beams”(which means) ‘you illuminate all over with your copious flames.’ 
“You by your movements serve the two mothers’’-for, Agni is indeed like 
a son moving about filling both the spheres. The two spheres are this 
earth and the yonder sky. He serves both; with smoke, yonder sky and 
with rains, this earth. 

28. (He says) “O the grandson of the waters and the knower of the 
living beings! with our auspicious benedictions”— (meaning) ‘thou the 
grandson of waters, you who know all that is born, be pleased with our 
auspicious prayers and shine forth with your actions (rays)’.“In you all 
the covetable nourishments were stored” (meaning) ‘in you all food 
wanted by many was collected.’ “Wonderfully safeguarded are those who 
are of high birth”- as the text so the meaning. 

29. (He says) “O Agni ! grow luminously along with creatures, men 
of high birth (the Rtviks).” Here ‘ jantu means men and he means 
‘shining forth.’ “OAgni! grow big along with the men who worship you.” 
(He further says) “O deathless Agni ! let us have wealth”— it means ‘O 
immortal Agni ! bestow wealth upon us.’ “Of beautiful form, you shine.” 
For, he indeed shines in his attractive form.“Thou fulfil (the purpose of) 
the Yajamana’s supreme intention (the wish for eternity).” 

30. (He says) “Him, the wise organiser of the adhvara. ” Adhvara is 
sacrifice and it refers to the wise arranger of sacrifice. “ He who presides 
over great wealth”-which means ‘who owns profuse riches.’ “One who is 
the bestower of all desired objects, you confer auspicious, rich and de¬ 
sired food forever”—it means, he gives inexhaustible prosperity (to the 
Yajamana in the form of cows, horses, etc.) 

31. “Thee the righteous” meaning ‘the truthful.’ “The mighty 
mahisa” and ‘Agni is indeed the mighty’, “charming to look at by every¬ 
body.” For, Agni is, of course, attractive in his form. “Whom people place 
in the forefront of sumna (well being)” — sumna is sacrifice and it is for 
sacrifice that they place Agni at the helm. “Thou of hearing ears, ruling 
over far-flung areas and of supreme divinity with songs, the human 
beings” - it means ‘O Agni ! who hear everything, the far-ruling god, we 
men invoke you with our words of praise.’ This collection of six Rk 



IX.2.1.37] 


TRANSLATION 


41 


mantras is itself Agni-Vaisvanara. This sand is being strewn to mark the 
beginning of the building up of the altar. In this, the Vaisvanara is placed 
in the form of the sap. This rite is performed with this collection of six 
Rks. There are six seasons in a year and year is Vaisvanara. 

32. Some raise the question - “Why is the sand considered as seed ? 
What is the characteristic of seed in it ?” (Let him be told) ‘Whiteness’ 
for, seed is white or ‘dotted’ (he may be told) because seed is, as it were, 
dotted. 

33. Again they ask—“Seed is moist and sand which is scattered is 
dry. How then does the sand attain the characteristic of the moist seed?” 
(For this it may be replied) “The metres are vital sap and vital sap is 
moist.” Inasmuch as he scatters that (sand) with metres they assume the 
forms of moist seeds. 

34. Now the question arises as to what effect is brought about on it 
by the day and the night. Day and night are two and there are two 
varieties of sand; white and black. This way they are affected by day and 
night. 


35. Now they may ask, “How does this sand put on by days and 
nights become equally efficacious for him without being in excess or 
deficient?” The answer to this is that days and nights are endless (innu¬ 
merable) and sand is also infinite. It is thus that the sand put on by days 
and nights becomes completely efficacious for him; neither in excess nor 
deficient. Why are the metres unlimited like ocean? Because ocean is 
limitless and sand is also unlimited. So the metres are ocean-like. 

36. Now they ask — “How is that sand of his put on separately with 
different Yajus mantras?” Mind is Yajus and this mind (thought) is ca¬ 
pable of pervading all sand. In this way these grains of sand are qualified 
for being placed with different Yajus mantras. 

37. Then they ask — “How does that sand happen to be put on by 
all the metres?” When he scatters them with that group of six Rks, it has as 
many syllables as there are in the seven metres. Thus that sand happens 
to be strewn by all the metres. 



IX.2.1.40] 


TRANSLATION 


43 


38. And as to why at all he scatters sand — that Agni (fire-altar) is 
Prajapati and Prajapati is the whole Brahman and that part which was 
lost of the Brahman, is made good by the sand. That part of Brahman 
which has not been lost is this fire-altar which is being built now. Thus by 
scattering the sand he restores that lost part of Brahman. That which he 
scatters is numberless (unlimited). For, who knows how much of that 
Prajapati was lost and verily he who realises thus and scatters the sand, 
restores the whole Prajapati. 

39. Now they may ask - “What is the number of these unlimited 
sand grains?” Let him say ‘Two’ because there are two kinds of sands; 
white and black or let him say ‘Seven hundred twenty’ for, a year has so 
many days and nights. Or let him say ‘Two hundred fifty-two’ for, there 
are so many syllables in that group of six Rks. Or let him say ‘Twenty-five’ 
for, the seed is twenty-fivefold (since it emanates from the body which 
has twenty-five parts). This same (sand grains) represent the Yajusmatya 
istakas (bricks with special Yajus mantras). He places them on the body of 
the altar and not on the wings or tail, lest he should stop procreation of 
the seed. 

40. Then he touches that (sand that is strewn) with two formulas 
called Apyanavatls (verses having the word apyayasva which means 
‘grow’). He thereby causes that implanted seed to grow. Therefore the 
seed in the womb, he makes to grow with the two Rks connected with 
soma. Soma is vital air and thereby he implants prana into that seed. In 
this way prana is generated in the embedded seed. If it were to come out 
without prana, it would become putrid. For this ( istaka) this is the 
Sudadoha chant; for, soma is prana and Sudadoha is prana. (He chants) 
“Grow thou, let manly power get collected in you from all sides, O Soma! ” 
Mainly power doubtless is seed. Thus it means ‘O Soma ! you grow so 
that seeds get collected in you from all sides’. “Be engaged in amassing 
vitality”— Vaja or vitality is nourishment and (it means) ‘Be busy collect¬ 
ing nourishment.’ (He further says) “Let the beverages and food pour 
into you”-beverage is essence; food is nourishment. So (it means) ‘let 
essence and nourishing food reach you.’ “Let manly powers come to 
you, the vanquisher of enemies,’ “O Soma! be growing for the sake of 
immortality”—by this he lays immortality into the generative powers and 
hence generative power is immortal. “Gain thou the highest glory in the 
heavens” — his highest glory in the heavens is indeed the moon, for, 



IX.2.2.3] 


TRANSLATION 


45 


that moon (by supplying nectar to the gods) makes soma the object of 
venerations in the heavens. With two verses, one in Gayatrl and the 
other in Tristubh, he makes him grow. Its significance has been told. 
Now then the esoteric rationale - four logestakas, he places; with six Rk 
mantras he scatters the sand; with two verses he makes the seed grow — 
that makes twelve and there are twelve months in a year. The year is 
Agw-altar. As great as Agni is, as great as is his size, so great does this 
become. (First Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMANA II 

1. Having levelled (the sand with two Apyanavati chants and 
returned to the sadas, he proceeds with atithya ritual followed by the 
pravargya and the upasad. After the atithya , he performs the pravargya and 
the upasad. Then they please the altar on the skin (of an ox). Why on the 
skin, is to obtain the forms. The skin happens to be the outward form. 
That side of the skin with hairs is used, since hairy side is the form and 
here the idea is to obtain the form. It is on a red skin because red skin 
represents all forms and thereby all the forms are obtained. It is the skin 
of an ox because ox itself is Agni. It is for obtaining the forms of Agni. 
The skin is with neck portion towards the east for, that is the direction of 
the gods. He spreads it in front of the Garhapatya on the vedi with the 
hairy side upwards and the neck portion towards the east. Thereon they 
please that altar-layer. 

2. Now he sprinkles over the bricks and thereby makes them pure 
and sacrificially worthy. With ghee (he sprinkles) for, ghee is pure and 
sacrificially worthy. He does so with a view to make it most excellent. No 
other sacrificial havis is sprinkled with ghee. Silently (he sprinkles); 
silently means indistinctly and indistinct means ‘all’. In this way by all 
means he renders it pure and sacrificially worthy, to make it most 
excellent. Because no other havis is sprinkled silently. 

3. Again, why he sprinkles is this — this altar is havis and it is being 
sprinkled with ghee. Whatever is sprinkled with ghee and softened 
becomes palatable and sacrificially fit. With ghee (he sprinkles), for, 
abhighara is itself sprinkling the havis with ghee. Silently (he does it) for, 
havis is indeed sprinkled silently. With the darbha grass (he sprinkles) 
because with darbha they become pure and sacrificially worthy. With the 
tips (of the grass he sprinkles) because the tips are sacred to gods. 



IX.2.2.7] 


TRANSLATION 


47 


4. Now they argue - “When only the first layer of the altar is 
sprinkled, how is it that the entire altar is taken for being sprinkled and 
how does it come to be led forward on the skin and how it is conveyed 
forward by the horse (the horse-treaded ground being at the bottom)?” 
It is because, through this, the bricks in all the layers get sprinkled. The 
entire altar is sprinkled by this (sprinkling of the sandy layer). This way 
this layer also becomes one led forward on the skin and one led forward 
by the horse. 

5. Now the Adhvaryu tells the Hota — “Recite the prayer to the 
fires that are being brought forward.” When the gods were preparing to 
set out a sacrifice, the evil Raksasas tried to smite them and said, \ou 
shall not perform; you shall not spread out the sacrifice?” The gods 
converting these fires and these bricks into sharp-edged thunderbolts, 
hurled them at the Raksasas and vanquished them. Thereby they spread 
the sacrifice at a place free from danger and affliction. 

6. Now that same act done by the gods is being repeated. Even 
now those Raksasas are vanquished by the gods themselves. So when he 
(Yajamana) does this he thinks, ‘let me do what the gods did. What 
Raksasas or what evil might be there, they are attacked by these fires and 
these bricks fashioned into sharp-edged thunder-bolt and with that 
they are being driven away. Having dispelled them, he performs the 
sacrifice at a place free from danger and affliction. Now, why recite to the 
fires is because there are several fires since many are the layers. Why 
when the fires are being brought forward (when he recites) is because he 
is not hurling them (with thunder-bolt). ( Prahriyamdna is linked to Pra- 
harati ). 

7. Now some recite to the fires thus, “The Agni is punsyas together 
with those of streams etc.”, — this verse they recite in the form of starting 
the anuvdka. It should not be done so. Anuvakas in Gayatrl metre 
connected with Agni and relating to the wishes are to be recited. There 
are (the three Rks starting respectively). “O Agni ! the child, lead your 
mind etc.” “The foremost among Aiigiras etc.” and “Agni, in beloved 
homes etc.” Anuvakas connected with Agni are recited so as to obtain 
the forms of Agni. Anuvakas related to the desires (are recited) to achieve 
the objects desired for. Anuvakas in Gayatrl metre (are recited) for, Agni 
is of Gayatrl and as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, with so much he 



IX.2.2.11] 


TRANSLATION 


49 


thus deposits him as seed. These are three verses since Agrn is threefold; 
as great as Agni is, as great as is his measure, with so much he thus 
deposits him as seed. These three verses with the first and the third 
repeated thrice become seven and the fire-altar consists ot seven layers 
and a year has seven seasons. The year is Agni; as great as Agni is, as 
great as is his size, so great thus this become. He recites in a muffled 
voice; for, here in the sacrifice the seed is implanted and the seed is 
always cast silently. He (the Hota) recites while following (the bricks that 
are being carried). He thus marches guarding the sacrifice by the verses 
from behind. 

8. They lead a white horse in front. Once upon a time, the gods 
were scared that the evil Raksasas might attack them here. They saw the 
thunderbolt in the form of yonder sun. Having driven off those evil 
Raksasas by means of that thunderbolt in the front, they obtained well¬ 
being in a place free from danger and affliction. They reach the site of 
the altar and place the bricks in a layer towards the south of its tail. From 
the north they make the horse step (on the altar site). 

9. They take the horse eastward on the left side of the altar within 
the enclosing stones and thus ward off evil from the eastern region. 
Then they take it to the south and ward off evils in that region; then 
westward to clear the western region of all evil and then to the north to 
dispel evil from the north. Having thus cleared all regions of the evil 
Raksasas, he sets it (horse) free towards northeast. The purpose of this 
has been stated. 

10. While the horse proceeds westward, he makes it smell that layer 
(of bricks). This horse is the yonder sun and those bricks are the 
creatures. When he makes it smell them, actually yonder sun smells these 
creatures. By the energy of Przyapati each one (of the creatures) thinks I 
am all.’ Why the horse is made to smell while going westward is because 
it is while proceeding towards the west (setting) that the sun kisses all the 

creatures. 

11. Now, why he (horse) is made to smell — this horse is yonder 
sun. These naturally perforated bricks are the creatures. When he is 
made to smell them, yonder sun strings these creatures to himself as on a 
thread; and as to that thread, the significance (will be explained) later 


on. 



IX.2.2.16] 


TRANSLATION 


51 


12. And again why is he made to smell — Agni bolted from the gods 
and entered the waters. The gods asked Prajapati to search for him 
saying, “To you who are his own father, he will reveal himself.” Assuming 
the form of a white horse, Prajapati went in search of Agni. He found him 
having emerged from the waters, seated on a lotus leaf. Agni saw 
Prajapati and (by his look) scorched him. That is why the white horse has 
a charred mouth and its eyes are weak. Agni felt, ‘I have perhaps caused 
harm to Prajapati’. And so he told him, “I give you a boon. 

13. Prajapati said, “You should be accessible to anyone who seeks 
you in this form (of a white horse).” That is why whoever seeks Agni in 
this form, to him Agni becomes accessible and after obtaining him, he 
(the Yajamana) builds him up. 

14. It should be a white horse because that is the colour of yonder 
sun. If the white one is not available, even a non-white horse would do. If 
a horse is not available it can be an ox, because ox belongs to Agni and 
Agni dispels all evil. 

15. Now how to make the horse mount the altar? Some mount it 
from the front towards the rear and some others from behind towards 
the front. It should not be done so, because that Agni (altar) is indeed a 
pasu. If one mounts an animal from the front towards the rear, it will hit 
him with his horns. If one climbs on an animal from the back towards the 
front, it will kick him with its leg. So it should be mounted from the 
middle (sides). If one climbs on an animal’s back from the sides, it 
carries him and does not cause harm to him. From the left side (he 
should mount) for people whenever they mount an animal, do so from 
the left side. Having mounted the altar and having done the work 
connected with it, he takes hold of Agni unto himself. Having taken unto 
himself, he sings the Satyam Saman (a particular Saman chant). He then 
places a lotus leaf there (on the vedi ). 

16. By the advent of evening, they lead away the horse. Because at 
that time the gods feared that the evil Raksasas might smite that altar. 
Hence they converted this sun into a protective thunderbolt. That horse 
is indeed the sun; in this way they make it into a thunderbolt to protect 
the vedi. 



IX.2.2.17] 


TRANSLATION 


53 


17. He leads it (the horse) towards the setting sun. For, he (the 
sun) is evidently the protector during the day. But the Raksasas are active 
during night. Therefore he (the sun) is made the protective thunderbolt 
during the night time. He takes him all around and thereby causes this 
thunderbolt to protect all around. By taking him round three times he 
makes the thunderbolt threefold protector. He then lets it loose towards 
north-west; the significance of this has been told. Then it returns to the 
sacrificial site. The purport of this will be explained later. (Second 
Brahmana Ends) 


(Second Chapter Ends) 



Chapter Three 


BRAHMANAI 

1. While starting to build the fire-altar, he takes Agni into himself 
and thus causes him to be born out of his own self. A thing takes after 

whatever it is produced from. If he were to build Agni without taking it 

within himself he would only generate a man out of a man, a mortal out 
of a mortal, a sinful thing out of a sinful source. But when he builds up the 
altar after imbibing Agni in himself, he is producing fire out of fire, 
immortal one of an immortal and sinless out of a source bereft of sin. 

2. He takes in the fire (saying) “I take into myself the Agni. In this 
way he first takes over Agni into himself. (He says) “For the sake of 
wealth, for healthy offsprings, and for right prowess.” Thus he takes unto 
himself all the blessings. (He says) “Let the gods help me”. By this he 
takes into himself all the deities. In this manner he takes into himself all 
that he wants to be born out of him. He takes Agni into himself standing 
and without sitting down he builds up the altar. This altar is an animal. 
Therefore the animal gets impregnated while standing and gives birth 
(to the calf) without sitting (lying). 

3. He now sings the Satyam Saman. This is what the gods said, “Let 
us make the truth his mouth. Thus we shall become truth and truth will 
become well-disposed to us; with which desire we perform this, it will 
become true.” They sang this Satyam Saman at the outset and thereby 
made truth its mouth (starting point). They became truth and truth got 
well-disposed to them. In the same manner, this Yajamana sings the 
Satyam Saman at the outset. That makes truth its mouth and he becomes 
truth and truth gets well-disposed to him. With what wish he does this act, 
it becomes true. 

4. This truth is the same as the waters; for, the waters are truth. 
Hence they say,“The flowing of the waters is the manifestation of truth.” 
In the process of creation, waters were created before everything else. 
Hence when waters flow (in the form of rains) then everything that is to 
originate, originates. 



IX.3.1.10] 


TRANSLATION 


57 


5. Now he places a lotus-leaf. Lotus-leaf is the womb. This way he 
sets up a womb (for Agni). 

6. And why he places a lotus-leaf is because lotus is the waters and 
this earth is its leaf. Even as the lotus-leaf lies (floats) on the waters, this 
earth floats over the water. This earth itself is the womb of Agni and it is 
upon this earth that the entire Agm'-altar is built up. This way he 
establishes this earth itself. He lays down (this earth) so that it is not 
separated from the truth. Hence this earth is established on truth. This 
earth itself is the truth, because it is the most stable of these worlds. 

7. (He lays down the lotus-leaf saying) “You are the waters’ back 
and the womb of Agni ”, for, this earth is verily the back of the waters and 
the womb of Agni. (He says) “Around the rising ocean”, because, the 
ocean surrounds this earth all around. (He says) “Rising up above the 
lotus” ‘growing meaning rowing you flourish on the lotus’. “Spread out 
with the size, with the breadth of the sky”. So saying he strokes it (lotus- 
leaf). This Agni -altar is the same as yonder sun and no other except the 
extent of the sky can contain him. He means to say “Having become the 
sky, contain him.” He lays it down with a verse in Svaraj metre because 
Svarajya (to be self s sovereign) belongs to waters. Having placed it he 
chants the Siidadoha and its significance has been told. 

8. Now he places gold (piece) on it. This gold is yonder sun, for, he 
outshines all these creatures on this earth. Rocas (shine) is what they 
covertly call rukma (gold), for, the gods love concealment (mystic way of 
expression). He thus lays down only the yonder sun (in the form of gold 
piece on the altar). He is golden and round with twenty-one knobs. The 
significance of this has been already explained. He places it (gold) with 
the knobs pointing downward, for the knobs are his (sun’s) rays and his 
rays shine downward. 

9. He places it on the lotus-leaf; the lotus-leaf being the womb, in 
the womb he thus lays him down. 

10. Why he places on the lotus-leaf is because lotus-leaf is a 
foundation. This earth is the lotus-leaf and this earth is the foundation. 
He who is not established on this earth is unsettled; as if he is far away. 
The sun is established on this earth through his rays. He makes this Agni- 
altar well-settled on this earth. 



IX.3.2.2] 


TRANSLATION 


59 


11 . Why again on the lotus-leaf is it laid down? Indra when he 
struck Vrtra, thinking that he had not vanquished him, entered the 
waters. He said to them,“I am afraid, provide me with a (safe) habitat." 
What essence was there in the waters, he pulled it upwards and made it a 
safe resort for him. A fort or resort {pur) he made ( kara) of it and hence 
it is called pus-kara (lotus). Piiskara is being called puskara. This is the 
mystic form and gods like the mystic. Now when he places it (the gold) on 
the lotus-leaf, he thereby establishes him (Agni) in the essence that the 
waters put out for him and with which they made a safe resort for him. It 
is in that very resort he now establishes him. 

12. (He places it (gold) saying) “Brahman first appeared in front.” 
Brahman doubtless is yonder sun and he appears day by day in front (i.e. 
the east). “From the top he is eager (to appear) in these shining ones”- 
the top doubtless is the middle. The shining ones are these worlds and 
the eager one is the yonder sun. He is the eager one inasmuch as he is 
eager to appear and, by rising, he overspreads these (worlds) from the 
top or the middle (of the sky). “The quarters are his limits”, for, the 
regions are nearest to him.“The womb of the existent and of the non¬ 
existent did he pervade.” The womb of the existent and of the non¬ 
existent are indeed these worlds because both the existing and the non¬ 
existing are born from these worlds. He lays it with averse in the Tristubh 
metre. After placing it with a Tristubh, he recites the Sudadohcisa chant. 
Its significance has been said already. (First Brahmana Ends) 

BRAHMAN A II 


1. He then places the man (golden human figure) thereon. He is 
Prajapati; he is Agni and he is Yajamana. He is made of gold. For, gold is 
brilliance indeed and brilliance is Agni and gold is immortality. So, Agni is 
immortality. It is a man (human figure) for, Prajapati is man. 

2. Why he places the man is because when Prajapati dis-integrated, 
his pleasing form got away from within him and the gods let it go. When 
the gods restored him (Prajapati), they installed this pleasing form in 
the middle of his(Prajapati's) body. The gods felt happy over this 
(pleasing form) of his. Since the gods rejoiced (aramanta) in this pleasing 
form, it is indeed pleasing (hi-ramyam) . That hiramyam is itself called 



IX.3.2.6] 


TRANSLATION 


61 


hiranyam (gold) in a concealed manner; because gods like the mystic 
(names). In similar manner, this Yajamana is placing this pleasing form 
in the middle of his (Prajapati i.e. Agm'-altar) body. In this (pleasing 
form) of his, the gods rejoice. That pleasing form of his is of course the 
vital air. Therefore he only instals the vital air in the middle (of his 
body). 

3. He places him on the gold plate(already laid). That which is 
the gold plate, is yonder sun. That purusa (man) who is in that sun’s disc, 
it is him that he now places. 

4. He lays him (man) on his back. This is what the gods said (at 
that time) : “If we place both these i.e. the gold plate and the goldman, 
facing downwards, they (with their combined heat will burn away all this 
(world below). If we are to place them both upward facing, then they will 
heat up only the upper region (denying light or heat to this earth). If 
they are placed facing each other their brilliance will be felt in between 
them (and they won't light up the worlds) and they will afflict each other. 
So they placed one facing hitherward and the other facing away from 
hither. So the one (the sun) i. e. gold disc facing downwards gives warmth 
with his rays and this man facing upward, with his vital airs (illuminates) 
above, because this Agw-altar is being built upwards. 

5. He places that (goldman) (saying) “ Hiranyagarbha came first 
into existence” - indeed it was hiranyagarbha who first came into being. 
“He was born the one lord of the being”, for, he was born as the one lord 
of all this being. “He bore this earth as well as the sky”, for, he indeed 
supported this earth and the sky. “ Let us worship with offerings unto the 
god l Ka- Prajapati foresooth is Ka and unto him we may pay homage 
with the offerings.” 

6. (He further says) “The dot (drop) dries up this earth and the 
sky (charges along this earth and the sky). In this way (moving upward) 
yonder sun, (like) a dot, dries up the earth and the sky. “Along this womb 
(of fire) and that which was there before” - (which means) ‘to this world 
and that one already hither or to this Agm-altar being built up 
(Ahavaniya) and to the one already built up ( Garhapatya )- through both, 
the drop charges along the common womb, for, he (the sun) moves 
along that common seat.’ “The drop I offer along the seven hotrds"- the 
drop is yonder sun and the seven hotrds are the regions; he thus 



IX.3.3.2] 


TRANSLATION 


63 


establishes yonder sun in the regions. He places him (the man) with two 
chants; for, the sacrificer is two-footed and he is Agni; as great as Agm is, 
as great as is his size, with so much he thus lays him down. With two 
chants in Tristubh (he places him); for, he (the sun) is connected to 
Tristubh. Having placed him, he recites the Sudadohasa; the significance 
of which has already been said. 

7. He then sings a Saman. For,the gods, having laid down that 
man, when they observed him, he was like a dried up wooden plank. 

8. They said (to themselves)Ponder over this, as to how we may 
put vigour into this man”. They said, “Meditate”, whereby they meant 
‘intend to build up’ and they intended as to how we may put vigour into 
this man. 

9. By meditating they discovered this Saman and they sung it and 
thereby put vigour into him. In the same manner, this \ajamana puts 
vigour into him. He sings on the man and puts vigour into the man. He 
sings on the shining one. Whatever is shining, all that is Agni. After laying 
him down, let him not walk in his front-side lest that Agni should injure 
him. (Second Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAIII 

1. He then stands in prayer (by the gold man) with the chants 
called Sarpanamas. These worlds are serpents; for, they with all these 
present here go on moving ( sarpanti ). This Agni which is here is the body 
of all the gods. Those gods having placed (on that altar) that self of 
theirs, became scared lest these worlds should slip away with that body ol 
theirs. They (gods) saw those Rks called Sarpanamas and with them they 
prayed. Through those (Rks), they held back (from slipping) those 
worlds and caused them to turn (anamayan) . Hence they are called 
Sarpandma. In the same manner, when this Yajamana stands in prayer 
with these Sarpandma IVts, he blocks these worlds for him and makes 
them turn (bend). Thereby he does not allow them to slip away with their 

bodies. 

2. And again, why he stands in prayer with the Sarpandma Rks is 
this -these worlds are serpents; for, whatever creeps, it creeps within 
these worlds. When he stands by praying with Sarpanamas, whatever evil, 
whatever destructive and whatever terrible is there, he contains them. 



IX.3.3.8] 


TRANSLATION 


65 


3. (He says) “Salutations to the serpents whichever are on earth, 
or in the aerial region or in the sky, to all those serpents I prostrate . 
Thus he pays homage to the serpents in these three worlds. 

4. (He says) “Those that are the arrows of demons” because some 
of them (serpents) sent by the demons, bite. “Those attached to the trees 
and those that lie in the holes — to those (serpents), I prostrate. Thus he 
pays homage to the serpents in the trees and those that lie inside the 

holes. 

5. (He says) “Those that are in the luminous region of the sky and 
those that are in the rays of the sun and those which have their abodes in 
the waters — to those serpents, I prostrate. Thus he pays homage to 
them wherever they may be. He does so by repeating namah , namah 
(homage-homage) and namah is same as sacrifice and it is through 
sacrifice that he worships them or make them bend. That is why it is said 
that one should not prostrate to anything unfit for sacrifice. It is because, 
this saying namaste will amount to sacrifice unto you. 

6. With three ( Rks) he stands in prayer. Three are these worlds 
and also Agni is threefold; as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, by so 
much he stops these worlds from slipping away and by so much he 
pleases everything here. He prays standing because these woilds stand as 
thev were and moreover, one is stronger while standing. 

j 

7. Then he sits down and offers (on the goldman) ghee taken five 
times. The purport of this has been told. He offers moving round (the 
fire) each side; he thus pleases him (Agni) with food from all sides. 

8. Why he makes this offering - the gods having placed that body 
of theirs, became worried that the terrible Raksasas may attack this bod\ 
(of theirs). They then discovered these charms called Raksoghna (killers 
of Raksasas ) (starting with) “Put forth thy power like a mighty army”- 
these chants (called) Pvatisavas are indeed killers of Raksasas and with 
these charms, they having driven aw r ay all the terrible Raksasas from 
every direction, they fashioned that body (of Agni)—at a place frt c from 
danger and affliction. In the same way, this Yajamana, by means of these 
Pratisara chants drive away evil Raksasas from all diiections and fashion 
this body of his in a place free from danger and affliction. 



IX.3.4.3] 


TRANSLATION 


67 


9. He makes the offering with ghee; for, ghee is thunderbolt and 
with thunderbolt he strikes the evil Raksasas. (He offers ghee) taking five 
spoonfuls because Agm-altar is of five layers and the year has five seasons 
and the year is Agni; as great as Agni is; as great as is his size, with so 
much, he thus repels the terrible Raksasas. With Tristubh chants (he 
offers), for Tristubh is thunderbolt; by thunderbolt he thus repels the 
terrible Raksasas. On each side (he offers) going around and thereby he 
drives away the terrible Raksasas in every quarter, behind the altar facing 
east, then on the north facing the south; then in front facing the west; 
then going round and going behind to the right facing north and sitting. 
Thus he turns right and that is the divine way (of doing). Then turning 
and sitting behind facing east. Thus this act is performed towards east. 
(Third Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMAN AIV 

1. He then places the two offering sruks. Sruks are the arms and 
thereby he restores his arms to Agni. Why he places the sruks is because 
they represent the arms with their two bowls and handles (representing 
the palms and the hands). He places them at the sides (of the altar) 
because they are the arms at the sides. 

2. On the right side he places a sruk made of karsmarya wood. For, 
at that time the gods feared that the terrible Raksasas might attack them 
from the southern side. They then discovered this tree capable of killing 
Raksasas, by name karsmarya. With this tree they drove away on the 
southern direction, the terrible Raksasas and having dispelled them, they 
spread the sacrifice on a place free from danger and affliction. In the 
same manner, this Yajamana, having driven away the terrible Raksasas 
on the south, spreads this sacrifice at a place free from danger and 
affliction. It (the sruk) is filled with ghee and ghee is thunderbolt. 
Thereby he dispells the terrible Raksasas on the south with a 
thunderbolt. 

3. He then places this sruk made of udumbara wood on the 
northern side. Udumbara is strength and essence. By this he endows 
strength and essence unto it (altar). This sruk is filled with cui d and curd 
is sap. Thereby he makes it rich with sap. 



IX.3.4.8] 


TRANSLATION 


69 


4. Why he lays down these two sruks is this - when Prajapati became 
exhausted, Agni took away his valour and moved to the south and he was 
stay put there. Since Agni dragged out (krstvd —the valour) it became 
kdrsmarya. Subsequently, Indra pulled out his (Prajapati’s) lustre and 
moved towards the north. Hence it is called udumbara. Prajapati told both 
of them : “Both of you come and return to me what you have taken from 
me.” They replied, “Well, give us all the food”. Prajapati said, “Alright, I 
will give you all the food; you become my arms and take it.” That is why- 
all food is prepared by the hands and eaten by the hands, since Prajapati 
gave all food to the arms. 

5. He places the kdrsmarya sruk on the right side (saying), “I lay you 
down with the valour of Agni.” Thereby he restores that valour of 
Prajapati which Agni snatched away from him and moved to the south. 
(He says,) “Agni is the crest of the sky”. This is in Gayatrl metre and Agni 
is of Gayatrl; as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, with so much he 
thus lays down the sruk. This sruk is filled with ghee and ghee belongs to 
Agni. This amounts to gratifying Agni with his own share and with his 
own essence. 

6. Then he places the sruk made of udumbara on the northern side 
(saying) “I place you with the lustre of Indra". That same lustre which 
Indra dragged out (of Prajapati) and proceeded to the north, is now 
being restored to him. (He says,) “You are the leader of the sacrifice etc.” 
This sruk is indeed Indra. That it is being addressed with a Rk related to 
Agni is because the current performance is (in the context of) Agni (the 
altar). This verse is in Tristubh metre. Because Indra belongs to 
Tristubh and Agni (altar) combines Indra and Agni; as great as Agni 
is, as great as is his size, with so much, he lays it down. This sruk is filled 
with curd, for curd belongs to Indra and Indra is thus gratified with his 
own share and with his own essence. 

7. These two; Indra and Agni are his (Prajapati’s arms). They join 
him with valour and lustre . While he (Yajamana) bends down to see the 
goldman at close quarters, the spot on the ground which comes into 
contact with his supporting palm, that spot is marked for placing the 
sruks. That is the position of those two (arms). 

8. Now, some place them {sruks) on the sides (from south to 
north) thinking that the arms of a man stretch side ways. It is not to be 



IX.3.4.9] 


TRANSLATION 


71 


done so. Let him place them, bowl part pointing to the east, for, this Agni 
(altar) is built with the head towards the front. Moreover, this way the 
arms get stronger. He lays down the sruks separately, adjusts them 
separately and recites the Sudadohasa separately, because the two arms 
are separate. 

9. As to this some say, “No arms need be made for this goldman, 
since it would be a redundance to have these two sruks (when the human 
figure embossed on the gold has already two arms).” Let him, 
nevertheless provide him with these two arms (sruks). Because these 
sruks are only representing the arms. The two arms which are besides 
these, are the wings. Whatever forms, whatever stomas, prsthas and metres 
happen to be associated with this Agni- altar, are only innovations, of 
these two; developments of these two. Therefore this goldman should be 
provided with this pair of arms. (Fourth Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter Three Ends.) 



Chapter Four 


BRAHMANAI 

1. He places a naturally perforated brick on (the goldman). This 
earth is the (first) naturally perforated brick and thereby he places this 
earth itself on him. He places it in such a way that it is not separated from 
the goldman. Naturally perforated brick is food and naturally perforated 
is this earth. This earth is food since all food ripens on her. He thus 
places food close to him. He places it upon him, that is, he places food 
upon him. 

2. Why again, he places a naturally perforated brick - the naturally 
perforated brick is breath (vital air); for, breath on its own emerges 
through the body (svayamatrnna). He thus puts breath on him. He 
places it in such a way as not to be separated from the goldman. 
Naturally perforated is the breath and this earth is also naturally 
perforated. This earth is prana, since it bears everything that breathes. 
He thereby puts the breath so as not to be separated from him. He places 
it upon (the man) and thus puts breath upon him. 

3. Again why he places the naturally perforated brick is this. The 
gods collected the disjointed (parts of) Prajapati and dispersed 
separately. He (Prajapati) having obtained a resting place in those who 
were dispersing, settled down. Now that Prajapati who got disjointed is 
this Agni- altar, which is being built up now. That resting place (which he 
discovered) is this first naturally perforated brick. When he now puts it on 
(the man), he bestows that (resting place) which was there for his body. 
That is why he now places it (naturally perforated brick) here. 

4. He places it by means of Prajapati, for, Prajapati thereby took 
back to himself (that foundation) of his body. (He says) “Steady thou 
art” - that is, ‘firm or established you are’. “Supporting”- for, that which 
supports is the foundation laid down by Visvakarma (meaning) Prajapati 
and thus ‘laid down by him’ - (He says) “May not the ocean or the bird 
harm you” - here he means the gold piece by ocean and goldman by 
bird, thus (saying) ‘Let them not harm you.’ (He further says) “Not 
shaking, render the earth firm” - as the text, so the meaning. 



IX.4.1.8] 


TRANSLATION 


75 


5. “May Prajapati fix you” - for, it was Prajapati who discovered this 
first layer. (He says) “On the back of the waters and on the way of ocean” 
- the back of the waters is indeed the earth and that is the way of the 
ocean. (He says,) “You the wide, the broad” - for, this earth is both wide 
and broad. “Being broad, you widen” (which means) you expand 
because you are one who can widen. “You are Bhuh ” (who confers 
happiness to all). This earth is indeed Bhuh and so “Thou art this earth”, 
“You who are this earth are Aditi” ; for, this earth is Aditi; she is providing 
all these (enjoyable things), “You are all-supporting” - because all these 
are contained in her. “You are the bearer of this entire world”; 
(meaning) she, the earth, supports all these. “Sustain the earth - make 
firm this earth and do not harm the earth” - (which means) ‘O earth ! 
sustain thyself, make thyself steady and do not harm thyself, for, all the 
prana (out-breathing), apana (down-breathing), vyana (through- 
breathing), and udana (up-breathing) or the naturally perforated brick 
is the breath. “Prana or breath enables to serve as a resting place, a 
moving place; place for all these”(meaning) these worlds are the 
naturally perforated bricks and these worlds are the resting place and 
moving space. (He says) “May Agni protect you” (meaning) ‘let Agni 
guard you with mighty well-being’ i.e. with great consideration. “With 
safest roof’ (meaning) with a roof that affords best protection. After 
placing down that svayamatrnna, he recites the Sudadohasa chant; the 
significance of which has been explained. Then he sings Samans. Its 
purport will be explained later. 

6. Some ask - “How is this goldman not pressurised by the placing 
of this naturally perforated brick ?” (That is because) the svayamatrnna is 
food ; it is breath and a man is not crushed by food or prana. 

7. Then he places the durvestaka (brick in the form of durva 
grass). Durvestaka is cattle ( pasus ). It is with the cattle, he thus endows it 
(altar). These cattle are the very same which closely followed Agni when 
he on that former occasion, appeared (before Prajapati). He places it 
immediately upon svayamatrnna. The naturally perforated brick is indeed 
this earth and thus he places the cattle close to the earth; just upon it 
(earth) he places the cattle. 

8. And again why he lays down the durvestaka is this - when 
Prajapati got withered, his hair which were lying on the ground, became 
these herbal plants. The prana (vital air) then came out from the middle 



IX.4.1.11] 


TRANSLATION 


77 


of his body. With the exit of the prana he fell down. He (Prajapati) said, 
“It has undone ( dhurv ) me” and hence (the name) ‘dhurva . Dhurva is 
what is mystically called ‘ durva , since gods like mystic appellations. This 
(durva ) is the martial power ( ksatra ) for it is that vital sap, the prana. 
Other plants are the hair. By laying down that ( durva plant) he places all 
(kinds of) plants. When the gods replenished him (the withered 
Prajapati), they put that essence, the prana in the middle of the body. In 
like manner, this one (Yajamana) now puts it into him (Agni- altar). He 
lays it down closely upon the svayamatrnna. The naturally perforated brick 
being this earth, he places the plants close upon this earth. It {durua) 
should be with root and a tip for the sake of completeness. It should be 
laid down in such a manner that its roots touch the svayamatrnna, (its tip) 
touches the ground; for, on this earth those (plants) spring up and along 
her they grow. 

9. (He lays it saying) “Growing from joint to joint, knot to knot”- 
for, that (durva) grows up joint by joint and knot by knot. “Similarly make 
us proliferate, O Durva ! by a thousand and a hundred (descendents) — 
as the text, so the meaning. “You who spreads in hundreds and branches 
out by thousands” — for, it spreads by hundred (shoots) and branches 
out in thousands.“O divine Istaka ! we will pay homage to you by offerings 
- as the text, so the meaning. With two (formulas) he places it 
(duruestaka) . The purport of this has been explained. Having settled it, he 
recites the Sudadohasa upon it; the significance of this has been told. 

10. He then lays down the dviyajus brick (the brick which is to be 
laid down while chanting two Yajus formulae). Indra and Agni desired - 
“Let us go to the heavenly world.” They discovered this brick of two Yajus 

which is this earth. They laid it down and having laid it, they ascended to 

the heavenly world using this as a foothold (step). In the same way, this 
Yajamana, while laying down the dviyajus brick thinks - In which 
manner and after doing which act, Indra and Agni ascended the 
heavens, in that manner and after doing that act, let me go to the 
heavenly world*. That brick is called dviyajus since two deities discovered 
it. As to why he lays down a dviyajus ; the dviyajus, doubdess, is the Yajamana. 

11 . Now they raise the question -“If this dviyajus is the same as 
Yajamana, what becomes of that goldman (who was also identified with 
the Yajamana); which of these (two) is his real form. - ' \\ ell, that (form of 



IX.4.1.14] 


TRANSLATION 


79 


goldman) is his divine form and this (brick) is his human one (body). 
That which is goldman is his immortal form, his divine body; since gold is 
immortal. This (brick) being made of clay, this is his human (mortal) 
form. Were he to lay down only that (divine form of goldman) and not let 
this ( dviyajus ) remain there (laid down), the Yajamana would certainly 
before, pass away from this world. Now by letting it ( dviyajus ) remain 
there (by laying it down), he bestows upon him, this human form of his 
and thereby (the Yajamana) with his body lives the full span of life. Were 
he not to place it ( dviyajus ) after the goldman, he would not succeed in 
finding out his divine body. Now that he places it (his human body of 
dviyajus) on thereafter, he afterwards finds out that divine form. He lays 
(the dviyajus) close to the durvestaka. The durvestaka is cattle and thus he 
establishes the Yajamana near (possessed of) cattle. 

12. Now they question - “How do those two bodies of his (the divine 
form in gold and the human form in dviyajus) get connected to prana 
and become inseparable?” The naturally perforated brick is prana and 
the durvestaka is prana and the dviyajus brick is the Yajamana. By placing 
the durvestaka and the svayamatrnna close to each other, he links and 
joins prana with prana. By placing the dviyajus brick close to the durvestaka, 
the latter being prana and the former being the Yajamana, he makes his 
(two) forms connected by prana and they become inseparable. 

13. (While placing the dviyajus brick, he says)- “O Agni! what 
brilliance of yours is in the sun ” and “O gods! what brilliance of yours is in 
the sun” - by saying rucam, rucam (brilliance), (he means) immortality 
which is brilliance; thereby he bestows immortality on him (Yajamana). 
He places it with two Yajus formulae and its significance has been 
explained. Moreover it (the brick) is made of two materials; the clay and 
the water (hence also) it is laid with two formulae). After having settled it, 
he recites the Sudadohasa chant upon it; the purport of which has been 
told. 


14. He then lays down the two retassic bricks. These, two worlds are 
those retassics because they shed seeds (like these two worlds). This 
terrestrial world sheds seed upward from here in the form of smoke. That 
smoke becomes rain up above and that rain sheds from above. Thereby 
the creations are born within these two worlds. Thus these two worlds 
shed seeds.(He lays them down while chanting) “This all-ruling one 
contained this light” — this all-ruling one is doubtless, this terrestrial world 



IX.4.1.18] 


TRANSLATION 


81 


and it contains this light, the Agni. “The self-ruling one contained this 
light” — this self-ruling one is doubtless, the yonder sky and it contains 
that light, the yonder sun. The all-ruling one and the self-ruling one 
being these two worlds, he lays them down (in the form of the two retassic 
bricks) separately, for, these two worlds are separate. He settles them 
once. Thereby he makes them one and the same. That is why the ends 
of these two worlds meet (at the horizon). 

15. Again why he lays down the retassics is because the retassics are the 
testicles; for, only he with testicles sheds seed. “The all-ruling one 
contained light”, “the self-ruling one contained light”(he said); the all¬ 
ruling and the self-ruling are these testicles. They contain that seed, the 
creation. He lays them (bricks) separately because these testicles are 
separate. By settling them once, he makes them joined, whence these 
testicles are connected. He lays them down close to the dviyajus brick. 
The dviyajus brick is the Yajamana and thus he endows the Yajamana 
with testicles. 

16. He then lays down the visvajyoti brick. Indeed Agni is the first 
visvajyoti, because Agni is all the light in this world. It is Agni he thus lays 
down. He places it close to the retassic bricks. The retassics being these two 
worlds, he places Agni close to them. He places (the visvajyoti) in between 
the two retassics, because Agni is in between these two worlds. 

17. Again why he lays down the visvajyoti brick is this — the visvajyoti 
is progeny, for, progeny is the entire illumination (visva-jyoti). He thereby 
lays procreative power(into Agm-altar). He lays it down close to the 
retassic bricks. The retassics being the testicles, he places procreative power 
inseparable from the testicles. He places it between (those two retassics) 
because the progeny is produced within the testicles. 

18. While laying it down, he chants -“May Prajapati settle you”, for, 
it was Prajapati who discovered this first citi (layer). “On the back of the 
earth is this brilliant one” — for, the brilliant one, i.e. the Agni is on the 
back of this earth. “For all pranas, apanas&nd vyanas ”— visvajyoti is indeed 
prana and prana is (essential) for this whole universe. Give all the light 
(meaning) ‘may you endow light on the entire universe. Agni is your 
overlord” — thereby he makes Agni overlord of this earth. After settling, 
he recites the Sudadohasa chant. Its significance has been explained. 



IX.4.1.23] 


TRANSLATION 


83 


19. He then lays down the two rtavya bricks. These two rtavya bricks 
are the seasons and thus he places the seasons(while placing, he chants). 
“Madhu and Madhava, the two spring seasons” - these are the names of 
those two; thus by these names he lays them down. There are two bricks 
because two months are a season. He settles them once and thereby 
makes the two into one season. 

20. Why he is placing these (two rtavya bricks) is this - this Agni- altar 
is the year and the year is these worlds. Of them, this terrestrial world 
forms the first layer and the spring season is also this world; this year. By 
placing these here, he restores to the Agni- altar those two(the first layer 
and the spring season) which belong to his (Agm-altar's) body. 

21. Again why he places these ( rtavya bricks) here — this Agni- altar is 
Prajapati and Prajapati is the year. His foundation is the first citi and the 
spring season is also foundation of this year. By placing these here, he 
restores to Prajapati those two (the first layer and the spring season) 
which belong to his (Prajapati’s) body. Hence he places them(rtavyd 
bricks) here. He places them close to the visvajyoti brick. Visvajyoti is the 
progeny and he places the progeny unseparated from the seasons. That 
is why, progeny is produced in accordance with the seasons. Because 
people calculate (the age of man) by seasons both in his state of embryo 
and in the state of being born. 

22. Then he lays down the asalha (brick of that name). Asalha being 
this earth, it is this earth he thus lays down. He places it in the front half 
(of the altar-site) for, this earth was created first. Now why it is called 
asalha- the gods and Asuras, both of Prajapati, quarrelled. Those gods 
discovered this istaka, asalha, (in the form of) this earth. They placed it 
(in the altar) and by placing it, they overcame the Asuras, their spiteful 
rivals and drove them out of this universe. Inasmuch as they encountered 
and won (arahanta) , it is called asalha. In the same way this Yajamana, after 
laying that brick, drives away his spiteful enemy from this earth. 

23. Again why he places the asalha brick - asalha is speech and by 
means of speech, the gods then drove away the Asuras, their spiteful 
enemies from all these worlds. In like manner this \ajamana conquers 
his hateful foes by means of speech. (Then) the gods used only the 
speech (to vanquish the Asuras). In the same way, this Yajamana also 
employed speech (to vanquish his foe). 



IX.4.2.1] 


TRANSLATION 


85 


24. This earth is one that bears the desired (things) and pranas are 
the desired (things); for, this earth bears every breathing being. Hence it 
is that one which bears the desired (things). But speech (mouth) is also 
one that bears the desired (things), for, the pranas are desirable things. It 
is through the mouth that food is supplied to the pranas. Therefore, 
mouth is one that bears the desired (thing). That which is the asalha 
(brick) is (same as) all these pranas. He places it in the front part (of the 
altar). So these pranas are laid in front (of the Agni- altar). That is why the 
(channels of) pranas are in the front-side of (man's) body. He should not 
in this layer cover this ( asalha brick) in front with any other yajusmati 
brick, lest he obstructs the prana (passages). The reason for his placing 
the five apasya bricks in front (of this asalha) is because, ap (water) is food 
and by food the passages of pranas are not obstructed. He places the 
asalha close to the two rtavya bricks. Thus he establishes that speech in 
the seasons. This speech (mouth) getting established in the seasons, speaks. 

25. Now they (some) ask -“If visvajyoti is progeny and asalha is 
speech, why does he place the two rtavya bricks between them? The 
rtavyas being the year, he separates speech from progeny by the year and 
hence children start speaking after one year (on completion of one year 
of age). (He lays down asalha, chanting) “You are asalha, the conqueror” 
because the gods conquered Asuras by means of that. ‘Vanquish 
enemies! Vanquish the hostile! — as the text, so the meaning. You are 
thousand-powered, you speed me” — a thousand means all and (it 
means) ‘you have all powers; you encourage me . After settling it, he 
recites the Sudadohasa chant, the purport of which has been explained. 

26. Now they ask, “Why are those other bricks placed in front of the 
svayamatrnna ?” Let him reply - “There are two wombs; the one being 
the womb of the gods and the other the womb of humans. The gods 
have their birth in the east (or first) and the men have their birth in the 
west (or next). Now by placing these bricks in front (of the svayamatrnna 
which is the Yajamana), he causes the Yajamana to be born from the 
womb of the gods. (First Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAII 

1. He then places a(live) tortoise. Tortoise is indeed life-sap; and 
by this he actually puts life-sap into it (the altar). This tortoise is that life- 
sap of these worlds which oozed out from them when they got drowned 



IX.4.2.5] 


TRANSLATION 


87 


in the waters. That very sap he now lays down (on Agra-altar). The body is 
as much extent as the life-sap. So, that tortoise is these worlds. This 
(terrestrial world) is that lower shell of it. It is fixed as it were; for, this 
earth is fixed as it were. That upper shell of it is yonder sky. It has its 
edges bent down as it were; for, yonder sky has its edges (horizons) bent down as 
it were. What is in between (the shells) is the aerial region. Thus that (tortoise) is 
these worlds. By placing it, he lays down the three worlds themselves. 

2. He anoints it(tortoise) with curd, honey and ghee; curd is the 
form of this (terrestrial) world; ghee is the form of the aerial region and 
honey, of yonder sky. Thus he enriches it with its own life-sap. 

3. (He says) “Honey, the winds pour forth for the virtuous”- to 
whatever deity the Rk mantra or the Yajus formula refers, that very deity 
is that Rk mantra and that very deity is that Yajus formula. This set of 
three chants is honey and honey is life-sap; it is life-sap he thus supplies 
to him (the Agm-altar). With these three (chants) in Gayatrl metre the 
purport of this has already been explained. 

4. And why it is named kiirma is this - Prajapati, after having 
assumed that form, created living beings. When he created, he actually 
did (akarot) and inasmuch as he did ( kr ), he is called kiirma And it is same 
as Kasyapa. So it is said that all creatures are of Kasyapa. That which is 
tortoise is yonder sun. It is yonder sun whom he lays down (on the altar). 
He places it in front with the head towards the rear (west). He thus 
places that sun in the front side so that it moves towards the west. That is 
why, sun rises in the east and moves towards the west. (He places it) on 
the right side of the asalha brick, because, the tortoise is a male and the 
asalha a female and the male lies on the right side of the female. (It is 
placed) at a cubit away; for, the male lies at a cubit distance from the 
female. The asalha is the queen among bricks and being to the right side 
of asalha, it (tortoise) is on the right side of all the bricks. 

5. And again, why he places a tortoise is because the tortoise is the 
prana (breath), for, it is prana that makes all these creatures and thereby 
it is the prana, he places into him (the altar). He places it in front, with 
face towards the back (west) because prana is taken in from the front and 
goes backwards. He places it (tortoise) by the side of the goldman and 
thereby infuses prana into the Yajamana. He places it to the right of the 
asalha brick, for, the tortoise is prana and prana is the male partner of 
speech(the female). 



IX.4.2.9] 


TRANSLATION 


89 


6. (He places the tortoise saying) “ Be seated in the depth of the 
waters” for, yonder sun burns in the depth of the (heavenly) waters. “Lest 
the sun or Agni-Vaisvanara should scorch you” - (meaning)‘so that the 
sun or Agni-Vaisvanara does not harm you’. “Have an eye on the creatures 
whose wings are uncut” — these bricks are the creatures and they are 
undamaged or unbroken and(he means) ‘safeguard them. Let 
them (bricks) be drenched with divine downpour” -- (meaning) 
‘safeguard them by cooling them with divine rains . 

7. He then moves it (tortoise)(saying), “He travelled over the 
three oceans leading to the heavens” (meaning) these three oceans are 
the heavenly regions and they were traversed after assuming the form of 
tortoise’. “Lord of the waters; the bull among bricks” - for, indeed the 
tortoise is the lord of the waters and the bull (best) among the bricks. 
“Endowing cattle unto the Yajamana (covering the cattle in the form of 
bricks) go thee to that abode to which those with meritorious deeds have 
gone”— (meaning) ‘you go to that abode to which others (other tortoises 
earlier laid down in this manner on the altar) have gone’ i.e. you go there 
where your predecessors have gone by this performance. (He says) “The 
mighty sky and the earth; that is, the great sky and the earth, shall 
assemble this sacrifice of ours.” (It means) let the great sky and the great 
earth put together or protect this sacrifice of ours. They (sky and earth) 
shall fill us with nourishments.” That is, they shall nourish us with food. 
With the last (chant) relating to the sky and the earth, he places it 
(tortoise) down, for, the tortoise represents heaven and earth. 

8. With three chants he places it on (the altar) - for, there are 
three worlds and Agni is threefold; as great as Agni is, as great as is his 
size, by so much he thus places it. With three mantras he anoints it 
(tortoise) that makes six and the significance of this number is already 
explained. There are avaka plants below and avaka plants above (the 
tortoise). The avaka plant is water and he thus places it amidst waters. 
Having settled it, he recites the Sudadohasa chant upon it and the 
significance of this has already been said. 

9. He then places a mortar and pestle (on the altar). Visnu 
desired, “May I become an eater of food.” He discovered these two bricks, 
the mortar and pestle. He placed them on the altar and thereby he 
became annada (eater of food). In like manner, when this \ajamana 



IX.4.2.13] 


TRANSLATION 


91 


places a mortar and pestle thereon, he thinks ‘let me become an eater of 
food, in the same way in which Visnu became an eater of food.’ The 
mortar and pestle represent all (kinds of) food, for, it is by the mortar and 
pestle food is prepared by using them it (food) is eaten. 

10. He places it at a distance (to the north of the naturally 
perforated brick) as the retassic bricks are (to the east of the naturally 
perforated brick). Retassics are the ribs and ribs are in the middle of the 
body. He thus places food in his (Agm-altar’s) middle, i.e. on the upper 
side (of the svayamatrnna) . He places the food upon the altar at the 
distance of a cubit, for, food is eaten by hand (when it is) at a cubit 
distance. 

11 . They (the mortar and pestle) should be span long each, 
because Visnu as an embryo was measuring a span. These (mortar and 
pestle) being food, he thereby places food in (Agni-Visnu) equal to his 
body. Indeed that food which is proportionate to the body is healthy. It 
does not harm. If it is in excess, it affects; if less, it does not nourish. 

12. The mortar and pestle are of udumbara wood and udumbara is 
vigour and essence. Thereby he deposits vigour and essence into 
him (altar). Udumbara is the representative of all trees and placing these 
two (made of udumbara) he places all the trees. They are placed at a 
distance (equal to the distance of) retassic bricks. These two (worlds) are 
retassic (that drop seeds). This way he puts trees in these two worlds (sky 
and earth). That is why, there are trees in these two worlds. It(the 
mortar) has four corners. There are four quarters and it amounts to his 
placing the trees on all four quarters. It (the mortar) has a thin middle to 
give it the shape of a mortar. 

13. Again why he places the mortar and pestle-when Prajapati got 
exhausted, the vital air wanted to go out of him. He stopped it(from 
going out) by means of food. Hence prana(v ital air) is retained by food 
and he who eats food, breathes. When the vital air was kept back, the 
food was about to go out of him (Prajapati). He kept it back by means of 
breath, hence food is retained by prana and therefore he who breathes, 
eats food. When those two (anna and prana) were retained, strength 
wanted to go out of him. He stopped it by those two (food and breath). 
Hence strength is retained by those two (anna and prana) and that is why, 



IX.4.2.16] 


TRANSLATION 


93 


he who eats food, breathes and he gets strengthened. When strength was 
halted, those two {anna and prana) wanted to get out and they were 
stopped by strength. Hence these two are held by strength. That is why, 
he who is strong, he breathes and he eats food. These are thus retained 
by one another. Having kept them back by one another, Prajapati made 
them to enter unto his self. When that food entered (his self) all the gods 
entered along with it, for everything here is sustained by food. 

14. This verse is said in that connection - “Then he became that 
very breath”- for, he indeed became that prana. “Having become the 
great Prajapati” - for, he indeed became great when those gods entered 
him. “He became enjoyer after having obtained the (objects of) 
pleasure” - objects of pleasure are, of course, the vital airs and the food. 
Thus having obtained all that; “When he breathed the prana into the 
city” - city is indeed the body; he breathed in the prana into his self. 
Hence prana is god. It was Prajapati who breathed and so Prajapati is 
prana. That which is prana is same as this Gayatri. That which is food is 
this god Visnu. That which is udumbara (the wood out of which mortar and 
pestle are made) is the vigour (strength). 

15. He (Prajapati) said, “This ( udumbara ) has lifted me up 
(■udabhdrsit ) from all evil.” By saying udabhdrsit, it became udumbhara by 
name. Udumbhara became udumbara because gods like mystic 
appellations. He said, “Wide space (uru) shall be made (karat) for me.” 
Hence it is urukara which indeed became ulukhala (mortar), a mystic 
name, since gods like mystic appellations. That mortar is the womb of all 
pranas and the womb of the pranas is the head. It (the mortar)has the 
measure of a span (pradesa — length from the tip of the thumb to the tip of 
the forefinger), for, the head is of a measure of a span. (It is) four- 
cornered; for, the head is four-cornered as it were. It is thin in the middle; 
for the head is thin as it were in the middle. When the gods revived 
him (Prajapati), they put into him all these; prana, food and vigour in the 
middle part (of his body). In the same manner, this Yajamana places all 
these in this (altar). He keeps them at the same distance as the retassics. 
The retassics are the ribs and the ribs happen to be in the middle. In this 
way he places all these in the middle. 

16. (He places them by saying) “Notice the actions of Visnu. 
Actions mean ‘vigour ’ and it means ‘observe the exploits of Visnu. (He 



IX.4.2.20] 


TRANSLATION 


95 


says) “By which he obtained vratas.” Vratas mean food and it means ‘by 
which (exploits) he won food.’ “He is the worthy friend of Indra” — of 
course, he (Visnu) is the worthy partner of Indra. He places them (the 
mortar and pestle) with a chant related to two deities(Visnu and Indra) 
because the mortar and pestle are the two. He keeps them together so 
that those two deities become one; because food is one. After placing 
them, he recites the Sudadohasa chants, the purport of which has already 
been said. 

17. Now he places the ukha (the earthen pan). Ukha is the womb. 
This way, he places the womb in that(altar). He places it (ukha) upon the 
mortar, because mortar is the aerial region. That which is above the 
earth is the aerial region. The middle portion also is aerial region. So he 
places that womb in the middle. Thereby for all beings, the womb is in 
the middle, evert for the trees. 

18. And why he places the ukha - that Prajapati who disintegrated, is 
none else than this fire-pan (ukha). For, ukha is these worlds and 
Prajapati is these worlds. He places her (ukha) on the mortar. He 
thereby establishes it in all these i.e. prana, food and vigour and he places 
it in such a way that it is not separated from all that. Having then 
pounded the upasaya (the remaining clay after making the ukha) and 
having settled down the ukha, he puts that pounded upasaya in front of 
the ukha. This is its place. By this, it (upasaya) is not distanced from all that. 

19. Now the question arises —“ How can this clay (upasaya) be 
placed as if it is cooked or baked ?” Because, it is (prepared) according to 
a Yajus formula(according to a prescribed rule) and moreover whatever 
comes into contact with Agni-Vaisvanara is to be taken for one having 
been cooked and baked. 

20. (He places the ukha saying) “You are steady, you are 
supporting.” This has been explained. “ From here he was at first born, 
from these wombs, that knower of everything born” — because, from 
these wombs, indeed the Jataveda(the one who knows all the creatures) 
was born. Let him through, the Gayatrl, Tristubh and Anustubh metres, 
aware of his authority, carry the offerings to the gods - indeed he (Agni) 
knowing his authority carries the offerings to the gods by means of these 
metres. (He says) “For vigour, for wealth, you flourish, for strength, for 



IX.4.2.24] 


TRANSLATION 


97 


glory, for energy, for offspring” (means) for all that you flourish. “Thou 
art the emperor and thou art the self-ruling”; for, “He is the ruler of all 
and he rules over himself.” “May the two sarasvata walls protect thee” - 
sarasvata is the mind and Sarasvatl is the speech. These two (mind and 
speech) are the two walls and (it means) ‘may these protect you.’ With 
these two (chants), he places it ( ukha ); the purport of this has been 
explained, and moreover, it has two forms, i. e. that of clay and waters. 
After placing it, he recites the Sudadohasa chants; the significance of which 
has been told. 

21. Now on this, he makes offering. Earlier, seed in the form of sand 
has been put on it. Now he gives a shape to it. That is why, the seed after 
reaching the womb assumes a shape. He makes an offering of ghee, with 
the sruva (ladle) with the chanting of Svaha. With two mantras (he makes 
the offering); one of them has Agni as its deity and the other has Gayatri 
as its deity. The purport of this has been explained. (He says) “Yoke those 
good horses of thine - which run keeping up to your prowess. Becoming 
of one who fights in a chariot; yoke these horses efficient in calling these 
gods. O Agni ! Take thy position like the ancient Hota.” In both these 
mantras, the word ‘ yuf occurs. So they enable to place the seed in the 
womb. By this, the seed that is stationed in the womb does not get lost. 

22. If the fire in the ukha has been there for a full year, then, he 
should now make the offering, because, Agni maintained for a year, is 
everything. Whatever is preserved for a year is everything. If it (Agni) is 
not one maintained for a year, let him only stand by in prayer (without 
making the offering); for, the Agni which has not been maintained for a 
year is not everything; it is incomplete. That which is incomplete is 
worshipped. Nevertheless, let him make the offering. 

23. Now this Agni is a pasu{ animal) and even now here he is being 
rendered whole, complete and shaped. The naturally perforated brick is 
his downward prana ; the brick with two Yajus formulae is his hip. The 
retassics are his ribs; the visvajyoti brick is his chest-bone; the two rtavya 
bricks, his back; the asalha brick (forms) his neck; the tortoise is his head; 
and the vital airs in the tortoise are the vital airs in his head. 

24. Now that (Agm'-altar) he now builds up by raising towards the 
east. This Agra-altar is none else than yonder sun and from here upwards, 
he puts that sun eastward. That is why, yonder sun happens to rise up 
eastwards. 



IX.4.2.25] 


TRANSLATION 


99 


25. He now bends it towards the right side (by filling the altar from 
left to right). Thereby he makes the sun bend to the right side. That is 
why, the sun goes about around the right side of all these worlds. The 
ukha is the belly, the mortar is the womb; the ukha is above and the 
mortar below; for, the belly is above and the womb is below. The pestle is 
the penis and it is round; for, the penis is round. It is placed on the right 
side, because man lies on the right side of woman. The durvestaka (brick 
made of grass) is the food for the animal. The northern side of the altar 
is raised to a higher level. This Agni -altar is paiw(animal). That is why, the 
left side of the well-fed animal’s belly is bulging (raised than the right 
side). (Second Brahmana Ends.) 

(Chapter Four Ends.) 



Chapter Five 


BRAHMANAI 

1. Then he places the heads of the pasus (in the ukha) . The heads of 
pasus are pasus themselves and so he is only placing the pasus here. He places 
them in ukha. Ukha is these worlds and heads of pasus are pasus themselves. 
Thereby he places the pasus (cattle) in these worlds. That is why cattle exist 
in these worlds. 

2. Why he places them in the ukha - ukha is indeed the womb and 
heads of pasus are pasus themselves. He thereby establishes these cattle in the 
womb. That is why, animals that are being eaten and cooked do not get 
diminished (in number), for, he has indeed established them in the womb. 

3. And why he places the heads of pasus - because these heads are 
those excellences ( sriyah ). Those headless trunks are these five layers (of the 
altar). Those that form these five layers are these worlds and these worlds are 
verily this ukha. Thus when he puts the heads of the pasus in the ukha, he 
unites those trunks with those heads. 

4. He places them in the front so as they face backwards. Why it is 
done so is this - when Prajapati desired to seize the pasus (for sacrifice) they 
ran away fearing for their lives. He caught hold of them by means of pranas 
(vital airs) and having caught them by his pranas, he took them through his 
mouth, pushing them inside towards the back. 

5. That which the gods did, is being done now and here the pasus do 
not attempt to run away, because he does thus, thinking ‘what the gods did, 
let me do’. So he collects them by means of his vital airs and puts them into 
his self through the front towards the back. 

6. And again why does he place them (heads of pasus) Prajapati alone 
was here in the beginning. He desired, ‘let me produce food; may I go about 
reproducing’. He created animals from out of his pranas : man from his soul; 
horse from his eyes; cow from his breath; sheep from his ear and goat from 
his speech. Since he created animals out of his pranas and because man was 
fashioned from his soul, they say that man is the strongest among animals. 



IX.5.1.11] 


TRANSLATION 


103 


Soul is all the vital airs, for, it is in the soul all pranas are established. Since he 
created man from his soul, they say that man is all animals, for, they all belong 
to man. Having created that food, he put it into his self from the front 
backwards, hence whoever produces food, he consumes it from the front and 
reaches it inside. He puts (thatfood in the form oi pasus) in the ukha which 
is in the form of belly. He thus pushes the food into the belly. 

7. He now inserts gold pieces into each of them (the heads oipasus). 
Gold is prana and when slaughtered, prana goes out of them. By inserting 
gold pieces into them, he puts prana into them. 

8. Seven pieces he inserts into each (head), for, there are seven vital 
airs in the head, which he thereby puts into it. And if there are five pasus let 
him insert seven pieces five times, because he is placing those five pasus (in 
the ukha) and each of them has seven pranas. Thereby he puts vital airs in all 
of them. 

9. Even if there is only one pasu, some people insert five times seven 
pieces into it, thinking that five pasus are (in effect) putin and each is to have 
seven pieces so that all of them may be endowed with prana. Let him not do 
so. The forms of all pasus are contained in this one pasu and by inserting (seven 
pieces) into the single one, he virtually places vital airs in all of them. 

10. He first inserts into the mouth (saying), “Evenly flow the draughts 
of milk like rivers” — draughts of milk are food and that indeed evenly flows 
into his mouth. (He says) “I see the streams of ghee”-(by this) he refers to 
the libations to be offered in the Agni. (He further says) ‘The golden reed 
in the middle of Agni” - he thereby means obviously the goldman. 

11. Here (in the right nostril, he inserts a gold piece saying) ‘Thee, for 
praise. ^ For, praise means prana and it is with prana one praises. Here (in left 
nostril, saying), ‘Thee, for sheen”- for sheen means prana. It is by prana one 
shines and moreover only due to prana everything here becomes covetable. 
Here (in the right eye, saying) ‘Thee, for brilliance” - for, both the eyes are 
the glowing ones. Hereunto the right ear, saying,) ‘Thee, the vajin," 
meaning sacrifice — ‘of all this universe and of Agni - Vaisvanara.' Here (in the 
left ear, saying) “Agni who shines with his lustre and gold piece which is 
shining with its lustre.” These two mantras contain the word ‘all’ for the ear 
is ‘all’. (First Brahmana Ends.) 



IX.5.2.6] 


TRANSLATION 


105 


BRAHMANAH 

1. Thus he places human head. Thereby he honours it. (He says,) 
“You the giver of thousands, I give it to you for thousand. ” A thousand means 
everything and (he means) you are the giver of everything and for the sake 
of(obtaining) everything, I honour thee. 

2. He then places there (heads) in the ukhd. First he places that of 
man. Thereby he wins man by prowess and places him in the middle. The 
other pasus he places on all the four sides. This way he arranges them as 
eatables for man. That is why man is in the middle of the cattle as one who 
eats them. 

3. He then places the horse and the ram on the north side and 
thereby puts those two cattle in that region. That is why these two are found 
in plenty in that direction. 

4. He places the head of the bull and of the he-goat on the southern 
side. That is why the southern direction has abundance of these two animals. 

5. He places (the head of the) goldman on milk. Milk means catde 
and thus he establishes the Yajamana among the cattle (saying), “Unite 
embryo in the form of sun with milk, with embryo.” The man is indeed the 
sun. (He means) you anoint him with milk. “Him the replica of thousand 
(forms) and universal form. Save him from being burnt by Agni; let not harm 
befall him; make him live a hundred years while you are built. ” No doubt, the 
embryo is the sun and he is the maker of a thousand, for, to him belongs 
everything. He thereby makes the one (man) among animals live a hundred 
years.That is why among animals, man alone lives for a hundred years. 

6. He then places (the head of) the horse on the northern side (saying), 
“The speed of the wind.” This horse is indeed, speed of the wind, “Varuna’s 
navel.” For, the horse is Varuna. ‘The horse emerging from the middle of 
the floods” - the flood is waters and the horse is water-born. (Further he 
says) “The brain-child of the rivers found amidst the rocks”- rock means 
mountain and the waters emerge from the mountains. (He says) “Agni in the 
farthest skies, you do not harm him.” These worlds are the highest skies and 
he means to say do not harm him in these worlds. 



IX.5.2.11] 


TRANSLATION 


107 


7. Then he places (the head of) the bull (saying), ‘Thee indestructible 
red dot”- the dot is sound and that bull is the same as the imperishable Soma 
Bhuranyu. It means the one who protects and he says, I worship Agni 
everywhere moving, by my prostrations” - because cow is sacred for Agni. He 
is everywhere moving because they hold him upwards the east and wait upon 
him there. “One who is put to shape, joined limb by limb” - when this Agni- 
altar is being built up, he is shaped stage by stage. “Do not harm Aditi, which 
shines forth” - for, cow is one which shines forth all around. Food is that 
which shines forth and so cow is food. 

8. Then he places (the head) of ram (saying), “The defender of 
Tvasta and the navel of Varuna”— for, ram belongs to Varuna and Tvasta. 
“The ram which has emerged in the far-off horizon” - the ear is the far-off 
horizon and the quarters are the ear and so the quarters are the distant 
horizon. “It is the biggest manifold deceit of Asuras; “O Agni! do not harm 
him in that far-off sky” — these worlds are the far-off skies and he only 
says,“Do not harm him in these worlds.” 

9. Then on the southern side he places (the head ) of he-goat 
(saying), “That fire which was born of fire” - of course, Agni is born out of 
Agni (for the fire to be placed on the altar is taken out of the Garhapatya fire). 
“Out of the pain of the earth or also of the sky”-for, that which is born from 
the mortification of Prajapati is really born from the pain of the earth and of 
the sky. “By which the maker of the universe produces the creatures” 
(means) speech is he-goat and out of the speech Visvakarma (creator) 
created the living beings. “Agni, save us from wrath” - as the text, so is the 
meaning. Thus these are the pasus which are placed (in the ukha ) separately. 
They are established in it separately and consecrated by reciting individual 
Siidadohasa chants; because the pasus are different. 

10. He then places the head of man. Thereby he renders man fit for 
sacrifice among the animals. That is why out of the animals, man alone 
performs sacrifice. 

11. Inasmuch as he makes offerings on him (man), he infuses vigour 
into this head. He makes offerings with ghee and ghee is thunderbolt and 
vigour is the same as thunderbolt. So he bestows vigour unto it. He offers it 
with Svahaktira and Svahakara is a male (representing masculine energy) and 
thereby he only endows it with vigour. With a Tristubh chant he offers and 
Tristubh is a thunderbolt and vigour is thunderbolt. Therefore, with the 
vigour of Tristubh he endows it. 



TRANSLATION 


109 


IX.5.3.4] i -- 

12 . Having recited the half-verse (of the Rk) he utters Svahakara. The 
Rk is a bone and having split that skull-bone which is inside the head, he lays 

vigour into it. 


13. Having recited the latter half of the verse (the Rk), he utters the 
Svahakara. After joining that skull-bone which is on the top of the head, he 
lays vigour into it. 

14. (He says) ‘The shining front of the gods has emerged’-this Purusa 
is yonder sun and he indeed emerges as the face of the gods. The eye of 
Mitra, Varuna and Agni ’’-for, he is the eye of both gods and men.” “He has 
pervaded heaven and earth and the aerial region” -by rising up he fills all 
these worlds (with light). “Suryais the soul of the movable and the immovable” 
- for, he is indeed the soul of all that moves and all that is stationary. (Second 

Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMANAffl 

1. He then worshipfully stands by(the heads) chanting the Utsarga 
mantras. For, once when Prajapati was about to slaughter the pasus, they 
while about to be slaughtered, were pained and he dispelled those pains by 
means of these Utsargas. In the same way this one (Yajamana), by these 
Utsargas, drives away their pain, the sin. 

2. Some drive away the pain, as and when they place each of the 
heads, thinking that they otherwise may put pain thereon. But it is they who 
actually put the pain thereon, for, the pain they remove from the previous 
one, they put on (the altar) with succeeding one. 

3. Some in reverence get up and move around thinking that thei eby 
they are removing the pain upwards. But actually they indeed follow the 
pain, the evil upwards; for, the Yajamana indeed goes upwards by this 
sacrifice and by this they drive the pain also upwards. 

4. It should be removed outside the fire-altar, because that fire-altar is 
these worlds and thereby he dispels the pain out of these worlds. He dispels 
it outside the vedTr, the vedt is this earth, and thus he puts it out of this earth. 
He stands facing north while doing so; because those pasus are in that 
direction. He thus puts the pain in the direction where those pasus are. 



IX.5.3.8] 


TRANSLATION 


111 


5. First he removes the pain of man; it is the man’s, he first dispels by 
saying, “Do not hurt this two-footed animal”. The two-footed animal is 
indeed man and he only says ‘do not hurt man . O One-thousand-eyed, 
who are built up for medhas ’- the thousand-eyed is indeed Agni, because of 
the gold pieces. ‘For medhas means ‘for food’. “O Agni! kindly accept the 
pseudo-man as food”— a kimpuTiisa is a pseudo-man and thus he pleads 
‘ kindly accept a pseudo-man as food. ’ “With that you build up your forms and 
get established” - meaning ‘get your form built up with that food and get 
established’. The form is the body and he only says ‘thus get yourself built 
up and be established.’ “Letyour burning heat reach the kimpuvusa, let the 
burning heat reach him whom we hate” - thereby lays the burning heat into 
the pseudo-man and into the man whom he hates. 

6. Then he removes the pain of the horse saying, “You do not harm 
this one-hoofed animal” — the one-hoofed animal is, no doubt, the horse 
and thus means to say ‘do not harm that horse’. ‘The swift-runner, neighing 
among the runners” for, he is indeed neighing and is a runner among the 
runners. ‘The wild beast I do assign to you” - he thereby assigns to him the 
wild beast. “With that you build up your forms and get established,” which 
means ‘with that, fashion your body and get settled.’ “Let your burning heat 
reach the beast; let your burning heat reach him whom we hate”- thereby 
he lays that burning heat into the beast and into whom he hates. 

7. Then he removes the pain of the bull saying,‘This thousandfold, 
hundred-streamed well”— of course the bull (cow) is indeed thousandfold 
and hundred-streamed. ‘The one who has expanded in the middle of the 
flood” — these worlds are the flood and thus it is the one who is subsisting in 
these worlds. “The unending milking ghee for man” — this cow is indeed 
inexhaustible in milking ghee for man. “O Agni situated in the highest 
regions, do not hurt us. ” The highest regions are these worlds and he means 
to say ‘do not harm it in these worlds.’ ‘The wild buffalo, I offer to you” — 
thereby he offers to him the gavaya. “You build up with that, your forms and 
get settled.” It means ‘by building up your forms get yourself perfect.’ “Let 
your burning heat reach the buffalo; let your burning heat reach him whom 
we hate” — thereby he lays the burning heat into the buffalo and into them 
whom he hates. 

8. Then he dispels the pain of the sheep, saying, ‘This woollen,” 
which means the sheep having wooly body. ‘Navel of Vanina- the sheep is 
sacred to Varuna. ‘The skins of animals which are two-footed and four- 



TRANSLATION 


113 


IX.5.3.11] 


footed” - that is because sheep is indeed the skin (the cover) of both kinds 
of animals; the two-footed and the four-footed. The first birth-place of the 
creatures produced by Tvasta’ — for, Tvasta indeed found this sheep as the 
first form. “O Agni! do not harm him in the highest region.” The highest 
region is these worlds and thus he means to say ‘do not harm him in these 
worlds.’ The wild buffalo I offer to you”—thereby he assigns the wild buffalo 
to him. “You build yourself up your forms and get established” — meaning 
‘with these,you perfectyour form.’ “Letyour burning heat reach the buffalo, 
let your burning heat reach him whom we hate” -he lays burning heat into 
the buffalo and into him whom he hates. 


9. Then he removes all the pain of the he- goat saying, “The he-goat 
was indeed produced from the heat of Agni. ” That which was produced from 
Prajapati’s heat was, of course, produced from Agni’s heat. He saw the 
creator at first’- the creator doubtless is Prajapati and he saw Prajapati at first. 
‘Thereby the gods at first reached divinity ’ — the he-goat doubtless is speech 
and by the speech the gods reached divinity or the summit. Thereby they 
went to the height, the wise’ meaning they went to the heavenly world by 
wisdom. ‘The wild sarabha (a horse-like animal with six feet and wings), I 
offer to you.’ Thereby he offers the wild sarabha to him. ‘You build up your 
form with that and get setded;’ by which he means ‘you fashion your body 
and get established.’ ‘Let your burning heat reach the sarabha ; let your 
burning heat reach the one whom we hate’ - thereby he lays the burning 
heat into the sarabha and into him whom he hates. 

10. Now they say, The pain, the evil of these pasus which Prajapati thus 
dispelled, became these five animals.” They, with their sacrificial essence 
gone out of them, are bereft of the essence and hence unfit for sacrifice. The 
Brahmana should not eat of them. He sends them to that region so that the 
water-laden clouds do not rain there. 


11. After returning to the fire, he stands worshipfully; for, when he 
goes outside the vedi when the Agni is only half built, he is committing an 
offence. He now makes amends for that, so that Agni does not injure him. 
He stands in reverence chanting a verse and thus makes amends to that 
Agni. The chanting is with averse undefined and undefined means everything. 
Thus he makes amends with everything. He makes amends with a verse 
containing the word Yavistha(youngest) . This is with reference to the favourite 



IX.5.4.4] 


TRANSLATION 


115 


form of Agni; for, when he was born he took possession of everything here 
and he is the youngest ! ‘O youngest ! protect the men and the one who 
liberally worships you the one who liberally worships is the Yajamana and 
the men are the people. ‘You hear the praise;’ with reference to this verse of 
praise. ‘You protect my relations and myself the word relations’ refers to 
offspring and it means ‘protect both, the offspring of the Yajamana and the 
Yajamana himself.’ (Third Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMAN AIV 

1. Having climbed the altar and gone round behind the naturally 
perforated brick, he lays down the apasya bricks. These apasyas are the same 
as waters. Waters have gone out of these pasus and laying the apasya bricks, 
he puts waters into them. He places them close to the (heads of) pasus. He 
places the apasya bricks in sets of five; for, these pasus are five in number. He 
places them on all sides and thereby puts waters into all of them. 

2. The first fifteen are apasyas. Waters are verily the thunderbolt and 
thunderbolt is fifteenfold. Hence wherever the waters flow, there they 
destroy evil; because it is the thunderbolt that destroys evil in that area. So 
while it rains, one should move out uncovered, thinking ‘ let this thunderbolt 

destroy my sin’. 

3. The last five bricks are chandasyds. The metres ( chandasyds) are the 
same as cattle and metres are food and food is the flesh of animals. The flesh 
of these pasus came out and so he puts flesh into them by placing these 
chandasyds. He keeps them close to the (heads of) pasus and thereby puts 
flesh close to those pasus. The apasyas are inside and the chandasyds are 
outside; for, the waters are inside and the flesh outside. 


4. Now they ask -“If these are waters and the others are flesh, then 
where is the skin and where the hairs?” Well, the skin of the pasus is food and 
the hairs of the pasus are food. By placing the chandasyds, themselves, skin is 
provided and they are the hairs as well. Or, those goats’ hair which are kept 
in the ukha are the hairs. The ukhais outside and the heads of the pasus are 
inside; because the hairs are outside and the body is inside. Hence Sandilya 
said, “This way or that way, we see that the pasus are completely made up 
(with all their parts) 



IX.5.4.12] 


TRANSLATION 


117 


5. Now why he places the apasyas — when Prajapati got exhausted, 
waters came out of him. When the waters came out, he shrank or lied low. 
Since he shrank (vis) there are twenty ( vimsati ) of these (bricks). Waters 
flowed out of his fingers; the fingers being the end, the waters flowed out 
through the fingers. This Agni-A tar which is being built up is the same as that 
disjointed Prajapati and those waters which flowed out of him are these 
apasyas. So when he lays down those (apasyas), he puts back those waters 
which flowed out of him. That is why he lays them down now. 

6. “I place you on the way of waters ”-(so saying, he places the first 
apasya) , which is the way of waters, for, waters flow this and that way when the 
wind blows here and there. He lays down the first brick — the wind. 

7. “In the upsurge of the waters, I place you”-(so saying, he places the 
second apasya) . The plants are the upsurge of waters, because wherever there 
is upsurge of waters, there the plants grow. So he places this brick in the 
plants. 

8. “I place you in the ashes of waters”-(so saying, he places the third 
apasya). The cloud is indeed the ash of waters. In the cloud, he places this 
brick. 


9. “In the light of the waters, I lay you down”-(so saying, he places the 
fourth). The lightning is the light of the waters. So he places this brick in the 
lightning. 

10. “In the abode of waters, I place you”-(so saying, he lays down the 
fifth brick). The abode of waters is indeed the earth; for, it is on the earth the 
waters flow. This brick he lays down on this earth. Whatever water flowed 
from those five forms of his, those waters he now puts back into him. Those 
forms themselves he thereby restores to him. 

11. “In the flood, the home, I place you ” - the flood is prana and in the 
prana, he lays it down. 

12. “In the ocean, the home, I place you”- the ocean is the mind. From 
mind i.e. ocean, with speech as shovel, the gods dug out the Trayi (Vedic 
lore). There is a verse recited in this connection -‘That which the gods dug 
out of the ocean with sharp shovels, let that true god today know as to where 



IX.5.4.21] 


TRANSLATION 


119 


they deposited that gift (namely Trayl Vidya ).” The ocean is the mind; speech 
is the sharp shovel, and the gift is the Trayl Vidya (triple Vedic lore). This is 
what this verse implies. He places that brick in the mind. 

13. “In the stream, the home, I setdeyou”-stream is indeed the speech 
and in the speech, he places it. 

14. “In the abode of waters, I place you”- the abode of waters is the eye,, 
because it is there that water is always found. So he places it in the eye. 

15. “In the resting place of waters, I place you”- the resting place of 
waters is indeed the ear. Thus he places it in the ear. Those waters which thus 
flowed out of his forms, those he now puts back into him and thereby he 
restores those forms to him. 

16. “I settle you in the seat of waters” - the seat of waters is the sky, 
because it is in the sky that the waters are stationed. So he lays it down in the 
sky. 


17. “I place you in the region of the waters” - the region of waters is 
indeed the aerial region. So he places it in the aerial region. 

18. “I lay you down in the womb of the waters” - the womb of waters is 
of course the ocean and thus he places it in the ocean. 

19. “I place you in the sediment of waters” - the sediment of waters is 
indeed the sands and in the sands, he places it. 

20. “I lay you down in the resort of waters”- the resort of waters is food 
and thereby he places it in the food. So from whatever forms (of Prajapati) 
waters flowed out, those waters he now puts back into him and thus restores 
those very forms to him. 

21. “I settle you with Gayatri metre; I settle you with Tristubh metre; I 
lay you down withjagad metre; I place you with Anustubh metre; I settle you 
with Pahktl metre”- thus from whatever of the metres, waters flowed out(of 
Prajapati) those he restores to him and he puts back those metres into him. 



IX.5.4.22] 


TRANSLATION 


121 


22. These (bricks) are fingers. He places them on all sides; for, these 
fingers (and toes) are on all sides. He places them at the ends because these 
fingers are at the ends. He places them in four sets, because these fingers are 
in four sets. He places five of them each time, because there are five fingers 
(or toes) in each limb. He places them separately, since the fingers are 
separate. Each set, he settles once (i. e. settles each set of five together) and 
makes each set one unit because in each set five fingers are linked together. 
(Fourth Brahmana Ends.) 

(Chapter Five Ends.) 

HASTIGHATA KANDA ENDS. 



CITI KANDA 

Chapter One 
BRAHMANAI 

1. He places the prdnabhrt bricks( on the first layer of the citi). 
Prdnabhrt being vital airs, he thereby infuses prana into it. He lays them 
down on the first layer because the first layer is the front of Agni(altar). 
Thus he infuses prana in the front. That is why these (creatures) have vital 
air in front. 

2. He lays them down in tens, for, there are ten pranas. Tens may 
also mean many times; but here they mean only ten (in one lot). Five times 
(the lots of) ten are placed. Thereby he places in those five (kinds of) pasus 
(sacrificial animals) and each pasu has ten vital airs. He lays them (near the 
heads of the pasus) , so that these ( pranas) are not separated from the 
pasus. He places them all around so that on every side they are endowed 
with vital airs. 

3. Why he places the prdnabhrt bricks—when Prajapati got exhausted 
(by creating the beings), his vital airs departed from him. He addressed 
them {pranas) who had assumed divine forms — “You return; come back to 
my body from where you have gone (so that this body of mine will be 
rejuvenated).” They said, “O Prajapati ! You produce that type of food by 
seeing which, we can be with you”. Prajapati said, “Alright let us together 
produce that food.” They said, “Be it so.” Thus Prajapati and those pranas 
together created this food which are the prdnabhrt bricks. 

4. He places them on the front side (saying),‘This indeed is the 
existing {bhuva) in front” — In front doubtless is Agni and why he refers to 
Agni as in front is because they take out the fire (from the Garhapatya) 
towards the front side and tend the fire in front. Now, why they say bhuva 
(existing) is because the vital air itself, in the form of Agni, exists in the 
front (i.e. Ahavaniya). So he places that very prana in the form of fire (by 
placing prdnabhrt in front). 

5. (He says) “Of that Bhuva (Agni existing) was born this prana ” — 
for, prana was indeed produced by that bhuva (Agni). “Of that bhauvaka 



X.l.1.8] 


TRANSLATION 


125 


(prana) was made the Vasanta for, the spring season was born from that 
prana. “Of that Gayatri, the Gayatra was born” — for the Gayatra Saman was 
the son of Gayatri metre. “Of that Gayatra was born the Uparhsu — for, the 
Uparhsu graha ( soma cup called Uparhsu ) was the son of Gayatra Saman. Of 
that Uparhsuwas born the Trivrt”- for the stoma (nine-versed hymn) called 
Trivrt was the offspring of the Uparhsu graha. “Of that 7 rivrt was born the 
Rathantara” — for, the Prstha (Saman of praise) called Rathantara came 
out of the Trivrt stoma. 

6. (He says) “The Rsi Vasistha” - for, Rsi Vasistha (i.e. sustenance 
of the body and its sense-organs) is indeed prana. Inasmuch as it is the best 
thing, it is Vasistha ( the excellent). Or, inasmuch as it is the best abiding 
principle living in the body, it is Vasistha. “By you taken hold by Prajapati” - 
it means ‘by you created by Prajapati.’ “I take the breath for my 
descendants”- (so saying) he infuses the prana from the front side. He lays 
down (these bricks) individually and thereby he lays into it the individual 
desires of the vital airs. He settles them only once and thus he makes them 
into one prana. If he were to set them separately, he would have split the 
prana to pieces. This istakd is threefold; the Yajus formula, the settling and 
the Sudadohasa chant. That is threefold and Agni is threefold. As great as 
Agni is, as great as is his size, so much he lays down by doing so. 

7. (He places) on the right side (saying) ‘This one on the right, the 
Visvakarma” — for, this wind which blows is the maker of this univeise 
because he makes all these. Since he says “On the right,” it (the wind) blows 
most in the south. Wind having become the mind, gets stationed on the 
right side of the body. It is that form (of the wind) that he now bestows (on 
the altar). 

8. (He says) “His mind Vaisvakarman” — because from that form of 
Vayu, the mind (Vaisvakarman) was made. “Summer, the manasa - for, out 
of that mind, the summer season (manasa) was made. Tristubh, the 
graisma” — for, out of that summer season, the metre Tristubh ( graisma) 
was made, "Svara Saman, the Traistubha” - for, out of that Tristubh metre, 
the Svara Saman (Traistubha) was made. “ Antaryama , the Svara” — for, out 
of that Svara Saman, the Antaryama graha (the soma cup of that name) 
(Svara) was made. “ Pahcadasa stoma, of Antaryama — for, the fifteenfold 
stoma chant (or collection of fifteen Saman prayers made of fifteen stotnya 
Rks) was made out of the Antaryama graha. “The Brhad, of the Pahcadasa 
stoma for the Brhat prstha was made out of the fifteenfold Saman hymns. 



X.l.1.12] 


TRANSLATION 


127 


9. (He says) ‘The Rsi Bharadvaja” — for, Rsi Bharadvaja is indeed 
mind. Vaja means food and he who possesses a mind, possesses ( bharati) 
vaja (food). Therefore, Rsi Bharadvaja is the mind. “By you taken hold of 
by Prajapati” — (it means) ‘by you who are created by Prajapati.’ “I take the 
mind for my descendants” — (so saying) he introduces the mind from the 
right side. He lays down (these ten bricks) separately. Thereby he introduces 
into it what separate desires there are in the mind. He settles them only 
once and by that he makes them into one mind. If he were to settle them 
separately, surely he would have cut the mind into pieces. This brick is 
threefold and the purport of this is same as said earlier. 

10. (He lays down) on the western side (back) (of the altar) saying 
“This one at the rear, the all-encompasser” — the all-encompasser is indeed 
yonder sun; for, when he rises, this universe gets aroused. Since he refers to 
him as ‘at the rear,’ one sees him only when he moves westward. The sun 
indeed, having become the eye, got stationed behind. It is that form he 
bestows now (on the altar). 

11. “His eye, the Vaisvavyacasa"— because out of that form of the sun 
(Visvavyacas , the all-encompassing), the eye ( Vaisvavyacasa ) was made. 
“Rainy season, the caksusya” — for, the metre Jagati was made out of the 
rainy season. “Rksama, of the Jagati” — for, from out of the Jagati metre, the 
Saman called Rksama was made. “Of Rksama, the Sukra" — for, the Sukra 
graha (the soma cup of that name ) was made out of the Saman called 
Rksama. “Of Sukra the seventeenfold” — for, the seventeenfold stoma 
(collection of seventeen hymns called Saptadasa stoma ) was made out of 
the Sukra graha. “Of the Saptadasa stoma, the Virupa— for, the prstha called 
Vairupa was made out of the seventeenfold stoma. 

12. (He says) ‘The Rsi Jamadagni” — for, the eye doubtless, is the Rsi 
Jamadagni; because it is with the eye the jagat (the animate world) sees 
and thinks. Therefore, the Rsi Jamadagni is the eye. “By you taken hold of 
by Prajapati ” — (it means) ‘by you who are created by Prajapati. I take the 
eye for my descendants” — (so saying) he introduced the eye from behind. 
He lays down these (ten bricks) separately. Thereby he introduces what 
separate desires there are in the eyes. He settles them only once and by 
that he makes them into one eye. If he were to setde them separately, surely 
he would have cut the eye to pieces. This brick is threefold and its significance 
is explained earlier. 



X.l.1.17] 


TRANSLATION 


129 


13. (He lays down) on the upper north side (saying), ‘This one the 
upper side, the heaven” — for, the quarters are in the upper sphere. Why 
he refers to them as on the upper side is because the regions are indeed 
above everything (on this earth). Why he says ‘The heavens’ is because 
the regions indeed are the heavenly world. The regions having become 
the ear, got stationed in the upper sphere. It is that form, he now bestows 
on (Agm'-altar). 

14. “His ear, the Sauva — for, out of that form the quarters made the 
ear. “Of the ear, the autumn” — for, the autumn season was made out of 
the ear. “Of the autumn, the Anustubh”- for, the Anustubh metre was 
made out of the autumn season. “Of the Anustubh, the aikam," for the 
Saman called Aika was made out of Anustubh metre. Of the Aika, the 
Manthi— for, the Manthi graha (the soma cup called ManthT) was made out 
of the Aika Saman. “Of the Manthi, the Ekavimsa ” — for, the twenty-onefold 
stoma chant (a collection of twenty-one Samans called Viraja — was made 
out of Ekavimsa stoma ). 

15. (He says) “The Rsi, Visvamitra” - for, the ear, is doubtless, Rsi 
Visvamitra — for, it is with the ear one hears from every side and from all 
sides he has friends ( mitra ). Therefore, the ear is ito Visvamitra. “By you 
taken hold of by Prajapati ” — meaning ‘you created by Prajapati’. “I take 
the ear for my descendants” — (so saying) he introduced the ear from the 
northern side. He lays down these (ten bricks) separately. Thereby he 
introduces what separate desires there are in the ear. He settles them only 
once and by that he makes them into one ear. If he were to settle them 
separately, he would have split the ear to pieces. This brick is threefold and 
the purport of this is as explained earlier. 

16. (He lays down)in the middle (saying),‘This one above,the rrmti'- 
for, the moon is indeed above. As to why he says ‘above is because the 
moon is above. Why he refers to it as ‘ mati is because speech is mind. It is 
by speech that all these (beings) think. It is the speech having become the 
moon; got stationed above. It is that form he now bestows on it (Agm-altar). 

17. “Speech, of the mind”- for, the speech was made out of that form, 
the moon. “Of the speech, the winter” - for, the winter season was made 
out of speech. “Of winter, the Pahkti” - for, the Pahkti metre was made out 
of the winter season. “Of the Pahkti, the Nidhanavat for, the Saman called 



X.l.2.2] 


TRANSLATION 


131 


Nidhanavatwas made out of Parikti metre. “Of Nidhanavat, the Agrayana" — 
for, the Agrayana graha ( soma cup of that name) was made out of the 
Nidhanavat Saman. “Of the Agrayana, the Trinava and Trayastrirhsa" — for, 
out of the Agrayana graha was made the Trinava stoma (stoma hymns made 
of thrice nine verses) and the Trayastrirhsa stoma (thirty-three-versed stoma 
hymns). “Of the Trinava and Trayastrirhsa, the Sakvara and Raivata" — for, 
the prsthas called Sakvara and Raivata were made out of the thrice-nine stoma 
and thirty-threefold stoma respectively. 

18. (He says) “The Rsi Visvakarma ” — for, Rsi Visvakarma doubtless 
is speech. Because every action here is done by speech. Therefore, the 
speech is ito Visvakarma (all-doer). “By you taken hold of by Prajapati” — 
meaning ‘you created by Prajapati’. “I take the speech for my 
descendants” — (so saying) he introduces the speech from above. He lays 
down these ten bricks separately. Thereby he introduces what separate 
desires there are in the speech. He settles them only once and by that he 
makes them into one speech. If he were to settle them separately, he would 
have split the speech to pieces. This brick is threefold and the purport of this 
is as explained earlier. 

19. This is that same food which the pranas and Prajapati created 
together. This much constitutes the whole sacrifice; and sacrifice is the food 
of gods. He lays them (bricks) in tens. The Virad metre is of ten syllables 
and Virad constitutes the entire food. He thus bestows on him (the Agni- 
altar) the entire food. He places them on all sides and thereby bestows the 
entire food on him from all sides. Indeed, these Virad verses sustain those 
pranas and inasmuch as they sustain ( bhr) ) the vital airs ( pranas ), these 
( istakas ) are called pranabhrtah. (First Brahmana Ends.) 

brahmanah 

1. Now they ask, “What are the vital airs and what are the pranabhrts ?” 
Pranas are the vital airs themselves and pranabhrts are the organs and the 
organs sustain ( bibhrati ), the pranas. Vital airs are of course, the pranas and 
the pranabhrt is food because it is food that carries the vital airs. 

2. Now they ask, “How do all these ( pranabhrt bricks) of his (altar) 
happen to be of Prajapati? Because while placing each of them it was 
repeated, “By you taken hold of by Prajapati.” That is how all these happen 
to be of Prajapati. 



X.l.2.6] 


TRANSLATION 


133 


3. They say, “As they chant and recite on drawing the soma cups, 
where is the need for him to introduce chants and hymns before the drawing 
of the soma cups (as he is said to be doing in the previous Brahmana) ” One 
has to keep in view the completion of the sacrificial ritual. Now with the 
Pratipada Rk (marking the opening) the graha is collected. On the Rk mantra, 
the Saman is sung. This means he puts in for (Agm-altar) both the Rks and 
Samans before collecting the graha. Inasmuch as after collecting of soma in 
the grahas, there are stotra chan tings and recitation of the Sastras, he puts in. 
for him both the stomas and prstha Samans after the grahas are collected. 

4. On this they ask, “If these three, namely collecting of graha, stotra 
chant and sastra recitation are simultaneously done, when the graha and 
stotra alone are put in, how the sastra also comes to be considered as 
introduced (in the ritual) ? That which is stotra is the same as sastra . What 
mantras, he ( Hotr) uses for stotra, the same chants are (used in) the sastra. 
That is how sastra too happens to be introduced here. 

5. They raise the question, “In the first three cases dealing with bhuva, 
bhauvana, etc.” (the genesis of each from the previous) it is traced as from 
father to son (by using terms like bhauvana, pranayana, etc. indicating father- 
son relationship), why this correspondence as son of the father is not 
mentioned in the case of Rk and Saman ? Because, the Saman doubtless is 
the husband of the Rk. If he were to refer to them in the same strain, it 
would amount to saying ‘of the son’ instead of‘of the husband . Therefore, 
in the case of Rk and Saman, it is cause-effect relationship. As to why does 
he thrice carry on (the generation from father to son)? Because he thereby 
carries on three (generations); i.e. father, son and grandson. Therefore, 
one and the same (man) offers (food) to them. 

6. These (bricks) which he places in the east (front) are the sustainers 
of prana (the out-going breath); those which he places at the rear are the 
sustainers of the eye or those that hold the apana (downward breath). Those 
on the right (south) are sustainers of mind or those that hold the vyana 
(mobile breath). Those on the left are the sustainers of the ear or those 
that hold udana (outward breath) and those in the middle are the sustainers 
of speech or those that hold the samana (pervading breath). 



X.l.2.10] 


TRANSLATION 


135 


7. Now the Adhvaryus of the Caraka school lay down different bricks 
as apanabhrts, vyanabhrts, uddnabhrts, samanabhrts, caksurbhrts, manobhrts, 
srotrabhrts and vagbhrts (i.e. they consider all these ten as pranabhrts only or 
relating only to prana, the out-going breath and lay down separate bricks 
for apana, the downward breath; vyana, the mobile breath; udana, the 
upward breath; samana, the pervading breath, the eyes, the mind, the ear 
and the speech). But it should not be done so. In that case, it will amount 
to overdoing. In this order itself (as we have mentioned) all those forms 
are laid (into Agni). 

8. Now he places those bricks in the rear after placing them in the 
front, the prana (outward breath) having become apana (downward breath) 
moves like this from the tips of the fingers (indicated by the downward 
movement of the finger tips) and the apana (downward breath) having 
become prana (outward breath) moves like this upward from the tips of the 
toes. Hence by laying down the bricks in front and then at the back, he 
makes these two breathings continuous and connects them. That is how 
these two {prana and apana) are continuous and connected. 

9. When he places those bricks on the right side and then on the 
left side, the prana (outward breath) becomes the vyana (circulating breath) 
passes along thus from the tips of the fingers and the circulating breath in 
turn becomes the prana, and passes along thus from the tips of the fingers. 
Thus by laying down the bricks on the right side and then on the left side, 
he makes these two breathings {prana and vyana) continuous and 
connected. That is why these two breaths are continuous and connected. 

10. Those bricks which he places in the centre are the vital airs and 
he places them in between the two retassica bricks; for, the rctassica are the 
side bones and are in the middle of the body. He thus places the vital airs 
into him (the Agni altar or the Yajamana) at the very middle part of the 
body. On every side he places these central bricks and thereby puts vital 
airs in every part of his body. That is how these pranas (vital airs) originating 
from the bottom of the spinal column, gets spread all round the navel. He 
places them both lengthwise and cross-wise. That is how the \ital airs in this 
body are both lengthwise and cross-wise. He places them touching each 
other. Thus he makes the vital airs continuous and connected. Hence the 
channels of vital airs are continuous and inter-connected. (Second 
Brahmana Ends.) 



X. 1.3.3] 


TRANSLATION 


137 


BRAHMANAIII 

1. Some people lay down (these pranabhrt bricks) so as they are in 
contact with the human brick (goldman) (saying) that he ( purusa ) is the 
vital air and him these bricks sustain ( bibhrati ) and hence it is they are 
pranabhrts. It shall not be done so. Of course the vital air is the same as that 
goldman but his body (is not confined to the golden figure); it extends as 
far as the expanse of this altar. Hence (by placing the pranabhrts touching 
the gold piece only), whatever (far-flung) limbs of that man, these pranabhrts 
do not touch, and those limbs, the vital airs will not reach and whichever 
limb is not supplied with vital airs, that limb gets dried up and withers away. 
Therefore he places these ( pranabhrts ) only on the parisrits (enclosing 
stones). Those which he places in the middle, by those, his (central) body 
gets filled (with vital airs) and thus by them he (goldman proper) is not 
denied of the vital airs. 

2. Here now they say, “Whereas (in the mantras chanted while placing 
those pranabhrts ), it is said, this one in front, the Bhuva\ this one in the 
right, Visvakarma ; this one behind, the Visvavyaca ; this one in the left, Svar 
and this one above, the mind” — by this, these bricks are earmarked for 
specific quarters. Why then he lays down these (bricks) in the side-long 
places? The pranabhrts are vital air-s and if they are placed exactly 
corresponding to the quarters, these breaths would have only a forward 
and backward movement. Now by placing these bricks in side-long places, 
these breaths besides moving forward and backward, also move sideways 
along all the limbs and the whole body. 

3. Now that Agni (altar) is a pasu and it in now itself fashioned 
completely and made trim. Those (bricks) which he places in iront ai e his 
arms (fore-feet) and those that he places behind are his thighs and those 
that hd places in the middle constitute its trunk. These (in the middle), he 
places between the retassica (bricks), because the retassics are the side-bones 
indeed. Side-bones happen to be in the middle and thus he places the 
body proper in the middle. He places them all around because that body 
proper extends all round. 



X. 1.4.2] 


TRANSLATION 


139 


4. Now they ask — “ Whereas in the first four sets (of pranabhrts) , he 
lays down a single stoma and a single prstha, why should he here (in the 
fifth set in the middle) lay down two stomas (Trinava and Trayastrimsa ) and 
two prsthas (Sakvara and Raivata ) ?” This is because this (set of pranabhrts in 
the middle) is his (Agni’s) body proper. He thus makes the body proper 
supreme among the parts of the body; greatest and most vigorous among 
the limbs. That is why this trunk part is the supreme, great and most vigorous 
among the body parts. 

5. Now they ask, “When brick by brick the Agm-altar is fashioned 
how is it that this Agni of his becomes completely fashioned and trim?” 
Now the Yajus formula chanted (for each brick) is the marrow, the brick is 
the bone, the Sudadoha recitation is the skin,the formula used for punsa 
(filling of the gaps with earth) forms the hair and the punsa (the mud used 
to fill the gaps) is the food. This way that Agni of his becomes completely 
fashioned and made up brick to brick. That Agni is possessed of all vital 
power, whosoever, knows that Agni to be possessed of all vital power, attains 
his full life-span. (Third Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAIV 

1. Now the (possibility of) contraction and expansion (of the body). 
The built altar is made to be possessed of (the capacity) for contraction 
and expansion by some (by stroking along the layer, pushing the bricks 
here and there and by uttering some mantras). Agni- altar is indeed a pasu 
and just as an animal gains strength by contracting and expanding its limbs, 
(so too, this Agni becomes capable of contraction and expansion of limbs 
and thereby becomes stronger). (This is done by saying) You are the 
samvatsara, parivatsara, idavatsara, idvatsara and vatsara. May your dawns 
(limbs) be efficacious, may your days and nights become efficacious; may 
your half-months be efficacious; may your months be efficacious, may your 
seasons become efficacious and may your year become efficacious. For 
(enabling) going and coming, you contract and expand (your limbs), you 
are the citi of the shape of eagle. Just by (the grace of) that deity Angiras, 
you remain stable.” 

2. Satyayani also once deposed that while being touched with these 
mantras, someone heard cracking sound of the wings (of the altar) (proving 
that these chants do cause contraction and expansion of the altar). So let 
him strike them with these chants. 



X.1.4.3] 


TRANSLATION 


141 


3. Svarjit, Nagnajit, also known as Nagnajit of Gandhara said, 
“Contraction and expansion are surely prana. Whatever part of the body 
where prana is, that part expands or contracts. So let him breath on it (blow 
his breath into the altar) from outside when it is completely built. That will 
provide prana (to enable it of) contraction and expansion. That (process 
of blowing the breath) makes it (the altar) get packed up or shuffled.” 1 his 
(method of) contraction and expansion as said (by Nagnajit) is (the 
statement) of an ill-informed Ksatriya. Even if one from outside were to 
blow his breath on it one hundred times or even a thousand times, he 
cannot infuse prana into it. Whatever breath is there in the body proper (of 
the altar) that alone is the prana. So only by laying down th e pranabhrts, he 
infuses prana into it i.e. the power of contraction and expansion into it and 
only thereby it contracts and expands. He then places two lokamprna bi lcks 
in that corner, the purport of which will be explained later. He then throws 
loose earth on the layer which again will be explained later. (Fourth 

Brahmana Ends) 


(Chapter One Ends.) 



Chapter Two 


BRAHMANAI 

1. Then he builds up the second layer. This is where the gods 
ascended after building the first layer. This world is the first layer and having 
readied this terrestrial world, they mounted it. 

2. They said, “Meditate” by which they meant ‘wish for a layer, seek 
a layer from this (first one) upwards.’ They by meditation, discovered this 
second layer which is above the terrestrial region (earth) and below the sky. 
That world of theirs, they thought, was as if unfixed or unsetded. 

3. They told the Asvins (the twin physicians among gods)- “You two 
are Brahmanas and physicians. You two lay out this second layer for our 
sake.” Asvins asked, “What then will be our gain?” (Gods said) “You two 
shall be the chief priests(Adhvaryus) at this Agni-citya .” (Asvins said) “So it 
be.” The Asvins built up this second layer for them. That is why it is said 
that Asvins themselves are the Adhvaryus of gods. 

4. He lays down (the first of the Asvin bricks, saying) “You are firmly 
rooted, firmly established, steady” — for, what is firmly rooted and established 
is steady. Now for them that world (the second layer, appeared to their 
mind as if unsteady and unfirm. That is now rendered firm and steady. 
They (Asvins) went on building (the second layer). “Be seated in your firm 
pedestal” (meaning) ‘get yourself well entrenched in your firm womb’. (He 
says) “Enjoying the first appearance of the ukhya — the ukhya is indeed this 
Agni (altar) and the first layer is, no doubt, its first appearance (so it means) 
‘enjoying that’. “May the Asvins, the Adhvaryus, place you here” - for, the 
Asvins as Adhvaryus, did lay him (the brick) down. 

5. (He further says laying the second brick) “You are like a nest, you 
are having ghee and you are a child-bearing woman” - for, the second layer 
is like a nest (since it rests on the first layer like a nest on a tree). Be seated 
on the soft seat of the earth” - for, the first layer is indeed the earth and ‘on 
that comfortable soft resort, you be seated’ is what he means. May the 
Rudras and Vasus praise you” - (meaning) ‘let these deiues sing your praise . 
“Replenish them, O Brahmana! for prosperity” - (meaning) (‘O brick !) 
protect these Brahmanas (havis etc.) for prosperity. Thus the Asvins, the 
Adhvaryus did lay down. 



X.2.1.10] 


TRANSLATION 


145 


6. (He lays down the third Asvin brick saying) “ You protected by the 
powerful, be seated here by your own prowess” — (meaning) ‘be seated 
here by your own energy’. “For the happiness of the gods and favour of 
gods” — (meaning) ‘for favouring the gods and for great joy’. “Be you kind 
as father to a son” — (meaning) ‘just as a father is affectionate and kind to 
his son, so you be kind,’ and “Abide here with your obliging form”— here 
the form is the body and it means ‘abide here with your readily available 
body’. “May the Asvins, the Adhvaryus, settle thee here” — for the Asvins, 
who are the Adhvaryus, did lay down (this brick). 

7. (He lays down the fourth Asvin brick saying) — ‘You are the earth’s 
soil”. The first layer is indeed the earth and this second layer is like the soil 
of the earth. “ Apsa by name you are” (meaning) ‘You are her (earth’s) 
essence”. “May all gods sing thy glory” (meaning) ‘let all the gods sing your 
praises.’ “Be seated here, enriched by stomas and full of fat” — for whatever 
stomas are going to be spread (chanted) on this layer (like Irivrt ) etc.), 
enriched by those stomas, “Bring to us prosperity along with offsprings.” 
“May the Asvins, the Adhvaryus, settle thee here for, the Asvins who are 
the Adhvaryus did lay down (this brick). 

8. These bricks are those quarters. He places them near the retassica 
bricks, for the two retassica bricks represent the sky and the earth. He thereby 
places the quarters within these two worlds. He lays them in every diiection 
and thus places the quarters in all the four directions. That is why the quarters 
are in all the directions. They are to face each other and thereby make the 
quarters face each other and hence the quarters are facing each other. He 
places them separately, setdes them separately, for, the quarters are separate. 

9. He then places the fifth brick of the quarters (fifth asvin brick 
representing the quarters). That region is the one above and that same 
upper region is same as yonder sun. Thus he places yonder sun thereon. 
He places this within the brick of the southern quarter. Thereby he places 
the yonder sun within the southern quarter and therefore he (sun) moves 
within the southern quarter. 

10. (He lays it down saying) “I place you on the back of Aditi”— for 
the terrestrial world is Aditi and it is upon her as foundation, that he 
establishes him. “Sustainer of the aerial region, upholder of the quarters 



X.2.1.13] 


TRANSLATION 


147 


and over-lord of the worlds” for he (the sun) is indeed the sustainer of the 
aerial region, the one who supports the quarter and is the protector of the 
worlds. ‘The wave, the drop of waters, you are”—wave is indeed the essence. 
“Visvakarman is your rsi” — Visvakarman, the maker of everything is 
doubtless, the Prajapati. Thus (it means) ‘you are made by Prajapati.’ “May 
the Asvins,the Adhvaryus, setde thee here” — for the Asvins who are the 
Adhvaryus did lay down (this brick). 

11. Now as to why he places these asvin bricks is this — when Prajapati 
became exhausted, the gods took him and went away. That part of his body 
above the feet and below the waist, the Asvins took and kept moving away. 
He (Prajapati) told them, “Come to me and return that (part of mine) 
which you have taken away from me.” They (Asvins) asked “What will be 
our gain?” (Prajapati said) ‘That part of my body shall have you as its 
presiding deities.” (They said) “let it be so” and restored that part unto 
him. Therefore these five asvin bricks are that part of the (Prajapati’s or 
Agro-altar's) body and now when he places them into this layer (of the 
altar), he in fact, restores that part of his body which these bricks represent, 
(or which is presided over by Asvins). That is why he lays them down here. 

12. (While laying, he says) “You of firm foundation, seated firmly” — 
for, whatever is well established and entrenched is firm. Now that part of 
Prajapati’s body was as if unsteady, unfirm. By restoring it, Asvins, made it 
steady and firm. ‘You are like a nest, fat, wise he says. For this (part of the 
body) is indeed like a nest for his body. ‘You, protected by the powerful, be 
seated here by your own prowess,” — (so saying) they made him powerful. 
‘You are the earth’s soil” — for that (lower part of Prajapati’s body) is 
connected to the (earth’s) soil. He places (the bricks) close to the retassica 
bricks. Retassics are the side bones and that part of the body is at the level of 
the side bones. He places them on every side, for, the Asvins restored that 
part of his body on every side. 

13. Then he places the rtavyas (bricks representing the seasons). 
These are the seasons and thereby he places the seasons. These ar e Sukra 
and Suci, the names (of the two months) constituting the summer season 
and he lays them down with those two names. They are two bricks, because 
a season has two months. He settles them together and thus makes them 


into one season. 



X.2.2.3] 


TRANSLATION 


149 


14. As to why he places these two here is because this Agni -altar is the 
year and this year is these worlds. This second layer is that part of his (altar’s) 
body which is above the earth and below the aerial region and that same 
part of him is the summer season. By placing these two (bricks) in this layer, 
he restores to him (Agra-altar) that part of his body which these two 
represent. That is why he places these two here. 

15. Again why he places these two here — this Agni -altar is Prajapati 
and Prajapati is the year. That part of his which is above the feet and below 
the waist is this second layer. And that part of his body is the summer 
season. Thus by laying down these two here (in this second layer), he restores 
to him that part of the body, which is represented by these two. That is why 
he places these two in this (layer). (First Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANA II 

1. He then places the vaisvadevi bricks. The second layer is the one 
which the Asvins at that time built up for the gods and as the result of that 
they became all those, whatever there is here. Now the gods said, The 
Aivins have become all these; now you (gods) think as to how we can also 
get a share in it”. They said, “Meditate,” which means build up an altar so 
that we can also get a share here’. By contemplating they discovered these 
bricks which are called vaisvadevis. 

2. They again said, “Did not the Asvins become all these and 
therefore let us also build up this by the side of the layer of Asvins with the help 
of Asvins themselves.” Accordingly, they laid down with the help of the Asvins, 
these (bricks) on the side of the layer of Asvins. That is why, these (bricks) 
have their tips coincide with the ends of the Asvins, bricks. This is (possible) 
because they laid down alongside the Asvin layer with the help of Asvins. 

3. As to why he lays down the vaisvadevi bricks — these represent 
those same Visvedevas who discovered the second layer and by whom the 
gods were enriched with essence. Now he is laying down those verv bi icks 
which represent all beings. They are placed in the range of the vetassica 
bricks; for, the retassica bricks represent the heaven and the earth and within 
these two, he places the creatures. He places them on everyside and thereby 
he places the creatures all over. That is w T hy we have creatures everywhere. 
He places them by the sides of the disya bricks (repi esenting the quai ters), he 
thus places creatures in all quarters and that is why, we have cieatures in all 
directions. 



X.2.2.7] 


TRANSLATION 


151 


4. And again as to why he places the vaisvadevi bricks — when 
Prajapati became exhausted, all those creatures escaped from the middle 
of his body, in other words, from the place of their origin. When the middle 
part of his body was reconstituted, they entered him (again). Now this Agni- 
altar which is being built up is the same as that Prajapati who got exhausted. 
Those creatures which emanated from the middle of his body, they are the 
same as these vaisvadevya bricks. So by placing these bricks, he reintroduces 
those creatures into him (altar). He places them by the side of the retassica. 
bricks; for, the retassica are the two side-bones and side-bones mark the 
middle of the body and in that, he places the creatures all around.Thereby, 
he places the creatures everywhere. 

5. Again, why he lays down the vaisvadevi bricks — when his body 
was restored, Prajapati desired — ‘May I create creatures and may I 
reproduce.’ He then entered into union with seasons, with waters, with 
vital airs, with the year and with the Asvins. Subsequently, he created these 
creatures. In the same manner, this Yajamana having entered into 
union with these, creates these creatures. Since it is the result of sajii 
(entering into union) all these bricks are marked by the word Sajur. 

6. (He says) “Sajur with the seasons” — because he created the 
seasons and having entered into unionjsajur) he produced creatures. Sajur 
with vidha" — vidha means waters and it is with the waters, all these get 
distributed. Therefore by getting into union with waters he produced these 
creatures. “Sajur with the devas.” Thereby he produced the gods; the gods 
here refer to all the gods (like Vasus, Rudras and Adityas). Sajur with 
vayonadhas .” Vayonadhas are indeed the prana deities and it is by the pranas 
that all these are vayun or knit together. Getting into union, with pranas he 
created all these creatures. “For Agni, the Vaisvanara” — Agnivaisvanara is 
indeed the year and having got into union with the year, he created all 
these creatures. (He again says) “May the Asvins, the Adhvaryus settle you 
here” — for, having got into union with the Asvins he produced the 

creatures. 

7. “Sajur with the Vasus,” (so saying) he placed it on the right side 
and thereby created the Vasus. “Sajur with the Rudras (so saying) he placed 
it behind and thereby created the Rudras. “Sajur with Adityas (so saying) 
he placed on the north and thereby produced the Adityas. Sfl/iirwith the 



X.2.3.3] 


TRANSLATION 


153 


Visvedevas” (so saying) he placed it above and produced those Visvedevas. 
All these (bricks) have the same beginning and the end but differ in the 
middle. These are same in the beginning and in the end because having 
become united with the different deities their beginning and end coincide 
and because by the union each time, he produced different creatures, these 
(bricks) differ in their middle parts. Indeed, he created different creatures 
from within him. (Second Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANA III 

1. He then places the pranabhrt (bricks); for, once at that time the 
gods said, “Meditate”, whereby they meant ‘discovering a layer’. While 
meditating they saw the wind itself as a layer; and they placed it into that 
(fire-altar). In the same way, this one (Yajamana) puts into it the wind. He 
places the pranabhrt bricks because the prana is after all, wind and thereby 
he actually puts wind into it. He places them by the side of the retassica 
bricks. The retassica represent these two worlds and between them he infuses 
the wind and thereby causes the wind to pervade all around these (two 
worlds). That is why, wind is all-pervasive and is felt on every side running 
in the same direction. It is also because of that, the winds from everywhere 
get united and blow from all quarters in the same direction. He places 
them down by the side of the bricks representing the quarters and thereby 
infuses the wind in all directions. Hence we have wind in all the quarters. 

2. And again as to why he lays down the pranabhrt bricks - it is because 
of that he supplies vital airs to these creatures. He places them so as to be 
separated from the vaisvadeuis. He thereby supplies vital airs not separated 
from the creatures. (While placing, he says) “Protect my prana- (out-breath); 
protect my apana (down-breath); protect my vyana (horizontal breath). 
Make my eyes reach far ahead; make my ears resound (with sound produced 
at a far distance).” In this way, he bestows on them vital airs well-defined. 


3. He then places the apasya bricks, for, the gods at that time said to 
themselves, “Meditate” whereby they surely meant ‘discover a layer.’ While 
meditating, they saw rain itself as a layer and they put it into that fire-altar. 
In the same way, this one (Yajamana) places them on the altar. He places 
the apasya, for, the waters are the rain and actually he lays the rain itself. He 
places them by the side of the retassica bricks. These two retassica bricks 
represent the two worlds and thereby he bestows rain on these two worlds 



X.2.3.8] 


TRANSLATION 


155 


and thereby brings rain to both these worlds. That is why, we have rains. 
He places them all around and thus makes it rain all around. He places 
them all over in the same direction and thereby causes the rain to fall in 
the same direction. In the process, when the rain falls, it falls everywhere, 
from all quarters in the same direction. He places them alongside the vayavyd 
bricks and thus bestows rain on the wind. That is why, the rains follow that 
direction towards which the wind blows. 

4. As to why he places the apasya bricks is because he puts water into 
the pranas. He places them in such a way that they are not separated fiom 
the pranabhrts and thereby places the water close to the vital airs. Waters are 
really the same as food and in this process, he provides food for the pranas. 
And while laying (he says), “Make the waters rise up and quicken the growth 
of plants; protect the bipeds and also the four-footed, draw rains from the 
sky.” This is how, he places the well-defined waters into it. 

5. Then he places chandasya bricks. The gods once said, “Meditate”, 
which only meant ‘discover the layer’. While meditating, they saw the cattle 
itself as a layer and placed it into this Agm-altar. In the same way, this one 
(Yajamana) places it thereon. By placing the chandasya bricks, the metres 
being cattle, he actually places the cattle. By placing them all around, he 
distributes the cattle all around. He places them alongside the apasyas and 
thereby establishes those cattle on the water. That is how, the cattle prosper 
when it rains. 

6. And again, why he places the chandasya (is)- from the body of 
Prajapati who was exhausted; the cattle came out assuming the form of 
metres. Gayatri becoming a metre, by her vigour, overtook them and that 
is why this metre Gayatri is the shortest. Thereafter Prajapati in the form of 
Gayatri, managed to overcome all the cattle by his vigour. 

7. Vigour is represented by the head and Prajapati is the head. He 
became vigour and assumed the form of Gayatri metre. In other words, 
Prajapati himself transformed into a metre. 

8. Ksatra( martial prowess) is vigour and Prajapati represents martial 
vigour. He became the vigour with a metre that gives pleasure. This metre 
is undefined, and is pleasure giving. Prajapati is also undefined, and he 
himself became the metre. 



X.2.4.4] 


TRANSLATION 


157 


9. Support is vigour and Prajapati is the support. He became vigour 
and transformed into overlord metre. The overlord metre is doubtless 
Prajapati and Prajapati himself is the metre. 

10. The all-maker (Visvakarman) is vigour and Prajapati is the maker 
of all. He became vigour and assumed the form of Paramesthi metre. Waters 
are in Prajapati, the Paramesthi, because they are situated in the parama- 
sthana( highest place). Therefore, Prajapau himself became the Paramesthi 

metre. 

11. Thus there are four kinds of vigour and four metres, making up a 
total of eight. Gayatri has eight syllables and certainly the same Gayatri is 
in the form of Prajapati, who by his vigour, overtook those cattle. They say 
that he overtook by his vigour the insipid cattle and that is why at each time 
(while referring to Prajapati assuming the form of a metre) the word vaya 
(vigour) is repeated. Those cattle which went away from him (Prajapati) 
are these fifteen Vyahrtis. Catde are indeed the thunderbolt and thunderbolt 
is fifteenfold. Therefore, he who possesses cattle, drives away all the enemy. 
Truly it is thunderbolt that destroys the enemy. In whatever direction the 
one who possesses cattle moves, that direction is cleared for him by the 
thunderbolt. (Third Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAIIMANAIV 

1. “The he-goat represents vigour.” He overtook by his vigour the 
he-goat. Vivala is a metre (literally meaning that which has no gap). Vivala 
is indeed the one-footed ( ekapadd ). It is in the form of the Ekapada metre, 
the goats escaped from the body of Prajapati. 

2. “The ram is vigour.” The ram he overtook by his vigour. Visala is a 
metre and Visala is two-footed. In the form of the dvipada, the ram escaped 
from his body. 

3. “Man is vigour.” He overtook man by his vigour. Tandra is metre 
(literally meaning inertia). The Tandra metre is the Pahkti. Men escaped 
from his body in the form of Pahkti. 

4. “The tiger is vigour.” He overtook tiger by his vigour. ‘ Anddhnta is 
the metre’ (meaning unchallengeable). Anadhrsta is indeed the Viraj. For 
Viraj is food. The food having become unchallengeable, Viraj escaped as 

tiger from his body. 



X.2.4.14] 


TRANSLATION 


159 


5. ‘The lion is vigour.” The lion he overtook by his vigour. ‘Chadi is 
the metre’ (meaning to cover). Because it covers all over himself and 
assumes the form of Aticchanda (super metre) and escaped as lions (from 
his body). Thus he places the undefined metres alongwith defined beasts. 

6. The ox is vigour.” The ox he overtook by his vigour. ‘The Brhatl is 
the metre’ and having assumed the form of Brhatl, the oxen escaped from 
him. 


7. The bull is vigour.” He overtook the bull by his vigour. ‘The 
Kakubh is the metre.’ In the form of Kakubh, the bulls went forth from 
him. 


8. The stud-bull is vigour.” He overtook the stud-bull by his vigour. 
‘The Sato brhatl is the metre.’ In the form of Sato brhatl, the stud-bulls 
escaped from his body. 

9. The bullock is vigour.” He overtook bullock bv his vigour. ‘Paiikti 
is the metre.’ In the form of Paiikti the bullocks escaped from him. 

10. “The cow with calf is vigour.” He overtook the cow with calf by his 
vigour. ‘The Jagati is the metre’ and assuming the form ofjagatl, cows 
(with calves) escaped from him. 

11. “The tryavi (the 18 months old calf) is vigour.” He overtook tryavi 
by his vigour. ‘The Tristubh is the metre.’ Assuming the form of Tristubh, 
the tryavi escaped from him. 

12. The two year old bull {dityavad) is vigour.” He overtook dityavad 
by his vigour. The Virad is the metre.’ Assuming the form of Virad, the 
bulls ( dityavads) escaped from him. 

13. The two and a half year old bull ( pancavi ) is vigour. ” He over-took 
pancavi by his vigour. ‘Gayatri, is the metre.’ Assuming the form of Gayatri, 
the pancavi escaped from his body. 

14. The trivatsa (three year old bull) is vigour.” He overtook trivatsa 
by his vigour. ‘Usnik is the metre.’ Assuming the form of Usnik, the three 
year old bulls went away from him. 



X.2.4.18] 


TRANSLATION 


161 


15. “The turyavad ( four year old bull) is vigour.” He overtook the 
turyavad by his vigour. ‘Anustubh is the metre.’ In the form of Anustubh, 
the four year old bulls came out of him. 

16. These then are the cattle which Prajapati overtook by his vigour. 
Therefore, the priest first mentions the animal, then the vigour and then 
the metre. Thus he sews him on both sides with the vigour and metre and 
puts them into himself and makes them his own. In the same way, this one 
(Yajamana) knits them with vigour and metre, and puts them into himself 
and makes them his ownself. 

17. That which is the animal is same as Agni-altar. Even now he (Agni) 
is fashioned completely in all respects. Those bricks he places in the front 
are his head. Those from the right and the left sides are his body and those 
in the back form his tail. He first lays down the bricks in the front because 
when an animal is born it is the head that comes out first. Next he places 
the bricks on the right side (southern side) and then at the left, so that 
these body parts (of the altar) shall be born together. Then he places the 
tail at the back, because the tail is the last one to come out when an animal 
is born. The metres which are longest and the animals which are biggest 
are placed in the middle and thereby he makes this animal (altar) sturdier 
in the middle. The animals which are strongest, he places on the right side 
and thus the right side of the animal becomes stronger. That is why 
(generally) the animals are stronger on their right side. 

18. The front half and the back half he makes smallest. Insofar as 
those bricks (in front) are only four in number, thereby they are smallest 
and inasmuch as here (back) he puts the smallest animal, the forefront 
and the hind parts of the animal are both smallest. That is why the face 
and the anus of animals are pointed and that is also why animals get up or 
lie down by their front and by their back. Then he places the lokamprna 
bricks in that corner. The significance of this will be explained later. Over 
them, he scatters loose soil and the purport of this will also be explained 
later. (Fourth Brahmana Ends.) 


(Second Chapter Ends.) 



Chapter Three 


BRAHMANAI 

1. He builds up the third layer. This is the layer which gods 
ascended after building the second one and it is above the earth and 
below the aerial region. That is what they fashioned and ascended. 

2. They said (to themselves), “Contemplate”, by which they 
meant ‘plan a layer upwards from here.’ By contemplating, they 
discovered the aerial region itself as the large third layer. That world 
did please them. 

3. They said to Indra and Agni “You both lay down this layer 
for us”. They asked, “What benefit will it cause to us?” (Gods said) ‘You 
two shall be the foremost among us.” “Be it so,” (they agreed). Those 
two, Indra and Agni laid down that third layer for them and that 
is why, Indra and Agni are the foremost among gods. 

4. He (Yajamana) similarly lays it down with the help of Indra 
and Agni and settles it with (the help of) Visvakarma. Because this 
third layer was discovered by Indra, Agni and Visvakarma, he lays it 
down with the help of Indra and Agni and settles it with the help of 
Visvakarma. 

5. And again why he lays it down by means of Indra and Agni 
and settles it by means of Visvakarma is this — when Prajapati got 
exhausted, the gods took him (in parts) and dispersed in different 
directions. Indra, Agni and Visvakarma, collected his middle part and 
kept going away. He (Prajapati) told them — “Come to me and return 
to me that (part of mine) with which you are going away.” They asked, 
“What will accrue to us by that?” “That (part of) my body shall have 
you as its presiding deities.” They said, “Yes” and restored that part 
unto him. So this middle part of the body is the naturally perforated 
brick in the centre. When he now lays down that ( svayamdtrnna ) brick, 
he (the Yajamana) is restoring that part of the body of his. That is why 
he now lays down that (brick). 



X.3.1.8] 


TRANSLATION 


165 


6. “O Indra and Agni! You make that brick firm so that it does 
not tilt” — as the text, so the meaning. “You pressurise the earth, the 
sky and the aerial region with your back” — because this svayamatrnnd 
brick indeed, pressurises the earth, the sky and the aerial region. 

7. “May Visvakarma settle you” — because it is indeed 
Vrsvakarma who discovered this layer. “You the large and big on the 
back of the aerial region” — for, this (brick) is indeed the large and big 
back of the aerial region. “You support this aerial region, make it firm 
and do not injure the aerial region.” “For all the prana, apana, vydna 
and udana — for, the svayamatrnnd is indeed prana (vital air) and the 
vital air is for everything here — for settling and for moving. The 
naturally perforated brick is these worlds and these worlds are indeed, 
the settling place and the moving space. “May Vayu protect you” that 
is, let Vayu safeguard you. “With great prosperity” meaning ‘with great 
well-being’. “With most peaceful protection” meaning ‘with such 
protection which is most peaceful.’ Having settled it he chants the 
Sudadohasa upon it. Its significance has been told. Then he sings a 
Saman , the purport of it will be explained later. 

8. He then places the disya bricks (regional bricks). Regional 
bricks are the regions themselves and so he places only regions. These 
are those same regions not separated (form the aerial region) where 
they stepped in then, along with Vayu. It is them he now places. Before 
this, he places the brick of grass-bundle (darbhastamba brick) and the 
unbaked brick ( logestaka ). These disya bricks are the yonder sun and 
thus he places the yonder sun over the quarters and builds him up in 
the regions. If he were to place the disya simultaneoulsy as the 
darbhastamba bricks and the logestakas, they will be outside (the altar) 
and that means outside the womb. Only what sacrificial act is done 
before the laying of the lotus-leaf, falls outside the womb. Since he 
brings and lays these bricks (disya) now, he establishes them in the 
womb, the lotus-leaf. That is how they do not become excluded. They 
are not separated from the svayamatrnnd. The central naturally 
perforated brick is the aerial region. So he lays the quarters in close 
proximity to the aerial region. Just facing the svayamatrnnd, he lays 
them, so that the quarters are placed facing the aerial region,within 



X.3.1.11] 


TRANSLATION 


167 


the boundaries of the two retassica bricks. These two worlds are the 
retassica bricks. These two worlds are the retassicas. In them he lays down 
the quarters. He places them ( disyas ) on all sides, by which he places 
the disyas (quarters) on all sides. That is why the quarters are on all 
sides. He places them straight and by that he places the quarters so as 
to face each other. That is why the quarters are facing each other. 

9. Now why he lays down the disya bricks ? The quarters are the- 
metres. The eastern direction is the Gayatrl metre; the south is 
Tristubh; the west is the Jagati; the north is the Anustubh and the 
upper region is the Paiikti. The metres are pasus and the middle layer 
is the aerial region. Thus he places the pasus (catde) in the aerial region. 
Hence there are cattle with their abode in the aerial region. 

10. Now again why he places the disya bricks ? The directions 
are the metres and metres are these cattle. The cattle are food. The 
middle layer is in the middle (of the body). He thus supplies food in 
the middle and they are placed so as they are not separated from the 
naturally perforated brick. The svayamdtrnnd is indeed, prana. So he 
places food not separated from the prana. He lays them close to each 
other (on the svayamatpina); the food and the prana. He places them 
within the boundaries of the retassics, for, the retassics are ribs and the 
ribs are in the middle. So he supplies food in the middle. He places 
them on all sides and thus provides food from all sides. 

11. “You the eastern quarter ! You are the queen; you are the 
ruler, extensive; O southern quarter ! You are the overlord; O western 
quarter! you are the self-ruler; O northern quarter ! You are the 
sovereign; O the great (upper) region !” These are their names. He 
thus lays them down even while addressing them by name. He lays 
them down separately and settles them separately. He chants separate 
Sudadohasa verses over them; for those quarters are indeed separate. 
(First Brahmana Ends.) 



X.3.2.5] 


TRANSLATION 


169 


BRAHMANAII 

1. He then lays down the visvajyoti brick. The central visvajyoti 
(all-light) is indeed Vayu; for, Vayu is indeed the entire brilliance in 
the aerial region. So he places only Vayu. He places it so as not to be 
separated from the disya bricks. So he provides Vayu to the quarters. 
That is why Vayu is (pervading) at all quarters. 

2. Now why he places the visvajyoti ? Visvajyoti is indeed the 
creatures (people or offspring); for creatures (offspring) is all the light. 
He thus lays the generative power (into that world). He places them so 
as not to be separated from the disyas and thereby places creatures in 
the regions and hence there are creatures in all the regions. 

3. “May Visvakarma set you up” (so saying he places it); for, it 
was Visvakarma, who discovered this third layer. “On the back of the 
aerial region, the effulgent” — for, this effulgent Vayu is on the back of 
the aerial region. “For all prana, apana and vyana ”— because the 
visvajyoti is prana and prana (breath) is indeed essential for this entire 
universe. “Give all the illumination” (meaning) provide all light. “Vayu 
is your overlord” — thereby he makes Vayu himself his overlord. After 
settling it he chants Siidadohasa upon it. Its significance has been told. 

4. Then he lays down the rtavya bricks (bricks representing the 
seasons). These rtavyas are the seasons and so he places only the 
seasons. “Nabhas and nabhasya are the rainy season.” These are the 
names of those two (seasonal) bricks. Thus he lays them down by their 
names. They are two bricks; for a season consists of two months. He 
settles them together and makes them into one season. He places them 
over avaka plants and covers them with avaka plants for, avaka plants 
are indeed water and thereby he bestows water on that season. 
Therefore during that season it rains profusely. 

5. Then (he lays down the above two bricks saying) “/sa and 
urja, the two autumn seasons” — these are their names and by their 
names, he lays them down. They are two bricks and two months 
constitute that season. He settles them once and makes them into 



X.3.2.11] 


TRANSLATION 


171 


one season. He places them on the avaka plants; for, avaka is water 
and thereby he provides (water) before that season. Hence it rains 
before this season and he does not cover them (with avaka plants). 
Hence it does not rain after that (season). 

6. Now, why he places these (four bricks) in this (layer) is because 
this fire-altar is the year and the year means these worlds. Its middle 
layer is the aerial region and the aerial region is both rainy and autumn 
seasons. Hence when he places them in this (middle layer), he restores 
to him (the Agm-altar) that (middle) part of his body. That is the reason 
for placing them here. 

7. And again why he places them (four bricks) here — this Agnir 
altar is of course Prajapati and Prajapati is none but the year and its 
middle part is the middle layer. The rainy and autumn seasons are its 
middle. Hence by placing these here (in the middle layer), he restores 
to him (the Agra-altar) that (middle) part of his body. Hence he places 
them here. 

8. Thus he places these four rtavyas in the middle layer; two in 
each of the other layers. For, the cattle are four-footed and the aerial 
region is the middle layer. Thus he places the catde in that aerial region. 
Hence there are animals in the aerial region and the animals have the 
aerial region as their above. 

9. Again why they are four (in number) is because the cattle 
are quadrupeds and cattle are food. The central layer is the middle (of 
the altar), he places food in the middle part. 

10. Again why they are four (bricks) — the word antariksa 
(meaning aerial region) is four-syllabled and the other layers have two- 
syllabled (names). So, as much the (syllabic units in) antariksa , making 
it so much, he lays down. 

11. Again why they are four (bricks) — this Agra-altar is indeed, 
pasu and thus he renders the middle of the pasu, biggest. Hence it is 
that an animal is biggest towards the middle. 



X.3.3.4] 


TRANSLATION 


173 


12. There are thus the four rtavyas (seasonal bricks), the visvajyoti 
is the fifth and there are five disyas (regional bricks) — they amount to 
ten. The Viraj metre has ten syllables and Viraj means food. The central 
layer is the middle part. So he places in the middle of the body. They 
are placed so, that they are not separated from the naturally perforated 
brick. The svayamatrnna is indeed prana. So he places food also as not 
to be separated from prana. Just over (the central brick) he lays them 
down and thereby just over the prana he places food. 

13. Then he lays down the pranabhrt bricks. The prdnabhrts are 
indeed vital airs. So he places only the pranas. They are ten; for, there 
are ten pranas. He lays them in the front, for, these pranas are on the 
front side. “Safeguard my life-span, bestow brilliance on me” (he says 
while placing them). For, prana is indeed brilliance and he thereby 
means ‘supply me with prana.' He places them in such a way that they 
are not separated from the rtavyas. Because prana means Vayu and he 
establishes Vayu in those seasons. (Second Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAffl 

1. Then he lays down the chandasyas (bricks of the metres). The 
metres are indeed the cattle and the middle layer is the aerial region. 
Thus he places these cattle in the aerial region. So the cattle have the 
aerial region for their abode. 

2. Why he lays down the chandasyas — the metres are indeed 
cattle and cattle are food. The middle layer is the middle part (of the 
Agro-altar). Thereby he places that food in the middle part. 

3. They ( chandasyas) are twelve in number — for, the Jagati 
metre consists of tw elve syllables. The cattle belong to Jagati and the 
middle layer is the aerial region. Thus he places cattle in the aerial 
region for their abode. 

4. Why they are by (sets of) twelve — the Jagati has twelve 
syllables and the cattle are of the Jagati metre. The cattle means food. 



X.3.3.8] 


TRANSLATION 


175 


The middle layer is the middle part (of the Agni-altar). Thus he places 
food in that middle part. They are placed in such a way as not separated 
from the pranabhrt bricks. For, food is not separated from prana (vital 
air). Thus he provides food for the pranas. So he places them over it 
and thus bestows food on the pranas. 

5. (He lays them down saying) “The metre is measure”— 
measure (ma) is indeed this terrestrial world; for, this world is as it were 
measured ( mita ). “The metre is prama” for, prama is indeed, the aerial 
region; for the aerial region is measured ( pramita) by this terrestrial 
world. ‘The metre is Pratima;” for, pratima is indeed the yonder world 
(sky); for it is, as it were, a prototype of the aerial region (or copy of the 
aerial region). ‘The metre is Asrivayas;” food is Asrivayas. What food is 
there in these worlds is Asrivayas. So what food flows from these worlds 
that is Asrivayah. Hence forth he lays down only the defined metres. 

6. The Paiikti metre, the Usnik metre, the Brhati, the Anustubh, 
the Virad,. the Gayatrl, the Tristubh and thejagati metre-these are 
the defined metres, eight in number, including the Virad, he lays down. 
‘The metre earth, the metre aerial region etc.,” — these are the metres 
belonging to the respective deities,which he now lays down. “Agni, the 
god; Vayu, the god etc.” these gods are, mdeed, metres and them he 
lays down. 

7. He lays down both the defined ( chandasya bricks) as well as 
the undefined. If he were to place (only) all defined ones there will be 
a breakdown. If he were to place all undefined ones, then the food 
would be rendered invisible and one would not see it at all. He lays 
down both defined and undefined ones and consequently, the food 
that is definite (surely available) and is eaten, does not get exhausted. 

8. These are three sets of those twelve, he lays down. That 
amounts to thirty-six and the Brhati metre has thirty-six syllables. This 
is that Brhati, the aerial region, which gods then discovered as a third 
layer. In that set of Brhati bricks (that is) of gods are the fore-most. 



X.3.4.2] 


TRANSLATION 


177 


9. As to why he lays down these bricks — when Prajapati became 
exhausted, all living beings departed from him in all directions. That 
Prajapati who got exhausted is the same as this Agnir altar which is being 
built up. Those living beings which departed from him at that time, 
are the same as these bricks. By placing these bricks, he restores to 
him those very living beings, which then went away from him. 

10. The first ten bricks (pranabhrts) which he lays down are the 
moon. They are ten for, Virad has ten syllables. Virad is food and the 
moon is indeed food. Those thirty-six ( chandasyas) which he lays down 
subsequently are the half months and the months; i.e. twenty-four halt 
months and twelve months. The moon is of course, the year and all 
the living beings. When gods replenished him (Prajapati) they put all 
the living beings inside him. In the same way, this own (Yajamana) 
puts them therein (Agni-altar which is Prajapati). They lay them down 
in such a manner that they are not separated from the rtavyds (seasonal 
bricks). Thus he establishes all the living beings in the seasons. (Third 
Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMANAIV 


1. Then he places the valakhilya bricks. The vdlakhilyds are indeed 
the vital airs. Thus he endows him with vital airs. Why they are named 
vdlakhilyds — uncultivated space between two furrowed land-pieces is 
called khila. These pranas (channels of breaths) are separated from 
each other only by the breadth of a horse s hair. Since they aie 
separated only by the breadth of a horse’s hair, they are called 

valakhilyas . 

2. He places seven of them in the front and seven in the back. 
Those seven which he places in the front are, no doubt, those pranas 
(vital air passages) in the front. They are now placed in it. By those 
seven which he places in the back, he provides counter-breathings to 
those (frontal) breathings. Hence when he eats food, that food is over¬ 
run by these counter-breathings. 



X.3.4.5] 


TRANSLATION 


179 


3. Why he places seven in front is because these channels of 
vital air are seven in the front part of the body; the tour upper and 
lower parts of the fore-arms, the head, the neck and that portion which 
is above the navel being the seventh; for, in each limb there is a vital 
air. Thus it makes to seven pranas in the front. Them, he puts into him 
(Prajapati) — {Agni- altar). Now the seven that he places at the back 
are indeed seven vital airs in the back; the four thighs and knee-bones, 
the two feet and that part below the navel forms the seventh; for, in 
each limb there is a vital air. Thus it makes up seven pranas at the back; 
them, he now places into him (Prajapati). You are the head, the king, 
you are firm; you are the one who sustains, the dharani (holdei), you 
are the leader, a ruler; you are the one who guides, a guide; you are 
steady and the dharani (holder)” — thus he bestows steady vital airs 

upon him. 

4. And why he places the valakhilyas is because it is with the help 
of valakhilyas, that the gods get to these worlds; both from here upwards 
and from above downwards. In like manner, this Yajamana wants to 
travel from here upwards and from yonder downwards with the help 
of the valakhilyas. “You are the head, the ruler” — so saying they got 
on this terrestrial world. “You are firm and unmoving” — so saying 
ascended to the aerial region. “You are the sustainer and holder so 
saying the yonder world (I place) you for longevity of life, you for vitality, 
you for agriculture; you for well-being. There are four types of 
quadrupeds and animals are food. Thus with these four types of 
quadrupeds, food, they (gods) got themselves established in the yonder 
world. In the same way, this Yajamana gets himself established in the 
yonder world by means of these four types of quadrupeds, food. 

5. This is as it were an ascent from here (the earth) but this 
earth is a base and gods did return to this earth, the base. “You are the 
leader, the king” — so saying they descended to that yonder world. 
“You are the one who guides; a guide” — so saying they came back to 
the aerial region. “You are steady and dharani{ holder) - so saying they 
returned to this terrestrial world. “You for longevity of life, you for 
vitality; you for agriculture, you for well-being” — they are four types of 
quadrupeds (animals). The animals are food and thus by means of 



X.3.4.9] 


TRANSLATION 


181 


these four type of animals, food, they — (gods) came back to this 
terrestrial world. In the same manner this Yajamana, by these four 
types of animals, food, returns to this world. 

6. Now as to the replenishing of Prajapati—these eleven bricks 
which he lays down (one svayamatrnna, four disyas, one visvajyoti and 
four rtavyas ) constitute the first Anuvaka (the first set of Yajus formulas 
uttered for the third citi) and the aerial region and this body (of the 
Ag-ra-altar). Why they happen to be eleven is because Tristubh is of 
eleven syllables and the aerial region belongs to the Tristubh metre. 
Then the sixty bricks placed subsequently (represent) Vayu; he is the 
Prajapati, he is the Agm-altar and he is the Yajamana. 

7. Those which he places in front on his head, they are ten in 
number; for,the pranas are ten. The head is the (channel of) pranas. 
They are placed in the front half because this head is in the front. 

8. Those which he places on the right side represent that part 
of his body which is above the middle and below the head. That which 
he places at the back represents that part which is above the feet and 
below the middle part. Those on the left are his feet themselves. 

9. The seven valakhilyas which he places in the front are the 
same as these seven pranas which are in the front part (of an animal). 
Those he puts into him are placed in such a way that they are not 
separated from those ten pranabhrt bricks. Thus he ensures that pranas 
are not separated from the head. The seven ( valakhilyas) he places at 
the back, he puts those seven pranas behind. They are placed in such 
a way that they are not separated from those twelve chandasya bricks. 
Thus he ensures that the vital airs are not separated from the body. 
This Vayu-Prajapati is turned all around in this aerial region which is 
of Tristubh. So when he builds up the third layer, he does so after 
having joined Vayu and the aerial region. Then he places two lokamprna 
(space-filling) bricks in this (north-west) corner. The significance of 
this will be told later. Thereon he puts loose soil. Its purpose will be 
told later. (Fourth Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter Three Ends.) 



Chapter Four 


BRAHMANAI 

1. He builds up the fourth layer. This is what once gods laid down 
after building up the third one and ascended. The third one being the 
aerial region, it was the air which was completed before they ascended. 

2. They said, “Meditate,” whereby they meant to say ‘discover a layer 
from hence upwards’. While meditating they saw that fourth layer which is 
above the aerial region and below heaven. That world seemed unsteady 
and unsettled as it were. 

3. They said to Brahman, “We will set you up here”. Brahman asked, 
“What is the benefit to me.” (They said) “You shall be the highest among 
us.” Brahman said, “Be it so.” Accordingly they laid down the deity Brah¬ 
man here, and that is why people consider Brahman as the foremost of 
gods. This fourth layer upholds the other two; namely, heaven and earth. 
Brahman being the fourth layer is said to uphold heaven and earth. He 
places the stomas (the name of the first eighteen bricks placed in the fourth 
layer). The stomas being the pranas just as Brahman is prana, it is Brahman 
that is laid down here. 

4. Why he lays down the stomas is this — the gods at that time told 
Prajapati, “Let us lay you down here.” He said, “Be it so.” He did not ask, 
“What will then be to my benefit.” Normally whenever Prajapati wanted 
something from gods he used to bargain ‘what will be the benefit.’ This is 
like a father wishing to obtain something from his sons and their asking in 
turn ‘what will accrue to us by that’. Similarly when the sons (wish to get 
something) from the father, he says, “Granted.” Similarly Prajapati and gods 
used to-ask and respond. (The father always ready to grant the wishes of 
his sons without expecting anything in return and the sons fulfiling the 
wishes of their father only on quid pro quo basis.) He lays down the stomas 
which are pranas and pranas are the same as Prajapati and so (actually) he 
lays down Prajapati. 

5. And again w hy he lays down stomas — stomas are pranas which are 
the rsis. The rsis (vital airs) saw this fourth layer. And they are the first to 
step near with that essential element. It is them he now lays down. He lays 



X.4.1.9] 


TRANSLATION 


185 


down the stomas which are pranas and are also rsis. Therefore he (actually) 
lays down the rsis. 

6. And again why he lays down the stomas is because when Prajapati 
got exhausted, gods took him and ran away. Vayu, one of the gods, took 
that part of his body which was above the waist and below the head and 
kept going away from him. In this process, Vayu assumed the forms of all 
the deities and of the year. Prajapati appealed to him, “Come to me and 
return to me that which you have taken away from me.” (Vayu asked) ‘What 
shall I gain by that?’ Prajapati said, “You shall be the presiding deity of that 
part of my body. ” Vayu said, “All right” and returned to him (that part of his 
body). These eighteen bricks laid down at the first instance represent that 
part of his (Prajapati’s) body. They are now laid down and thereby he re¬ 
stores that part of his body. Therefore he places them in this layer. He 
places the stomas which are vital airs and Vayu being the deity of vital airs, 
he (actually) lays down Vayu. 

7. He places the stomas in the front (saying) “You the fast one, three¬ 
fold” — By this he lays down that stoma which is Trivrt (threefold or three 
times repeated triple hymns). As to why he calls it ‘You the fast one’ is 
because this indeed is the fastest of stomas (all other stoynas are bigger than 
the Trivrt) and moreover the fast and the threefold one is indeed, Vayu 
because he exists in these three worlds. He calls him ‘The fast one’ because 
Vayu is the swiftest of all beings. Being Vayu, it is to be in the front. Thus 
that form of Vayu (stoma) he now lays down. 

8. (He says) “The shining one,the Paiicadasa or fifteenfold”— by this 
he lays down that stoma which is fifteenfold. Why he says ‘shining one’ is 
because the thunderbolt is the shining one and it is again the thunderbolt 
which is fifteenfold. The moon is here the thunderbolt shining and 
fifteenfold. He waxes for fifteen days and wanes for fifteen days. Why he 
said, ‘shining’ is because he is lustrous. Assuming that form of the moon, it 
remained on the right side and it is that form which he now lays down. 

9. (He says) “The aerial space, the Saptadasa (seventeenfold).” By 
this he lays down that stoma which is seventeenfold. As to his calling it (aerial 
space), it is because the aerial space is Prajapati and seventeenfold is Prajapati 
(the ten toes, ten fingers, the five senses, the mind and the body-total 
seventeen). But indeed the seventeenfold aerial space is also the year for 
which there are twelve months and five seasons. Why he calls it space is 
because the year indeed is space and being so it remained on the left side. 
It is that form of it he now lays down. 



X.4.1.15] 


TRANSLATION 


187 


10. (He says) “Sustainer, the Ekaviihsa (the twenty-onefold)Thereby 
he lays down that stoma which is twenty-onefold. As to his calling it 
‘Sustainer’, the word ‘sustainer’ means a support (foothold) and the 
Ekavimsa stoma is a foothold. But indeed the twenty-onefold sustainer is 
also yonder sun. It is to him the three worlds, twelve months, five seasons; 
and yonder Sun himself is the sustainer, the twenty-onefold. And as to his 
calling him ‘Sustainer’, when he sets he is sustaining all these (creatures). 
So it is by assuming the form of Aditya, he stood behind. It is that form of it, 
he now places and the forms of the year, he thus lays down. 

11. (He says) “Development, the Astadasa (eighteen).” That which is 
called the Astadasa stoma is placed here. The year indeed is the developing 
force, the eighteen. It has twelve months, five seasons and the year itself is 
the developing force, the eighteenfold. That is called praturti because it is 
the year that develops (brings to maturity) all these beings. It is that form 
he now lays down. 

12. (He says) u Tapas (mortification) is the Navadasa (nineteen).” He 
thereby lays down that stoma which is nineteenfold. But tapas or mortifica¬ 
tion, the nineteenfold one, is no doubt the year. In the year there are twelve 
months, and six seasons and the year itself is tapas, the nineteenfold. And 
as to his referring to it as ‘mortification’, the year indeed burns or mortifies 
(ripens) all these beings. It is that form he now lays down. 

13. (He says) “The repeating one, the Savimsa." He thereby lays down 
that stoma which is twentyfold. But the repeating one,the twentyfold is doubt¬ 
less the year for, in a year there are twelve months, seven seasons and the 
year itself is a repeating one, the twentyfold. As to why he calls it abhwarta is 
because it repeatedly assaults all these beings. It is that form he now lays 
down. 

14. (He says) “Brilliance, the Dvavimsa (twenty-two).” Thereby he 
places the twenty-twofold stoma. But brilliance, the twenty-twofold stoma is 
of course the year. The year has twelve months, seven seasons, the two 
night and day and the year itself as brilliance,the twenty-twofold. As to why 
he calls it varcas (brilliance) is because the year indeed is the most brilliant 
of all that exist here. It is that form he now lays down. 

15. (He says)“Inhering, the Trayovimsa (twenty-three).” Thereby he 
lays down that which is twenty-threefold stoma. But the all-pervading twenty¬ 
threefold stoma is indeed the year. It has thirteen months, seven seasons, 



X.4.1.21] 


TRANSLATION 


189 


the two day and night and the year itself the all-pervading twenty-threefold. 
Why he calls it sambharana{ pervading or filling) is because the year per¬ 
vades all these beings. It is that form he lays down now. 

16. (He says) ‘The womb, the Caturvirhsa (twenty-four).” Thereby 
he lays down the twenty-fourfold stoma. But the year itself is the womb; the 
twenty-fourfold. It has twenty-four half months. Why he calls it the womb is 
because the year is the womb of all the beings. It is that form he lays down now. 

17. (He says) “The embryos, the Pancavirhsa (twenty-five).” Thereby 
he places that which is the Pancavirhsa stoma. But the year itself is the em¬ 
bryos, the twenty-fivefold. It has twenty-four half months and the year itself 
the embryos, being the twenty-fifth. Why he calls it the embryos is because 
the year (assuming the form of) the thirteen month old embryo enters the 
seasons and that itself in that form is laid down here. 

18. (He calls) “Strength, the Trinava (twenty-seven).” Thereby he 
lays down the Trinava (thrice nine) stoma. And why he calls it ojah is because 
oja means the thunderbolt and thunderbolt is the trinava and so the year is 
strength, the twenty-seventh {trinava). It has twenty-four half months, two 
day and night, and the year indeed is the ojastrinava (twenty-seventh). And 
why he called it oja is because the year is the strongest among existing things. 
It is that form he now lays down. 

19. (He says) “The all-maker, Ekatrimsa (thirty-one).” Thereby he lays 
down that which is thirty-onefold stoma. But the year indeed is the all-maker 
Ekatrimsa. It has twenty-four half months, six seasons and the year itself the 
all-maker, the thirty-onefold. Why he calls him ‘ kratu (all-maker) ’ is because 
year is that which makes everything. It is that form he now lays down. 

20. (He Says) “The foundation, Trayastrirhsa (thirty-three).” Thereby 
he places the thirty-threefold stoma and why he calls it pratisthd (founda¬ 
tion) is because the pratisthd is the thirty-third and the year is pratisthd, the 
thirty-threefold. It has twenty-four half months, six seasons, the two day 
and night and the year itself is the foundation, the thirty-threefold. Why he 
calls him pratisthd is because the year is the foundation of all beings. It is 
that form he lays down now. 

21. (He says) ‘The sun’s pedestal, the Catustrirhsa (the thirty-four).” 
Thereby he lays down that which is thirty-fourfold stoma. The sun’s 
pedestal,the thirty-four is indeed the year. It has twenty-four half months, 



X.4.2.1] 


TRANSLATION 


191 


seven seasons, two day and night and the year itself is the sun s pedestal, 
the thirty-fourfold. As to why he calls it the sun s pedestal, it is because 
(supreme sovereignty) is the pedestal of the ruddy sun, the supreme 
sovereignty,the thirty-fourfold. It is that form he lays down here. 

22. (He says) “The heaven, the Sattrimsa (thirty-six).” Thereby he lays 
down that which is the thirty-sixfold stoma. The year indeed is the heaven,the 
thirty-sixfold. It has twenty-four half months and twelve months. And as to 
why he calls it ndka (heaven) is because ndka , the year is the heavenly world. 

It is that form he lays down here. 

23. (He says)‘The revolving force, the Astacatvarimsa (forty-eight).” 
Thereby he lays down that which is the forty-eightfold stoma. The year in¬ 
deed is the revolving force, the forty-eightfold. It has twenty-six half months, 
thirteen months, seven seasons and two day and night. Why he calls it re¬ 
volving force is, because of the year, all these beings revolve (have a cyclic 
existence). It is that form he lays down now. 

24. (He says) The supporting one, the Catustoma (the fourfold stoma ).” 
Thereby he places that which is fourfold stoma. Why he calls it dhartra is 
because stability is dhartra and stability is Catustoma. Indeed Vayu is the 
Dhartra Catustoma ; for, he sings from all those four quarters. Why he is 
called Dhartra is because dhartra means ‘support’ and Vayu is the support 
of all these beings. It is that form he now lays down. That is, he is laying 
down Vayu himself at the first place and Vayu himself at the last. Thereby 
he envelops all these beings by Vayu on either side. 

25. These then are the eighteen istakas that he lays down. This (eigh¬ 
teen) constitute two TWtrtsand Trivrt is indeed prana and prana being Vayu, 
this layer ( citi) is itself Vayu. As to why it should be eighteen it is because 
the year is eighteenfold; twelve months, five seasons and the year itself the 
Prajapati as the eighteenth. Prajapati is Agni- altar and as great as Agni is, as 
great as is his size, so great he makes it by doing so. (First Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANA II 

1. Then he lays down the sprta bricks. When a part of the body of 
Prajapati was replenished, he became pregnant with all beings. While they 
were in his womb, sin and death took hold of them. He told gods — “I shall 



TRANSLATION 


193 


X.4.2.6] 


with your help, free these beings of sin and death . They asked back, AVhat 
is it we can gain from it?” Prajapati said, “Say what you want.” Then they 
(gods) said, “Let us have a share” said some of them; others said, Let us 
have overlordship.” Accordingly he gave a share to some and overlordship 
to others. Consequently all the beings were freed from sin and death. Hence 
these are called sprtas as they enabled to free them ( asprnat) . In a like man¬ 
ner, this Yajamana ascribes share to some gods and overlordship to others 
and thus frees all beings from sin and death. That is why, in each instance 
(of laying down these bricks) the word sprta is repeated. 


2. He lays them saying, “You are the share of Agni; you represent 
the overlordship of diksa — diksdis indeed speech. Having given a share to 
Agni, he bestowed overlordhip to speech. “Brahman is freed; the Trivrt stoma 

_by means of the Trivrt (the hymn repeated thrice threefold). He freed 

the priestly class of living beings from sin and death. 

3. “You are the share of Indra; the overlordship of Visnu” — saying 
so he assigns a share to Indra and overlordship to Visnu. “The Ksatra is 
freed and Pancadasa stoma (hymn consisting of fifteen recitations). By 
means of the fifteenfold hymn, he freed the Ksatra (the princely order) of 
living beings from sin and death. 


4. ‘You are the share of the Nrcaksas and the overlordship of Dhata” 

_the Nrcaksas are indeed gods (literally meaning those who keep a watch 

on humans). Having bestowed a share to gods, he confers overlordship on 
Dhata (the creator). “Thejanitra is freed, the Saptadasa stoma the birth 
place (Janitra) is indeed the vis (commonfolk) and by means of the 
seventeenfold hymn he frees the commonfolk among the living beings, 
from sin and death. 

5. “You are the share of Mitra and the overlordship of Varuna” - 
Mitra indeed means prana and Varuna is apana. Having bestowed a share 
to prana he confers overlordship on apana. The rain of heaven is freed, 
Ekavimsa stoma” Thereby he liberates rain and wind of the people by means 
oiEkavimsa stoma (twenty-onefold hymn) and thus free them from sin and 
death. 

6. “You are the share of Vasus and the overlordship of Rudras”— 
thus he bestows a share on Vasus and confers overlordship on Rudras. 1 he 
quadrupeds are freed, the Caturvimsa stoma —thereby he frees the four- 
footed living beings from sin and death, by means of the twenty-fourfold 
hymn. 



TRANSLATION 


195 


X.4.2.13] 


7. “You are share of Adityas and overlordship of Maruts”- thus he 
gives a share to Adityas and confers overlordship on Maruts. “The garbhas 
(fetus) are freed; the Pancavimsa stoma ’ — thereby he frees the embryos of 
living beings and by means of the twenty-fivefold stoma ; he frees the fetus 
from sin and death. 


8. “You are the share of Aditi and overlordship of Pusa”— this earth 
is indeed Aditi and he bestows a share on Aditi and overlordship on Pusa. 
“Ojas (vigour) is freed; the Trinava stoma — thereby the vigour of living 
beings is freed and they are freed from sin and death. 

9. “You are the share of lord Savita and overlordship of Brhaspati” 

_thereby he confers a share to Lord Savita and bestows overlordship on 

Brhaspati. “The quarters in front are freed; the Catustoma' — by means ol 
the Catustoma (fourfold praise), he frees all the four quarters and the living 
beings are freed from sin and death. 


10. “You are the share of yavas and the overlordship of ayavas ” — the 
yavas are, no doubt, the bright fortnights and the ayavas are the dark ones; 
because they connect (yu) and obtain ( ayu ) everything here. He bestows a 
share on the bright fortnights and overlordship on the dark fortnights. 
“The creatures are freed; the Catuscatvarimsa stoma’," by means of forty-four¬ 
fold hymn he frees all creatures from sin and death. 

11. “You are the share of Rbhus; the overlordship of Visvedevas. 
Thereby he bestows a share on Rbhus and confers overlordship on 
Visvedevas.“The living being (bhuta) is freed; the Trayastrimsa stoma —thus 
all living beings were freed by means of thirty-threefold stomas and freed of 
sin and death. In the same way this Yajamana by means of the thirty-three¬ 
fold stoma frees all living beings from sin and death. 

12. These are thus the ten bricks which he places; for, the Virad is 
ten- syllabled and Virad is the same as Agnkiltar. There are ten directions 
and quarters are the Agni-altar. There are ten vital airs and the vital airs are 
the Agm-altar. As great as Agni is, as great as is his size; by so much he thus 
frees all these living beings from sin and death. 

13. He then lays down two rtavyas (seasonal bricks). The seasonal 
bricks being the same as seasons, he thus lays down the seasons. “ Saha and 
sahasya are the two winter seasons” — these are the names of those two and 
by their names they are laid down. They are two such bricks since a season 
has two months. He settles them only once and thereby makes the two into 


one season. 



X.4.3.4] 


TRANSLATION 


197 


14. As to why he places these two (seasonal bricks) on this layer it is 
that this Agm-altar is the year and the year encompasses all these worlds. 
That part of it which is above the aerial region and below the sky is what 
constitutes this fourth citi and that is the winter season. When he places 
these two bricks, he restores that part of Prajapati’s body corresponding to 
the winter season. 

15. Again as to why he places these two rtavyas on this layer — this 
Agw-altar is Prajapati and Prajapati is the year. That part of his above the 
waist and below the head constitutes this fourth citi and that is the winter 
season. By placing these two bricks representing the winter season, he re¬ 
stores that part of Prajapati’s body; that is why he places these two bricks on 
this layer. (Second Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANA III 

1. He then lays down the srsti bricks (bricks of creation). Because 
Prajapati, after releasing all beings of their evil and death, desired "May I 
create beings; May I procreate.” He told pranas — “Together with you, I 
shall bring forth these creatures.” (They asked) “With what shall we utter 
praises?” (He replied) ‘With me and with yourselves.” They said, “Yes.” They 
therefore sang the praises both with pranas and with Prajapati. Whatever 
gods did then, now they do with sacrifice. Because sacrifice is itself a praise 
and it is by sacrifice that they praise. That is why it is repeated while placing 
all these bricks “They praised — they praised.” 

2. ‘With one they praise” — the one is indeed, the speech and it is 
with speech that they then praised. “The beings were conceived” — the 
creatures indeed, were now conceived. “Prajapati was the overlord of 
course, Prajapati was now the overlord. 

3. ‘With three they praised” — there are three pranas ; namely, prana , 
udana and vyana and with them they praised. Brahman was created it 
was indeed, priesthood which was now created. “Brahmanaspati was the 
overlord” — Brahmanaspati indeed, was the overlord. 

4. ‘With five they praised” — they are the four pranas here with mind 
as the fifth and it is with them that they praised. ‘The living beings were 
created” — indeed, it is now the living beings which were created. “The 
master of creatures was the overlord” — the master of the living beings was 
indeed the overlord. 



X.4.3.12] 


TRANSLATION 


199 


5. “With seven they praised” — the seven vital airs are here in the 
head and it is with them that they praised. The seven rsis were created. 
“The creator was the overlord” — here now the creator himself is the 
overlord. 

6. “With nine they praised” — there are indeed nine pranas', seven 
in the head and two downwards and it is with them that they praised. “They 
created pitrs” — pitrs indeed were now created. “Aditi was the queen” — 
here Aditi was indeed the queen. 

7. “With eleven they praised” — there are ten pranas and the body is 
the eleventh. By these they praised. “Seasons were created” — indeed, the 
seasons were now produced. ‘The seasonal periods were the overlords” — 
of course the duration of the seasons was the overlords. 

8. “They praised with thirteen” — these are ten pranas and two feet 
with the trunk of the body as the thirteenth. With them they praised. “The 
months were created” — indeed the months were now produced. “The 
year was the overlord” — of course, the year was the overlord. 

9. “With fifteen they praised” — these are the ten fingers,the four 
fore-arms and upper-arms and the portion above the navel as the fifteenth. 
With them they praised. “Ksatra was created” — now it was indeed, the 
nobility that was created. “Indra was the overlord”— Indra indeed was now 
the overlord. 

10. “With seventeen they praised” — these are the ten toes, the two 
thighs and two shanks, two feet, and the portion below the navel being the 
seventeenth. It is with them that they praised. The domestic animals were 
created” - indeed, it was now that the domestic animals were produced. 
“Brhaspati was the overlord” — of course, Brhaspati was now the overlord. 

11. “With nineteen they praised” — these are the ten fingers and nine 
pranas with which they praised. “Sudra and Arya were created” — indeed, 
Sudra and Arya were now produced . “The day and night were the over- 
lords” — surely the day and night were the rulers. 

12. “With twenty-one they praised” — these are the ten fingers of the 
hand, ten toes and the body as the twenty-first. With these they praised. 
“The one-hoofed animals were created” — indeed, it was now that the one- 
hoofed animals were created. “Varuna was the overlord —Varuna of course 
was now the overlord. 



X.4.3.19] 


TRANSLATION 


201 


13. “With twenty-three they praised” — these are the ten fingers, toes, 
the two feet and the body as the twenty-third. With these they praised. “The 
small animals were created” — indeed, it was now that the petty animals 
were produced. “Pusa was the overlord” — of course, now Pusa was the 
overlord. 


14. “With twenty-five they praised” — these are the ten fingers of the 
hands, ten toes, four limbs and the trunk is the twenty-fifth. With these 
they praised. ‘The wild animals were created”. Indeed the wild animals were 
now produced. “Vayu was the overlord” - of course, Vayu was now the 
overlord. 

15. “With twenty-seven they praised” - these are the ten fingers of the 
hands, ten toes, the four limbs, the two feet and the trunk is the twenty- 
seventh. With these they praised. “Heaven and earth split as under.” In¬ 
deed, heaven and earth parted (or came into being as two separate enti¬ 
ties) . “Vasus, Rudras, and Adityas also got separated along with them and 
they were the overlords.” Indeed, they were now the overlords. 

16. “With twenty-nine they praised” — these are the fingers of the 
hand, ten toes and nine pranas. With these they praised. “Trees were cre¬ 
ated”— indeed, now trees got produced. “Soma was the overlord ”— of course, 
Soma was now the overlord. 

17. “With thirty-one they praised”— these are the ten fingers of the 
hands, the ten toes, the ten pranas, and the body as the thirty-first. With 
these they praised. “The creatures were created’ — indeed, the creatures 
were now produced. “Yavas and Ayavas were the overlords of course, the 
bright fortnights and the dark fortnights were now the overlords. 

18. “With thirty-three they praised”— these are the ten fingers of the 
hands, ten toes, ten pranas, two feet and the trunk. With these they praised. 
“The living beings lay quiet” - indeed, all the living beings lied calm. “The 
supreme Prajapati was the overlord — of course, the supreme Prajapati 
was now the overlord. 

19. Then these seventeen bricks he lays down. The year namely 
Prajapati is seventeenfold and he is the progenitor. It is indeed, by this 
seventeenfold year, Prajapati, the progenitor that all these cieatui es were 



X.4.4.3] 


TRANSLATION 


203 


produced. What he produced became the creation. The act of generating 
( srj) gave the name srsti to the creation. Having created them, he made 
them get absorbed in himself. In the same manner, this Yajamana with the 
seventeenfold year, the Prajapati, the progenitor, creates these beings and 
having created them he makes them enter his own self. He lays down these 
bricks on the sides of retassics. The retassics are the ribs and they are in the 
middle of the body. Thus he makes those creatures enter into the middle 
of his body. He lays them on all sides and then makes these creatures enter 
him from all sides. (Third Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAIV 

1. Now the sequence to be followed — in the front, he places that 
trivrt stoma brick and at the back the twenty-one stoma brick. To the right, he 
places the brick having fifteen stomas:, and to the left, the one with seven¬ 
teen stomas. When Prajapati had laid down the trivrt stoma brick, death 
awaited at the fifteen stoma brick thinking, ‘after this, he will place this 
pancadasavati stoma brick (on the south), when I can catch him’. Prajapati 
knew this and having noticed him (death), walked round (avoiding the 
south)and laid down at the back, the twenty-one stoma brick. Death came 
there and he (Prajapati) placed the one with fifteen stomas at the south. 
When death came to the fifteen stoma brick, Prajapati laid down the one 
with seventeen stoma (in the north). It was in this way, he outwitted death 
and avoided him. In like manner, this Yajamana now outwits and avoids all 
evil. 

2. Now the sequence of the subsequent bricks — alongside of the 
trivrt brick in front, he places the (second) trivrt. Alongside of the ekavimsavati 
stoma brick at the back, he places the next twenty-one stoma brick; alongside 
of the pancadasavati stoma brick at the right side, he places one seventeen 
stoma brick; alongside of the saptadasavati stoma brick on the left, he places 
the next fifteen stoma brick. Becuase of this change in the bricks (on the 
right and left sides) those bricks are of different stomas. Since these bricks 
are not of the same stomas as the previous ones, there is a diversity. This is 
how gods laid them down; whereas Asuras did the other way and conse¬ 
quently gods came out victorious and Asuras failed. He who knows this, 
succeeds and his hateful enemy fails. 

3. Now this (Agru-altar) is a pasu and he is rendered whole and re¬ 
stored entirely. The two trivrt stoma bricks are its head. Why they are trivrt 
stoma bricks is because the head is threefold. They are two in number, cor¬ 
responding to the two skull bones ol the head. He lays them down in front, 
because, the head is in the front. 



TRANSLATION 


205 


X.4.4.9] - 

4. The two twenty-one stoma bricks are its foundation. Why they are 
twenty-one it is because the foundation is twenty-onefold. They are two in 
number corresponding to the foundation (feet) which is twofold. They are 
placed at the back since the foundation (feet) is behind. 


5. The two fifteen stoma bricks constitute the two arms. Why they are 
fifteen stoma bricks it is because the arms are fifteenfold. They are two in 
number corresponding to these two arms. They are laid down on the sides 
because the arms are on the sides. 


6. The two seventeen stoma bricks are the food. And as to why they 
are seventeen stoma ones it is because food is seventeenlold. They aie two 
in number, because the word anna (food) has two syllables. They are placed 
close to the two fifteen stoma bricks, so that the arms are in the proximity of 
food. The fifteen stoma bricks are at the outside and the seventeen stoma 
ones inside. Thus he covers the food on both sides by the arms. 


7. Those which he places in the middle constitute the trunk. He places 
them on the range of the two retassics. The two retassics are indeed the ribs 
and the ribs are in the middle and this trunk is also in the middle. He 
places them in all directions, because the trunk is in all diiections. As to 
what space is there which is left over is that, which is in excess for gods and 
they are the meters. Those that are the meters are the cattle and those 
which are cattle are auspicious; and those which are auspicious are yonder 
sun. He is that one to the south of them. 


8. Some place them close to the two trivrt stoma bricks saying, “They 
are the tongue and the jaws” — those fourteen are the jaws and those six 
are the tongue. It should not be done so. They actually duplicate, they put 
two more jaws over the already existing two, as it were; and one more tongue 
over the one already there. That brick representing the head does indeed 
have the jaws and the tongue. 

9. Now some others lay down these bricks in the intermediate (south¬ 
eastern) gap of the altar, saying, “This is the sun and let us place that yon¬ 
der sun in that direction.” Let him not do so. There are other (specified) 
formalities to place the sun in that direction. Yet others place them on the 
right side thinking ‘let us put that auspicious fortune on the right side.’ 
Hence one who has a mark on the right side is considered as of good for- 



X.4.4.10] 


TRANSLATION 


207 


tune and on the left side, in the case of woman; for, woman is always on the 
left side (of man). Therefore it is believed so. But let him place them in the 
front; for, there is head, there are the jaws and the tongue. Thereby he 
places the symbols of good fortune at the mouth. That is why, it is said that 
one with a mark in his mouth is lucky. 

10. This indeed is the Brahman’s citi. Inasmuch as they (gods) laid 
down the Brahman, it is Brahman’s layer. It is also Prajapati’s citi since they 
laid down Prajapati, it is Prajapati-dh. It is that ah'of the rsis, since they laid 
down. And hence it is called Rsi citi. It is Vayu’s citi since they laid down 
Vayu and so it is Vayu citi. It is Stoma’s citi since they laid down the stomas 
and so Stoma citi. It is the Prana’s citi since they laid down pranas and so it is 
Prana citi. So whatever way one knows this, it has the sanction of the rsis 
and it becomes a mystically relevant citi. Then he places two space filling 
bricks in that corner and its significance will be told later. He puts loose soil 
thereon; its purport will be told later. (Fourth Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter Four Ends.) 



Chapter Five 
BRAHMANAI 

1. Then he builds up the fifth layer. This the gods ascended after 
laying the fourth citi (layer). This fifth layer is above the aerial region and 
below the sky; which they fashioned and ascended. 

2. They said, “Contemplate;” by which they meant‘Plan out a citi, plan 
it from here upwards’. While contemplating they discovered this fifth layer, 
which is this shining heaven and that world was appealing to them. 

3. They thought: ‘Let us make that world free of any rival and without 
any affliction.’ They told to themselves: ‘Find out the way to make this world 
free of rivals and without affliction. ’ They concluded, “Contemplate;” which 
means plan a citi. So they contemplated as to how to make it free of enemies 
and without affliction. 

4. While contemplating, they discovered three asapatna bricks (foeless 
bricks). They laid them down and by means of them they rendered that 
world free of enemies and without affliction. Hence these bricks are called 
asapatnas. In the same way this Yajamana, when he lays down these bricks, 
renders that world free of foes and without affliction. He lays them on all sides 
and thus renders it free from foes and free of affliction on all sides. 

5. Then he places the viraja bricks. This viraj is indeed that which 
gods discovered as the fifth citi. He lays them by tens; for, the Virad metre is 
ten-syllabled and this citiis viraj. He lays them on all sides, because that which 
shines at one side does not shine (fully); only that which shines on all sides 
really shines. 

6. Now why he lays down the asapatna bricks — at that time when that 
Prajapati’s body was replenished, he found evil coming in from all sides. He 
saw these istakas called asapatnas. He laid them down and by means of them 
he drove away that evil. Enemy is indeed evil and since he drove away that evil, 
the foes with these bricks,they are called asapatnas. 

7. What gods did, he now does. No sin accrues to him who does this 
thinking ‘let me do what gods did. Thus by these he dispels whatever evil 



X.5.1.12] 


TRANSLATION 


211 


and whoever enemy was there from all sides. He places them on the other 
side and thus drives away the evil, the foes from his entire self. 

8. He places them on eastern side — “O Agni ! Drive away our foes 
who are born.” As the text, so the meaning.Then on the backside he places 
them saying, “O Agni! Drive away quickly those foes who are born.” As the 
text, so the meaning. That which is in the front is Agni and that which is 
behind is Agni. So he drives away the evil both from the front and from 
behind by means of Agni. In like manner, this Yajamana by means of Agni 
drives away evil from the front and from behind. 

9. Then he places on the right side saying, ‘The sixteenfold stoma, 
vigour and wealth.” The Tristubh has eleven syllables and the aerial region 
is of Tristubh and it has four quarters. This thunderbolt is fifteenfold and for 
that the yonder sun is the sixteenfold wielder of that thunderbolt. By means 
of this fifteenfold vajra, by this Tristubh, he drove away sin or evil from the 
right side. In the same way, this Yajamana by means of this fifteenfold 
thunderbolt, namely Tristubh, drives away the evil from the right side. 

10. Then he places them on the left side saying, The forty-fourfold 
stoma, effulgence and wealth.” Tristubh has forty-four syllables (in all the four 
quarters together) and the thunderbolt is of Tristubh. He by means of this 
forty-fourfold thunderbolt,that is Tristubh, drove away the evil from the 
north. In like manner, this Yajamana, by means of this forty-fourfold 
thunderbolt, by this Tristubh, drives away evil from the north. 

11. Then he places in the middle saying, “You are the excreta of Agni.” 
Brahman is the citi and Brahman is indeed Agni. This fifth citi is as it were the 
purisa (excreta) of that fourth citi. “You bear the name of waters” — its 
meaning has been told. 

12. He places this with its line-markings pointing eastward and crosswise 
(in opposite direction of the asapatna) because, it is by that one, Prajapati at 
that time cut off the roots of evil. In the same manner, this Yajamana cuts off 
the root of evil. He places it on the right side; for, the thunderbolt has a string 
on its right side and the string is the thunderbolt in between. To provide for 
that in the southern side, he leaves that space. 



X.5.2.2] 


TRANSLATION 


213 


13. The one which is in front is prana and the one at the back is apdna. 
By means of prana, Prajapati then drove away the evil in front and by apdna, 
the evil in the rear. In like manner, this Yajamana, now dispels all evil from 
the front by means of prana and from behind by means of apdna. 

14. The two on either side (of the spine) are the two arms. Whatever 
evil was there on the sides, that he drove away with his arms. Similarly this 
Yajamana, now drives away the evil on the sides by means of his arms. 

15. The one covered by soil is food. By means of this, he drove away 
whatever evil was there at the upper region; similarly, this Yajamana now 
drives away by means of food what sin is there in the upper region. Whoever, 
knowing this takes the upward breath (prana), drives away the evil that is on 
the front side; who takes the downward breath (apdna), drives away the sin 
from behind; when he works with his two arms, he dispels the evil from all 
around. While he eats food, he drives away evil from the upper region. At all 
times, even when asleep, he who knows this, drives away the evil. Hence one 
should never proclaim any evil regarding that person who knows this; let him 
who proclaims, be his enemy. (First Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAII 

1. Then he lays down the (chandasya bricks representing metres). 
Prajapati, after getting himself rid of evil and death, wanted food. That is why 
even now, a person after recovering from sickness, wants food and 
consequently people get confident that he will survive since he has (regained) 
appetite. To him (Prajapati) gods gave this food in the form of the 
chandasyas. The metres are indeed cattle and catde means food. They (the 
chandasyas) satiated (acchadayan) him. Since they satiated him, they are 
called chandas. He places them by sets of ten, ten; for, the Virad is ten- 
syllabled and the Virad is the entire food. Thus he places in him all food in 
its entirety. He places them on all sides and thus he gives all the food in 
entirety at all sides. 

2. He places the first set saying, “ evaschandah ”; for, this terrestrial world 
is the speeding metre (evaschandah ). “varivaschandah ”; for, the aerial region 
is indeed the expansive metre (varivaschandah). “sambhuschandah ”; for , the 
sky is indeed the breathful metre (sambhuschandah). “paribhuschandah ”; for, 



X.5.2.6] 


TRANSLATION 


215 


the quarters are indeed the encircling metre (paribhuschandah). 

“ acchachandah for, food is indeed the covering metre (dcchachandah). 

“ manaschandah ” — for, Prajapati is the mind metre (manaschandah). 

“ vyacaschandah for, Aditya is indeed the extent metre (vyacaschandah). 

3. “ sindhuschandah for, the prana is indeed the flow of stream 
(sindhuschandah). “ samudraschandah” for, the mind is indeed ocean metre 
(samudraschandah). “sarirarh chandah” for, the speech is indeed water metre 
(sariram chandah ). “ kakubh chandah for, prana is indeed the peak ( kakubh 
chandah). “ trikakubh chandah,” for, uddna is indeed the three-peaked metre 
( trikakubh chandah). “ kdvyarh chandah, ” for, the Trayl (the threefold Vedic 
knowledge) is indeed kavyarh chandah. “ ankuparh chandah, for, the waters 
are indeed the ankuparh chandah. 

4. “ aksarapahktischandah, ” for, that yonder sky is the row of syllables 
( aksarapahktih) “padapanktischandah” for, this terrestrial world is indeed the 
row of words ( padapanktih) “vistarapahktischandah” for, these quarters are of 
course the row of seats ( vistdrapahktih). “ ksurobhrajaschandah, for, the 
yonder sun is the shining razor (ksurobhrajah). acchacchandah 
pracchacchandah, ” for the food is indeed the covering metre; the enclosing 
metre. 

5. “ sarhyacchandah," for, the night is indeed the joining metre 
(samyacchandah ). u viyacchandah;” for, the day is indeed the disjoining metre. 

“ brhacchandah'," for, yonder world is indeed the great metre. 
“ ratharhtararhchandah," for, this terrestrial world is indeed the rathamtararh 
metre. “ nikdyaschandah, ” for, Vayu is indeed the army metre ( nikdyaschandah ). 
“ vivadhaschandah, ” for, the aerial region is indeed the yoke metre 
(vivadhaschandah). “giraschandah” for,the food is indeed the swallowing 
metre ( giraschandah). “ bhrajaschandah” for, Agni is indeed the shining metre 
( bhrajaschandah). “ samstupchandah — anustupchandah, ” for, the speech is 
indeed well praising ( samstupchandah) and the speech is supplementary 
praising (anustupchandah). “evaschandah, varivaschandah their significance 
has been told. 

6. u vayaschandah ” for, food is indeed strength metre, ( vayaschandah). 
“ v ay a skrc chandah” for, Agni is indeed the producer of strength. 
“ vispardhaschandah ’ the yonder heaven is indeed the competing metre. 
“ visdlarh chandah”-, for this terrestrial world is the wide metre. “ durohanam 



X.5.2.11] 


TRANSLATION 


217 


chandah" — the yonder sun is insurmountable or unclimbable. “ tandram 
chandah" is the slow metre and “ pahkti" is the slow metre. “ ahkahkam chandah" 
— for, the waters are indeed the watery metre. 

7. Of those which he lays down in front, prana is the first, vyana is the 
second, udana is the third and udana again is the fourth, vyana is the fifth, 
prana is the sixth, prana again is the seventh, vyana the eighth and udana is 
the ninth. The Yajamana is the tenth. This Yajamana is being lifted up and 
established in this Virad metre made up of pranas. He lays down bricks both 
lengthwise and breadthwise. Hence these pranas move lengthwise and 
breadthwise. 

8. Now about those on the right side — Agni is the first among them, 
Vayu the second, Aditya the third, and Aditya again is the fourth, Vayu the 
fifth, Agni the sixth, Agni again the seventh, Vayu the eighth and Aditya the 
ninth. The Yajamana is the tenth. This Yajamana is being lifted up and 
established in this Virad metre made up of gods. Hence these gods move 
both lengthwise and breadthwise. 

9. Now about those in the back — this terrestrial world is the first 
among them, the aerial one the second, and the sky the third,the sky again 
is the fourth, the ether the fifth, the earth the sixth, and earth again the 
seventh,the ether the eighth, and the sky the ninth. The Yajamana is the 
tenth who is lifted up and established on this Virad made up of worlds. That 
is why the worlds extend lengthwise and breadthwise. 

10. Now those placed on the left side — summer season is the first 
among them, rainy season the second, winter the third, winter again the 
fourth, rainy season the fifth, summer the sixth , summer again the seventh, 
rainy season the eighth and winter the ninth. The Yajamana forms the tenth 
who is lifted up and established on this Virad made up of the seasons. So these 
seasons move both lengthwise and breadthwise. 

11. Those which he lays down in the front are the pranas. They are ten 
in number corresponding to the ten pranas. He places them on the frontside 
because these pranas are in the front part of the body. 



X.5.3.1] 


TRANSITION 


219 


12. Those on the right side are the gods — Agni, Earth, Vayu, Ether, 
Sun, Sky, Moon, Stars, Food and Waters. 

13. Those on the back side are the quarters and there are four quarters, 
four intermediate quarters, the upper direction and this earth. 

14. Those on the left side are the months — two months of the spring, 
the two summer months, the two rainy months, autumnal months two and 
the two winter months. 

15. Again, the first set of ten bricks constitute this terrestrial world; the 
second set, the aerial region and the third the sky. By the first set of ten, the 
gods ascended this terrestrial world; by the second, the aerial world and by 
the third, the sky. In the same way, the Yajamana ascends these three worlds 
by means of these three sets of ten bricks each. 

16. This is as it were a climb away from here (earth). But this earth 
is the base and the gods came back to this earth, the base. Similarly, the 
Yajamana returns to this base. Now the set of ten bricks placed last is this 
terrestrial world. Just as for the first ten,that ascending started, in the same 
way in respect of this last set of ten which is this world, the descending is 
marked. Thus there are forty bricks accompanied by the chanting of forty 
Yajus formulas. Together they make eighty and eighty (asiti) means food. 
That is why it is said that he makes food and offers it to him and pleases him. 
(Second Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANA III 

1. He then places the stomabhdga bricks (bricks that have a share in 
the stomas or praises). At that time Indra covetted this food of Prajapati and 
tried to leave him. He (Prajapati) asked , “Why do you leave me, why do you 
abandon me?” He (Indra) said, “Give me the essence of this food; enter me 
with it”. (Prajapati said) “Yes”. He gave him the essence of that food and with 
that entered him. That Prajapati is the same as this Tgni-altar which is being 
built up. That which was the food are the same as those chandasya bricks. 
That which was the essence of that food are these stomabhdga bricks. That 
Indra is none else than yonder sun. He is indeed the stoma (hymn of praise). 
Whatever praises they sing, it is him (the sun) they praise by them. It is to that 
same stoma, he gave a share. Because he gave a share to that stoma, these 
bricks are called stomabhdgas. 



X.5.3.5] 


TRANSLATION 


221 


2. “For the sake of truth, you hasten truth with your rays.” This ray is 
indeed sun and the ray is food. He unites that sun and the essence thereof 
and makes it enter into him. “By the momentum, by the dharma, hasten 
dharma” — the momentum is indeed this (sun) and momentum is food. He 
unites that sun and the essence thereof and makes it enter into him. “By the 
pursuing, by the sky, hasten the sky” — this sun is indeed the pursuing and 
pursuing is also food. He unites that sun and the essence thereof and makes 
it enter into him. Thus whatever he mentions here, he unites that and that 
essence and makes it enter into him.“By such and such, you hasten such and 
such ”. “Such and such, you are, I deposit you for such and such ” “By the lord, 
by strength, hasten strength”— (with these three types of formulas, he lays 
them down). Thus the bricks are divided into three categories; for, food is 
available in three types. 

3. Now, why he places the stomabhaga bricks is this. It is this that the 
gods ascended after building up the Viraj citi. They said, (among themselves) 
“Meditate” by which they meant ‘wish for a layer.’ By meditating they saw the 
ndka ,the heavenly world and laid it down. Now that ndka ,the heavenly world 
is the same as these stomabhaga bricks. So by laying down these ( stomabhagas) 
he is laying down the ndka itself, the heavenly world. 

4. Those three (bricks) which he lays down first constitute this 
terrestrial world; the second three are the aerial region and those third three 
are the sky; that fourth set of three is the eastern quarter; that fifth set is the 
south; those that form the sixth set are the west and those that constitute the 
seventh set are the north. Thus these together account for twenty-one 
bricks. These constitute these worlds and these quarters. These worlds and 
quarters are the base and these worlds and quarters are twenty-one. That 
is why they say, “Twenty-onefold is a base.” Now those eight bricks which are 
in excess are that eight-syllabled Gayatrl. Gayatrl is Brahman. That one 
which is Brahman is this burning. It burns after getting established on this 
twenty-onefold base. That is why it does not fall down. 

5. Some people lay down a thirtieth ( stomabhaga) brick saying, “You 
the charming fortune! hasten the Ksatra for the Ksatra.” (They argue) “The 
Virad metre is of thirty syllables and this citi is Virad (for shining).” Let him 
not do so. Those who do thus actually do in excess; beyond the twenty¬ 
onefold and beyond Gayatrl. That Virad in full is the world of Indra. By this 



X.5.4.7] 


TRANSLATION 


223 


they set up a spiteful enemy to Indra in the world of Indra and push Indra 
out of his world. At his own sacrifice, the Yajamana is, of course, Indra. So they 
are indeed creating a spiteful enemy to the Yajamana in his own world; push 
the Yajamana out of the world of Yajamana. Yajamana and by means of his 
base, it is he who constitutes the thirteenth brick for this citi. (Third 
Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMANA IV 

1. He places them on the side of the asalha ; for, asalha is speech and 
this set of stomabhaga bricks is the essence of food. He thus puts into this 
speech, the essence. That is why one is able to know the essence of food for 
all parts of body through (the mouth, the channel of) speech. 

2. Why close to asalha ? This earth is the asalha and the yonder sun is 
the stomabhaga bricks. Thereby he establishes yonder sun in this foundation. 

3. Whyagain close to asalha ,}This earth is theasalhaand the heart, the 
stomabhagas. He places this heart, the mind in this earth. That is why on this 
earth, one thinks by means of the heart, the mind. He lays them on all sides; 
because he places that heart, the mind everywhere. That is why, on this earth, 
everywhere, one thinks with the heart, with the mind. These bricks are 
indications of auspicious fortunes and so he places them on all sides. He who 
has marks on every side is called very lucky. 

4. He then covers those stomabhaga bricks with loose soil. Loose soil 
is food and this set of stomabhagas is the essence. By that he covers them and 
that is why the essence is covered as it were, by food. 

5. Why does he cover with loose soil? Loose soil is food and this set of 
bricks is essence; thereby he unites, mixes that food and that essence. 

6. Again why with loose soil (does he cover)? The stomabhaga is the 
heart and that loose soil is the pun (rampart or fortress); he thus encloses that 
heart by the fortress. 

7. Again why (does he cover) with loose soil ?This Agni-dXvar is the year 
and by means of the soil beds he divides it. Those first four layer s are the foui 
seasons. Then he lays dow r n the stomabhaga bricks and scatters loose soil 
(over them). That is the fifth layer and that is the fifth season. 



X.5.4.8] 


TRANSLATION 


225 


8. Now it is asked : “All other layers get completed with lokamprna 
bricks. Here he does not place lokamprnas (space filling bricks) as such. Now 
what takes the role of lokamprnas here ?” Yonder sun is surely the lokamprna 
and this layer is he (the sun) and so this layer by itself is a lokamprna (space 
filling brick). That which is above this layer upto the covering of loose soil, 
constitutes the sixth layer and that is the sixth season. After scattering the 
loose soil thereon he places the vikarni brick and the naturally perforated 
brick. Then he sprinkles it with gold pieces and places the fire upon it. That 
is the seventh citv, that is the seventh season. But indeed there are only six 
layers. As to the vikarni and svayamatrnna, they belong to the sixth layer only. 
Actually there are only five of them (layers). On the other layers, he scatters 
loose soil chanting a Yajus formula.Here he does it silently.So this loose soil 
cover is not a citi (in the strict sense of the term). Other layers end with the 
lokamprna brick. Here he does not place a lokamprna. Hence too this is not a 
layer. There are only three of them. The first citi is this terrestrial world and 
the uppermost layer is the sky. Those three intermediate layers (numbers 
two,three and four) are of the air. There is, as it were, only one aerial world 
here. Thus there are (in one count) three, or five, or six, or seven of them (in 
respective counts). (Fourth Brahmana Ends.) 

(Chapter Five Ends.) 


CITI KANDAENDS. 



SACITIKANDA 

• • 


Chapter One 
BRAHMANA I 

1. He (Yajamana) lays down the nakasadabricks (bricks named as seated 
on the heavens). Nakasada are of course the gods. By building this (layer), 
that whole Agni-altar becomes completed and this layer is here the naka 
(heaven) Therein gods seated themselves. Since the gods seated them¬ 
selves on that world of heaven or naka, the gods are (known as) nakasada . 
In the same manner, this Yajamana, by laying down these bricks, gets seated 
in the world of heaven. 

2. And again, why he lays down the nakasada bricks - At that time the 
gods saw that naka, the world of heaven, (surrounded by) these stomabhdgas 
(bricks of that name arranged on the sides of the fifth layer). 

3. They (gods) said, “You all try to know how we may seat ourselves on 
this naka, the world of heaven.” They said, “Meditate” by which they meant 
- “Plan out a layer.” They planned as to how we may be seated on this 
naka, the world of heaven. 

4. While meditaung, they discovered these bricks called nakasada. They 
placed them (on the altar) and by those bricks, they got themselves seated 
on the naka, the world of heaven. So they(bricks) are called nakasada. In 
the same way this Yajamana by placing these bricks, gets seated by means 
of them on this naka, the world of heaven. He places them in the (four) 
quarters; for, that naka, the heaven is the quarters. He thus places them in 
the world of heaven. He places them besides the rtavya bricks (bricks repre¬ 
senting the seasons). The rtavyas are indeed the year and the year is the 
heavenly world. Thus he places them in the heavenly world itself. Within 
the stomabhdgas he places them because that “ naka or heaven is situated 
within the encircling stomabhdgas. Thereby he establishes them on that naka, 
the heaven.” 

5. He places one of them on the east (front) (saying), “You the eastern 
quarter is the queen”, for, the eastern quarter is indeed the queen. “The 


XI.1.1.7] 


TRANSLATION 


5 


gods called Vasus are your, masters” — for, the divine beings Vasus are the 
over-lords of that quarter. Agni is the repeller of the arrows. For here (in 
the eastern quarter) Agni repels the arrows. “Let the Trivrt stoma sustain 
you on earth” — because it is by means of the Trivrt stoma, it is sustained on 
the earth. “May the Ajya-sastra support you from being shaken” — for it is by 
means of the Ajya-sastra, it is steadied on the earth without being shaken. 
“May the Rathantara Saman be for your stability in the aerial region”, be¬ 
cause it is by means of the Rathantara Saman he is established in the aerial 
region. “May the first-born rsis (expand you ) among the gods.” The rsis 
are indeed the vital airs, bom first. That is the first-bom Brahman. “Ex¬ 
pand you to the expanse of the sky in width” — may they expand you to 
that width which is equal to the sky. “And he, the upholder and the over- 
lord” — these two are the speech and the mind, because these two uphold 
everything here. “May all of them with one intent, setde you as well as the 
Yajamana on the back of the ndka, the heaven.” The text of the Yajus is 
self-explanatory. 

6. Then he places one of them on the south (right) (saying), “You the 
mthem region is the Virad (mler over extensive region) ” — because this 

southern quarter is indeed Virad. “Rudras are the divinities who are your 
over-lords” — for, Rudras, the gods are the masters of this quarter. “Indra 
the repeller of the arrows” — for here (in the south) Indra repels the arrows. 
“Let the Pahcadasa stoma sustain you on the earth” — for, it is by means of 
the Pahcadasa stoma it is sustained on the earth. “May the Prauga sastra, 
support you from being shaken” — for it is by means of the Prauga sastra, it 
is steadied on the earth without being shaken. “May the Brhat Saman be for 
your stability in the aerial region” — for it is by means of the Brhat Saman, 
she is established in the aerial region. “May the first-bom rsis (expand you) 
among the gods” — meaning of this has been told. 

7. Then he places one of them in the west (behind) (saying) ,“You the 
western region is the Samrat (the emperor) ” because, this western quarter 
is named Samrat. “Adityas are the divinities who are your overlords” — for, 
Adityas, the gods are the masters of this quarter. Varuna, the repeller of 
arrows. “May the Saptadasa stoma sustain you on the earth” — for it is by 
means of the Saptadasa stoma, it is sustained on the earth. “May the 
Marutuatiya sastra support you from being shaken” — because it is by means 
of the Marutvatlya sastra, it is steadied on the earth without being shaken. 


XI.1.1.10] 


TRANSLATION 


7 


“May the Vairupa Saman be for your stability in the aerial region” — for, it is 
by the Vairupa Saman it is established in the aerial region. “May the first 
born rsis (expand you) among the gods” — meaning of this has been told. 

8. Then he lays down one of them in the north (left side) (saying), 
“You the northern region is the Svarat (self-ruling) because this northern 
quarter is named Svarat. “Maruts are the divinities who are your over-lords 

_for, Maruts, the gods are the masters of this quarter. Soma is the repeller 

of arrows” - for here (in the north) Soma repels the arrows. “May the 
Ekavimsa stoma sustain you on the earth” - for, it is by means of the twenty- 
one-fold stoma it is sustained on the earth. “May the Niskaivalya sastra sup¬ 
port you from being shaken” - because it is by means of the Niskaivalya 
sastra it is steadied on the earth without being shaken. “May the Vairaja 
Saman be for your stability in the aerial region” — for, it is by the Vairaja 
Saman it is established in the aerial region. “May the first-born rsis (expand 
you) among the gods” — meaning of this has been told. 

9. Then he (places one) in the middle (saying), “The supreme misr 
tress you are, the vast region” — for, this vast region is called Adhipatni 
(supreme mistress). “Visvedevas are the divinities who are your over-lords" 
—for, Visvedevas, the gods, are the masters of this region. “Brhaspati is the 
repeller of arrows” — for here (in the middle region) Brhaspati repels the 
arrows. “May the Trinavati and Traystrimsa stomas sustain you on the earth” 
— for, it is by means of the twenty-seven fold and thirty-threefold stomas, 
she is sustained on the earth. “The Vaisvadeva and Agnimdfuta sastras sup¬ 
port you from being shaken”—because it is by means of the two sastras, the 
Vaisvadeva and Agnimaruta, it is steadied on this earth without being shaken. 
“May the Sakvara and Raivata Samans be for your stability in the aerial re¬ 
gion” — for it is by the Sakvara and Raivata Saman it is established in the 
aerial region. “May the first-born ras (expand you) among the gods” - 
meaning of this has been told. 

10. This much indeed is the whole sacrifice and the sacrifice is the self 
of the gods. The gods having made the sacrifice itself as their selves, seated 
on this ndka, the world of heaven. In the same way this Yajamana making 
the sacrifice itself, his self, gets seated on the ndka, the world of heaven. 


XI.1.1.16] 


TRANSLATION 


9 


11. Then he lays down the pancacuda bricks (bricks having five knobs 
on their sides). Ndkasadas are indeed sacrifice and sacrifice, no doubt, is 
the pancacudas. The ndkasadas are these four priests with the Yajamana as 
the fifth. The pancacudas are the Hotas. Now the Hotas are in addition (to 
the officiating priests) and whatever additional is a cuda (protruding 
appendix). Since five of them are in excess they are pancacudas (having five 
protruding knobs). 

12. Why he places the nakasada-pancacudds is this — ndkasadas are his 
self and the pancacudas make the productive pair. This mate, out of the 
pair, ( pancacudas ) is one half of the self, for, when the self is with his mate, 
then he is whole and complete. 

13. And again why he places the nakasada-pancacudds — the ndkasadas 
are the self and the pancacudas are the subjects. Subjects being in excess to 
one’s self and whatever is in excess being a cuda (appendix), since they are 
five additional ones, they are pancacudas. 

14. Again why he lays down nakasada-pancacudds— the quarters are the 
ndkasadas; the quarters themselves are pancacudas. Those five regions which 
are on this side of yonder sun are ndkasadas and those that are beyond him 
the (yonder sun) and pancacudas. Those regions which are beyond the 
yonder sun are in excess. That which is in excess, they are pancacudas. 

15. As to why he lays down the pancacudas is this — at that time the gods 
got scared that the terrible Raksasas may destroy these worlds of theirs from 
above. So they made these (pancacudas) protectors of these worlds from 
above. They are the arrows and missiles. In the same manner does the 
Yajamana now place those protectors for these worlds, (who form) the ar¬ 
rows and missiles. 

16. He places one of them in the front (saying), “This one in the front, 
the tawny-haired one” — it is Agni who is in front and so he says “in the 
front” It is because they carry the Agni (from Gdrhapatya) towards the east 
and propitiate him in the front. Why he calls him tawny-haired is because 
Agni is as it were, yellow. “The sun — rayed one” — for, Agni’s flames are 
like the rays of the sun. “His Rathagrtsa and Rathaujas are the commander 
and his head-man” — the two months forming the spring season are these 


XI.1.1.19] 


TRANSLATION 


11 


two. “Punjikasthala and Kratusthala are his Apsaras (attendant nymphs).” 
According to Mahitthi these two are the quarter and the intermediate 
quarter. But actually they are the army and the warfare. “The killer beast is 
the arrow and man-slaughter is the missile”. In as much as they fight in 
army and warfare, those killer beasts are the arrows. Man-slaughter is the 
missile; since they slay one another, it is the missile. “To them be my 
saluation” — it is to them he prostrates. “Be they kind to us” — they are 
indeed kind to him (Yajamana). “He whom we hate and he who hates us - 
- him we put into their jaws. So and so I put into their jaws” — thus he may 
mention the name of the one whom he hates so that he will be no more 
(alive). Or, he need not do so (mention the enemy by name) because 
whom he hates is (automatically) indicated (even without being named). 

17. Then on the southern side (he places one pancacuda) (saying) ,‘This 
one on the right is Visvakarma.” The Visvakarma (all-doer) is the Vayu who 
blows here, for it is he who makes or does everything here. Because he 
refers to him as on the right; it is the south that he (Vayu) blows most. 
“Rathasvana and Rathacitra, his commander and head-man” — the two 
months of summer season are these two. Menaka and Sahajanya are his 
Apsaras (attendant nymphs). According to Mahitthi, these two are the 
quarter and the intermediate quarter. But these two are actually heaven 
and earth. “Demons are the arrows and Raksasas, the missies.” I prostrate 
to them. The significance of this has been explained. 

18. Then (he places one of the pancacudas) behind (on the western 
side) (saying), ‘This one behind, the all-pervading” — this sun is indeed 
the all-pervading. When he rises, everything here gets illuminated. Because 
he refers to him as “on the back” it is only when he (sun) gets towards the 
west he is seen. “Rathaprota and Asamaratha, his commander and the head¬ 
man” _ the two months of the rainy season are these two. Pramlocantl and 
AnumlocantI are his Apsaras (attendant nymphs). According to Mahitthi, 
these two are the quarters and the intermediate quarter. But these two are 
actually the day and night, since they rise and set. “Tiger is the arrow and 
serpents, the missile.” “I prostrate them.” The significance of this has been 
explained. 

19. Then (he places one of them) on the left side (northwards) (say¬ 
ing), “This one on the left, the samyadvasu (bountiful wealth).” Sacrifice is 
indeed on the left. Because he refers to it as “on the left.” The sacrifice is 


XI. 1.1.22] 


TRANSLATION 


13 


performed from the left (north) side. Why he calls it samyadvasu is because, 
they do converge together ( samyanti ) to the sacrifice thinking “this is wealth.” 
Tarksya and Aristanemi are his commander and the headman. These are 
the two months of autumn season. Visvdd and Ghrtati are his Apsaras (at¬ 
tendant nymphs). But Mahitthi identifies them as the quarter and the in¬ 
termediate quarter. But they are the vedi (altar) and the sruk (offering 
ladle) because the vedi is inclined in all directions ( visvdd) and the ladle is 
ghee- inclined ( ghrtad ). “Water the arrow and wind the missile.” For, water 
indeed is the arrow and wind is the missile. That is why, here, in the north¬ 
ern direction it blows hot and hence cold. ‘To them I prostrate” — its sig¬ 
nificance has been explained. 

20. Then (he places one of them) in the middle (saying), “This one 
above, the bestower of plenty, downwards ( arvagvasu) ” — the one above is 
of course, the cloud (rain-god) and when he refers to him as “one above” 
he means the rain-god who is above. By refering to him as “bestower of 
plenty, downwards” he means the plenty, that is rain and food for all living 
beings bestowed or showered downwards. “Senajit and Susena are his com¬ 
mander and the head-man (the conquerer of armies and the leader of a 
fine army).” These are the two months of the winter seasons. “UrvasI and 
Purvacitta are the Apsaras (attendant nymphs). But according to Mahitthi 
they are the quarter and intermediate quarter. But they are actually the 
oblation ( ahuti ) and daksina (sacrificial gift). “Thunder is the arrow and 
lighting the missile” — for indeed thunder is here the arrow and the light¬ 
ning is the missile. “To them I prostrate.” The import of this has been 
explained. 

21. These then are the arrows and missiles which the gods then placed 
as protectors over these worlds. As to the Prajas (offspring) they are the 
commanders and head-man. The mates are the nymphs or Apsaras. Hav¬ 
ing thus become complete with offsprings and partner, in like manner, this 
Yajamana, having become complete with offspring and mate, now seats 
himself on the naka, the world of heaven. 

22. Thus there are ten (ndkasada-pancacudd) bricks he lays down. The 
Viraj metre has ten syllables and this layer is Viraj (far-shining). There are, 
however, only five of them because he lays them down two at a time. Verily 
they are prayers to Agni-altar for prosperity. He places them in the last layer 


Xl.1.2.3] 


TRANSLATION 


15 


for, this last layer is the end of the altar and the blessings for the Agni come 
in the end. They are five because in sacrifice, the blessings are five. Now he 
puts loose soil in between them. These pairs of bricks are indeed fire. Lest 
these fires should burn each other (he puts loose soil in between). Loose 
soil is food. It is thus by means of food that he brings about harmony be¬ 
tween them. 

23. This is the order in which it should proceed. First laying a brick in 
front, he lays down those on the right side, then behind, then on the left 
and then in the middle. Then come the upper ones — first one in the 
front, then both in the right, then on the left, then in the middle and then 
in the rear. The entrance to the world of heaven is indeed from below. 
Because the gods at that time, having closed up these worlds on all sides 
entered the world of heaven from below. In like manner, this Yajamana, 
having closed up all these worlds on all sides, enters the world of heaven 
from below. (First Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANA II 

1. He now lays down the chandasya bricks. Now here this Agni-altar has 
become complete. He (the altar) now wished for Sri (distinction). Because 
before this it was incomplete and was not qualified to own distinction or Sri 
That is why it is said (in particular cases) that so and so person is not de¬ 
serving to have the distinction to assume the leadership of a country or 
village community. Gods gave these chandasyas bricks to confer Sri (distinc¬ 
tion) to the altar. Chandasyas are same as cattle and chandasyas are food. 
Catde and food constitute Sri . 

2. He lays them in threes. Cattle is threefold; namely, the father, the 
mother and the son . Or namely, embryo, placenta and chorion (Jarayu ). 
Food also is threefold; namely cultivation, rain and seed . Out of these, one 
is an excessive meter (Atichandas). For even though it is one, it is bigger 
than the other metres. That distinction (of the atichandas) lies in the great 
hymn of praise ( ukthya) and as to that great hymn of praise are those 
chandasyas (bricks of metres) . 

3. Gayatri verses are its head; Tristubh verses its body; Jagatl verses its 
spine and the Parikti verses are its wings; out of each of the Kakubh verses, 
he takes four syllables and adds them to the atichandas. That is how it be- 


XI. 1.2.10] 


TRANSLATION 


17 


comes one with atichandas. The others become Gayatns. This is that eighty 
count Gayatri. From the Brhatis, the Barhata is made up and from Usniks, 
the Ausniha. The half -Rks are the Vasu, the AindragnI and insertion — they 
are Atichandas. As to the Nada verse, the Sudadoha, the pada appendages 
and whatever Anusthubh there is — they constitute the atichandas. 

4. The Dvipada verses form the foot-hold. This much constitute the 
Mahaduktha (great hymn of praise) and this great hymn of praise is what is 
known as Sri (distinction). The gods conferred on him (Agni-altar) all that 
Sri . In the same manner, this Yayamana confers on him all that distinction. 

5. Why he places the chandasya bricks is also this— gods saw the heaven 
in the form of stomabhagas; that is the naka and they entered it. While they 
were entering; Prajapati entered last. That Prajapati is these chandasyas. 

6. His head is Gayatri. As to its being Gayatri, it is because the head is of 
the nature of Gayatri. They are three for the head is threefold. They are 
placed in the front side because this head is in the front. 

7. The Tristubbs constitue the chest. They are placed between the 
retassica bricks because retassicasare the side bones. The side bones lie against 
the chest. 

8. The Jagatis constitute the hips. These are placed so much behind 
the naturally perforated bricks as the tristubh bricks are placed before the 
naturally perforated ones. Because the naturally perforated bricks are the 
vital airs in the middle. As far from that vital air as the chest is in front, so 
far are the hips behind the vital air. 

9. The Anustubhs are the thighs. They should be placed close to the 
jagati bricks. Thereby the thighs are placed close to the hips. 

10. The Brhatis are the ribs and Kakubhs are the bones of the breast. He 
places the Brhatis between the Tristubhs and Kakubhs , whence these bones 
got fashioned on either side by the breast-bone and the ribs. 

11. The Usniks are the neck. He places them close to the Gayatris and 


XI.1.2.17] 


TRANSLATION 


19 


thereby he places the neck near the head. 

12. The Paiiktls are the wings. Why they are Panktls is becasue the 
wings are Paiikti or of fivefold nature. He places them on the sides because 
the wings are on the sides. That metre which is larger is placed on the right 
side and thus makes the right side of the animal stronger. That is why the 
right half of animal’s body is stronger. 

13. The atichandas constitute the belly. Because, the metres are cattle 
and cattle are food. It is the belly that consumes the food. Therefore when 
the food reaches the belly, it becomes eaten and assumes the digested form. 
In as much as these {atichandas bricks) eat ( atti) the metres, namely cattle, 
they are called atichandas. Atichandas is what is mystically called atichandas. 
For, gods preferred concealed names. 

14. A brick (spread over ) with loose soil {punsavati) , constitutes the 
womb. These two {atichandas and the punsavati) are laid down close to each 
other. Because, the belly and the womb are close to each other. Both these 
are covered by loose soil. Punsa or loose soil is flesh. The belly and the 
womb are connected with flesh. The front one is an atichanda and behind 
is the punsavati ; because the belly is above and the womb is below. 

15. He places them projecting eastwards; because this Agni- altar is built 
up (tending) towards the east. When one moves forward, both his belly 
and womb move forward. These are placed outside the stomabhagas, for the 
stomabhagas are the heart. Because the head is highest, then come the belly 
and the womb. 

16. He places them to the right of the naturally perforated brick. Now 
in the first layer, he placed both the belly and the womb to the north of the 
Svayamdtrnna. Because that naturally perforated one is indeed the vital air 
in the middle. Thereby he places the belly and the womb on both sides of 
that centrally situated vital air. That is why the belly and the womb are on 
either sides of the central vital air. 

17. The Dvipadas are the feet. Why they are Dvipada is because a pair 
confers stability. There are three such verses; for a stand is threefold (with 
two feet and a tail). He lays them down at the back, for the feet are at the 
back (bottom) of the body. 


XL 1.3.4] 


TRANSLATION 


21 


18. Thus that body of his (Agn* altar) is well made. He whose body is so well 
made, his body becomes complete. He whose body is not thus well made, 
his body remains incomplete. 

19. It is keeping in mind this fact that the two Nidhana Samans (Sama 
hymns marking the completion) sure chanted —‘The light in the highest 
realm of the gods” and “the gods are in highest heaven of the light.” At that 
time, when gods were entering (the naka), Prajapati was the last to enter. 
That is why he says. The light is in the highest realm of gods.” As to why he 
says. The gods are in highest heaven of the light” is because, the light, 
doubtless, is the Agni-altar and it is on its highest layer where all the gods 
have thus entered. That is why he says The gods are in the highest heaven 
of light.” (Second Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANA m 

1. He lays down the Gdrhapatya altar. For, thfe gods having obtained 
this much, considered themselves successful. They said (among them¬ 
selves) , “By what means have we succeeded.” They got the answer, “By means 
of the Gdrhapatya ; because it is after building up the Gdrhapatya and ascend¬ 
ing it, we discovered the first layer. From the first layer (we saw) the second; 
from the second, the third; from the third, the fourth and from the fourth 
(we saw) the fifth layer.” 

2. They said, “You think upon that (point) so that this success will re¬ 
main only with us.” They said, “Meditate”, by which they meant “wish for a 
layer.” Accordingly they wished “this success may remain only with us.” 

3. While meditating they arrived at this idea, “Let us bring this Gdrhapatya 
here and place it (on the fire-altar).” They brought it here and placed it on 
the altar. They debated with each other — “Vasus are in the front; Rudras 
on the right side; Adityas at the rear; Maruts on the left side and Visvedevas 
above — let us place it here, let us place it here.” 

4. They again said, “Let us place it in the middle and by laying it in the 
middle, it will belong to all of us.” So they placed it in the middle (of the 
fifth layer) and owned thereby that success unto themselves (or vested their 
success in the body of the altar). In the same manner, this Yajamana, while 


XI.1.3.10] 


TRANSLATION 


23 


laying down the Garhapatya puts that success into his own self. By laying it 
in the middle he owns that success in the middle of his self. 

5. Why he lays down the Garhapatya is this — Garhapatya no doubt, is 
food and this Agni-altar that is built is the eater. Here he places that food. 
He places it in the middle and thereby he puts food in the middle (of the 
body). 

6. And again as to why he lays down the Garhapatya — the world of the 
gods is indeed the vedi (altar-site). But that Garhapatya happend to be the 
one built up outside the vedi , the abode of gods. 

7. Again why he lays down the Garhapatya— the lotus-leaf is of course a 
womb. But that one ( Garhapatya) happens to be built up outside the womb. 
That fire ritual (concerning Garhapatya) performed prior to (laying down 
of) the lotus-leaf happens to be the one which took place outside the womb. 
So when they bring Garhapatya here and lay down, he establishes it within 
the womb, on the lotus-leaf and thus it ceases to be outside (the womb). He 
lays down eight bricks. The purport of it has been explained. He builds it 
up with same Yajus formulas and in the same order; for, this one is that 
same {Garhapatya fire). He thus brings it here and lays it down. 

8. He then lays down the punasciti bricks. The gods at that time, having 
built the Garhapatya did not feel successful therein; for the Garhapatya altar 
is a womb and success in a womb depends on the seed; the generative 
power. They did not see the seed, the productive power in this citi. 

9. They said “Find out how we can lay seed and productive power in 
this womb." They further said, “Meditate” whereby they doubdess meant 
to say, discover a layer and find out how we may lay seed and productive 
power in the womb. 

10. While meditating they saw this punasciti and placed it on (the 
Garhapatya) . Thereby they laid seed and productive powers into this womb. 
In the centre of it (they placed). Thus they laid seed and productive power 
in the very centre of this womb. In the same way this Yajamana, while lay¬ 
ing down the punasciti, lays seed and productive power into this womb. In 
the centre (he lays down) and thus the seed and productive power are 
deposited in the middle of the womb. 


XI.1.3.15] 


TRANSLATION 


25 


11. Some people lay it ( punasdti ) down on the rear side (of the altar) 
because the seed is introduced from the rear side. (The altar being in the 
shape of a bird and the impregnation in a bird takes place from the back). 
They introduce this on the juncture of the tail (and the body), for it is at 
that point of the tail that seed is introduced. This is not to be done so. 
Whoever does like that is laying the productive power outside the womb. 
Therefore it {punasciti) should be introduced only in the middle and thereby 
one lays the seed and productive power right into the womb. 

121. Eight bricks are laid down (as punasciti ). Gayatri metre has eight 
syllables and the Agni-altar is of Gayatri’s nature. As great as Agni is; as 
great as is his size, so great he places him in the form of seed. Five times he 
settles it for, the fire-altar has five layers and a year has five seasons and 
Agni -altar is the year. As great as Agni is, as great as is his size, by so much 
he thus introduces him in the form of seed. There are eight bricks settled 
five times and that makes a total of thirteen. Thirteen months make a year 
and there are thirteen dtipunsas (layer filling pieces). As great as Agni is, as 
great as in his size, so great he thus becomes. 

13. And again why he places the punasciti — by laying down the 
Garhapatya upon the Ahavaniya (which is already on the Agni-altar), he is 
certainly causing a disorder. But when he lays down the punasciti, he brings 
this Agm-altar that has been built and again builds ( punah-d) and thus builds 
up the Agni which is already built. Hence it is called punasdti. 

14. Some persons place the Garhapatya on the rear side and the Punasdti 
on the front part and thus the Ahavaniya and the Garhapatya are (remain¬ 
ing) two altars. But this way it should not be done. Because Garhapatya is 
this terrestrial world and the Ahavaniya is the sky and he is definitely above 
this earth. Therefore it {punasdti) is to be placed on the top of the Garhapatya 
(as it represents the sky). 

15. As to why he places both the Garhapatya and the Punasdti is this — 
these two are, no doubt, the vecU (altar) and the uttaravedi (high-altar). Now 
those two former ones (altars) which he builds up belong to the Adhvara 
{Soma sacrifice) and these which he now puts up belong to the fire-altar. 
After laying down these two, when he deposits fire thereon, he is establish¬ 
ing him both on the vedi and the uttaravedi . 


XI.1.3.21] 


TRANSLATION 


27 


16. And again as to why he places the punasciti — this is indeed re¬ 
peated yajna and it is a higher type of worship of the gods. He sets up a 
repeated sacrifice and a higher form of worship, so that the repeated sacri¬ 
fice tends towards him. 

17. Again why he lays down the punasciti — this Agm-altar is indeed that 
same one which, in the begining, the pranas, the rsis fashioned. He now 
builds him up again and in so far as he again ( punah ) builds up {ci), it is 
called punasciti. 

18. He lays down the punasciti saying — “With what austerity the rsis sat 
in the sacrificial session” — he thereby means “those pranas, who are rsis 
kindling the fire they filled with light” — it means “by kindling the fire they 
gain the heavenly world.” “Upon that pedestal, I place the fire” — naka 
(pedestal) is indeed the heavenly world. “Whom the wise men call 
Stlrnabarhisa” — these wise men are the Manus and they called him 
Stlrnabarhisa or one for whom the grass seat is always spread. 

19. He says, ‘Without wives let us follow him, O gods! with our gold.” By 
this he means — “let us follow him with all (our possessions).” “Gaining the 
pedestal in the world of meritorious deeds” — (means) naka is indeed the 
world of heaven which he is to gain and it is the world of meritorious deeds. 
“Above the third bright surface of the sky” — for, this is indeed, the third 
bright surface of the sky where the Agni now bums. 

20. (He says) “He mounted the centre of the fast-moving speech”- 
- for, this is the centre of speech where it is now being build up. Bhuranyu 
means the sustainer. “This Agni the benevolent master, the receptive.” It 
means “this Agni, the lord of the gods and the one who heads (to prayers).” 
“Establish upon the surface of the earth, he the brilliant” — meaning “the 
one set up on the back of earth and shining.” “Let him trample over all 
sinners” which means “let him put down under his feet all the evil doers.” 

21. (He lays down the fourth brick saying) “This Agni the most heroic 
bestower of vitality,” (meaning) “the most vigorous bestower of strength.” 
“May he shine a thousand times without hindrance” (meaning) “let him 
shine forth thousandfold unremitting.” “Shining forth from the middle of 
the ocean” — these worlds are the ocean and it means let him blaze forth in 
these worlds. “You proceed to the divine abode” (meaning) “You go forth 
to the heavenly world.” 


XI.1J.23] 


TRANSLATION 


29 


22. (He places the fifth brick saying), “Get closer together; draw nearer 
to eaeh other” — he only addresses those rsis “come closer together; draw 
near to each other.” “You make the paths of the fire to lead to the heaven” 
— as the text, so the meaning. “Rendering the Pitrs young again.” — The 
young Pitrs, no doubt are speech and mind and these two fires are also 
speech and mind. “In you has he inserted this thread” by which he means 
“the thread of sacrifice has been spun out by the rsis” 

23. (Placing the sixth brick he says) “Awaken, O Agni and be watchful.” 
Thus he says to Agni, “Awaken him and also make him active (or be watch¬ 
ful about him).” “Let him be united with ista (desire) and purta (fulfilment).” 
As the text, so the meaning. “Upon this, the highest seat” — the sky is 
the highest seat. “Let the Visvedevas and the Yajamana be seated.” Thereby 
he makes the Yajamana seated alongwith the Visvedevas. (Placing the sev¬ 
enth brick he says) “By which O Agni you carry thousand; you carry ail 
wealth.” This is indeed his most favourite power by which he carries a thou¬ 
sand and all wealth. “This way, you lead this sacrifice of ours unto the light 
to reach the divine abode” (meaning) thereby you lead this sacrifice of 
ours to the heavenly world to go to the divine beings. “This is your natural 
womb”—the meaning of this has been explained. Eight bricks he lays down; 
the purpose of which has also been explained. (Obviously, the mantras for 
only seven bricks are mentioned here whereas he is actually placing eight 
bricks. Since there is no inter-linking reference to each brick, perhaps one 
of these mantras is to be divided between two bricks so as to make eight). 
(Third Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter One Ends.) 



Chapter Two 


BRAHMANAI 

1* He lays down the two rtavyas (seasonal bricks). The rtavyas are the 
same as the seasons. Thereby he lays down the seasons. The rtavyas repre¬ 
sent all that is here; because the rtavyas are indeed the year. The year is 
everything here. So (in effect) he lays down everything here. They are also 
productive power because the rtavyas being the year, the year represents 
productive power (on the Agni-altar and on the Yajamana). 

2. And why he lays down the rtavyas is this — rtavyas represent the mar¬ 
tial prowess and these other bricks are the common people. He thus places 
the martial prowess as the eater among the peasantry. He places (some of) 
them (rtavyas) in each of the layers and thus he makes the martial prowess 
the eater among the entire peasantry. 

3. And again why he lays down the rtavyas — this Agwi-altar is the year 
and it is put together by these seasonal bricks. Thus he makes the year well- 
knit and continuous by means of the seasons. The chants for these rtavyas 
have varied beginnings but same endings; for, the seasons when they were 
created were different. 

4. They (the seasons) said, “By being thus (different) we shall not be 
able to procreate and so let us unite.” They inhered in each season with 
their forms. That is why, we have the natures of all seasons in each rtu. 
Therefore, they are of different nature because they were created sepa¬ 
rately and they have the same endings. Because they inhered with their 
forms (among themselves). 

5. He places them (saying), “ Tapa and Tapasya are the dewy seasons”. 
These are the names of these two. He places them only with these two 
names. The yonder sun is Tapa (the scorcher) indeed. These two seasons 
are not separated from him. Since these two seasons are not separated 
from him, they are called Tapa and Tapasya. 

6. “You are the inner link of Agni ” — this Agn*-altar is the year and it is 
knit inside by means of the rtavyas (seasonal bricks). Thereby, he is only 


XI.2.1.10] 


TRANSLATION 


33 


knitting the year by means of the seasons. “May the heaven and earth fit 
in; may the waters and plants fit in” — this is how, he knits everything by 
means of the seasons. “May the fires, along with the austerities individually 
get harmonised for my supremacy” — for these individual bricks are the 
same as those fires. By saying this, he makes them fit in each other harmo¬ 
niously for the supremacy of the seasons. ‘Those fires of mutual under¬ 
standing, which are between the heaven and earth, they are these”— as the 
text is, so its meaning. “Let them come together, fitting in with the two 
dewy seasons just as gods come together with Indra. Just as the gods are 
drawn to Indra, in the same way, let these two enter this (altar) to confer 
supermacy to these two seasons. These are two bricks. A season consists of 
two months. Only once he setdes them and makes them to be one season. 

7. And as to why he now lays down these two ( rtavyas bricks) — this 
Agnkdtar is the year and the year is these worlds. For that the fifth layer is 
the sky itself. The dewy season (of the year) is the sky. Now by placing these 
two ( rtavyas representing the sisira season), he restores that very thing, which 
is of its own body. That is why, he places these two here. 

8* And again why he lays down these two is this — this Agn*-altar is 
Prajapati and Prajapati is the year. His head itself is the fifth layer. The 
dewy season is his head. Now placing these two ( rtavyas bricks), he restores 
that very thing which is of its own body. That is why, he places these two 
here. 

9. He places the rtavyas bricks in front of the naturally perforated one 
and the visvajyoti brick. Because, the last naturally perforated brick is the 
sky and the last of the irisvajyoti bricks is the sun. Thus he places the two 
seasonal bricks on this side of the sky and the sun; because the seasons are 
on this side (of the sky and the sun). In these two ( rtavyas ) there is also 
productive energy. Thus he places the productive energy on this side of the 
sky and the sun. That is why, procreation takes place only on this side of 
these (sky and sun). But this productive energy is not there on the other 
side (beyond the sky and the sun); because, as many gods as were there, 
even now they are only so many. 

10. He places the two rtavayas bricks above the first naturally perforated 
one and the first visvajyoti brick. This first naturally perforated brick is this 


XI .2.1.16] 


TRANSLATION 


35 


earth and the first visvajyoti is Agni (fire). On those he places the seasons 
because the seasons are upward from this earth. But there is in them, the 
productive energy and thus he places procreative power above this 
earth.That is why, procreation takes place only above this earth. 

11. One should not disturb the position of these rtavyas bricks, lest he 
should disturb the seasons. Because only for one who dies,the seasons are 
disturbed. So at that place, where he places the first two rtavyas, at that 
same place all others are to be laid down. The rtavyas bricks are indeed also 
these (three) worlds; by the different layers he is actually building up these 
three worlds one above the other. The rtavyas also are the ruling class and 
by the different layers he is actually placing the ruling class above (the 
commoners). The rtavyas are also the year and by different layers he also 
builds up the year. He shall not place any other yajusmati bricks (bricks 
placed with the chanting of a Yajus formula) above the rtavyas, lest he should 
place the commoners above the ruling class. 

12. These same ( rtavyas) bricks are the steps, for, by means of these the 
gods then stepped over these worlds both to ascend upwards and to de¬ 
scend from above, downwards. In the same manner, this Yajamana now, 
by means of the rtavyas, step over these worlds both for ascending upwards 
and for descending from above, downwards. 

13. The priests of the Caraka school lay here yet other stepping stones 
(above the rtavyas) . This should not be done, for, what they do is redundent. 
These ( rtavyas) are indeed the stepping stones. 

14. Then he places the visvajyoti brick. The sun, indeed is the last 
visvajyoti brick; for, in the world above, the sun is visvajyoti (all-illuminating 
light). Thereby he only places the sun. 

15. Now why he places the visvajyoti — visvajyoti is doubtless the prog¬ 
eny, for, progeny is of course all-illuminating light. He thus lays procreative 
power in his (Agrzj-altar as well as Yajamana). 

16. He places the visvajyoti in front of the naturally perforated brick. 
The last naturally perforated brick is, indeed, the sky and sun is the last 
visvajyoti brick. He thus places the sun on this side of the sky. Therefore this 


XI.2.1.21] 


TRANSLATION 


37 


(sun) bums only this side (of the sky). It has also procreative power. He 
thus places the procreative power only on this side (of the sky). Hence it is 
that procreation takes place only on this side (below the sky). 

17. He places the first visvajyoti brick above the first naturally perfo¬ 
rated brick. This first naturally perforated brick, doubdess, is this earth and 
the first visvajyoti is Agni. He thus places Agni upward from this earth. That 
is why, fire blazes upwards from the earth. It has also procreadve power. He 
thus places the procreadve power upwards from this earth. That is why, 
procreation takes place above this earth. 

18. Now he places (one) vihjajyoti brick above the middle one of the 
naturally perforated brick. The naturally perforated brick in the middle is 
the aerial region and the second visvajyoti is Vayu. He thus places the wind 
in the aerial region. That is why, the wind is in the aerial region. These 
(three) are the lights. Thus when he places these lights (three visvajyoti 
bricks) in this order, he places those lights in such a way as to face each 
other. That is why the fire blazes upwards, the sun (bums below) and wind 
blows sideways in the aerial region. 

19. He places the visvajyoti (saying) “May the Paramesthin setde you” - 
- for it was Paramesthin who saw this fifth layer. “On the back of the sky, 
you, the shining one” — for, on the back of the sky is yonder shining sun. 
“For all the prana, apana and vyana” —prana is indeed, vihjajyoti and prana 
indeed is for everything here. “You give all light” (meaning) “bestow all 
illumination.” “The sun is your over-lord” — thereby he makes the sun 
itself as its over-lord. After setding it up, he chants the sudadohasa on it. Its 
significance has been already explained. 

20. These ( vihjajyoti bricks) are indeed the steps because it is by means 
of these vihjajyoti bricks, that the gods at that time stepped over these worlds 
both while ascending from here and while decending from above. In the 
same manner, this Yajamana by means of the visvajyoti bricks, steps over 
these worlds both for ascending from here and for descending from above. 

21. The priests of the Caraka school adopt different bricks for stepping 
over; but it should not be done because it is redundant. These ( vihjajyoti 
bricks) are themselves the steps. (First Brahmana Ends.) 


i 


XI.2.2.4] 


TRANSLATION 


39 


BRAHMANAU 

1. Then he places the lokampmd bricks (space-filling bricks). The yon¬ 
der sun is the lokampmd, because he fills up all these worlds (with light). So 
he is placing only the yonder sun. He places them in all the layers for, these 
layers are these worlds. Thereby he places yonder sun in all these worlds. 
That is why he shines for all these worlds. 

2. And as to why he lays down the lokampmd— lokampmd are the ruling 
class and the other bricks are the commoners. He introduces the ruling 
class as eater of the commoner. He lays them down in all the layers. He 
thus places the ruling class as the eater among the entire peasantry. Now 
this is only a single brick. He thus confers the ruling power in one and the 
authority is concentrated at one (place). The second (such brick) happens 
to be the mate, and the mate is after all one half of one’s self. When one 
is with a mate he is complete and whole. Thus for the sake of completeness 
(he places). With a single Yajus formula, he lays down several bricks. He 
thereby concentrates power in the ruling class and makes the Ksatra more 
powerful than the Vis (commoners) .The other bricks, he lays down one by 
one with separate formulas; thereby he makes the peasantry less powerful 
than the ruling class, with difference in speech and with different thoughts. 

3. The first two lokampmd, he places in this (south-east) comer. Thereby 
he places the sun in this quarter. From this earth he follows (placing the 
first two lokampmd) the course of the sun from that (south-east comer) 
point (to the west end) and again from that (west end) point of the earth, 
he follows the course of the sun (to the east end). (With the second two 
lokampmd), he follows the course of the sun from the south of the altar 
(filling the south-east comer), again to the west-end and repeats the same 
(from the west end to the east). At whatever place he lays down the first two 
lokampmd, then alongside of them he should place the last two. For (other¬ 
wise) that sun having once gone round these worlds would not again re¬ 
volve round the same spot. He should place the last two alongside over the 
first two.He thus causes that sun to pass by these worlds. That is why, that 
sun revolves continuously round these worlds from left (to right). 

4. (He places them saying) “Fill the space, fill the gap” (meaning)fill up 
the space and also the intermittent gap. “And you be seated, steady” (mean¬ 
ing) “lie here and be firmly established.” “Indra, Agni and Brhaspati have 


XI.2.2.9] 


TRANSLATION 


41 


seated you in this womb” (meaning) “Indra, Agni and Brhaspati have es¬ 
tablished you in this womb” (Thus he places them) with a mantra in the 
Anustubh metre; for, the Anustubh is speech and Indra is speech and 
lokarhprna is Indra. He chants the sudadohasa on them, for the sudadohasa is 
prana. He thus makes him (Agni-altar) compact and settled by means of 
vital air. 

5. Now they ask, “How this lokamprna becomes ever-fresh (of unim¬ 
paired strength).” The lokamprna is yonder sun and he is indeed ever-fresh 
(or of unimpaired strength). Moreover, the lokamprna is also speech and 
speech is ever-fresh. 

6. He having laid down the yajusmati bricks (bricks with specific Yajus 
formulas), covers it (altar) with the lokamprna. Because the yajusmati bricks 
are food and the lokamprna is the body. He fills the body with food. By 
filling the body, food becomes the body itself. 

7. Those yajusmati bricks, he places on the body (of the altar) only and 
not on the wings or the tail. He thereby puts food into the body. The food 
supplied to the body, nourishes the body as well as the wings and the tail. If 
it is supplied to the wings and tail, it never nourishes the body or the wings 
and the tail. 

8. He places both the yajusmati and the lokamprna (bricks having spe¬ 
cial Yajus formulas and the space-filling bricks) on the body (of the altar). 
That is why, this body (of the bird-shaped altar) is twice hefty as it were. On 
the wings and tail, he places only the lokamprna and hence the wings and 
tail are thin as it were. He places them on the body both lengthwise and 
crosswise. The bricks are the bones and hence they are both lengthwise 
and crosswise. In the wings and tails he places them facing outward (turned 
away from the body). Because there are no crosswise bones in the wings 
and tail (of a bird). This indeed is the distinction between the built and the 
unbuilt (altar). This is how, it is (properly) built and otherwise is, which is 
not (properly) built. 

9. He covers the naturally perforated brick with the lokamprna . Because 
the naturally perforated one is the prana and the lokamprna is the sun. He 
thus kindles the prana by means of the sun and that is why, one’s out-breath¬ 
ing is warm. With that same kind of bricks, he fills up the whole body. Thereby 



XI.2.2.13] 


TRANSLATION 


43 


he warms up the whole body by means of the sun and that is why, (our) 
whole body is warm. This is the distinction between the one to be alive and 
the one to be dead. One who is to be alive is warm and one who is to be 
dead is cold. 

10. Starting from the joint in which he places the first two ( lokamprna ), 
he goes on filling up (the altar) by tens upto the point where the naturally 
perforated brick (is placed). In the same way, he goes on filling it up from 
left to right covering the naturally perforated brick upto the vikarni 
(crosswise). He then returning, fills it up, upto that limit. He fills up the 
body (of the altar) first. Because it is the body that is first created of the one 
(bird) that is created. That is the rightward course for, this is the course of 
gods. It is in this manner, the yonder sun goes round these worlds rightwards 
(i.e. left to right). 

11. That which is lokamprna is the same as prana, by which he covers 
the entire body. Thereby he infuses prana in the whole body. If it (lokamprna) 
is not to reach any part (of the body) to that part, the prana does not reach 
and that part, assuredly dries up or withers away. So, let him cover up the 
whole (body) with that. 

12. He builds up the wings and tail attached to the body itself. Because 
the wings and tail grow as appendices to the body. If he were to place (the 
bricks) forming the appendices first (i.e. before constructing the body 
proper), it would appear as if he were to take limb from elsewhere and graft 
it on there. He shall not place a broken brick or a black one; for, the one 
that is broken is futile and that which is black is emaciated. “Lest I should 
develop an emaciated body”, he thinks. Let him not discard the unbroken 
bricks, lest he should keep out the fruitful one from the body. Those bricks, 
exceeding a Virad (exceeding ten but not making up the next ten since ten 
syllables constitute one pada of the Virad metre) and do not make up an¬ 
other (pada of the Virad) when counted from the Dhisnya hearth, are in¬ 
deed futile. Let him break them and discard them into the pit meant for 
refuse ( utkara ). Utkara is the settling place of what is in excess (waste). Thus 
he thereby puts them at the place which is meant for the rubbish. 

13. Now then, the measure of the bricks. In the first and the last layers, 
he should place bricks measuring a square foot (each), for, the foot is a 
support and the hand is same as the foot. The largest bricks should be of 



XI.2.3.3] 


TRANSLATION 


45 


the measure of the thigh-bone (both ways); for, no other bone is as long as 
the thigh-bone. For three layers, bricks (that are used) should have three 
lines (marked on each of them) because these worlds are threefold. For 
two layers, bricks should have indefinite lines (marked on them) because 
these (two layers)are rasa and rasa is indefinable. But all (the five layers) 
shall have bricks with three lines (marked) for threefold are these worlds. 

14. Now about the placement of the bricks — any brick he knows as 
yajusmati (having a special Yajus formula associated with it), let him place it 
in the middle layer. Because the middle layer is the aerial region and the 
air, doubdess, where all beings have their location. Moreover, the yajusmati 
bricks are food and the middle layer is the belly. He thus places food into 
the belly. 

15. Some say in this context, “Let him not place (such special bricks) 
lest he should do something superfluous.” But nevertheless, he may lay 
them down; for such bricks are laid down for (the fulfilment of specific 
wishes and wishes are never superfluous). Or, let him not lay them down 
because the gods(once) did only this much. (Second Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANA m 

1. He now scatters loose soil. Loose soil is indeed flesh. He thus covers 
him (Agntaltar) with flesh after placing the bricks. Bricks are bones. Thus 
he covers the bones with flesh. 

2. He strews (loose soil) over the naturally perforated brick; for, the 
naturally perforated one is prana and loose soil is food. Thereby he sup¬ 
plies food to the prana. In that manner, he covers the whole body. That is 
why, what food is given to prana, with that he protects the whole body, 
because it (food) spreads over the whole body. 

3. Some say, “Let him not scatter it (loose soil) over the naturally perfo¬ 
rated brick”, on the ground that the naturally perforated are being prana, 
lest he should block the pranas. Nevertheless let him scatter. Are not the 
pranas sustained by food? He does not eat food, when his pranas grow, they 
(the channels of the pranas) get dried up and closed, like a hollow tube 
(for want of food). So if he acts thus (do not scatter loose soil) he becomes 



XI.2.3.8] 


TRANSLATION 


47 


like a dried up hollow tube in the yonder world. Therefore one should scat¬ 
ter (loose soil) on the naturally perforated brick. 

4. Having strewn (loose soil) over the naturally perforated brick, he 
goes on covering (the altar by the loose soil) starting from the cross- wise 
placed brick upto the enclosing parisrit bricks. In the same way, he goes 
about covering it from left to right behind the naturally perforated brick 
upto the crosswise placed brick, again. The body (of the altar), he thus 
covers first because it is the body which comes first when something is 
created. Then he covers the right wing and then the left one. From right to 
left is the course of gods. 

5. That loose soil is prana itself and he covers the entire body (of the 
altar) with that. Thereby he supplies prana to the entire body. If there is a 
part of the body where this (loose soil) does not reach, prana does not 
reach that part and that part of the body where prana does not reach, in¬ 
deed dries up or withers away. Therefore this whole (body) should be cov¬ 
ered by it (loose soil). 

6. (He scatters loose soil saying) “They all have enhanced (the glory 
of) Indra”, for, all creatures enhance (the glory of) Indra. “The voices 
(extoll) him who is expansive like the ocean” — this speaks of his greatness. 
“He is the greatest charioteer among charioteers.” “The master, the good 
master of vdjas” — vaja means food and he is the master, the good master 
of food-stuffs. With this Anustubh verses on Indra, he scatters (loose soil), 
because loose soil belongs to Indra. This layer of loose soil is half of Agni 
(altar) and the second half is of the bricks. 

7. Now they argue, “Bricks are placed with all the metres and with all 
the gods. How come, this is placed with one (Anustubh) metre and with 
one god (Indra) ? How is it that half of it, is of Agni?” Indra is, indeed equal 
to all the gods. Hence he scatters with a verse dedicated to Indra. This 
loose soil is one half of Agni. Why he does with one Anustubh verse is 
because Anustubh is Vak (speech) and all metres are speech. Hence it is 
one half (of bricks) (i.e. Anustubh being speech represents all the metres). 

8. He then.places the vikarnt brick and the naturally perforated one. 
Vikarnl is the same as Vayu and the last naturally perforated brick is the sky. 



XI.2.3.13] 


TRANSLATION 


49 


He thus places Vayu and sky. He places them last because Vayu and sky are 
above everything and unite at the end. Because Vayu and sky are united, 
vikarnl, he lays down first and thereby he places the wind on this side of the 
sky. That is why, this wind blows on this side of the sky. 

9. And why he places the vikarnl is this — when (at the beginning) they 
make the horse smell (the pile of bricks) on the first layer, then thereby 
yonder sun strings these worlds to himself in a thread. That which is thread 
is Vayu and that thread which is Vayu is the same as this vikarnl brick. So by 
placing that ( vikarnl) he makes that sun string these worlds in a thread. 

10. Now why he places the vikarnl and the naturally perforated brick 
(together) — vikarnl is ayus and svayamdtrnnd is prana. Thereby he places 
the ( ayu) life-span and that prana. He places them last because it is at the 
end that ayu and pranas are united. Because ayu and prana indeed united. 
First he places the last vikarnl and thereby he covers that prana with ayus on 
both sides. 

11. (He places the vikarnl while saying ) “Like a horse with expanded 
nostrils, desirous of eating grass, starts with great pomp, this Vayu blowed 
and fanned its flame and rendered your path black.” When its wind fans 
the flame then its path becomes black. Thus he places it with a Tristubh 
verse. Because Vayu is of Tristubh nature; with the verse relating to Agni, 
because it is a ritual concerning Agni. With an undefined word (he places), 
because vayu is undefined. Why he says, “Vata” is because Vata is Vayu. 

12. He places the svyamatranna (saying), “I seat you in the abode of 
ayus” — ayus is doubdess, yonder sun and this is his seat. “The protecting” - 
- for, this (sun) protects everything. u Chdyaydm” — for, it is under his (sun's) 
shadow the whole world exists. “In the heart of the ocean” — for, this (sun) 
is indeed the heart of the ocean. “The one with rays and luminous” — be¬ 
cause the sky has rays and is luminous. “You who illumine the sky, the earth 
and the aerial region” — thus indeed he (sun) illumines these worlds. 

13. “May the Paramesthi setde you” — for, this fifth layer Paramesthi 
discovered. He lays down with the mantra of Paramesthi (for the following 
reason) — when the gods came out taking (parts of)Prajapati who was ex¬ 
hausted, Paramesthi took his head and kept going away (from him). 


XI.2.3.14] 


TRANSLATION 


51 


Prajapati told him — “Come back and restore unto me that with which you 
have bolted away.” (Paramesthi asked) “What will I gain by that” (Prajapati 
said) “That part of my body shall be sacred to you” (he said) “Be it so.” 
Thus Paramesdii restored that part (head) to him. That (part) is this last 
svayamdtrnna brick. He now places that which is his own. That which is his 
own, he now restores unto him. That is why, he places this (brick) here. 
(He says) “On the back of the sky, you the broad and fat one” — for, this 
(top of the altar) is indeed the back of the sky and it is both wide and fat. 
“You support the sky, don't harm the sky” (meaning) compose yourself, 
support yourself and do not harm your own body. “For all prana ., apana, 
vyana and udana.” Prana is, indeed, the svayamdtrnna and prana is (essen¬ 
tial) for everything; for a resting place, for a moving space. The naturally 
perforated bricks are these worlds and these worlds are the resting place 
and the moving space. “May the sun protect you” (meaning) “let the sun 
guard you all around.” “With great well-being”(meaning) “through great 
well-being.” “With roof that is safe” (meaning) “through a habitat which 
bestows maximum peace.” He lays them down separately, for, the wind and 
sky are separate. He setdes them once and makes them together (or same) 
for ayus and prana are co-extending. 

14. They both happen to be stones and both are naturally perforated; 
because ayus and prana are the same. He then recites the sudadohasa over 
them. The sudadohasa is vital air. He thereby makes them conjoined i.e., 
joins them together by means of the vital air. (He says ) “They are his 
sudadohasa ” — suda means water and doha means food. “The spotted (cows) 
milk the Soma” — the spotted cows are the food. “At the birth of gods” — the 
year is the birth of the gods “ visah ” — the visah are indeed the sacrifice, 
because it is in the sacrifice that all beings are ranged. “In the three spheres 
of the heaven” — the three spheres of the heavens are, doubtless the three 
sessions (savanas of the sacrifice) and here he only refers to the savanas by 
this Anustubh verse. Anustubh is speech and speech (includes) all pranas. 
So he links and brings together these two (bricks) by means of speech, i.e., 
vital air. This sudadoha, though being one, enters through all the bricks. 
sudadoha is indeed prana. So this single vital air though it is, enters into all 
the limbs and pervades the whole body. (Third Brahmana Ends.) 


XI.2.4.8] 


TRANSLATION 


53 


BRAHMANAIV 

1. On the naturally perforated bricks, he sings Samans, for, the 
svayamdtrnna are these (three) worlds and they are (represented by) three 
stones. After placing (once upon a time) saw them as such, dry stones. 

2. They said (to themselves), ‘Think as to how we can put essence, the 
nourishing ingredient, into these worlds.” They said, “Meditate” by which 
they meant “wish for a layer.” So they wished as to how the essence, the 
nourishing ingredient can be placed into these worlds. 

3. While meditating, they discovered these Saman hymns. They sang 
them. By means of them they put essence, the nourishing ingredient into 
these worlds. 

4. He sings over the naturally perforated bricks. Svayamdtrnna are these 
worlds and thereby he puts essence, the nourishing ingredient into these 
worlds. 

5. He sings them in the utterances Bhuh, Bhuvah and Svah. Bhuh stands 
for this world (earth). Bhuvah stands for the aerial region and Svah stands 
for the yonder (heaven). He puts essence, the nourishing ingredient into 
these worlds by them. 

6. The Samans have different prastavas (startings) but have the same 
nidhana (ending). They have different startings because the gods discov¬ 
ered them separately. As to why they have a common ending is because 
there is only one culmination (goal) for the sacrifice, i.e., the heaven itself. 
Therefore, they all end in (the word) svarjyotih (heavenly light). 

7. He then sprinkles these golden pieces ( on the body of the altar). 
Now here that whole Agni-altar is well-fashioned and the gods bestowed on 
him this supreme form of immortality. In the same manner, this one 
(Yajamana) bestows on the altar that supreme form of immortality. 

8. And again why he sprinkles him with gold pieces is this — formerly, 
he first bestows him (the altar) with that pleasing form; namely the gold- 
plate and the golden human form and now he decorates him all over with 
pleasing form. With two hundred pieces for each go, (he decorates him); 
for, the Yajamana is two-footed and the Yajamana is Agni-altar; as great as 


XI.2.4.14] 


TRANSLATION 


55 


Agni is, as great as is his size, with so much he thus confers on him that 
supreme form of immortality. Five times he thus strews (gold pieces) be¬ 
cause Ag 7 ii-altar has five layers and there are five seasons for the year and 
the year is Agni-altar; as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, with so much 
he thus confers that supreme form of immortality on him. First (he scat¬ 
ters) at the back while standing east-facing; then on the left (north 
side)facing the south; then in the front (east) facing the west; then having 
gone round the back from the south while facing the north. This is from 
left to right for, that is the course of the gods. Then, having gone round, 
(he scatters) at the back standing east-faced. This is the order and in which 
he did earlier also (while offering ghee on the golden human figure). 

9. (While scattering, he says) “You are the measure of a thousand; you 
are the counter-measure of a thousand, you are the measure of altitude of 
a thousand; you are a thousandfold and to you, thousand for, the thou¬ 
sand means “all”. (It therefore means) “You are all and unto you who are 

all.” 


10. Now follows the discussion on the loose soil of the altar. The first 
layer is this (terrestrial) world and the loose soil (used for filling) is the 
cattle. When he fills the first layer with loose soil, he fills it with catde. 

11. The second layer is the aerial region and the loose soil (used for 
filling) are the birds. So when he fills the second layer with loose soil, he fills 
the aerial region with birds. 

12. The third layer is the sky and the loose soil (used for filling) are the 
stars. So when he fills the third layer with loose soil, he fills the sky with 
stars. 

13. The fourth layer is the sacrifice itself and the loose soil (used for 
filling) are the dciksiito (gifts to the priests) So when he fills the fourth layer 
with loose soil, he fills the sacrifice with daksind. 

14. The fifth layer is the Yajamana himself and the loose soil (used for 
filling) are the offsprings. So when he fills the fifth layer with loose soil, he 
fills (enriches) the Yajamana with offsprings. 


XI.2.4.19] 


TRANSLATION 


57 


15. The sixth layer is the heavenly world and the loose soil (used for 
filling ) are the gods. So when he fills the sixth layer with loose soil, he fills 
that heavenly world with gods. 

16. The seventh layer is immortality itself. He builds it up last. He thus 
confers that immortality which is the highest thing in all this (universe). 
That is why, the gods are separated from it and hence the gods are immortal. 
This much is to the divine aspect of it. 

17. Now as to the adhyatma (pertaining to the self or body) aspect. The 
first layer constitutes the legs and the apana or the downward breath. The 
loose soil thereon is the flesh. So, when he covers the first layer with loose 
soil, he covers that (lower) part of the body with flesh. (He does so) after 
laying down the bricks. Bricks are the bones. Thereby he covers the bones 
with flesh. He does not cover the bottom (of the first layer). Therefore 
these vital airs are not blocked at the bottom. But he covers the surface (of 
the layer). Thereby he covers the upper parts of the body with flesh and hence 
that part of the body (of the altar), being covered with flesh is not exposed. 

18. The second layer constitutes that part of his (altar's) body which is 
above the legs and below the waist and the loose soil that is filled is flesh. 
When he fills the, second layer with loose soil, he covers his body with flesh. 
He covers so, after placing the bricks because bricks are bones, which he 
covers with flesh. By strewing loose soil, he covers (that part of) the body 
on either sides with flesh. That is why, this part of the body is covered on 
both sides by flesh and is not exposed. 

19. This third layer is the middle (part) itself. That which is above the 
waist and below the neck is the fourth layer. The neck is the fifth layer. The 
head forms the sixth layer. The pranas are the seventh layer. He builds it up 
last and thereby makes the vital airs, the highest of all and hence the pranas 
are the highest of all this. He places (the pranas in) loose soil. Loose soil is 
flesh. By means of flesh he establishes those pranas. He does not cover 
them above. Therefore, these pranas are uncovered above. (Fourth 
Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter Two Ends.) 


Chapter Three 


BRAHMANA I 

1. He then performs the Satarudriya offerings (offerings made with the 
chanting of the Rudradhyayas of the samhita involving four hundred and 
twenty five offerings). Here now this whole Agrai-altar is completed and he 
is now the god Rudra. In him, the gods conferred this supreme form of 
immortality. He thereby stood here shining, longing for food. Gods got 
scared of him lest he should hurt them. 

2. They said (to themselves), “Let us collect food for him and thereby 
calm him down.” They collected this food, the santadevatyam (food that 
calms down a fierce divinity) for him and by that they calmed him. Since 
they appeased that god with it, it is called santadevatyam. That which is 
santadevatyam is itself called santarudnya in a concealed appellation, because 
gods like concealed (expressions). In the same manner, this Yajamana now 
bestows upon him that supreme form of immortality. He now stands here 
shining, longing for food. Therefore he collects this food (called) 
santadevatyam . With that he appeases him. 

3. He makes the offerings with sesamum seeds. This Agni-altzr when 
being built up, develops (grows). He develops for (consuming) every kind 
of food. This food which is sesamum is food in two ways; it is gramya (culti¬ 
vated) as well as dranya (grown without ploughing). In as much as they are 
tilas (sesamum) they are cultivated in as much as they ripen (even) on 
unploughed land, they are wildly grown. He thus appeases him with both 
kinds of food; the cultivated and the wild-grown. 

4. He makes the offerings with the leaves of arka plant. Arka is food and 
thus he pleases him with food. 

5. He makes the offerings on the (three) closing stones (paribits) . These 
parisrits are the (three sacrificial) fires. Thus it is over Agni itself, these offer¬ 
ings of his are made. 

✓ 

6. And again why he makes these Satarudriya offerings is that — from 
the (body of) Prajapati who got exhausted, the gods came out. Only one 


XI.3.1.11] 


TRANSLATION 


61 


god did not leave (his body) and that god was Manyu (anger). He stood 
extending within his (entire) body. He (Prajapati) cried and the tears that 
dripped, got settled down on this Manyu (wrath). He himself (Manyu) be¬ 
came the hundred-headed Rudra, thousand-eyed and hundred-quivered. 
And other drops (of tears) that fell, they spread over these worlds in count¬ 
less numbers; in thousands. Since they came out of the tears (crying - ruditat) 
they came to be known as Rudras. This hundred-headed Rudra, thousand¬ 
eyed, hundred-quivered, with his bow whose string is drawn ready to dis¬ 
charge arrows, stood fearful, longing for food. Gods got scared of him. 

7. They told Prajapati, “We are scared of this one; lest he should harm 
us.” He (Prajapati) said, “Collect food for him and with that appease him.” 
Therefore they collected this food called Satarudnya and with that they ap¬ 
peased him. Hence it is known as Satasirsarudra-sarnaniyam— calming down 
of the hundred-headed Rudra. That Satasirsarudra-sarnaniyam is itself re¬ 
ferred to as Satarudnya in a concealed way. Because gods like concealed 
appellations. In like manner, this one (Yajamana) collects the food, 
Satarudnya and with that he calms him down. 

8. He makes oblations with gavedhuka flour. At that spot when that de¬ 
ity lay exhausted, there the gavedhuka plant grew. Thus he satisfied him 
with his own share; by his own essence. 

9. He makes the offering with the leaf of Arka plant; for, that plant grew 
from that deity's resting place. So he satisfies him with his own share; by his 
own essence. 

10. He makes the offerings on the enclosing stones. Parisrits (enclosed 
stones) are the hairs. Neither poison nor anything else affects the hair. He 
makes the offering standing on the northern side of Agni-altar. In this di¬ 
rection there are the abodes of this deity (Rudra). Thereby he appeases 
him in his own direction. In his own direction he makes the offerings for 
him. 

11. The first Svahakara (offering) he makes at the height of the knee. 
Upto the knee is, as it were, below. This earth is as it were, below. So those 
Rudras who had entered this world, they are satisfied, with that. 


XI.3.1.18] 


TRANSLATION 


63 


12. Then (he offers) at the height of the navel. That which is at the 
level of navel, is, as it were, in the middle. The aerial region is, as it were in 
the middle. So those Rudras who had entered the aerial region, they are 
satisfied with that. 

13. Then (he offers) at the height of the mouth. That which is at the 
level of the mouth, is, as it were, above. That is yonder sky. So those Rudras 
who had entered yonder sky, they are satisfied with this. 

14. He says, “Salutations, O Rudra ! to your wrath” — thereby he pays 
homage to that Manyu (anger) which remained extended within him 
(Prajapati’s body). “I bow to your arrow and I bow to both your arms.” 
Because it was with the arrow and his two arms, he (Rudra) stood striking 
terror. 

15. That god who became hundred-headed is Ksatra (martial power). 
These others are the Vis (commoners) who came out of the drops (of tears). 
Hence these commoners assigned this first ( anuvdka of Satarudriya man¬ 
tras) to that Ksatra (nobility) represented by the hundred-headed one) as a 
special share. They appeased him with that. In same manner, this one 
(Yajamana) offers this special share first for him and by that he pleases 
him. Therefore this (first anuvdka) is Ekadevatya (meant for a single deity) 
exclusively for Rudra. He satisfied him (Rudra) by means of this. 

16. There are (in this) fourteen Yajus mantras ; ayear has thirteen months 
and Prajapati is the fourteenth. Prajapati is Agnt-altar; as great as Agni is, as 
great as is his size, with so much food, he satisfied him. (He says), u Namo 
namah .” Namah is the sacrifice; by means of this sacrifice he does prostra¬ 
tion, he pays homage to him. So one should not say, “ Namaste ” (reverence 
to you) to anyone unworthy of sacrifice. It would be equal to saying, “Sacri¬ 
fice be to you.” 

17. He then offers to the twin deities (saying), “I bow to so and so and 
to so and so.” It amounts to him saying, “You so and so and this other (so 
and so) do not harm me.” For one who is well-acquainted and called (by 
his name) does not harm (the one who calls). 

18. (He says) “Prostrations to the golden-armed commander of the 
army and to the lord of the quarters — I bow to.” This one is the golden¬ 
armed commander of the army and the lord of the quarters. Everything 


XI .3.1.23] 


TRANSLATION 


65 


(in this second anuvaka) here applies to one and the same god. Thereby 
he pleases that god Rudra and makes the chief receive this share from the 
commoners. Therefore whatever the commoners ( Vis) has, there is a share 
of it to the chieftain ( Ksatra ). And those countless Rudras who had entered 
in thousands into these worlds are these (to whom this anuvaka is ad¬ 
dressed), for whom these offerings are made. 

19. Now he offers to the multiples (forms of Rudra), for, it was these 
multiples (of Rudras) who followed (the chieftain) and entered (into these 
worlds). Wherever they had spread, he appeases them there. Thus he satis¬ 
fied those multiples of Rudras. Human beings also follow the gods. So he 
thereby pleases those multitudes of human beings as they are born, some 
of them have namaskara (prostration word) on either sides and for others 
on one side only. Such of those who are more terrible and more angry 
have namaskara on both sides. On both sides they are appeased by this 
obeisance, i.e., the sacrifice. 

20. At (the completion) of eighty formulas, he makes the Svahakara 
(offering). On the first anuvaka, then on (completing) eighty and then on 
eighty; the mantras that follow are the mantras dealing with avatana (unstring¬ 
ing of the bow). Asiti, (eighty) means food. So he appeases them with food itself. 

21. Then he chants these Yajus mantras — Namo vah kirikebhyah (I pros¬ 
trate to your sparkling abodes like the sun). For, that is the most favoured 
abode of his, either as a dear son or the heart. So whenever he apprehends 
harm from this god, let him make offerings with these mystic utterances. 
For, by that he approaches the favourite resort of that god and so that god 
does not harm him. 

22. By (the formula Namo vah kirikebhyah) they do all these. “The hearts 
of the gods” (he says), Agni, Vayu and Aditya are indeed, the hearts of the 
gods. “I bow to those who recognise” — because it is they (Agni, Vayu and 
Aditya) who recognise (identify) everything here. “I bow to the destructive” 
— because it is they who destroy those whom they want to destruct. “I bow 
to those irremovable” — for, these are inseparable from these worlds. 

23. Then he chants the following mantras —‘The one is the remover, 
the lord of Andhasah” — he is indeed Drapa or remover, since he gets rid 
of him whom he wants to remove. “Lord of Andhasaspath means the lord 
of Soma” u Daridra Nilalohita”— these are his names and forms (cleaver and 


XI.3.1.29] 


TRANSLATION 


67 


bluish red). He appeases him by referring to his names. “Do not frighten, 
do not hurt these people and these cattle.” “Let us not be rendered sick.” 
— as the text, so is the meaning. 

24. That god (Rudra) is Ksatra (martial leader). So these commoners 
(Vis) assign this share first to this Ksatra (chieftain) in the form of that first 
anuvaka. Now he (Yajamana) assigns for him that other share (following 
one) and thereby appeases him. Therefore this section also belongs to a 
single deity, i.e. to Rudra; for, it is him he thereby pleases. 

25. These (the next anuvaka) are seven Yajus mantras. Agnir altar is one 
with seven layers and seven seasons constitute a year. The year is Agnir altar; 
as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, by so much food he thus gratifies 
him. These two kinds (of mantras) amount to twenty-one; twelve months, 
five seasons, these three worlds and the yonder sun (forming) the twenty- 
first, thus the number is made up. 

26. Then he makes offerings with Avatana mantras (mantras dealing with 
the unstringing of the bow). The gods after appeasing these (Rudras) with 
food, by means of these (Avatana hymns) caused the unstringing of their 
bows. In the same way, this one (Yajamana) having gratified them with 
these food, causes the unstringing of their bows by means of these Avatdnas. 
Because, with a bow unstrung, one does not hit anybody. 

27. Here he says, “at a thousand yojanas (leagues) ” — for, the thousand 
leagues means the farthest distance (for an arrow to reach); and thus he 
causes the unstringing of their bows at what is the maximum distance. 

28. And again why he says, “at a thousand yojanas ” — a thousand yojanas 
means this Agnwdtar, for, there is nothing else which is beyond, or greater 
than Agni-altar. When he makes the offering on the Agni-altar, that itself 
unstrings their bows at a distance of thousand yojanas. (He further says) 
“Coundess thousands, in this great ocean.” Thus, wherever they are, there 
he causes the unstringing of these bows. 

29. He makes ten offerings with these Avatana mantras ; for, the Virad 
metre has ten syllables and Agni (fire) is Virdj (widely shining or ruling over 
far and wide). There are ten directions and Agni is the directions. There 
are ten pranas and Agni is pranas. As great as Agni is, as great as is his size, 
by so much he thus causes the unstringing of their bows. 


XI.3.1.37] 


TRANSLATION 


69 


30. Then he makes offerings of (signing) descending or Pratyavaroha 
mantras. Because formerly (in the preceeding oblations) he ascends these 
worlds upward from here (earth). This was as it were, an upward move¬ 
ment as it were, from the ground. Since this earth is a firm resdng place, 
the gods (after ascending) returned to this resting place. In same manner, 
this Yajamana now returns to this resting place. 

31. Why he descends is this — formerly (in the earlier) oblations, for 
appeasing the gods, he went after them. Now having recovered his life, he 
comes back. With this form, he gains his full ayus (full span of life) (or all 
pranas ). 

32. And again why he descends is this — formerly, he gratifies those 
Rudras who are above this world. He now does so again from above 
downwards. 

33. (He says) “Let my prostration be to the Rudras who are in the heav¬ 
ens” — thereby he pays homage to those Rudras who are in yonder world. 
“Whose arrows are the rain” — because, rain is their arrows; since by means 
of rain, they harm those whom they want to hurt. 

34. (He says) “Let my prostration be to those Rudras who are in the 
aerial region” — thereby he prostrates to those Rudras who are in the aerial 
region. “Whose arrows are the wind” — because, wind is their arrows; since 
by means of wind they harm those whom they want to hurt. 

35. (He says) “Let my prostration be to those Rudras who are in this 
world” — thereby he pays homage to those Rudras who are in this world. 
“Whose arrows are food” — because food is their arrows; since by means of 
food they harm those whom they want to hurt. 

36. “For them ten in the east; ten in the south, ten in the west; ten in 
the north; and ten above (upwards)” — thus he says ten-ten, because the 
Virad metre has ten syllables and Virad is Agni-altar. There are ten direc¬ 
tions and that directions are Agni-altar. There are ten vital airs and vital airs 
are Agnir altar; as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, with so much food, 
he thus gratifies him. 

37. And as to why he said, ten-ten — there are ten fingers in the hands 
held together in reverence. He thus makes reverence to them in each 


XI .3.1.40] 


TRANSLATION 


71 


direction. He who is frightened joins his palms together. “To them I pay 
my homage” — thus he shows his reference to them. “May they be merciful 
to me” — by this they are merciful to him. “Whomsoever we hate and who¬ 
ever hates us, him we throw into the jaws (of Rudras) ” — thus he throws 
into their jaws whomsoever he hates and who so ever hates him. “So and so 
I throw into the jaws” — thus he names the person whom he hates. Then 
that person's way does not exist on him. Or he can ignore this (naming the 
enemy) because whom he hates is already indicated (by the earlier 
statement). 

38. In three stages, he descends for, Agni is threefold; as great as Agni 
is, as great as is his size, by so much food he pleases them. With Svahakara 
(he gratifies them). Svahakara (chanting of svaha while making the offer¬ 
ing) is food and it is by means of food he thus gratifies them. In three 
stages he ascends upwards from here. They together (descending and as¬ 
cending) make six (stages). Its significance has been explained. As to why 
he descends in three stages is because does he not ascend in three stages? 
So in as many as stages he ascends, in so many stages he descends. 

39. He then throws that leaf of the Arka plant into the pit ( catvala ). 
With this he performs this ritual sacred to Rudra and for that reason it is 
inauspicious. So he discards it, lest anyone should happen to tread on that 
inauspicious one and it should harm him. Why into the catvala pit (he 
throws) — this catvala is fire. Thereby this fire bums it. Now (let us see) the 
co-relation. 

40. They ask, “How does this Satarudnya of his get equated with the 
year and Agni?” i.e. how it gets identified with the year and the Agni-altar. 
This Satarudnya includes three hundred and sixty (formulas) besides thirty 
and thirty-five. The three hundred and sixty correspond to the days of a 
year. Thereby it gets the days of the year. Thirty correspond to the nights 
in a month and thus it gets the nights of the months. Thus it gets the days 
and nights of the year. And as to the thirty-five (formulas) they correspond 
to the thirteenth month and that is the self (of Agni). The self (body) 
consists of thirty limbs, two feet, two pranas and the head is the thirty-fifth. 
This much is the year. That is how his (Yajamana’s) Satarudnya corresponds 
to the year and to the Agn j-altar. Thus it co-relates with the year and the 
Agni. This number of yajusmatl bricks are placed in the middle in the sandila 
fire-altar. For, these bricks are indeed the same as these Agnis (invoked in 



XI.3.2.5] 


TRANSLATION 


73 


the Satarudnya) . Thus these Agnis of his come to have oblations offered to 
them individually by means of the Satarudnya . 

41. Again they ask, “How does this Satarudnya oi his co-relates with the 
Mahaduktha ? How does it correspond to the Mahaduktha :?” These twenty- 
five Yajus formulas which are on both sides of the eighties, they are twenty¬ 
fivefold body. Where there is the body there is also the head, the wings and 
the tail (of the bird-shaped altar). The eighty which is there (in the 
Satarudnya) correspond to the eighty in the Mahaduktha because the 
Mahadukthais recited in eighties. Here (in Satarudnya) what is in excess of 
eighty, corresponds with what is in excess of eighty in the Mahaduktha. Thus 
it corresponds to Mahaduktha. (First Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAH 

1. He then sprinkles (water on him Agrai-altar). For, the gods after ap¬ 
peasing him with the Satarudnya, further calmed him by this (sprinkling). 
In the same manner, this one (Yzyamana) having appeased with Satarudnya, 
again calms him by this (sprinkling). 

2. He sprinkles with water; for, water is an appeasing agent; thereby he 
appeases him. He sprinkles him all over; because he appeases him all over. 
He sprinkles thrice; for, Agni is threefold; as great as Agni is, as great as is 
his size, by so much he calms him. 

3. And as to why he sprinkles him — that Agrckiltar is these worlds. He 
thus encompasses these worlds with waters; he indeed encompasses them 
by the ocean. He does so all around and hence the ocean surrounds all 
these worlds. He sprinkles from left to right and that is why, the ocean 
encircles these worlds from left to right. 

4. The Agnidhra priest does the sprinkling. Agnidhra is same as Agni 
and no one harms his own self. (He sprinkles) from a stone, for the waters 
originate from rock. From the arm-pit (of the body of the altar) he sprinkles 
because waters spring forth from the crevices (joints of rocks). From the 
right side arm-pit (he sprinkles); for, the waters spring forth from the crev¬ 
ices of rocks on the south. 

5. (He says) “The energy that is lying in the rock; is the mountain” — 
for, this energy (namely waters) abide the rocks in the mountains. “This 



XI.3.2.9] 


TRANSLATION 


75 


milk is collected from waters; from herbs and from trees”, because this milk 
is collected from all these. ‘That essence and nourishment, O Maruts, the 
liberal givers, bring to us” — for, it is the Maruts who control the rains. Let 
your hunger (rest) in this rock” — saying this he places it (the vessel of 
sprinkling water) down, and thereby lays hunger into the stone. That is 
why, stone is not eatable. But stone is also firm (hard) and hunger is also 
firm (hard). That hard one is placed on that firm one. He takes (that ves¬ 
sel, saying) “Let your energy (rest) in me.” Thereby he places energy into 
himself. This he repeats a second time and a third time. 

6. After placing down the water-jar, he goes round (the altar) thrice. 
When he goes round him, he is, as it were, making him small. Thereby he 
erases his own offence to ensure his safety. 

7. And again why he goes round (the altar) — (while sprinkling) he has 
gone after him (Agni-Rudra). Now (by going round) he regains his own 
self, back to life. That is how indeed, he with that body of his, gets the full 
span of life. Thrice he goes round it and thrice he walks round (while 
sprinkling). That is, he goes round as many times as he went round 
(sprinkling). Then, he puts that stone into the water-jar and they throw it 
in that (south-western) direction. Because that is the direction of Nirrti. 
Thereby he discards that pain to the Niriti's direction. 

This is how the gods having appeased him (Rudra) by means of the 
Satarudnya and the waters, therewith destroyed his pain and evil. In the 
same way, this one (Yajamana) having appeased him by means of the 
Satarudnya and the waters, destroyed his pain and evil. 

9. He discards it outside the fire-altar. This fire-altar is these world. Out¬ 
side these worlds, he discards that pain (he throws him). Outside this vedi 
(sacrifical site). Vedi is indeed this earth and he throws away the pain out¬ 
side this earth. Facing the east and standing by the side of the right thigh 
of the vedi, he throws it southwards (saying), “Let your pain reach him whom 
we hate.” Thereby his pain reaches him whom he hates. One can also say, 
“Let the pain reach so and so” naming the one whom he hates so that 
enemy will have no sway any more on him. This need not be heeded. Whom 
he hates thus, has already been indicated. If it (the pot) does not break 
(when thrown) he should tell (the Pratiprasthata) to break it, because only 
when the pot breaks, the pain goes from him (Yajamana) to him whom he 
hates. They return to the altar without turning back (at the spot where the 


XI.3.2.13] 


TRANSLATION 


77 


pot was thrown). For, he discards that pain, that evil without turning back 
to it. 

10. Returning, he makes the bricks his own milk cows; for, the gods 

✓ 

having appeased him by the Satarudriya and the waters and after having 
discarded his pain and evil, returned (to the altar) and made the bricks 
their own milk cows. In the same way, this one (Yajamana) now, after ap¬ 
peasing him (Rudra) by the Satarudriya and the waters and after throwing 
out his sin and evil, returns and makes the bricks his milk cows. 

11. Some suggest “Let him make them his own” (milch cows) while 
sitting, for, one milks the cow sitting. But let him make them his own, 
standing. For, that fire-altar is these worlds and these worlds are, as it were, 
standing. Moreover one is stronger while standing. Standing, facing the 
north-east (he does so). This cow stands by the side of the Yajamana, fac¬ 
ing the west. From the right side, they approach the cow which stands fac¬ 
ing westward. 

12. At the point when he reaches (the cow), he touches the vedi and 
chants this Yajus mantra, “O Agni! let these bricks be milch cows of mine” - 
- because it is Agni who is the master of this (process of) making milch 
cows of these (bricks). That is why he addresses Agni out of all these gods. 
(He says) “One, ten ....(upto) a hundred, thousand, million and a billion 
(Parardha) ” —for, the one and the ten are the smallest numbers and the 
Anta and Parardha are the biggest numbers. Thus from the smallest num¬ 
bers to the biggest, the gods made milch cows out of bricks. In like manner, 
this one (Yajamana) makes milch cows from the smallest to the biggest 
numbers. He need not attempt to make many (milch cows by this process) 
because he can make many milch cows in the yonder world by means of 
the Brahman, in the form of the Yajus ( mantra) . He goes on counting the 
numbers like this without any break and thereby goes on announcing his 
objects of desire. 

13. And as to why he makes the bricks, the milch cows is this — this 
Agni is speech, because it is built up by means of speech. When he says 
one, ten, one thousand, million and billion, it is speech that is one, it is 
speech that is ten, speech is Anta and speech is Parardha. It is the speech 
which the gods made their own milch cows. In the same way, this Yajamana 
makes the speech, his milch cows. When he goes on with the numbers, he 


XI.3.2.17] 


TRANSLATION 


79 


is carrying on only with speech — “Let these bricks be my milch cows. ” Thus 
he makes them his milch cows in this world as well as in the world beyond. 
Thus it benefits him in this world and in the world beyond. 

14. (He says) “You are the seasons” — for, these (bricks) are the rtus'm 
so far as they are “ Rtdvrdha” or sustainers of truth. “Be in the seasons as 
sustainers of truth (eternal law) ” for, the bricks are days and nights and the 
days and nights do stay in the seasons.” “Showerers of ghee and showerers 
of honey” — thereby he renders them showerers of ghee and showerers of 
honey — “widely shining by name” — for, the gods then called these bricks 
to them by their names. Whichever they were calling thus, they approached 
them. Only the lokamprna bricks had their faces turned away with no names 
for them. They conferred the name “Viraj” to them and they turned to 
them (gods). That is why, after placing ten-ten bricks, he addresses them 
with the mantras referring to lokamprnas. Thus he makes them“Virajas” (by 
name) because the Virat metre has ten syllables. (He says) “Wish milking 
and never failing” — thus he makes them yield all wishes and never-failing. 

15. He now brings on to altar a frog, a lotus flower and a bamboo- 
shoot. This is because the gods after having appeased him with Satarudriya 
and waters and after having discarded his pain and evil, again pleases him 
by this. Similarly, this one (Yajamana) after having appeased him (Rudra) 
with Satarudriya and waters and after having removed his pain and evil, 
again appeases him thus. He drags (the frog etc.) all over and all over he 
appeases. 

16. And as to why he drags them (over) is this — in the beginning, 
when the rsis, the pranas, fashioned that Agru-altar, they sprinkled him with 
water. Those waters trickled out and they became the frogs. They (waters) 
told Prajapati, “Whatever essence we had it has gone down.” He said, “This 
plant shall know it well ( samvetti ).” That is why that (plant) is called Vetasa 
(Bamboo) as a mystic appellation; for, gods like the mystic expressions. 
Since they (the waters) said “Avak - kam - Agdt n (down below it has gone) 
they became Avakkas (lotus-flowers). Those Avakkas are known as Avakds 
as a concealed appellation, for, the gods like mystic expressions. These are 
those three kinds of waters; the frog; the lotusrflower and the bamboo-shoot, 
which appease him. 

17. And again as to why he drags them (over the altar) — he who is 
being built up (the fire-altar) is being bom. He is bom for every kind of 


XI.3.2.21] 


TRANSLATION 


81 


food. All these are indeed, food — the frog, the lotus-leaf, the bamboo shoot; 
for, these indeed are (representing) animals, waters and trees. Thus he 
appeases him by means of all kinds of food. By the frog, the animal part (of 
the food); for, frog among the animals is the one which provides least sub¬ 
sistence; because it is used up. By the lotus-flower, the water part (of the 
food). Therefore among water, lotus-flower has the least subsistence, be¬ 
cause they are used up. By the bamboo shoot, the plant part (of the food); 
therefore among the trees, the bamboo has least subsistence; it is indeed 
used up. 

18. Having tied them to a cane; he first drags them eastwards along the 
southern side of the altar within the enclosing stones. (He says) “We en¬ 
compass you, O Agni! with the lotus-flower of the ocean; you may be puri¬ 
fying and propitious for us.” (This means) “I appease you with the waters of 
the ocean.” 

19. Then along the head part northwards (he drags them) (saying) 
“We encompass you with the outer placenta of ice; you may be purifying 
and propitious for us.” That part of water which is coldest is called the pla¬ 
centa of the ice. (It means — we appease you with the frozen part of the 
cold. 

20. Then along the left side, eastwards (he drags them), (saying) “Upon 
the earth, into the reed, into the rivers, you descend, O Agni; you are the 
side of the waters; with them you come to the she-frog, and make this sacri¬ 
fice of ours shine forth and propitious for us.” As the text so the meaning. 

21. Then along with front side, southwards (he drags them) (saying) 
“You are the abode of waters and the home of the ocean. Let your arrows 
bum our foes. Be you purifying and propitious unto us” — as the text so the 
meaning. He drags them thus and in this way from left to right and that is 
the practice for gods. He drags over the body (of the altar in the form of 
the bird), because the body that is bom first is of (the bird). Then over the 
right wing, then the tail and then over the left wing. That is how, it is from 
left to right. That is the course of the gods. Over the wings and tail, he drags 
them towards the direction of the body. Thus he confers that calmness 
towards the body proper, from the fingers towards the middle. (He drags) 
over the right wing (saying), “O Agni! with your bright height.” Over the 


XI.3.2.26] 


TRANSLATION 


83 


tail (saying), ‘To us O bright and shining Agni.” Over the left wing (say¬ 
ing) , “He who with bright and glittering bright.’’ He thus (each time) repre¬ 
sents the word “bright” for whatever is kindly and propitious is bright. He 
thus propitiates him. With seven ( mantras ) he drags them across, for, the 
altar consists of seven layers and seven are the seasons of a year and Agni- 
altar is the year. As great as Agni is, as great as is his size, with so much he 
thus crosses him (with them). Then after throwing that cane in the utkira 
(dustbin). 

22. Then he sings Samans round (the altar). For it is by them that the 
whole Agni is fashioned. On him, the gods bestowed that highest form of 
immortality. In same manner, this (Yajamana) bestows on him the highest 
form of immortality. Samans are sung, for, Samans are the pranas and pranas 
are immortality. Thus immortality, that highest form, he confers on him. 
On every side he sings around it. Thereby everywhere he bestows that high¬ 
est form of immortality in him. 

23. And as to why he sings Samans around him is this — the gods thought 
thus, “Let us make our bodies boneless and immortal.” They said (of the 
process) “By which we can render our these bodies boneless and immor¬ 
tal.” They said, “Meditate” by which they meant, “wish for a layer, find out 
how we may make ours this body of boneless and immortal.” 

24. Meditating they saw these Samans; with them they sang round him 
(altar). By means of that they rendered their body boneless and immortal. 
In same manner this Yajamana, by singing these Samans round him, ren¬ 
ders his body boneless and immortal. He sings all around and every where 
he makes his body boneless and immortal. He sings while standing, be¬ 
cause these worlds are as if, standing. By standing one is stronger. He sings 
after uttering hirhkara (the syllable “HIM”), for therein the Saman becomes 
complete and whole. 

25. First he sings the Gayatra Saman, for, Gayatri metre is fire; he thus 
makes the fire itself his head. By that he makes his (altar’s) head boneless 
and immortal. 

26. He sings the Rathantara Saman at the right side wing (of the bird¬ 
shaped altar). Rathantara is this earth and this (earth) is the most juicy 
(full of sap) among these worlds, for it is here that all these essence are 


XI.3.2.32] 


TRANSLATION 


85 


contained. It is rasantama (most juicy) that is called Rathantara in a con¬ 
cealed way; for the gods, indeed like mystic appellations. He thus makes 
the (earth), his (bird-shaped altar's) right wing. Thereby his right wing 
becomes boneless and immortal. 

27. He sings the Brhad Saman at the left wing. Brhad is the sky. The sky 
is the greatest (of the worlds). Thereby he makes the sky itself his (bird¬ 
shaped altar's) left wing. Thus he renders that left wing of his, boneless 
and immortal. 

28. He sings the Vamadevya Saman at the body (of the altar). Vamadevya 
is the prana and prana is wind. That which is wind is the body of all these 
gods. Thus he makes Vayu itself the body (of the bird shaped altar). Thereby 
he renders his body itself boneless and immortal. 

29% He sings the Yajnayajniya Saman at the tail. Yajnayajniya is the moon; 
for, whenever a sacrificer attains completion, the essence of its oblation 
reaches him (the moon). In as much as by each sacrifice it (the essence) 
reaches him (the moon), the moon is Yajnayajniya. Thereby he makes 
the moon itself his (bird-shaped altar’s) tail. Thus he renders his tail bone¬ 
less and immortal. 

30. He then sings (that Saman) which is known as the heart of Prajapati. 
The heart is yonder sun. He is oily; for, the heart is oily (smooth). He (the 
sun) is round; so too the heart is round. He sings on the body (of the altar) 
— for, the heart is in the body. He sings at the arm-pit (of the bird) because 
the heart is in the arm-pit. He sings at the right arm-pit because the heart is 
nearer (to the right arm-pit). Thus he makes the sun itself his (bird-shaped 
altar's) heart. Thereby he renders his heart itself boneless and immortal. 

31. He sings on Prajas (progeny) and Prajapati (creator). When he 
sings on Prajas, he places the heart into the offspring. When he sings on 
Prajapati, he places heart in the fire-altar. 

32. And as to why he sings on Prajas and Prajapati is this - this Agnir 
altar is both progeny and the creator. By singing on the Agni-altar, he places 
heart both in the Praja (offspring) and Prajapati (lord of the offspring). 
These ( Samans ) are the immortal bricks and hence he lays them down, last 
(at the top of all). He thus makes immortality the highest in this whole 



XI.3.2.32] 


TRANSLATION 


87 


universe. Let not anybody else than the Adhvaryu sing (these Samans). If 
any one else is to sing, these bricks will be misplaced (wrongly built). (Sec¬ 
ond Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter Three Ends.) 


Chapter Four 


BRAHMANAI 

1. On the day of preparation, early morning when the sun has risen, 
he breaks his silence. After breaking silence, takes five ladles-full of ghee and 
drops five gold pieces into it. Then, these three things — curd, honey and 
ghee, he mixes in a vessel or in the jar with a wide mouth and places a fistful 
of darbha on it. 

2. He then climbs over the Agni-altar (saying), “I pay homage to your 
heat, to your glow and I bow to your flames” — here the whole Agrci-altar is 
fashioned. He is now capable of injuring whomsoever he might wish to 
injure. Whomsoever he injures, he injures with his heat, with his glow or 
with his flames. Thus (by praying) he does not injure him with them. (He 
says) “Let the arrows bum others; to us you be bright and propitious” — as 
the text, so the meaning. 

3. After climbing on the altar he makes offering of ghee taken, five ladles- 
full, on the naturally perforated brick. Its significance, is already told. He 
offers on the naturally perforated one because Svayamatrnna is prana and 
thereby he places that food into the prana. 

4. And as to why he offers on the Svayamatrnna — this is the high altar 
of Agni. On the earlier occassion, the libation which he makes is of the 
Soma sacrifce, but this one belongs to the fire-altar. While looking at the 
gold there, he makes the offering. For, what one sees is clearly visible and 
that high-altar is clearly visible. Here now the gold pieces are deposited on 
the ghee and what is deposited (in something) is invisible and this uttara¬ 
vedi {svayamatrnna brick) is also indistinct. In the former case he makes the 
offering on that {uttaravedi) with svahakara (uttering the word svaha) be¬ 
cause svahakara is clearly visible and that uttaravedi is distinctly visible. Here 
(he offers on the brick) with vatkara (uttering the word vat) for, that vatkdra 
is indistinct since this uttaravedi {Svayamatrnna) is indistinct. Here too with 
ghee (they offer) — for, at the uttaravedi they offer with ghee. With five ladles- 
full because at the uttaravedi they offer with five ladle-full of ghee. By turn he 
makes the offerings because they make the offering at the uttaravedi by 
turns. (Here the difference is — vyaghara on the uttaravedi and the 


Xl.4.1.8] 


TRANSLATION 


91 


svayamatrnna are confined to svahakara vs vatkara and looking at the gold 
and not looking at the gold. In other aspects this svayamdtrnna is on a par 
with uttaravedT ). 

5. He offers the libation (saying), “Vat to the one seated on man” nisad 
(seated on man) is doubtless the prana. Men mean human beings. That 
prana, the Agni (fire) which is in human beings, he gratifies. “ Vat to the 
one seated on water”— thereby he propitiates the fire which is on the waters. 
“Vat to the one seated on grass seat ( barhisad )” — thereby he propitiates 
that fire which is on the plants. “ Vat to the forest-seated” — thereby he 
pleases the Agni which is on the trees. “ Vatto the one who wins the heaven” 
— Svarvid (winner of heaven) is Agni. This Agni the winner of heavens, he 
gratifies by that. What he said “ Nisade Vat ” and “Apsusada Vat ” these are the 
names of this Agni. He thus propitiates these names. He converts those 
names into deities by his oblation. For whatever deity the oblation is pre¬ 
pared, that deity (it becomes) and not that deity for whom it is not prepared 
So when he calls them by their names, he is placing those names converted 
into Agni on this Agro-altar. He makes fire offerings (in this context), for Agni- 
altar has five layers, there are five seasons for a year and Agni-altar is the year; as 
great as Agni is, as great as is his size, with so much food he thus pleases him. 

6. He then sprinkles him (Agni-altar) with curd, honey and ghee. This 
(altar) which is being built up, is being born and he is bom for all kinds of 
food. Curd, honey and ghee (the trio) constitute all kinds of food. There¬ 
fore, he gratifies him with all kinds of food. He sprinkles him all over. So he 
gratifies him everywhere with all kinds of food. 

7. And again why he sprinkles him (with curd, honey and ghee) — here 
this entire Agnir altar is fashioned. Unto him, the gods bestowed this high¬ 
est form (final shape). In the like manner, this one (Yajamana) bestows 
the highest form unto him. Food means form and these here; curd, honey 
and ghee are the highest type of food. So that which is the highest form, 
that final form he gives to him (Agro-altar). He sprinkles all over even out¬ 
side the enclosing stones. (He sprinkles) with darbha grass, for darbhasaie 
pure and fit for sacrifice. With the tips of the darbhas (he sprinkles) because 
the tips belong to gods. 

8. Again, as to why he sprinkles him — this is where the pranas, the rsis 
at first fashioned this Agni; they made that Sajurabdtya (obltation by that 
name) as a special fore-share and after he had been built up, they made 


XI.4.1.12] 


TRANSLATION 


93 


this sprinkling as his after-share. Thus on sprinkling him, he gratifies those 
rsis, the pranas who made that after-share. He is gratifying them with curd, 
honey and ghee. Its significance has been already explained. 

9. (He sprinkles saying) ‘The gods of the gods, the worshipable of the 
worshipables” — for, they (the pranas ) are indeed the gods among gods 
and worshipable among worshipables. ‘They go close to the year-long share 

— for they indeed come close to this year-long share. Those who do not 
eat what is offered as oblations in sacrifice” — for, the pranas do not partake 
in the. oblations. “May they on their own, drink of the honey and the ghee 

— (meaning) they should themselves consume this honey and ghee. 

10. “The gods who attained super-godhood over the gods” — for, these 
gods have indeed attained super-divinity over the gods. “Who are the fore¬ 
runners of this Brahma” — this Brahman is Agns-altar and they are his fore¬ 
runners. “ Without whom no home becomes purified for, without prana 
nobody becomes purified. “They are neither on the back of the earth nor 
on the back of the sky”—i.e., whatever is breathing, in them they are present. 
With two verses he sprinkles, for, the Yajamana is two-footed and Yajamana 
is the Agni-altar; as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, with so much he 
thus sprinkles. 

11. He then descends (from the altar) (saying), Those who give prana, 
those who give apancT — for the Agwj-altar that is being built is all these 
breathings. If he fails to utter these statements of (self-surrender), he (Agni) 
would confiscate his pranas. Now by uttering these words of surrender, that 
Agnj-altar does not confiscate his vital airs. (He says) Those who give prana, 
those who give apana, those who give vyana, those who give lustre, those 
who give dwelling space” — thereby he says ‘You are the giver of these to 
me.” “Let your arrows bum others than us; unto us, you be luminous and 
merciful” — as the text, so the meaning. 

12. After returning, he proceeds with the Pravargya and the Upasad 
performances. After performing the Pravargya and Upasad, he gives to the 
Yajamana, the food (allowed) for fast or the part of food (allowed) for fast. 
He then proceeds with the Pravargya and Upasad (for the afternoon) and 
having gained that objective for which he mounts the Pravargya vessel on 
the fire, he removes the Pravargya vessel. 


XI.4.1.17] 


TRANSLATION 


95 


13. He should remove it (Pravargya vessel) to a place surrounded by 
water. Because, while being heated, that vessel has undergone pain and 
were he to place it on (dry) earth, that pain would enter this earth. Were he 
to it place in water, that pain would pass on to the water. When he transfers 
it to a place surrounded by water, then it does not cause harm to the earth 
or to the water. In that process, water goes all round it. Water being a sooth¬ 
ing agent, it does not harm this earth. Let him therefore transfer it to a 
place surrounded by waters. 

14. Let him (better) place it on the fire-altar itself, for, that altar is 
these worlds and the parisrits or enclosing stones are the waters. So when he 
places it on the fire-altar, he (in effect) places it at a spot surrounded by 
waters. 

15. And again why he transfers it to the Agra-altar is this. This Agnir altar 
is these'worlds. Pravargya is Agni, Vayu and Aditya. If he were to transfer to 
elsewhere than the Agro-altar, he would be keeping those gods outside these 
worlds. By transferring it to the altar, he places these gods in these worlds 
themselves. 

16. Again why he transfers it to the altar—this Pravargya vessel is, doubt¬ 
less, the head of the sacrifice. This altar built up is the body. If he were to 
place it elsewhere than the altar, he would be fixing the head outside (of 
the body). By placing it on the altar, he completes the body by restoring its 
head. The first Pravargya, he places near the naturally perforated brick; 
svayamatmna is prana (vital air) and the Pravargya is the head and this altar 
that is built is the body. Thereby he links that head and the body by means 
of vital air and connects them. Thus having removed the Pravargya (from 
the oven) according to the prescribed procedure. 

17. And after coming back (to the Garhapatya) , he offers oblations and 
places samidhas, with a view to cany forward the fire. This is how the gods, 
when the fire was about to be carried forward (to the altar) first gratified 
him with food (in the form of) oblations and samidhas. In same manner, 
this one (Yajamana) when the fire was about to be earned forward, gratifies 
him with food in the form of oblations and samidhas. He takes five ladle-full 
of ghee, the purpose of it has been explained. Then he takes ghee sixteen 
ladle-fulls; for, Prajapad has sixteen kalds (units) and Prajapati is Agni. 


XI.4.1.19] 


TRANSLATION 


97 


Thereby he gratifies him with food, proportionate to his body. Food that is 
proportionate to the body, goes to protect it (body) and it does not harm. 
That (food) which is in excess, harms and that which is less, fails to protect. 
He takes the oblations in the same sruk, because it is the same Agni whom 
he is gratifying. He offers with two mantras pertaining to Visvakarma. Be¬ 
cause this Agni is Visvakarma and it is him, he thus gratifies. He offers three 
oblations, for, Agni is threefold; as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, 
with so much of food, he thus gratifies him. 

18. He then places the samidhas. Just as after gratifying somebody, one 
would attend upon him, it is like that. Those samidhas are of the Udumbara 
wood. Udumbara is food and sap. Thereby he gratifies him with food and 
essence. They are fresh ( samidhas ); for, that part of a tree which is fresh is 
the unimpaired living part. So thus that which is the unimpaired and living 
part of the tree, with that he now gratifies him. They are soaked in ghee, for, 
ghee belongs to Agni. Thereby he gratifies him (fire) with his own thing, 
with his own essence. They ( samidhas ) remain in it {ghee) for the whole 
night; whence they get enriched with essence. He places three samidhas , 
for, Agni is threefold; as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, by so much 
food he thus gratifies him. 

19. And as to why he offers these oblations— when that Agni was about 
to go forward, the gods equipped him beforehand by means of food, by 
means of these oblations. In the same way, this one (Yajamana) equips 
him, who is about to go forward, beforehand with food, with these oblations. 
He takes five ladles-full, because the prana is divided fivefold in the head; 
namely mind, speech, breathing, eye and ear. Thereby he puts that five¬ 
fold divided pranas into the head. (He says) “Agni, with his sharp flame” — 
—with this mantra containing the word “sharp”, he sharpens his head (flamp) 
for attaining sharpness. Then he takes sixteen ladles-full of ghee (on the 
sruk), eight vital airs and eight limbs — these account for (sixteen) count. 
He collects it in the same sruk; because the vital airs and limbs are in the 
same body. He makes the offering separately and thus distinguishes be¬ 
tween the limbs and the vital airs. He offers with the two mantras related to 
Visvakarma; for, the Agm-altar is Visvakarma and he is being fashioned. He 
offers three oblations; for, Agni is threefold; as great as Agni is, as great as is 
his size, by so much food he is gratified. With seventeen Rk stanzas (he 
fashions it) for, Prajapati is seventeenfold and Prajapati is Agni; as great as 



XI.4.2.3] 


TRANSLATION 


99 


Agni is, as great as is his size, by so much he is gratified. He offers oblations 
of ghee taken twenty-one ladles-full for, there are twelve months, five sea¬ 
sons, these three worlds, and yonder sun as the twenty-first. This is the 
symbolic significance of that count. 

20. As to why he places the samidhas — the gods having fashioned and 
completed him (Agrcj-altar) gratified him with this food; with these samidhas. 
Similarly this one (Yajamana) having fashioned and completed him, grati¬ 
fies him with this food; with these samidhas. They ( samidhas) are of Udumbara 
wood, fresh and they remain the whole night soaked in ghee. The signifi- 
• cance of this has been explained. “O Agni! lead him upwards; O Indra ! 
lead him forward, in whose house we make offerings” — as the text, so the 
meaning. Three samidhas he places; for, Agni is threefold: as great as Agni 
is, as great as is his size; with so much food he thus gratifies him. Three 
oblations he offer that makes six (with the three samidhas). The signifi¬ 
cance of this has been explained. (First Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMANAU 

1. Then (the Adhvaryu) issues the following orders (to Prati-prasthata). 
“Take up the log; hold up the under layer”. (To the Hota) “Recife for Agni 
when he is taken forward.” (To Agnldh) “Agnidh, follow the single wooden 
spear.” (To Brahman) “Brahman, utter the Aprtiratha hymn.” That is be¬ 
cause at that time, when the gods were about to organise this sacrifice, the 
terrible Asura-Raksasas attacked them from the south saying, “You shall 
not perform sacrifice; you shall not prepare for the sacrifice.” 

2. These gods said to Indra, ‘You are the supreme most, the mightiest 
and the strongest of us. You please check those terrible -Raksasas.” (Indra 
said) “Let the Brahman be my associate.” (They said) “So it be.” They made 
Brhaspati second in his command; for, Brhaspati is Brahman. Thus by 
Brhaspati and Indra, they drove away thdferrible Asura-Raksasas from the 
southern side and they organised this sacrifice in place, free from fear and 
evil. 


3. Now this one (Yajamana) does what the gods did. Actually these - 
Raksasas were driven away by gods themselves. The purpose of his doing 
the same now is because he thinks “Let me do what the gods did.” There- 


XI.4.2.6] 


TRANSLATION 


101 


fore with Indra and Brhaspati, having driven away the terrible Asura- 
Raksasas from the south, he arranges this sacrifice (in a place) free from 
fear and evil. He who is Indra is indeed unchallengable ( Apratiratha) and 
he who is Brhaspati is Brahman and Brahman chants the Apratiratha hymns. 

4. (The Brahman says) “This fast-moving Indra, sharpening (his 
weapon) like a fierce bull” — beginning from this (Asussisana)) there are 
twelve hymns becoming of Indra; for, there are twelve months for a year 
and Agni is the year. As great as Agni is, as great as is his size, by so much he 
drives the terrible Asura-Raksasas from the south. (They are) in Tristubh 
metre and Tristubh is the thunder-bolt. Therefore he strikes at the terrible 
Asura-Raksasas in the south by means of thunder-bolt. They are total 
twenty-two Gayatris (Trstubh has 44 syllables each and twelve Tristubhs 
come to 528 syllables divided by 24 which gives 22 Gayatris). These chants 
belong to Agni because it is a ritual of Agni. 

5. He then lifts him (in the form of a burning log) saying, “Let the 
Visvedevas bear you upwards, O Agni! by means of their thoughts. This 
has already been explained. They then go round to the front. May the five 
divine directions protect the sacrifice.” He says, “Daivth (divine) because 
the gods and Asuras, both offsprings of Prajapati, quarreled over the 
directions. These gods captured the regions of the Asuras. In same man¬ 
ner, this Yajamana captures the regions from his hateful enemies. By say¬ 
ing “Divine”, he renders these (directions) divine. “May the goddesses pro¬ 
tect the sacrifice.” (Meaning) “Let that which is divine, protect this sacri¬ 
fice.” “Keeping off hunger and ill-will.” (Meaning) “Not longing for feed or 
not afflicted by hunger.” “Gratifying to the lord of the sacrifice a share in 
wealth and in affluence.” (Meaning) “Bestowing on the lord of the sacrifice 
a share in wealth and in affluence. ’ “May the sacrifice be established on 
wealth and plenty.” (Meaning) “May the sacrifice be founded on wealth 
and affluence.” 

6. “Assuming greatness in the kindled fire” — the Yajamana is the one 
who assumes greatness. “The Uktha hymn has the wings for, the Uktha 
are his wings. “Praise-worthy” (meaning) deserving to be praised. Grbhita 
means held. “While they sacrifice, encircling the heated Gharma” — this 
Gharma (the Pravargya vessel) is heated all around when they sacrificed. 
“With food, the gods offered sacrifk ” - indeed the gods offered this sacri¬ 
fice with food; 


XL4.-2.il] 


TRANSLATION 


103 


7. “To the divine, the supporter and the protector” — because he is indeed 
the divine supporter and he protects the best. “He who approaches gods, 
the one well-disposed and of a hundred draughts” — he is indeed an 
approacher of gods, well-disposed and possessed of a hundred draughts. 
“Encircling him, the gods came near to the sacrifice” — or the gods drew 
near to the sacrifice encircling him (Agni). ‘The gods stood ready to per¬ 
form Adhvara for the gods” — Adhvara means sacrifice and the gods en¬ 
gage themselves in sacrifice to the gods. 

8. “The pleasing oblation slaughtered by the slaughterer to the sacri¬ 
fice” — that is “pleasing” means “very much liked”. “Where the fourth sacri¬ 
fice goes to the offering” — thus the Adhvaryu on the east utters the Yajus 
formulas; then the Hota recites the Rk mantras at the west and then the 
Brahman chants the Apratiratha hymn on the southern side. This is the 
fourth sacrifice which follows. “May the prayers, the benedictions favour 
us.” 

9. ‘The Savita, the sun-rayed and golden-haired ever raises up the light 
in front” — this Agrci-altar is doubtless, yonder sun and that sun-rayed and 
golden-haired Savita in front ever raises that light. “At his bidding Pusan, 
the wise moves.” Pusa is indeed the catde and he moves at the bidding of 
the sun. “Viewing all beings as their guardian”— for, he indeed views every¬ 
thing here as he is the protector of all this world. 

10. Now the gods thereby (by means of these five mantras ) captured 
from the Asuras, the five regions which are on this side of the yonder sun. 
Then they ascended these (regions). In like manner, this Yajamana cap¬ 
tures from his hateful enemy (the five directions) and then ascends them. 
Just as these gods with these (five mantras) reached this place, similarly this 
one (Yzyamana) with these, reaches this place. 

11. He then places a stone with dots on it. This dotted stone is the 
yonder sun. Thus he places the yonder sun. It is dotted, for, by means of its 
rays its disc gets dotted. He places it in between the Ahayaniya and the 
Garhapatya. This earth is the Garhapatya and the sky is the Ahavanlya. Thus 
he lays it down between the two worlds. That is why, he (sun) bums be¬ 
tween these two worlds. He places it on that side where the Agnldhra hearth 
is to be set up. Agnidhra is the aerial region and so he places him (sun) in 


XI.4.2.14] 


TRANSLATION 


105 


the aerial region. Hence the sun is one with the antanksa as his abode. Half 
way (between Ahavanlya and Garhapatya he places it); for, that sun is half 
way from this earth. This stone is prana and by placing it, he puts the vital 
air into the body. This is ayu (life-power) and thereby he puts the life-power 
into the body. It is food, since it is life-power. Because life-power is indeed 
food. It is a stone; for, a stone is Firm and he thus makes the life-power firm. 
It is spotted; for food is of varied colours. 

12. He places it (saying), “This one stays in the middle of the sky after 
measuring” — indeed that one (sun) keeps to the middle of the sky after 
measuring. “Filling up the two worlds and the aerial region” — even while 
rising, he fills up these three worlds (with light). “He notices the Visvati 
and the Ghrtati” These refer to the sruks (offering ladles and the vedi). 
“Between the front and back lights”. (Meaning) Between this world and 
the yonder one or between that fire-altar which is being built here, that is, 
{Ahavanlya) and that which is already built here ( Garhapatya ). 

13. “The showering ocean, the ruddy bird” - for, he (the sun) is in¬ 
deed a showering ocean and the ruddy bird. “He has entered the womb of 
his father in the east” — for, he indeed enters that seat of his father in the 
east ( Ahavanlya ). “The multi-coloured rock set-up in the middle of sky.” 
For, that variegated stone is indeed, set up in the middle of the sky. Has 
traversed and guards the two ends of the atmosphere” — for, while travers¬ 
ing, he guards the ends of these worlds. Thus with two verses, he sets it up, 
for, the Yajamana is two-footed and the Yajamana is Agni- altar. As great as 
Agni is, as great as is his size, with so much he thus sets him up. With (two) 
verses in Tristubh metre, (he sets up); for, that one (sun) is of Tristubh. 
He does not settle it; for, that one (sun) is himself not settled. Nor he 
chants the Sudadohasa over it. The Sudadohasa is the prana and that (sun) 
himself is breath {prana) and should anybody put prana into prana ? He 
having placed in such a way, that it is not lost. 

14. They now approach (the fire-altar) saying, “All of them have devel¬ 
oped Indra.” Its meaning has been told. “Let the sacrifice summoning the 
gods, come forward; let the sacrifice invoking favours bring forward here 
(the gods) ” — because the sacrifice is one that summons gods and brings 
favours. “Let Agni, the god, make offering and lead hither the gods” which 
means, “may Agni, the god, make the offering and also bring the gods 


XI.4.2.18] 


TRANSLATION 


107 


here.” ‘The production of strength has charged me with enthusiasm and 
Indra has subdued my enemies by (his) ertthusiam” — as the text, so its 
meaning. “May the gods enrich the Brahman with enthusiasm and subdual 
and may Indra and Agni throw to pieces my enemies.” As the text, so the 
meaning. 

15. By these (four verses) the gods captured from the Asuras, the four 
directions that are above the yonder sun and ascended them. In the same 
way, this Yajamana captures them from the hateful enemy and ascends 
them. By means of these verses, the gods then reached that place and in 
the same way, this Yajamana by means of these reaches that (place). 

16. They then mount the fire-altar (saying), “With Agni, you all ascend 
the naka” — naka is indeed the heavenly world and it means “with this Agni, 
you ascend the heavenly world.” “Holding the Ukhya in your hands” — for, 
the Ukhya (fire in the Ukha) they carry in their hands. “Having reached 
the top of the sky, i.e., the heaven, you keep mingling with the gods.” (mean¬ 
ing) “having gone to the back of the sky which is the heavenly world, you 
keep company with the gods.” 

17. “You advance to the eastern quarter, knowing” — the eastern quar¬ 
ter is indeed that of Agni. Thus (it means) “go to your own quarter, know¬ 
ing.”‘You become the fore-fire (fore-runner) of Agni here”, (meaning) “O 
Agni! you go in advance of this fire (of the citi ) ” - “By your shining, illumi¬ 
nate all quarters” (which means) “shining as you are, illuminate all the 
regions.” You provide food to the two-footed and four-footed of ours” — 
thereby he asks for a boon. 

18. “I ascended the aerial region from the cattle; I have ascended the 
sky from the aerial region” — for, they go from Garhapatya to the Agmdhnya 
and from the Agmdhnya, they come to the Ahavaniya. “From the back of 
the sky, I have gone to the heavenly light” — (meaning) “I have gone to the 
heavenly world from the sky, the back of the firmament.” “Those who pro¬ 
ceed to the heaven do not look round, they ascend the two worlds” — for, 
those who ascend the heavens do not look round. The well-learned, who 
performed the all-sustaining sacrifice” — for, this sacrifice is indeed all-sus¬ 
taining (over-flowing all around) and those who perform it are, of course, 
very well-versed. 



XI.4.2.23] 


TRANSLATION 


109 


19. “O Agni, you go ahead, the foremost among those who go towards 
the gods” — he thereby addresses this Agni (of the Ukhya that is being 
carried forward). “You proceed as the first of those who go towards gods. 
You are the eye of the gods and of men” —for, he indeed is the eye of both, 
gods and men. “They are eager to sacrifice alongwith the Bhrgus” meaning 
“sacrificing with the Bhrgus.” “Let the Yajamanas go to heaven, safe” — 
(means) “may those who offer reach the heaven, safe!” 

20. Now, the gods (by these five verses) captured from the Asuras, the 
five quarters which are in the yonder world and then ascended them. This 
Yajamana, too, thereby captures them from his hateful enemy and then 
ascends them. By means of those (verses) the gods reached there. In the 
same way, this one (Yajamana) by means of them, reaches there. 

21. He thus makes offering on that (burning stick). When the Agni 
had arrived, the gods gratified him with food, this oblation. Similarly, this 
one (Yajamana) gratifies him with food, now that he has arrived. (He of¬ 
fers) with milk from a black cow with a white calf. The black cow with a 
white calf is the night and its calf is yonder sun. Thus he pleases him (sun) 
with his own share, with his own essence. He offers on that burning log 
while it is being held above (the svayamdtrnna) . He offers by means of the 
milk-can, for, milk is Supplied from the milk-can. 

22. Why he makes the offering is because this Agni ( Ahavaniya ) is the 
head of the sacrifice and milk is prana. Thus he puts prana into the head. 
He should make the offering in such a way that it (the milk) flows over the 
naturally perforated brick. The naturally perforated brick is the prana and 
this (milk) is the essence. Thereby he connects and links together the head 
and the prana by means of the essence. (He pours saying) “Night and dawn 
are with one mind, but of different forms the meaning of this has been 

explained. 

23. “O Agni, of thousand-eyes — for, by virtue of the gold-pieces, it is 
thousand-eyed. “You the hundred-headed , because, at that time, he was 
projected as Rudra, the hundred-headed. ‘You are with hundred pranas 
and thousand vydnas ” - for, he being hundred-headed and thousand-eyed, 
has indeed hundred pranas and thousand vydnas. You are the possessor of 
wealth” (meaning) “you have mastery over all the wealth.” “To you, our 


Xl.4.2.27] 


TRANSLATION 


111 


strength, we make offerings” — for, Agni is indeed the strength, and it is 
him he thus, pleases. He makes the offering with two mantras , for, the 
Yajamana is two-footed and the Yajamana is Agni; as great as Agni is, as 
great as is his size, with so much he makes offering to him. 

24. He then places it (the burning log) down (saying), ‘You are a bird 
with good wings” — for, on that earlier occasion, he fashioned him into a 
bird with beautiful wings (when he built-up the citi) . He builds up that bird 
with beautiful wings and having fashioned it, he finally sets him down. (He 
does so saying) “Be you seated on the back of the earth, pervade the aerial 
region by your effulgence, hold up the quarters with your lustre” — for, that 
one Agni does all this. 

25. You of cheerful face! receiving the oblations, in front” — (mean¬ 
ing) “receiving offerings in front, with a kind face.” “O Agni! be stationed 
in your own womb” — for, this (fire-altar) is his own womb, and (he says) 
You get well-seated in that.” “In this higher abode” — the higher abode, is 
doubtless, the sky. You sit down, all the gods and the Yajamana (be seated) ” 
— he thus, established the Yajamana together with all gods. He places it 
down with two ( mantras) and its purport has been told. 

26. He then puts samidha into it; for, it is how the gods gratified that 
Agni from above, as he arrived, with food, by means of samidha and 
oblations. In like manner, this one (Yajamana), gratifies him, who has ar¬ 
rived, with food from above (in the form of) samidha and oblations. 

27. He puts in the samidha of Sami wood as the first. For, at that time, it 
was by this oblation, he (Agni) got enkindled and blazed forth. By him, the 
gods got scared, lest he injures them. They discovered this Sami tree and 
with that they calmed him. In as much as they calmed (sam) him by that, it. 
is called Sami. In the same way, this one (Yajamana) calms him down with 
this Sami log; just to calm him and not as food. (He says while placing) “I 
seek the manifest favour of the worshipable SaVita, enjoyed by all; that great 
cow of his, profusely milking thousand streams, which Kanva milked” — 
for, it was Kanva who discovered her and She of thousand streams, milked 
him all his desires. In the same manner, this thousand-streamed one now 
milked (granted) to the Yajamana all his objects of desire. 


XI.4.231] 


TRANSLATION 


113 


28. Then he places a log of the Vikankata wood. Its significance has 
been told. (While placing, he says) “To you O Agni! we pay our homage at 
your highest abode” — for, the sky is his highest abode. “To you, we offer 
our homage with hymns of praise, at your lower abode” — the lower abode 
is indeed, the aerial region. “We worship you with sacrifice at the place where¬ 
from you were bom” —(meaning) “this(earth) is his own birth-place; where 
I worship by sacrifice.” “On you, the offerings are poured forth when kindled”—for, 
when he blazes forth, then the oblations are offered into it. 

29. Then he places the log of the Udumbara wood and Udumbara is 
indeed energy, the essence. He thus pleases him with energy, essence. That 
(log) should have joints branching off. Joints branching off are catde. 
Thereby he gratifies him with catde. That is food. If one (Udumbara log) 
with branching knots is not available, let him take a litde curd and put on 
it(the log) and offer; when that litde curd is on the log, that itself provides 
it with the form of catde. (He says while offering) “O Agni, you blaze forth 
before us kindled.” Thus with a verse in Virad metre, he offers; for, Virad is 
food and thus he gratifies him with food. He puts on three logs; for, Agni is 
threefold; as great as Agni is, as great as is his size with so much food he 
thus gratifies him. 

30. He then offers obladons. This is like one serving a drink after feed¬ 
ing someone. The first two offerings he makes with the sruva and the last 
with the sruk. “O Agni ! let us with chants (uttered) from our heart, give 
momentum to this your sacrifice, even as a horse would (for the achieve¬ 
ment) in the case of a noble thrilling deed” (that means) — “let me put to 
use whatever hymn would give mometurn to your worship.” With a verse in 
Pankd metre he offers; for, the Pankd has five feet and the altar has five 
layers. There are five seasons for a year and the Agni-altar is the year; as 
great as Agni is, as great as is his size, with so much food, he thus pleases 
him. 

31. He then makes the offering to Visvakarma. Visvakarma is this Agni 
and it is him, he thereby gratifies (saying), “I offer my thought with mind 
and ghee” (which means) “I offer the thoughts (of devodon) of these (Rtviks 
and Yajamana), along with (my) mind and ghee.” “That the gods may come 
here” — (that is) “so that the gods may arrive here.” “Relishing the food 
offered, holy-minded as they are” (meaning) “true-minded.” “I offer to 


XI.4.2.34} 


TRANSLATION 


115 


Visvakarma, the lord of all existence” (meaning) “he who is the lord of all 
these things, to him, the Visvakarma, I offer.” ‘This oblation every day.” It 
only means that the oblation is always unimpaired. 

32. He then offers the Purnahuti (full-oblation). Purna means every¬ 
thing, thus with everything he gratifies him. “O Agni! seven samidhas are 
yours” — samidha is prana because it is the prana that kindles him (Agni). 
“Seven (are your) tongues” — this is said with reference to those seven per¬ 
sons whom they made into one (VIII-1-1-3). “Seven rsis”, for, they were in¬ 
deed seven rsis. “Seven favourite dwellings”, this is said with reference to the 
metres, for, the metres are his seven favourite dwellings. “Seven Rtviks ofFer 
sevenfold oblations to you” — for, the seven priests offer to him in seven 
ways. ‘The seven wombs” — by this he refers to the layers (of the altar). 
“Apmasva” means “you fill (or generate). ” “With this ghee” — for, ghee is seed 
and thus he lays seed into these worlds. “ Svaha ” — Svahakara is sacrifice; 
thus he makes everything here fit into the sacrifice. (Why) he repeates 
“seven”, “seven”, is because the Agni-altar is seven-layered; the year has seven 
seasons and the year is the Agni-altar. As great as Agni is; as great as is his 
size, with so much he thus gratifies him. He offers three obladons, for, Agni 
is threefold. As great as Agni is, as great as is his size, with so much food, he 
thus gratifies him. He puts three samidhas and that makes six and its signifi¬ 
cance has been explained. 

33. He places the samidhas, standing. The samidhas are indeed the bones 
arid bones are standing as it were. He offers the oblations sitting. The obla¬ 
tions are the flesh, and flesh is sitting as it were. The samidhas are placed 
inside (the fire) and the oblations offered on (the fire); for, the bones are 
inside and the flesh is outside (the body). 

34. Now about the significance of (the numerical) correspondence — 
he offers six times before (carrying the fire forward) and six afterwards; 
with six chants, they proceed towards the (multi-coloured) stone and he 
lays it (the stone) down with two chants. While proceeding to the altar they 
chant four formulas and ascend the altar with five chants — thus they come 
to twenty-nine formulas and the oblation forms the thirtieth. With the two 
mantras for depositing the fire, it comes to thirty-two. The Anustubh has 
thirty-two syllables. Thus, it is that Anustubh. 



XI.4.2.36] 


TRANSLATION 


117 


35. This one Anustiibh they carry over here out of the three Anustubh 
they made up in the Gdrhapatya. By carrying it over here, this becomes the 
whole Agni, fashioned. But still, he was not fit to eat the food. He told to 
Agni, “I will eat food with you.” He said, “ Yes”. That is why, when he brings 
him over here, then only he becomes fit to eat the oblations. 

36. They say, “It is Prajapati himself who takes on his lap this dear son 
of his.” He who knows this, takes on his lap his dear son. As to why they 
bring it here — the Agni (altar) which is built up here is the same as those 
seven persons whom they made into one man. That excellence and es¬ 
sence of them, which they collected above, that is, in the form of the fire 
which they now bring here. By bringing it here, they collected above (in 
the head) that excellence and essence of those seven persons. That is, his 
(Agni’s) head and this fire-altar is its body. Having completed in body, he 
restores the head to it. (Second Brahmana Ends.) 


( Chap ter Four Ends.) 


Chapter Five 
BRAHMANAI 

1. He then offers the Vaisvanara purodasa. Here that VaisvdnarardXtzx is 
completely fashioned and this Vaisvanara is the deity here; to whom he 
offers this oblation. By means of this havis, he makes him a deity. One for 
whom an oblation is intended, that is a deity, one for whom an oblation is 
not intended is not a deity. This purodasa is in twelve potsherds; for, a year 
has twelve months and Vaisvanara is the year. 

2. Why he offers to Vaisvanara is this — he is about to produce that 
Agni as Vaisvanara. At the dtksa (initiation) ceremony in the earlier 
occassion, he implants him who is in the form of seed. The way in which 
seed is implanted in the womb, in the same manner it is born. Since there 
he implanted Vaisvanara in the form of seed, this Vaisvanara is here now 
born. Then the implantation is done silendy. For, there the seed is the 
sacrifice and seed is implanted silendy. Here it is well-defined and hence it 
is born well-defined here . 

3. This Vaisvanara is all these worlds. This earth is visva (all) and Agni 
is nara (man). The aerial region is indeed visva and Vayu is nara. The sky 
itself is visva and Aditya is nara. These worlds are the same as this head. 
This lower part is the earth; the plants are the hair on its chin. This is the 
visva (all) and Agni the speech is nara (man). That is at the top of that, for 
Agni is on the top of this earth. The middle part of the face is the aerial 
region and so it has no hairs(trees), for, air has no hairy growth. It is the 
visva (all) and Vayu is the prana and he is the nara (man). He is situated in 
the middle of it, for the wind is in the middle of the aerial region. The sky is 
the upper head; the stars are the hairs (on the head). It is the visva (all) 
and Aditya, the sun is the eye and he is nara (man). He is situated in the 
bottom of that upper part of the head; for, the sun is below the sky .Thus 
much is the head which is Vaisvanara and this Agni-altar which is built up is 
the body. Having completed his body, he restores the head to it. 


4. He then offers the purodasa to Maruts. Maruts are indeed the pranas 
and thereby he puts pranas into him after offering the Vaisvanara. For, the 
head is indeed the Vaisvanara and into the head he puts those pranas. That 



XI.5.1,7] 


TRANSLATION 


121 


Vaisvanara oblation is a single one, for, the head is a single one. The others 
(Maruts) are seven in number, having seven potsherds each. That does 
not mean seven times seven. Here only seven (offerings are made). He 
thus places seven pranas in the head. The Vaisvanara offering is made 
distinctly because the head is distinct as it were. Here (the Maruta obla¬ 
tions) are offered indistinctly, because the pranas are indistinct, as it were. 
The Vaisvanara he offers standing, because the head is standing as it were. 
The Marutas he offers sitting because the pranas are seated as it were. 

5. The first two Maruta offerings he makes are these two pranas (in the 
ears); which he offers in the middle of the Vaisvanara oblations, for these 
pranas are in the middle of the head. The second part of Maruta oblations 
he offers (in the eyes), close to each other, because these pranas are close 
to each other. The third pair of Maruta oblations (in the nostrils) still 
closer to each other; because the pranas in the nostrils are much closer to 
each other. The one to be recited in the forest (burial ground) is speech. It 
is to be recited in the forest (with face turned away) since by speech one 
faces catastrophe. 

6. As to why he offers the Vaisvanara and the Maruta oblations 
Vaisvanara is Ksatra (nobility) and Marutas are the Vis (people). He thereby 
instals the Ksatra and the Vis. First he offers the Vaisvanara and thus instals 
Ksatra first and then the Vis. It (Vaisvanara) is a single oblation and that is 
to collect the ruling power in a single person; all prosperity at one place. 
Many are the others ( Vis) and thereby he makes the Vis populous. This 
(Vaisvanara) is distinct, because Ksatra is well-defined. The others (Marutas) 
are indistinct because the people are indistinct as it were. Standing he of¬ 
fers that one (Vaisvanara), for, the Ksatra is standing as it were. Others 
(Marutas) he offers sitting because the Vis are seated as it were. That one 
(Vaisvanara) he offers when the vasatkara is uttered, with both an invitatory 
chant. {Anuvdkya) and a Yajya chant (offering chant), by means of a sruk. 
The Marutas he offers sitting, by the hand, with svdhdkara. Thereby he 
renders the people ( Vis) subservient and loyal to the Ksatra. 

7. Now they ask, “How is it these (Maruta offerings) happen to be made 
at the utterance of vasatkara, by means of a sruk, along with both Anuvdkya 
and Yajya chants ?” The first three feet of these Maruta chants with seven 
syllables constitute a three-footed Gayatri, they form the Puronuvdkya chants. 


XI .5.1.14] 


TRANSLATION 


123 


The latter four Maruta chants being the four-footed Tristubh are the Yajya 
formula. The one represents the spout (of the sruk) and the other the 
handle (of the sruk) and svahakara is the vasatkara. Thus these (Maruta) 
oblations also assume the nature of those offered at vasatkara, by means of 
a sruk with invitatory and offering formulas. 

8. The first Maruta purodasa which he offers in the right side represents 
the seven rivers flowing eastwards. It is of seven potsherds, because those 
that flow eastwards are seven. 

9. The first Maruta purodasa which he offers in the left side, represents 
the seasons, that is, in seven potsherds, since seasons are seven. 

10. The second Maruta purodasa which he offers in the right side repre¬ 
sents the animals. It is of seven potsherds; because there are seven domes¬ 
tic animals. He offers it close to the earlier offering (to the rivers) and thus 
places the animals close to the streams. 

11. The second Maruta purodasa which he offers in the left side, repre¬ 
sents the seven rsis. It is of seven potsherds. The Saptarsis are seven indeed. 
That he offers close to the earlier oblation (to seasons). He thus estab¬ 
lished the seven ms in the season. 

12. The third Maruta purodasa which he offers in the right side, repre¬ 
sents the pranas. It is of seven potsherds, for, there are seven pranas in the 
head. He offers them close to the earlier oblation (for head) and thus places 
those pranas close to the head. 

13. The third Maruta purodasa which he offers in the left side repre¬ 
sents the metres, and it is of seven potsherds; for, there are seven meters 
each with four syllables more than the preceding one. He offers them close 
to the earlier oblation (to ms) and thereby keeps the metres close to the 

rsis. 


14. The Aranye-Anucya-purodasa represents the seven streams that flow 
westward. It is of seven potsherds; for, there are seven streams flowing 
westward. It is that downward prana of that Prajapati which is the Aranye- 
Anucya; for, the forest (Aranya) is covered as it were. The downward prana is 



XI.5.2.3] 


TRANSLATION 


125 


also covered as it were. So, those who drink waters of these streams, speak 
faster, using abusive language and are highly quarrelsome. By calling them 
(oblations) Marutas, he makes them into food (for Agni) and offers it to 
him and gratifies him. 

15. That Vaisvanara purodasa is no doubt, yonder sun and those Maruta 
purodasas are the rays. Each of them are of seven potsherds, because each 
regiment of Maruts consist of seven members. 

16. He offers the Maruta purodasas saying, ‘The clear-lit; the bright-lit; 
the truly lighted; the light, the clear, the law-abiding and the sinless”— these 
are their names. Having fashioned that disk (of the sun by the Vaisvanara) 
he places those rays on it by naming them. (First Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAn 

1. After that (after the offering of the Maruta purodasas) he offers the 
Vasordhara. This whole Agni- altar which has been built up is the Vasu and to 
that Vasu the gods made this offering in the form of a shower (unbroken 
stream) and hence it is called Vasordhara. In the same way this Yajamana 
offers him this unbroken stream and with that gratifies him. 

2. As to why he offers the Vasordhara— this is indeed an abhiseka (conse¬ 
cration) of the Agwi-altar. The gods having completed him fully, showered 
upon him those wishes or objects of desire, this Vasordhara,. So, in the same 
way, this Yajamana, having fashioned and completed the Agni-altar, bathes 
him with all desires by this unbroken stream of ghee taken in five ladlings.He 
offers this with an offering ladle made of Udumbara wood and its signifi¬ 
cance has already been told. 

3. He offers it after the offering of Vaisvanara purodasa; because the 
Vaisvanara is the head (mouth) and it is by the mouth, food is consumed. 
Therefore when one is consecrated, he is bathed from the head. This 
Vasordhara he offers after the Maruta purodasas are offered. Because the 
Marutas are the pranas and it is by the channels of pranas that food is eaten. 
Hence when one is consecrated, he is consecrated through the pranas (chan¬ 
nels of vital air). Further it ( Vasordhara) is offered following the Aranye-Anucya; 
for, the Aranye-Anucya is speech and it is through the channel of speech 


XI.5.2.7] 


TRANSLATION 


127 


(mouth) that food is eaten, moreover one who is anointed is done so with 
speech.Everything here is Vasu (wealth)., for, all these objects of desire are 
connected with special desires. This consecration, be it of milk or of ghee, is 
made of a stream of wealth. Only in the beginning the ghee offering is 
made and since this is involving a stream of wealth, it is called Vasordhara. 

4. He says (while offering), “This for me; this for me; I gratify you with 
this; I shower you with this” and then he says, “Now give me this too; give 
me this too.” No sooner this unbroken dhara (stream of ghee) reaches the 
fire, that prayer of his gets fulfilled. 

5. Now the gods after gratifying Agni by this food and after showering 
him with all desires by means of the Vasordhara, asked of him for these 
objects of desire. He so gratified, pleased and consecrated, bestowed these 
wishes of theirs. In the same way, this one (Yajamana) having gratified him 
with this food, solicits these desires from him. He thus gratified and pleased 
and consecrated, fulfills those desires. He asks for pairs of wishes in each 
mantra so that there is no discontinuance. In this, two seperated objects 
were put together so that they get united by the sacrifice. 

6. Now the gods ask, ‘Through whom shall we receive these objects of 
desire?” They themselves answered, “By our own self”, for, the sacrifice is 
the body of the gods and it is also the body of the Yajamana. So when he 
says “by the sacrifice they shall prosper”, he only means to say “let them 
prosper by my own self.” 

7. In twelve objects he makes them to prosper (there are six mantras 
each having two objects of desire named). The year consists of twelve months 
and the Agm-altar is the year. As great as Agni is, as great as is his size, by so 
much food he then gratifies him and by so much he consecrates him. In 
fourteen mantras he causes them to prosper. Because there are thirteen 
months for a year and Prajapati is the fourteenth. As great as Agni is, as 
great as is his size, by so much food, he thus pleases him and by so much 
food he consecrates him. In eight objects of desire he makes them to pros¬ 
per; in ten he makes them to propser; in thirteen he makes them to prosper. 
The year has thirteen months and there are thirteen excrements of Agni. 
As great as Agni is and as great as is his size, by so much food he gratifies 
him and by so much food he consecrates him. 


XI.5.2.14] 


TRANSLATION 


129 


8. He then offers the Ardhendra offerings (the formulas of three sets of 
oblations in which three sets of twelve deities are named, each pair coupled 
with Indra—e.g. Agnisca-me-Indrasca-me). The ardhendrasare everything and 
thus he gratifies the Agni with it and consecrates him with it. 

9. He then offers the Graha offerings (consisting of enumerating six 
pairs of Soma cups and of sacrifical implements). The grahas are indeed 
sacrifice and it is with sacrifice, the food, he pleases him. And it is with 
sacrifice, food, he consecrates him. 

10. He then offers these Yajnakratus which are like “ Agnisca-me Gharmasca- 
me ” — thus with these sacrificial rites and utensils which together are called 
Yajnakratus, he pleases him and with these consecrates him. 

11. Then he offers the Ayuja stomas {stomas of odd numbers). Because 
gods after having achieved all the desires went upto the heavens by means 
of these Ayuja stomas. In the same way, this Yajamana, having achieved all 
his desires, reaches the heaven by means of these Ayuja stomas. This set of 
mantras go upto the odd number thirty-three and it is at that last number, 
the gods went upto heaven. In like manner, the Yajamana goes to the heaven 
at the last odd number. 

12. He then offers those related to Yugma stomas. The meters then said 
that the odd numbered stomas are spent forces and so we will go up to the 
heavens by the even numbered stomas. And they reached the heaven by 
those Yugma stomas. Similarly this Yajamana reaches the heaven by means 
of the Yugma stomas. They go upto the number forty-eight and Astacatvarimsa 
is the last of the Yugma stomas at which, to the last metre, they went upto the 
heaven. Similarly, this Yajamana goes to the heaven at the last of the Yugma 
stoma offerings. 

13. He says, “May the one be for me and three also for me; may the 
four and eight be for me” — this is like someone climbing a tree by getting 
footholds one after another on higher branches. As to why he offers the 
stomas — the stomas are food and it is with food he consecrates him. 

14. He then offers oblations called Vayamsi (age dimensions) — Age 
dimension means cattle. It is the cattle, with food, he pleases. The cattle 
itself being food, he consecrates him with those cattle, food. 



XI.5.2.18] 


TRANSLATION 


131 


15. He then offers calling them by their names. The gods after having 
obtained all their wishes, now gratified him directly. In the same manner, 
this Yajamana, after having obtained all his desires, directly pleases him. 
“To vaja (strength) svaha; to production ( prasava) svaha.” These are the 
names of Agni and by mentioning his names he pleases him. There are 
thirteen such names, for, the year has thirteen months and Agni- altar has 
thirteen layers and fillings. As great as Agni is, as great as is his size, with so 
much he thus pleases him. Why he mentions the names in the offering is 
because by mentioning the names of Agni, he consecrates him. 

16. He then says, “This is your estate; you are the supporter and sustainer 
for the friend; for sustenance, for rain and for supremacy over beings, I 
consecrate you.” Sustenance is no doubt food and rain means food. Thus 
he pleases him with food. ‘This is your estate; you are a supporter and 
sustainer for your friend; you are our sustenance since you are rain for us; 
you are for our overlordship over the creatures.” They thereby request him 
“you are all this unto us; for all this we have created you.” This is how 
people entreat a newly consecrated king. 

17. He then offers the Kalpa (prospering) oblations. Kalpas are indeed 
pranas and thereby he puts vital airs into it. “May the ayus prosper by sacri¬ 
fice; may the pranas prosper by sacrifice” - thus he puts pranas exactly into 
him. He offers twelve such Kalpa oblations; for, the year has twelve months 
and the year is the Agra-altar. As great as Agni is, as great as is his size, by so 
much he thus puts pranas into him in the exact form. Why he offers the 
Kalpa oblations is because the Kalpas are pranas and the pranas are immor¬ 
tal principle, thus by the immortal principle, he consecrates him. 

18. He then says, This stoma and the Yajus and the Rk and the Saman 
and the Brhat and the Rathantara ” — these constitute the Trayi vidya (the 
triple vedic lore). The Trayi is no doubt food and it is with food, he thus 
pleases him and consecrates him. “We the gods have gone to the heavenly 
light, we have become immortal” — “We have become the children of 
Prajapati” — indeed he becomes the child of Prajapati. “ Vet Svaha ” — the 
Vetkara is no doubt mystically the same as the vasatkara or with this svahakara, 
food is offered to the gods. Here he gratifies him by both the vasatkara and 
svahakara and also consecrates him by both of them. He now throws away 
the sruk (into the fire) lest there is some ghee sticking to it should remain 
unoffered into the fire. 


XI.5.2.21] 


TRANSLATION 


133 


19. For this Vasordhara, the sky is the body (of gods), the udder i$ the 
cloud, the teat the lightening and the shower or flow of ghee is the rain. 
From the sky it comes to the cow. Its body is the cow, its udder is the cow's 
udder, its teat is that of the cow and its rain is the shower of milk. From the 
cow it comes to the Yajamana. Its udder his arm, its teat is the sruk, its rain 
shower is the dhara of ghee. From the sacrificer it goes to the gods, and from 
the gods to the cow and again from the cow to the Yajamana. Thus, it is a 
perpetual cycle of food of the gods. Surely whoever knows this will iiave perpetual, 
never-ending food. Now as to the correspondence of the various parts. 

20. Now they ask, “How does this Vasordhara correspond to the year 
and Agni? How does it fit into the concepts of the year and Agni?” Now this 
Vasordhara consists of three hundred and sixty libations plus six and thirty- 
five. The three hundred and sixty are the days in the year and thereby it 
obtains characteristics of the days of the year. The six threes correspond to 
the six seasons and thereby it obtains the characteristics of the nights of 
the seasons. Thus it corresponds to the days and nights of a year. The 
intercalary month is the thirteenth and that is the body. The body consists 
of thirty limbs. The feet account for two; the breath for two (inhaling and 
exhaling) and the head is the thirty-fifth and so much is the year. Thus 
that Vasordhara attains conformity with the year and with Agni. Thus it cor¬ 
responds to the year, to Agni. There are so many bricks with special Yajus 
formulas which are placed in the centre of a SandtZa-altar; for, these bricks 
are the same as these different forms of Agni. Thus the different forms of 
Agni come to have separate offerings made to them by means of the 
Vasordhara. 

21. Now they ask, “How does this Vasodhara fit into the form of Mahad 
Uktha and how does it correspond to Mahad Uktha .” The first nine formulas 
of this Vasordhara are the threefold head and the next forty-eight which 
follow are the paksa (wings and also fortnights). The twenty-five which fol¬ 
low are the twenty-fivefold body. The next twenty-one are the tail as twenty- 
first and the thirty-three that come after that are the Vasa (hymn) and by 
the eighties (sets of eighty verses), the eighties of the Mahad Uktha are ob¬ 
tained, because the Mahad Uktha is counted by units of eight. What remains 
after the eighties, that corresponds to what is after the eighties in the Mahad 
Uktha. Thus this Vasordhara conforms to the form of Mahad Uktha and cor¬ 
responds to the Mahad Uktha. (Second Brahmana Ends.) 


XI.5.3.6] 


TRANSLATION 


135 


BRAHMANAHI 

1. Now he offers the Vajaprasawya (consisting of fourteen oblations). 
Vdja means food and so it is Anna-prasaviya or productive of food for him. 
He thereby produces food for him (Agni). The gods, after satisfying him- 
with that food and bathed him with those objects of desire by the Vasordharar, 
now gratify him once again. 

2. Now why he offers the Vajaprasawya— this is purely the abhiseka (con¬ 
secration) of Agni. Gods have satisfied him with that food and having bathed 
him with Vasordhara, consecrated him once more with this ( Vajaprasawya) 
offering. 

3. It consists of all herbs. That which is of all herbs is all food. Thus he 
gratifies him with all food and bathes him with all food. Let him set apart 
one type of food and not eat it throughout his life. It should be offered with 
a camasamade of Udumbara wood and with a sruk. Its significance has been 
told. They (the camasa and sruk) are to be four-cornered, for there are four- 
quarters. Thereby he gratifies him with this food from all quarters. There¬ 
fore he consecrates him with food from all quarters. 

4. Again why he offers Vajaprasawya — these are the very deities who 
have been consecrated by this same rite of consecration by which he is now 
going to be bathed. By this offering, they (deities) get pleased and approve 
of his consecration. So approved by them, he gets himself consecrated. He 
alone becomes eligible to be the king, whom other kings recognise for a 
kingdom; not the one who is not (so recognised). When he offers in the 
fire, he consecrates Agni. When he offers to these deities, he pleases those 
deities. Thus he gratifies those gods who control this abhiseka. 

5. Here he offers these Partha oblations as well. Because the gods now 
desired, “Let us also be consecrated on this occasion with all the formalities 
thereof.” They were here consecrated by all the formalities. Similarly, this 
Yzyamana gets consecrated by all the rites of consecration. 

6. What are called Parthas here are the same as the Vdjaprasawyas in 
the Rdjasuya. By offering these Partha oblations, he gets consecrated by the 
Rdjasuya. Out of the next fourteen oblations, the first seven are the 


XI.5.3.11] 


TRANSLATION 


137 


Vajaprasaviya of the Vajapeya and by offering them, he gets consecrated by 
the Vajapeya . The last seven (out of the fourteen) belong to Agni and by 
offering them he gets consecrated by the Agni-Sava (consecration of Agni). 

7. He first offers the seven Vajaprasaviyas of the Rajasuya and then those 
of the Vajapeya. Because, by Rajasuya , one becomes the king and by Vajapeya , 
the emperor. Kingship is secured first and then the status of the emperor. 
Therefore, one cannot perform Rajasuya after performing Vajapeya, because 
it would be a retrograde step for one to aspire for kingship after becoming 
emperor. The seven Vajaprasaviyas of Agni he offers last because the con¬ 
secration of Agni is equal to all other consecrations. He who is consecrated 
by the Agni-Savas becomes everything, both king and emperor. Therefore 
he offers those of Agni-last. 

8. He then anoints him on a black antelope skin. The black antelope 
skin is sacrifice. Thus he consecrates him by the sacrifice. He (anoints him) 
on the hairy side (of the skin); for, the hairs are the metres and thus he 
anoints him on the metres. He anoints him on the left side of the fire-altar; 
the significance of this will be told in due course. (He anoints him on the 
skin) with the neck part of it facing north; for, that is (the direction) of the 
gods. 

9. Some anoint him on the right side of the fire-altar, saying that food 
is served from the right side and so they should anoint him from the same 
side as food. But this is not to be done so. Because the right §ide (south) is 
of the Pitrs and he who is anointed on that side quickly joins the Pitrs. 

10. Some do the abhiseka on the Ahavaniya saying that Ahavaniya is the 
heavenly world and thus it is proper to anoint him in the heaven. It is not 
to be done so. That Ahavaniya is the divine self of the Yajamana; and this. 
Yajamana’s real self is his human body. By doing so, they mix up that divine 
body of his with this mortal body. 

11 . He should be anointed only at the left-side, because, that is the 
direction of both gods and men, which is in the north-east. Thereby they 
get him anointed while he is seated and settled in his own direction; for, 
one who is seated in his own area suffers no harm. 


XI .5.3.15] 


TRANSLATION 


139 


12. One who is of status should be anointed while sitting; for, a man of 
status is seated as it were. One who is aspiring for status should be anointed 
while standing; for, the one who is aspiring is standing as it were. One who 
is desirous of prosperity should be anointed on the skin of a he goat and 
who is desirous of spiritual splendour, on a black antelope skin. One who 
desires both (should be anointed) on both. That skin, he spreads at the 
north side of the tail of the fire-altar with its hairy side above and its neck 
part towards the east. 

13. (The skin) slighdy touching the enclosing stones (of the altar), since 
the black antelope skin is just touching the enclosing stones, the divine 
body of his is anointed on the skin. Since he is consecrated while in contact 
with the erected altar, he is not separated from that divine consecration (of 
the Agni). He anoints him after making offering on the fire-altar, for, that 
altar is his divine body and this Yajamana is his human form; thus the gods 
come first then the mortals. Therefore after making offering, he anoints 
him with the remains of that offering material. He then throws that sruk 
(into the fire). 

14. He, after stationing himself near the right arm of the Yajamana, 
anoints him (with the remains of the offering material) saying, “At the 
impulse of the divine Savita, I anoint you, by the Asvins arms; by the hands 
of Pusa, by the speech of Sarasvati; the supporter, by the sovereign power 
of Agni” — for, Sarasvati is speech and all the support is hers. Impelled by 
Savita, he thus anoints him with the support of Sarasvati the speech, the 
supporter and by the sovereign power of Agni. Now he throws the camasa 
(cup) (into the fire) so that whatever offering material is sticking in it does 
not lie outside the fire. 

15. He anoints him in the middle of the Partha offerings. The Parthas 
are indeed the year and thus he places him in the middle of the year. Six 
{Partha offerings) he makes before (anointing) and six after; for, there are 
six seasons and thus he protects him by seasons (on either side). The one 
(addressed to ) Brhaspati is the last of the first six and that one (addressed 
to) Indra is the first of the latter six. Brhaspati represents Brahman (priest¬ 
hood) and Indra represents Ksatra (nobility). Thus he protects the one 
who is consecrated by priesthood and political power on both sides. (Third 
Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter Five Ends.) 


Chapter Six 


BRAHMANAI 

1. He then offers the Rdstrabhrt offerings (those that sustain the state). 
The kings are indeed the sustainer of the states; because it is they who 
sustain the nations. These deities have been consecrated by this same 
abhiseka ceremony by which the Yajamana is consecrated. He is thereby 
pleasing those deities. So pleased by {Rdstrabhrt) offering, they approve of 
his consecration and so approved by them, he is consecrated. For, he whom 
(other) kings agree to assume sovereignty, becomes a king; not the one in 
whose case they do not agree. In as much as the kings sustain the states, 
and these deities are kings, those Rdstrabhrt offerings are made. 

2. Now why they offer Rdstrabhrt offerings — when Prajapati was dis¬ 
jointed, couples came out in the form of Gandharvas and Apsaras. He as¬ 
sumed the form of a chariot and rounded them up. Having rounded them 
up, he absorbed them unto himself and made them his own. Similarly this 
Ycyamana, rounding them up, takes them into himself and owns them. 

3. That Prajapati who got disjointed is the same as this Agni-altar, which 
is being built up here. Those couples who went out of him are these very 
same deities to whom he now makes offerings. He offers to Gandharvas 
and Apsaras, since they then Came out in the forms of Gandharvas and 
Apsaras. That is why, the Gandharvas and Apsaras go about with fragrance 
and beauty. That is why, when one approaches his mate, he likes to have 
sweet scent and beautiful form. 

4. He offers pairs of oblations, for, birth is caused by pairs. He who 
procreates issues alone sustains the state and not the one who does not 
procreate. Since couples sustain the state and since these deities are in pairs, 
these oblations are called Rdstrabhrtas (sustained of state). He makes these 
offerings with ghee taken twelve spoon-fulls and there are only twelve 
offerings. The reason for this has been explained. 

5. First he makes the offering to the male (in the couple) and then to 
the female and thus bestows more prowess in the male. He makes the of- 


XI.6.1.10] 


TRANSLATION 


143 


fering to a single male and to many females. That is why, a single man has 
many wives. To the male deity, he makes the offerings both with vasatkara 
and svahakara, where as for the female deities, only with svahakara. Thereby 
he confers greater prowess in the males. 

6. He offers saying, “The upholder of eternal law, the one who abides 
by eternal law” — meaning “the one who upholds truth and one who abides 
by truth.” “Agni is the Gandharva and plants are his Apsaras” — for, as a 
Gandharva, Agni did go for mating with the plants as Apsaras; ‘Joys, by 
name” — for the plants are joys, since it is in the plants that everything he 
enjoys. “May he protect this our Brahman (priesthood) and Ksatra (nobil¬ 
ity); to him (male, Agni) Svaha; Vat; to them (females, plants) Svaha ” The 
meaning of this has been explained. 

7. “To the samhita (closely linked) ”—yonder sun is indeed the samhita, 
for, he links together the days and nights. “All wealth” — for, that sun is 
indeed all kinds of wealth. “Surya is the Gandharva and his rays are the 
Apsaras” — for, the sun as a Gandharva did go for mating with the rays as 
Apsaras. “Ayur by name” for the rays move together and float as it were. 
“May he protect this Brahman (priesthood) and Ksatra (nobility).” The 
meaning of this has been explained. 

8. “The most blessed” meaning “mostworshipable” (moon) ; “Sun-rayed” 
—for, the moon's rays are like those of the sun. “Moon is the Gandharva 
and the stars ( naksatras) are his Apsaras” — for, the moon as a Gandharva 
did go for mating with the stars as Apsaras. “Bhekuras by name” — mean¬ 
ing light-giving, for, the stars indeed give light. “May he protect this Brah¬ 
man and the Ksatra” — the meaning of this has been explained. 

9. ‘The vigilant”—meaning “the swift.” “All pervading” — for, the Vayu 
indeed pervades all this. “Vata is the Gandharva; his Apsaras are the wa¬ 
ters” — for, wind as Gandharva did go for mating with waters, the Apsaras. 
“Uija by name” — for, waters are of course, called urjah; for, food is pro¬ 
duced from the waters. “May he protect this Brahman and this Ksatra.” 
The meaning of this has been told. 

10 . The benefactor and one of good wings” — for, the sacrifice is in¬ 
deed the benefactor, for, the sacrifice benefits all beings. “Yajna, the sacri- 


XI .6,1.14] 


TRANSLATION 


145 


flee is the Gandharva and daksina, his Apsaras” — for, the sacrifice as a 
Gandharva did go for mating with the daksina, the Apsaras. “ Stava by name” 
— for, the Daksinas are of course, the praises and whosoever gives Daksina 
is praised. “May he protect this Brahman and this Ksatra” — the meaning 
of this has been explained. 

11. “The lord of the beings, the Visvakarma” — Prajapati the lord of 
beings is indeed the Visvakarma (maker of everything) for, he has made all 
this. “Manas is the Gandharva, the Rks and Samans are his Apsaras” — for, 
the mind as a Gandharva did go for mating with Rks and Samans are of 
course the wishes, for it is with the Rks and Sdman tunes that people pray 
for their desired objects like, “This be for us; thus let it be for us. ” “May he 
protect this Brahman and this Ksatra.” Its meaning has been told. 

12. He then makes an offering on the top of the chariot. This is that 
actual abhiseka, which this Yajamana is permitted to perform by those dei¬ 
ties whose approval is there for his consecration. Because only he whom 
the (other) kings agree to own sovereignty becomes king and not he for 
whom they do not approve. He offers with ghee taken five spoon-fulls and 
this is offered as five oblations.The significance of this has been explained. 
The abhiseka is done on the head (top of the chariot) because, whoever is 
anointed, is done so from the head downwards. It is anointed while being 
held above, for, one who is anointed is above (others). He anoints with the 
same mantra each time, because the one who is anointed is one and the 
same person. (Anointing is made) by taking round the chariot's top, so 
that it is done in every direction. Thus he is anointed on all sides. 

13. Why he offers on the top of the chariot — because this chariot is 
yonder sun. It is by assuming that form (of a chariot) Prajapati enclosed all 
those couples (of deities) and absorbed them in him. Similarly, this 
Yajamana, encloses all those and takes them into him and owns them. The 
top of the chariot is held above the fire, because he who was enclosing 
these and taking them into himself and owned them was above (those 
deities). He uses the same mantra because one and the same is he who 
encloses them, absorbs them and owns them unto himself. 

14. “O lord of the universe, lord of the creatures” — for, this Agni is 
indeed the lord of the world and the lord of the beings. “You whose homes 


XI.6.2.6] 


TRANSLATION 


147 


are above and here (below) ” — for, his dwellings are both above and here 
below. “To this Brahman and this Ksatra of ours” — for, this Agni is indeed 
the priesthood and royal power. “You ensure great protection — svaha” mean¬ 
ing “provide powerful protection — svaha .” (First Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMAN An 

1. He then offers the Vata homas. This Agraj-altar is these worlds and 
Vata homas means Vayu. So he puts wind in these worlds and hence there is 
wind in these worlds. 

2. From outside the vedt, he brings Vata (air). That wind which is in 
these worlds is already there in the altar and so he brings the air which is 
outside these worlds. He brings it by his two palms held together, for, it is 
only this way, it (wind) can be fetched. He offers it with a svahakara, for, he 
offers it just beneath the pole of the chariot. This chariot is yonder sun and 
thus he places the wind on this side of the sun. Hence wind blows on this 
side of the sun. 

3. He says, “You are the windy ocean” — for, the windy ocean is no 
doubt, the yonder world (the sky). “You are the one who gives moisture” - 
for, it is he (the wind) that gives moisture. So, that wind which is in the 
yonder world, that he puts into it. “Blow kindly and in plenty upon me - 
svaha” — which means “blow gendy and in plenty.” 

4. “You are the Maruta, the troupe of Maruts” — the Maruta and the 
troupe of Maruts is indeed the aerial region. Thereby he places that wind 
into it which is in the aerial region. “Blow kindly and in plenty upon me - 
svaha” — which means “blow gendy and in plenty.” 

5. “You are the worshipable one and affording protecdon” — this ter¬ 
restrial world is the worshipable one and one that affords protection. 
Thereby he puts into it that wind which is in this world. “Blow kindly and in 
plenty upon me - svaha” which means “blow gendy and in plenty.” 

6. He makes offerings with three mantras, for, these worlds are three; 
and Agni is threefold. As great as Agni is, as great as is his size, with so much 
he thus puts air into these worlds. 


XI.6.2.11] 


TRANSLATION 


149 


7. As to why he makes the Vdta homas is — thereby he yokes that chariot 
of his. It was by them that the gods yoked that chariot for obtaining of all 
their desires, thinking “let us achieve all our desired objects by yoking it.” 
Similarly, this Yajamana yokes that chariot for obtaining all his desires, think¬ 
ing “with it yoked, let me obtain.” By yoking it, he achieves all his desired 
objects. 

8. He yokes it by means of the Vdta homas. The Vdta homas are indeed 
pranas and it is with the pranas he yokes it. He yokes with three oblations, 
because there are of course, three pranas, namely prana , udana and vydna 
and with them he yokes. He offers with his hands, for, it is with the hands, 
the horses are yoked (to a chariot). Below the pole (of the chariot) he 
offers, because the horse is yoked below the shaft. Moving round he off ers, 
because the yoking (of the horse) is done by going round (the pole). 

9. He first yokes the right-side main horse (offers the first Vdta homa on 
the right side), then the left-side main horse (offers the second Vdta homa 
on the left side) and then the right-side horse (the third Vdta homa on the 
right side). This is the order in the case of the divine beings. The human 
practice is the other way. Let him not yoke that chariot again (with actual 
horses). By doing so he will be yoking the chariot already yoked (since the 
Vdta homas themselves are the horses). Let him give away the chariot think¬ 
ing “I will have the benefit of the yoking (since it is yoked).” They take it as 
far as the Adhvaryu's residence holding it high, because above is that (Agni). 
He entrusts it to the Adhvaryu, for, it is he who handles it. Let him not give 
it away to him. At the time he distributes daksinit, he gives it av /. 

10. Then he offers the Ruhmati oblations. Here the whole Agniri dtar 
was fashioned. He now desired to be shining (rue) and the gods, by means 
of these shining oblations endowed him with brilliance. In the same way, 
this Yajamana now bestows brilliance to him. 

V 

11. Why he offers the Ruhmati oblations — from out of Prajapati who 
got disjointed, brilliance came out. When the gods restored him, they by 
means of these Ruhmati offerings restored his brilliance. In the like man¬ 
ner, this Yajamana endows brilliance unto him. 


XI.6.2.17] 


TRANSLATION 


151 


12. “O Agni, what brilliance of yours is in the sun.” “O gods, what bril¬ 
liance of yours is — are in the sun — give that brilliance in our Brahmans 
(priesthood).” In this mantra thus he repeats the word U rucam” each time. 
Brilliance is immortality and thereby he bestows immortality unto him. He 
makes three offerings, for, Agni is threefold. As great as Agni is, as great as 
is his size, that much brilliance he bestows unto him. 

13. He then makes the offering to Varuna. The whole Agni that has 
been fashioned now is the deity Varuna. So he makes this offering of havis. 
With this oblation he makes him (Agni) a deity. That for which havis is 
prepared, that alone is a deity and not the one for whom it is not prepared. 
He offers it with Rk addressed to Varuna. Thus he gratifies him (Agni) by 
his own self and by his own deity. 

14. As to why he offers the offering to Varuna - from Prajapati who was 
disjointed, the strength came out. When the gods replenished him, they 
put back that strength into him by means of this Varuna offering. Similarly, 
this Yajamana puts that strength into this (Agni). He offers with a Rk ad¬ 
dressed to Varuna; for, Varuna is Ksatra (nobility) and strength means 
Ksatra. Thus he bestows strength by means of strength. 

15. He says, “I appeal to you, worshipping you with Vedic prayer” mean¬ 
ing, “I beseech you by praying with this Vedic prayer.” “This Yajamana ap¬ 
peals to you with offering of havis ”, meaning “this Yajamana is requesting 
you With offerings.” “O Varuna listen here, without getung annoyed.” Mean¬ 
ing — “without getting angry, listen to this our request.” “O ruler of vast 
(territory), do not take our life from us” - thus he announces his surren¬ 
der. 


16. He then offers the oblations called Santatis of Arka and Asvamedha 
(those that join together the fire and the Asvamedha) . This Agni-altar is 
indeed the light and Asvamedha is of course, yonder sun. When produced, 
they were separate. The gods knit the two together by these offerings and 
united them. In the same manner, this Yajamana knits those two together 
with these offerings and unites them. 

17. “Heaven-like heat, svahcT — the heat or gharma is yonder sun, thus 
he establishes yonder sun in the Agni-altar. 


XI.6.3.1] 


TRANSLATION 


153 


18. “Heaven-like light, svdha” — the light is indeed this Agni -altar and 
thus he establishes this light in yonder sun. 

19. “Heaven-like brilliance, svdha” —brilliance, no doubt is yonder sun. 
He thus places him on the Agni-alLar. 

20. “Heaven-like glow, svdha” — glow is indeed this Agni and thus he 
places him here. 

21. “Heaven-like Surya, svdha ”—Surya is doubtless, yonder sun. He thus 
establishes yonder sun, as the ultimate, because he is the highest of all. 
Thus he offers these five oblations; for, Agni-altar is of five layers, the year 
consists of five seasons and the year is Agni-altar. As great as Agni is, as 
great as is his size, with so much he thus knits together (the sun and 
Asvamedha) and unites them. When he said, “Heaven-like heat” and 
“Heaven-like light”, he refers to the names of this Agni-altar. They please 
him and they are made into deities by the havis. That for which the havis is 
prepared that alone is the deity and not the one for which it is not prepared. 
Thus he establishes these Agni-deities themselves into this fire - altar by 
calling them by their names. Why he offers five of these oblations is be¬ 
cause the Agni-altar is of five layers. The year is of five seasons and year is 
Agnt-altar. As great as Agni is, as great as is his size, by so much food, he 
thus pleases him. 

22. Now about the insertion (positioning) of the (other) offerings. If 
he knows of any oblations suggested by (indicated by) a Brahmana text, 
that he can offer at this time. For, he yokes this chariot for obtaining his 
wishes and whatever oblation he now offers, it is (as good as) a fulfilled wish. 

23. Some say, these (other) oblations should not be offered, since they 
will be in excess. Let him offer them. Because it is for (fulfilment of ) special 
desires, these oblations are offered and there is no question of excess in 
the case of desires. (Second Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANA III 

1. After having returned (to the Sodas) he puts up the Dhisnya hearths 
in time. These Dhisnyds are fires and thus he builds up fire-altars. They are 


XI.6.3.4] 


TRANSLATION 


155 


like ihe Vis (followers) to the main Agwi-altar which is like the Ksatra (the 
royal head). Thus he sets up the Ksatra and the Vis. He first builds up him 
(Ksatra, the Agn*-altar) and then these Vis ( Dhisnyas , the followers). That 
(Agni-altar) is only one; thus he makes the royal authority abide in one 
person. The others ( Dhisnyas) are numerous; thus there are many subjects. 
That (Agni-altar) is made of five layers and the others are single layered. 
Thus he endows pre-eminence in Ksatra and makes the chief-tain more 
powerful than the subjects. He builds that (Agraj-altar) upwards by layers 
and the others he constructs sideways. Thus he makes the subjects subser¬ 
vient to the Ksatra by being under (him). The Agnraltar he builds up with 
bricks having specific Yajus fonnulas; whereas, these ( Dhisnyas ) he constructs 
only with lokamprnas. Lokamprna is Ksatra and that he places as eater, among 
the subjects. 

2. Both (types of) Dhisnyas he builds up, those of the Soma sacrifice 
and of the Agni-altar. First those of the Adhvara and then those of the Agni- 
altar. Its purport has been explained. Whatever Soma-Dhisnyas he puts up 
(at the Soma sacrifice) that he builds up. First he builds up the Agnidhrfya 
hearth. He builds it sitting on the right side facing north. Its significance 
has been told. 

3. He places eight bricks in it, for, the Gayatri is eight-syllabled; and 
Agni-altar belongs to Gayatri. As great as Agni is, as great as is his size, so 
great he thus builds it up. The Prsni (the stone with spots) is the ninth of 
them, for the pranas are nine in number; seven in the head and two 
downward. Those ( pranas ) he puts here. The fire that he places on the 
built Dhisnya is the tenth; for, there are indeed ten pranas and the Agnldhra 
is in the middle (between the Garhapatya and Ahavamya). Thus he places 
the pranas in the middle. The pranas being in the middle of the body, they 
move this way and that way in the body. 

4. Twenty-one bricks he uses for the Hotriya hearth and there are twenty- 
one parisrits (enclosing stones). Its significance has been said. He places 
eleven bricks for the hearth of Brahmanacchamsin. For, the Tristubh metre 
has eleven syllables and Indra belongs to Tristubh and Brahmanacchamsin 
belongs to Indra. In others, he places eight- eight bricks and its significance 
has been told. 


XI.6.3.9] 


TRANSLATION 


157 


5. He places six bricks in the Maijallya hearth, for, there are six sea¬ 
sons, the pitrs. The seasons, namely the pitrs indeed put up a wall round 
that fire from the south. This (Maijallya) is to the south of those other 
hearths. This he lays down in this direction and those others in that direc¬ 
tion and that Agni-altar in this way (so that all the Dhisnyas face the Agni - 
altar). Thus he makes the Vis (subjects) face the Ksatra. 

t „ 

6. He now encloses each of the Dhisnyas with the parimis (enclosing 
sticks). Parisrits are indeed waters and it is with waters he encloses them. He 
merely places them all around. The waters which flow out through a chan¬ 
nel are the Ksatra and these stagnating waters are the Vis (people). In the 
case of the Agm-altar, he encloses it with parisrit stones dug in (fixed in the 
ground); thereby surrounds Ksatra and adds Ksatra (royal power) to Ksatra 
(royalty). By just keeping these parisrits around the Dhisnyas, he surrounds 
the Vis with Vis and thus adds the people to the people. He places so many 
parisrits around each hearth as there are bricks with Ta/uv formulas in them. 
Thus he makes those common folks obedient and submissive to the Ksatra. 

7. He then scatters loose soil on each of these Dhisnyas. Its significance 
has been told. Silendy he scatters, since the subjects are indistinct. After 
offering the Puroddsa of the Agnistomiya, he gets ready the propitiatory 
oblations to the quarters. This Agnt-altar is the quarters and for them he 
prepares these oblations. By means of this oblation, he makes them a deity. 
That for which havis is prepared is alone the deity and not the one for 
which it is not prepared. These havis are five in number for there are five 
quarters. 

8. Now they say, “Let havis be prepared for ten oblations in this isti, 
because this isti involves all the stomas, all the prsthds , all metres, all quarters 
and all seasons; this Agn^altar is all these and thus (only) he makes them 
the deities. Because that alone is a deity for whom havis are prepared and 
not the one for which it is not prepared.” They happen to be ten (havis); 
for, the Virad metre has ten syllables and Virad is altar; there are ten 
directions and the directions are Agnr-altar; there are ten pranas and pranas 
are Agni-altar. As great as Agni is, as great as is his size, With so much food, 
he thus gratifies him. 

9. He may also prepare these oblations for the Devasva (deities eight in 
number starting with Savitri Satyaprasava) to whom offering is made at the 


XI.6J5.12] 


TRANSLATION 


159 


consecration in Rajasuya). For, these are the deities which are consecrated 
by this ceremony by which he is now being anointed. They get gratified by 
these. Thus offered and gratified by these (oblations), they approve of this 
consecration. So approved by them he is anointed. Only he for whom the 
(other) kings approve vesting of sovereignty, becomes the king and not 
the one for whom, not so approved. These deities are being thus conse¬ 
crated by this consecration, approve of his consecration and hence they 
are called Devasva. 

10. These deities have two names just as the one who is consecrated by 
this ceremony comes to posses two names. For, the very ceremony of con¬ 
secration for which he is approved and by being consecrated, becomes his 
second name. (For example, he who performs Vajapeya gets the second 
name Vajapeya Yajin). These Devasva are eight in number, for, the Gayatri 
metre is eight-syllabled, and Agro-altar belongs to Gayatri. As great as Agni 
is, as great as is his size, with that much food, he thus gratifies him. 

11. They say that these havis (to Devasva) should not be offered, be¬ 
cause they will be in excess. But let him, albeit offer them, for, these are 
offered for fulfilment of special wishes and as far as wishes are concerned, 
there is nothing like excess. Whatever oblation is offered after the Pam- 
Puroddsa (Puroddsa connected with Pam yajna) that is placed inside the Pasu 
itself as its sacrifical essence (restored to that pasu before being offered). 
He offers both kinds of oblations; those of the Soma Yaga and those of the 
Agnicaydna. First he offers those of the Soma Yaga andvthen of the 
Agnicayana. The significance of this has been explained. The Pasu-Purodasa 
is offered in a loud voice and these other offerings are made in a low tone, 
for, they constitute an isti. With the Pasu-Puroddsa, the Adhvaryu says, 

Anubruhi-Presya n and for these “Anubruhi -Yaja” for, they are isti For these 
oblations, there is a common Svistakrt and a common Ida. Now the Devasu 
deities have been offered oblations and the Svistakrt of the Pasu-Puroddsa is 
yet to come. 

12. He then touches the Agni altar with the chant of the preliminary 
consecration, “May Savita hasten you for Prasavas,...” “This man, O people, 
is your king. Soma is the king of the Brahmanas.,..” Thus he excludes 
Brahmanas from the supremacy of the king and render them inaccessable 
for being exploited (fed upon) by the king. (Third Brahmana Ends.) 


XI.6,4.6] 


TRANSLATION 


161 


BRAHMANAIV 

1. Early morning, next day, getting ready for the morning prayer, he 
connects the Agni-altar thinking, “by getting this connected, I shall achieve 
all my desires.” Accordingly, he obtains all the desires. First he connects it 
to the whole performance so all that is done after that becomes done on 
that connected fire-altar. He connects it on the enclosing sticks, for, those 
are fires (elsewhere the Paridhis are described as the brothers of Agni). It is 
with fires, he thus connects the Agnt-altar. 

2. He touches the middle enclosing stick and chants this Yajus formula 
— “I yoke the fire with might, with ghee” Might means power, thus he means 
to say “the fire I yoke, with power and ghee,” “The heavenly bird, huge with 
its vigour” — for, that Agrai-altar is indeed a divine bird and great in vigour, 
in smoke.“Thereby he will go to the region of Bradhna (the horse or the 
sun), mounting up to the heavenly world beyond the farthest horizon.” 
The horizon, doubdess, is the heavenly world and he will go to that region 
of the sun after crossing the heavenly world beyond the horizon. 

3. Then he touches the Paridhi on the right side, saying, "These non¬ 
ageing feathered wings of yours with which you drive away the demons, O 
Agni! ” The meaning of this is the same as the text. “Let us fly to the world 
of righteous where the ancient rsis who were bom first had gone.” Thus he 
alludes to those seven rsis. 

4 . Then he touches the Paridhi on the left, saying, “The Effective drop, 
the faithful eagle, the golden winged bird, the active sun”—golden means 
immortality and thus he means “the immortal winged bird, the sustainer.” 
“The powerful one is seated in the firm seat; our prostrations to you; do not 
cause harm to us.” By this, he offers his own surrender. 

5. Now that formula used for the middle Paridhi is the body and the two 
on both sides represent the wings. Hence these two refer to wings and hence 
they are justifying their being called wings. He then connects the fire with 
three Yajus formulas; for, Agni is threefold. As great as Agni is, as great as is 
his size, with so much, he thus connects him. 

6. Now after pressing the king Soma, he offers in the fire. This is indeed 
the same rite of consecration or pressing and by that he is now consecrated. 


XI.6.4.8] 


TRANSLATION 


163 


This Yajamana is permitted to be consecrated by those deities. He alone 
becomes a king whom other kings permit to become and not the one whom 
others do not allow. When he offers (the pressed Soma) in the fire, he actu¬ 
ally anoints Agni and that divine body of Agni, being consecrated by Soma 
is virtually becoming consecrated by the nectar. As he himself drinks (of 
that pressed Soma), he consecrates himself and this body of his being con¬ 
secrated by Soma, he becomes anointed with nectar. He drinks of it after 
offering in the fire; for, this fire is his divine body and his person is the 
mortal form. Thus first comes the divine and then the human. So he drinks 
after offering. 

7. He now releases (unyokes) the Agni after obtaining the wish for 
which desire he yoked it. He releases it by singing the stotra Yajnayajniya. 
The Yajnayajniya is the heavenly world and it is for the attainment of that 
world that he yokes it. After obtaining the wish for which he yoked it, he 
now releases it. He releases it before the chanting of the above stotra. If he 
were to release it after the stotra, he would, as it were, overstep that world 
and lose it. By releasing it prior to the stotra, he releases it immediately after 
reaching the heavenly world. He releases it on the Paridhis (enclosing sticks) 
because it was in the Paridhis that he connected it. At whatever place people 
yoke a horse, they unyoke it there itself. 

8. Touching the Paridhis at their joints, he recites these tvto Yajus 
formulas. These two formulas equal in power to three Paridhis. At this, he 

chants, “You are the head of the sky, the navel of the earth ..” This is 

on the right side. “You keep standing on the head of the universe ...” so 
saying he touches the left side joint In both these formulas, the word “head” 
is contained. Because this is indeed its head and they also contain the words 
U apsumatibhya”( those with waters). That Yajnayajniya is surely Agni 
Vaisvanara’s praise and water is a soothing agent. Therefore he touches 
them with the Yajus formulas containing the word “ apsumattbhya”. With two 
verses he releases; for, the Yajamana is two-footed and Agni is the Yajamana. 
As great as Agni is, as great as is his size, with so much he thus releases him. 
While yoking, he uses three verses and with that it comes to five and the 
fire-altar is five-layered and there are five seasons for a year and the year is 
Agni. As great as agni is and as great as is his size, so much it becomes. 



XI.6.4.9] 


TRANSLATION 


165 


9. Now some people yoke the fire-altar at a PrayanTya Atiratra only and 
release it at an Udayaniya on the ground that “the unyoking is certainly 
making completion and why should we do it before the completion of the 
sacrifice (which is only at the Udayaniya).” Let him not do this, because 
this i$a sacrifice which spreads day by day and day by day, it comes to comple¬ 
tion and day by day, he yokes that altar for reaching the heavenly world. 
He actually goes to the heavenly world each day and so it should be yoked 
every day and every day it should be released. Indeed, it should be just as if, 
at the PrayanTya Atiratra, after reciting the Samidhenis, he were to say, “Here¬ 
after, at the Udayaniya, I shall recite them”(this is not done; similarly) let 
him yoke the altar day by day and release it day by day. On this point, 
Sandilya having directed the Kankatiyas the day by day performance, went 
on his way after telling them, “You yoke it every day and unyoke it each 
day.” Therefore one should yoke it, day by day and unyoke it, day by day. 
(Third Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter Six Ends.) 


Chapter Seven 
BRAHMANAI 

1. Now we deal with taking milk as food during vrata. The one who is 
initiated should take milk as food during the vrata. Once upon a time, the 
nectar went away from the gods. 

2. They said (to themselves), “By austerity and by penance, let us search 
for it" Accordingly, they sought for it by austerities and penance. They got 
initiated and fasted, consuming only milk. When one lives on milk alone 
after initiation, it amounts to his doing penance.They heard the sound of 
nectar. 

3. They said, “It seems it is nearer to us; let us further do penance.” 
They found three teats; they saw it. 

4. They said, “It is still nearer to us; let us perform penance still more.” 
They found two teats and saw it much nearer. 

5. They said, “It is much nearer to us; let us continue the penance.” 
They found one teat They reached it but could not lay hand on it. 

6. They said, “We have reached it but we fail to grasp it; so let us un¬ 
dergo further penance.” On that day of preparation, they completely ab¬ 
stained from food. Complete abstenance from food is the full penance. 
Therefore one should eat on the day of preparation (upavasatha ). 

7. Next morning, after having got it and pressed it (the Soma), they 
offered it into the fire. Thereby they bestowed immortality to the Agn»-altar. 
That Agni-altar is the body of all gods. By bestowing nectar unto the Agni, 
they conferred immortality to their selves. Thus the gods became immortal. 
That which is the nectar is verily the Soma. 

8. That is why, even now the Ya jam an a, seeks it (Soma) by austerity and 
penance. After initiation, he resorts to Payovrata (fasting with only intake 
of milk). Taking to Payovrata after initiation is indeed penance. He hears its 
sound (in the form of) “On such and such day, there will be the buying of 


XL7.1.14] 


TRANSLATION 


169 


Soma”. {Soma Kray ana is a ritual, where the Soma plants are purchased). He 
approaches three teats and sees it nearby. He approaches two teats and it 
comes still closer. He approaches one teat and reaches it but is not able to 
lay hand on it. He abstains from food on the preparatory day. This is the 
full penance, since it involves complete abstenance from eating. So one 
should not eat on the previous day. 

9. Early morning, he takes hold of it and after pressing, offers it into 
the fire. Thus he offers nectar into the Agroi-altar. Then he consumes it and 
thereby bestows nectar unto himself. Thus he becomes immortal. To live 
the full span of human life is immortality, as far as man is concerned. He 
drinks it after offering into the fire-altar; because that fire-altar is his divine 
body and this physical body is his human form. The gods come first and 
then the human beings. Therefore, after offering into the fire, he drinks it. 

10. Now the significance of the Samistayajus oblations. The gods and 
the Asuras, both offsprings of Prajapati, inherited the patrimony of their 
father, Prajapati; which was nothing else than speech; i.e., truth and untruth. 
They inherited both truth and untruth and both of them spoke truth and 
both of them spoke untruth as well. Since they both spoke alike they were 
equals. 

11. These gods, having discarded untruth, stuck to truth and the Asuras 
having discarded truth, clung to untruth. 

12. Now the truth which was in the Asuras saw that the gods have aban¬ 
doned untruth and preferred truth and so it said, “Let me go to them 
(gods) ." Thus it went to the gods. 

13. Now the untruth which was in the gods saw that the Asuras have 
discarded truth, and preferred only untruth. So it said, “Let me go to them 
(Asuras).” 

14. The gods spoke only truth and the Asuras only untruth. Those gods 
meticulously speaking truth, became as if less powerful and as if less re¬ 
spectable. That is why, he who meticulously tells the truth appears less pow¬ 
erful and less respectable as it were. He, of course, becomes that (powerful 
and respectable) in the end; the gods indeed became so in the end. 


XI.7.1.19] 


TRANSLATION 


171 


15. Now the Asuras meticulously speaking the untruth, appeared like 
the saline soil, growing brighter (healthier) as it were and as if more re¬ 
spectable. That is why, one who tells untruth appears as if growing in stat¬ 
ure and becoming more respectable; only at the end he surely fails, for the 
Asuras did fail in the end. That which is called truth here is the triple 
Vidyd(Ve die lore). 

16. These gods said, “Let us by performing this sacrifice propagate this 
truth (Vedic knowledge).” They got ready the Diksaniya offerings (offer¬ 
ings for the initiation ceremony). The Asuras came to know of that and 
said, “Performing sacrifice, these gods are propagating that truth; come, let 
us bring here what is ours in it.” When they came there, the Samistayajus (of 
the initiation) was not offered. Hence even today the Samistayajus is not 
offered for that performance. The gods, noticing the Asuras, stopped the 
sacrifice and got engaged in some other work. Thinking that they, (gods) 
are doing something else the Asuras returned. 

17. When they had gone away, the gods prepared the Prayaniya (the 
opening offering). Immediately, the Asuras understood it and arrived there 
just when the Samyoruktha (the first formula of the Prayaniya) was chanted 
and that is why, that sacrifice stops with the chanting of Samyoruktha. See¬ 
ing the Asuras, the gods stopped it there and engaged in performing some 
other rite. The Asuras returned saying, “They are only performing some¬ 
thing else.” 

18. When they had gone, the gods after buying Soma and having driven 
him around, prepared the Aiithya offering for him. The Asuras smelt of it 
soon. Just when the Ida offering had been announced, they arrived. Hence 
that sacrifice ends with the announcement of the Ida offering. Noticing the 
Asuras, the gods wound up the performance and got busy with some other 
sacrifice. The Asuras returned saying, “They are performing something else. ” 

19. When they had gone, the gods got ready with the Upasad offerings. 
They had just recited the three Samidheni chants (kindling verses) and made 
offerings to the deities. They had not made the fore-offerings nor the after- 
offerings and had thus left both sides of the sacrifice unfinished. Even that 
much they did in great hurry. That is why, at the Upasads, after reciting just 
the three Samidhenis, he offers to the deities and leaves it at that without 


XI.7.1.25] 


TRANSLATION 


173 


offering the Prayajas and Anuydjas; with both sides of the sacrifice left 
unfinished. 

20. On the Upavasatha day, they slaughtered the Pasu meant for Agni- 
Soma. The Asuras came to know of this. They arrived just when the 
Samistayajus offerings were not made. So in the case of that Pasu, there are 
no offerings of Samistayajus. Those gods noticing the Asuras turned their 
attention to some other sacrifice. The Asuras returned thinking that they 
were doing something else. 

21. When they had returned on the next morning, the gods got ready 
for the morning pressing ( Prdtassavana ). The Asuras came to know of it. By 
the time they arrived, the Prdtassavana was over. Noticing the Asuras, the 
gods wound up the sacrifice itself and got doing some other rites. The Asuras 
went away saying, “They are doing something else.” 

22. When they had gone the gods got ready the mid-day pressing 
(Mddhyandina savana ). The Asuras knew about it and by that time they 
reached, the midday savana was over. Seeing them the gods wound up the 
sacrifice and got busy with some other performance. The Asuras returned 
saying, “They are doing something else.” 

23. When they had returned, the gods proceeded with the Pasu offer¬ 
ing. That the Asuras came to know of. By the time they arrived, whatever 
was to be done in respect of this Pasu offering was already completed. No¬ 
ticing the Asuras, the gods wound up that sacrifice and turned to some 
other performance. Thinking that they are doing something else, the 
Asuras returned. 

24. When they had gone, the gods got ready the third pressing (Trfiya 
savana) and completed it. By completing it, they obtained that whole truth 
(Trayividyd). Then the Asuras fell. Thus the gods became prosperous and 
the Asuras underwent decline. Indeed, he who knows this prospers and his 
hateful enemy declines. 

25. Now the gods discovered, “These sacrifices of ours were to be left 
unfinished and we had to cut them short in the middle. Let us find out how 
we can complete these sacrifices.” They said, “Meditate”; by which they 


XI.7.1.29] 


TRANSLATION 


175 


only meant “seek for. a layer.” They meditated on how to complete those 
sacrifices. 

26. By meditating they discovered these Samistayajus offerings. They 
offered them and by those, they got the sacrifices established 
(samasthapayan ) and thus they became Samistayajus. Since they completed 
those unfinished sacrifices by means of them they are Samista (well offered) 
Yajus. 

27. These Samistayajus consist of nine oblations corresponding to nine 
of these (unfinished sacrifices). By offering these oblations, he completes 
them. There are both kinds of offerings; those of the Soma-Yaga and of the 
Agni -cayana. First he offers those of the Soma and then those of the Agni- 
altar. The significance of this has been told. He makes two offerings to the 
Agni-altar; for, the Yajamana is two-footed and the Yajamana is the Agni- 
altar. As great as Agni is, as great as is his size, with so much he completes 
those sacrifices. He offers saying, “This sacrifice has been performed by the 

Bhrgus.. May Agni so offered quicken our offerings” — both types of 

these offerings together come to eleven. The Tristubh metre has eleven 
syllables and Tristubh is power. By means of this, he imparts power to this 
sacrifice. Why again eleven is because the Tristubh metre is eleven-syllabled 
and Indra belongs to Tristubh and Indra is the self of the sacrifice as well as 
the deity of the sacrifice. So he establishes this sacrifice in that which is its 
self and which is the deity of this sacrifice. 

28. After offering the Samistayajus, they go for the Avabhrta (final obla¬ 
tion) . After emerging from the Avabhrta and after performing the Udayaniya 
(concluding oblation) he offers the Pasu-Purodasa of the barren cow and 
prepares the oblation to the Devikas. Now Prajapati, having achieved his 
objective, considered himself quite capable. Getting established in the quar¬ 
ters, he conceived this whole universe and went on creating. Since he thus 
conceived ( dadhat ) and went on creating ( vidadhat ) all these creatures, he 
came to be known as Dhdta. Similarly, this Yajamana getting himself estab¬ 
lished in the quarters goes on conceiving and creating all these. 

29. As to why he performs these oblations — the Agnkiltar is the quar¬ 
ters, which he lays down in advance in the form of the Darbhastambha 
(fistful of darbha grass) and the four unbaked bricks (clods of earth called 



XI.7.132] 


TRANSLATION 


177 


logestakas) . They are the pranabhrts in the first layer, (the four logestakds are 
placed on four sides and the bunch of grass in the middle representing the 
five quarters). In the second, third and fourth layers, the bricks are placed 
in the same order from the east onwards. In the fifth layer the asapatnds, 
the nakasads and pancacudas are also placed in the same order so as to 
represent the quarters and they tend to go out upwards. Prajapati got 
scared of them, “These bricks (quarters) thus moving away may well go be¬ 
yond this universe.” Since he has become the Dkatd(xhe one who orders 
about regarding creation) he went round and got himself established in 
them. 

30. He who is that Dhatd is same as yonder sun. And out of those quar¬ 
ters in that one which has moved upwards farthest, the sun gets firmly es¬ 
tablished and shines. 

31. This Puroddsa to Dhatd in twelve potsherds is the same as that of 
Dhatd. It is in twelve potsherds because the year has twelve months and the 
year is Prajapati; Prajapati is Dhdta. Now out.of the quarters that which has 
moved upwards farthest is the same as these previous oblations (consisting 
of) — a cam to Anumati; a cam to Raka; a earn to Sinivali, a cam to Kuhu. 
When he prepared these cams, he establishes Prajapati in that quarter which 
has moved upwards farthest He offers the whole of that for the complete¬ 
ness of Prajapati himself. These are the goddesses because they are the 
quarters. The quarters are metres and metres are goddesses (detns) . Prajapati 
is Ka and thus die devis and Ka together become Devikas. They are five 
oblations corresponding to the five regions. 

32. Now some say, “He should not offer these oblations, since he will 
be doing something in excess.” Let him not mind this; he may offer them. 
For these oblations are for special wishes and in the case of wishes there is 
no question of excess. Moreover, these oblations offered after the offerings 
of PasurPuroddsa are offered by placing them inside the Pam as its sacrifical 
essence. For both of them, the Svistakit offering is the same and the Ida 
also is the same. They offer the Samistayajus oblation of that same barren- 
cow offering. They go for the Avabhrta ablution with the Hfdayaiula be¬ 
cause this Pasu offering marks the end, after proceeding with the 
Hrdayasuala. 


XI.7.1.37] 


TRANSLATION 


179 


* 

33. Having returned after the Sula-Avabhrta, he offers the oblations to 
Visvakarma. This Agni-cayana means all rites; for, all the sacrificial rites hap¬ 
pen to be performed here. Those are gratified by this. By means of the 
havishe makes them (all sacrifical rites) into a deity. That for which havis is 
prepared is alone a deity and not the orie for which it is not prepared. Thus 
this Visvakarma is this Ag7i*-altar and by this, he pleases him. 

34. Why he offers the Vaisvakarma oblations. The Agm-altar has a pray ana 
(beginning) and an udayana (ending). The Sdvitra oblations form the 
prayana and the Vaisvakarma oblations, its udayana. If one were to offer 
only the Sdvitra oblations and not the Vaisvakarma, it would amount to hav¬ 
ing only the beginning without the end. If one were to offer only the 
Vaisvakarma oblations and not the Sdvitra, it would be like having the con¬ 
clusion and not the beginning. 

35. He offers both the prayana as well as the udayana. They ( Savitras) 
are eight offerings and the same is the number of Vaisvakarmans. As in the 
beginnings, so in the end. The svahakara is associated with those (Savitras). 
So it is of these and thus the ending is just like the beginning. There (in 
Savitras), the offering is the tenth (eight formulas followed by svdhd and 
the offering is the tenth). Same is the case of Vaisvakarmans. Thus the end¬ 
ing and the beginning are the same. In that Sdvitra, he offers continuously 
so that there is no break in the flow of the seed, because it is the seed that 
constitutes the offering and it should have continuity. On this occassion 
(of Vaisvakarman) he offers by means of the ladle at the pronouncement of 
svdhd. Because when it is bom, the seed becomes distinct. 

36. He offers saying, “Whatever has flowed out of the will or the heart 
or collected from the mind or the eye, after that you go forward — to the 
world of the righteous where the ancient rsis, first-born, went.” Thus he 
identifies them with the seven rsis. 

37. “O divine seat, I entrust this unto you.” The divine seat is indeed 
the heavenly world and thus he entrusts him to the heavenly world. “This 
treasure which thejatavedas shall bring there. Here the lord of the sacrifice 
will follow you and you identify him in that supreme heaven.” As the text, 
so the meaning. 


XI .7.1.43] 


TRANSLATION 


181 


38. “Recognise him, and you gods, seated in the highest heaven; you 
identify his form when he arrives by the divine paths; you render the fruits 
of his noble deeds revealed to him.” As the text, so its meaning. 

*Udbudhyasvagne .etc.” and “Yena vahasi .etc. "The meaning of these 

two have been explained. 


39. “With bunch of grass, with enclosing sticks, with the sruk, with the 
altar, with the barhis (grass spread around the vedi). and with the Rks (verses 
of praise), lead you our Yajamana unto heaven to join the gods.” It only 
means “lead him to heaven with these identifications of a sacrificer, to the 
company of gods.” 


40. “Whatever is given as gift, what riches he has distributed, what acts 
of charity he has done and what daksinds he has given — all these, O Agni 
Vtsvakarman , you entrust them to the gods in the heaven” — meaning “what¬ 
ever we will be giving now and henceforth, those of ours let Agni Vtsvakarman 
deposit in the heavenly world.” 

41. “Where there are the never-exhausting streams of honey and ghee, 
there in the heaven, may Agni Visvakarman place us amidst the gods.” As 
the text, so its meaning. 

42. Thus he makes eight offerings, for, the Gayatri metre is eight syl¬ 
labled and this Agnt-altar belongs to Gayatri. As great as Agni is, as great as 
is his size, by so much food, he thus pleases him. After offering the 
Vaisvakarma oblations he names (the fire on the altar) just as the one when 
completely bom in full shape is given a name. Here the Agni is completely 
bom in full shape. After naming it — 

43. He stands reverentially in worship. He is indeed building him (fire- 
altar) up with his whole self and if he were to fail to announce his complete 
surrender to him, he (Agni) would here itself snatch away his self. Now that 
he announces his surrender, the Agni does not snatch away his self. “What 
fires of the five human races are here on this earth, out of them you are the 
supermost; enthuse us to live”—“whatever Agnis of five layers are there on 
this earth, out of them you are the supermost and you enthuse us to live 
on” — this is what he means by this Anustubh verse. Anustubh is indeed 
speech and speech means all metres. Thus by means of all the metres he 
worships him. Having reverentially stood by the fire and lifted it and churned 
it out, he offers the Udavasantya oblation. 




XI.7.1.48] 


TRANSLATION 


183 


44. He then makes the Payasya offering to Mitra-Varuna. He who per¬ 
forms this rite indeed becomes divine and this Mitra-Varuna is a divine 
pair. If he were to have sex with a human women without performing this, 
it would amount to a descent; because that would be like a divine being 
returning to the human level. By making this Payasya to Mitra-Varuna, he 
becomes one who approaches a divine mate. After offering this, he may 
have sexual union with a human woman as he wishes. 

45. Again, why he makes this Payasya offering to Mitra-Varuna - when 
Przyapati got disjointed, his seed spilled out. When the gods replenished 
him, they restored his seed by means of this Payasya offering to Mitra-Varuna. 
Similarly, this Yajamana restores it into him. That Prajapati who got dis¬ 
jointed is the same as this altar which is being built up. That seed which was 
implanted into him is this Payasya to Mitra-Varuna. Mitra and Varuna are 
prana and udana . The prana and udana are the ones which put to shape 
the spilled seed. This offering is of Payasya ; for, payas or milk is the seed, the 
sacrifice. Sacrifice itself is the seed of sacrifice. This is offered silently for the 
seed is implanted silendy. It is done at the end for, the seed is deposited at 
the end. 

46. They proceed in that with the offering the vajin (whey). At this 
offering, he gives a daksina. They say, “Let him give a pair of hornless he- 
goats.” Mahitthi said, “Knowingly others do not give them” (perhaps 
Mahitthi meant that the two hornless he-goats do not form a Mithuna or a 
couple and that one of them should be a she-goat). The offering of the 
Agni-crt flows away (goes to waste) as a Soma offering on a fire-altar without 
bricks. (This is with reference to later kratus done by a Yajamana who has 
once done the cayana ). 

47. (Now the doubt arises whether he has to do the cayana everytime 
and so it is clarified) He need only set up the naturally perforated bricks; 
for, the svayamdtmnds are these worlds and this fire-altar built up is all these 
worlds. 

48. (Alternately) He may lay down the rtavyas (seasonal bricks) in the 
place of the full Agni-altar for subsequent istis) . The rtavyas are the year and 
this Agni-'dltar is the year. 


XI.7.1.53] 


TRANSLATION 


185 


49. (Alternately) he may lay down the visvajyoti bricks. Because these 
bricks are these deities and this fire altar is all these deities. 

50/ (Alternately) he may lay down the punasciti, for, it is a repeated sac¬ 
rifice and it is. a higher form of worship of the gods. Some say, “He may 
straight away repeat the sacrifice (without bothering to build up a citi ) and 
the sacrifice will definitely bend to him.” It should not be done so when the 
fire is placed on the cita (altar) namely the Ahavaniya, this entire Agni occu¬ 
pies that 1st aka (Ahavaniya ) and when he offers into that, it is as good as 
offering into the fire-altar as designed by Sandila with wings and tail. For, 
this Ahavaniya has in its womb, all these beings and all the gods. He who 
builds him when he has not carried that (pregnancy) for one year kills all 
beings which are in embryo form. Even one who kills a human embryo is 
condemned and what is to be told of one who kills Agni, who is a god. Let 
not anyone agree to be a Rtxnk where the Agni is not earned about for one 
full year, lest he should be a party to this killing of a divine embryo”, said 
Vatsya. 

51. At least six months should have been completed after the cay ana 
(to build an altar) for, they say that six months old embryos are the last 
that live when bom. If he were to recite the Ala had Uktha on the one not 
carried for one year, he should recite at least the Asitis. For, that which is 
not carried for one year is incomplete and the Asitis are incomplete but 
this means he will further disturb the Agni-altar which is already disturbed. 
Whether the Agni is carried for a year or not, yet it is as good as completed 
one year, he should recite the whole of A/lahad Uktha. Once Sandilyayana 

' had gone to the eastern region, Daiyyampati asked him, “Sandilyayana, 
how is Agni to be built ? For, we are vexed of carrying him for one year, but 
yet we would like to build him.” 

52. He said, “Let him, by all means build him. Since he has carried him 
for one year because that alone he builds as one that has been carried for 
a year in the womb.” (In his case, the rule of carrying for one year is not 
applicable since after the first cay ana, he has got it in his womb). 

53. “Let him also build him, who intends to do* Soma-pressing for one 
year because he dir ectly sustains him by food in the form of those oblations. 


XI.7.2.3] 


TRANSLATION 


187 


54. “Let him also build it, who offers the Agnihotra for a year; for, he 
who performs Agnihotra indeed sustains him (Agni).” 

55; “And further let him who was bom a year after conception also can 
build; for, Agni is prana and it is him, he carries. It is in the form of prana it 
enters the implanted seed and takes possession of it. Since he takes posses¬ 
sion ( vid) of everyone that is bom (jata ) he is called Jatavedas. Hence even 
he who knows this can build him as one carried for a year within his womb. 
Indeed if one wha knows this either drinks Soma or offers the drink to 
anyone else; that itself is as good as oblation offered in the complete Sandila 
fire-altar built up with wings and tail.’’(First Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMANA II 

1. Indra discovered these seven Rk mantras to make up the deficiency 
(in Agm-altar); to make non-excessive what is in excess, and to perfect what 
is imperfect. Indeed, after building an Agm-altar, one is likely to get into 
some trouble, or he faulters or some sucn. When Syapama Sayakayana 
heard this, he ventured into this action. 

2. This is for perfecting three things; the perfecting of the A^nkiltar, 
perfecting of the one who builds it for him and perfecting of the one who 
causes it to be built. When he stands by in worship with this (hymn), every¬ 
thing is perfected. Whether knowing or unknowing, he has done anything 
in excess or he has failed to complete anything in this setting up of the 
Agrci-altar. He thus obtains all that which he has not obtained. Whatever 
wish there is in the first Anustubh mantra, that he gains even now. Besides, 
he keeps away the temble Raksasas from this holy performance and they 
no more strike him, while reciting the offering chants. Hence, one who 
knows this may as well build an Agrti-altar even for the enemy; because he is 
able to win him over. 

3. “O Indra, we call you here for the mighty prowess that killed Vrtra; 
for victory in battle” and “O Indra! often-invoked! smash the handless 
Kunavu hiding here with the Danus ...... thus with the first two mantras 

related to the killer of Vrtra, he worshipfully stands by the Agn*-altar. This 
rite, the gods performed when they were free from sin, after having killed 



XI.7.2.8] 


TRANSLATION 


189 


Vrtra, the evil. Similarly, this Yajamana, after killing Vrtra, the evil, becomes 
free from sin and performs this rite. 

4. “O Indra, break to pieces those who scorn us.” and “You are the 

terrible beast from the distant mountain, stealth moving....”—this with the 
second pair of mantras referring to Indra, the Vimrdha, (he worshipfully 
stands by). The gods after killing those evil ones who scorned them, per¬ 
formed this rite, freed from sin. In the same way, this Yajamana now, hav¬ 
ing killed those evil ones who scorn him, gets freed of sin and performs this 
rite (of Upasthdna) . 

5. “May Agni-Vaisvanara come forward from afar to our help” and “O 
Agni, you are sought after in the sky; sought after oh the earth ....” thus 
with the third pair of mantras referring to Agni-Vaisvanara (he worshipfully 
stands by). The gods having burnt away by Agni-Vaisvanara all evil, got 
freed from sin and performed this rite. Similarly, this Yajamana, now after 
having burnt out all evil and becoming sinless, performs this rite. 

6. “May we obtain this wish, O Agni! with your, help” — thus (he wor¬ 
shipfully stands by) with our mantra containing wishes. The gods having 
warded off evil by means of the six mantras (mentioned above) now, with 
this one mantra containing wishes. In the same way, this Yajamana, by means 
of the six Rks, having driven away evil, with this single mantra containing 
wishes, in one stroke owns to himself all the wishes. 

7. Thus they are seven Bk mantras; for. Agro-altar is seven layered; there 
are seven seasons; there are seven heavenly worlds, 1 there are seven stomas; 
seven prstkas; seven metres, seven are the domestic animals and seven wild 
animals; there are seven prana (channels) in the head; thus whatever di¬ 
vine or physical is there sevenfold — all that he obtains by this. They to¬ 
gether constitute (eight) Anustubh mantras; (seven mantras have two in 
Gayatri—2 x 24 = 48; four in Tristubhs—4 x 44 = 176; and one Anustubh - 
-lx 32 = 32—totalling thus 256 syllables which were divided by 32 come to 
eight Anustubhs). Anustubh is speech and it is by speech, he gains for him 
(to the Agni-altar) all that is not yet gained by him. 

8. Some others say, “Let him worshipfully stand by with eight Rk man¬ 
tras” By a second mantra containing the wish...... in addition to the seven 




XI.7.2.11] 


TRANSLATION 


191 


already mentioned, they make it eight. Gayatri consists of eight syllables 
and Agm-altar is of Gayatri; as great as Agni is, as great as is his size, by so 
much, he thus gains for him whatever is not yet gained by him. “Moreover 
(by doing thus) the two deities are equally worshipped” — let him not do so 
(i. e. add the eight Rk mantra) . Because those seven (aforesaid) themselves 
become eight Anustubhs. That which is in the eightfold Rk mantras is avail¬ 
able here (in the seven) itself. 

9. He worshipfully stands by with mantras dedicated to Indra and Agni, 
for, the Agni-altar belongs to both Indra and Agni. As great as Agni is, as 
great as is his size, by so much he thus gains for him, whatever has not been 
gained by him. Moreover, Indra and Agni are all the gods and the Agni- 
altar belongs to all the gods. As great as Agni is, as great as is his size, by so 
much he thus gains for him, whatever has not been gained by him. 

10. Some observe this ( Upasthana ) before every performance saying, 
“Let me perform this rite, after freeing myself from sin.” Some others say, 
“Let him do this Upasthana after covering each layer with loose soil, for, it is 
at that stage, that particular layer gets completed and becomes whole.” Let 
him do as he wishes. This much about the cayana (building up of the Agni- 
altar). 

11. Now about the non-building ( acayand ). Truly there are three oceans; 
the Agni-altar is the ocean of Yajus formulas; the Mahdvrata of the Samans 
and the Mahad Uktha of the Rks. When one does these for some one else, 
he actually causes these oceans to dry up. By their drying up* his Vedas get 
dried up; his world gets dried up after the Vedas and following the world his 
self gets dried up and after his own self, his offsprings and cattle — thus he 
who performs these for someone else, dilapidates day by day. Without do¬ 
ing these {Cayana, Mahdvrata and Mahad Uktha) for others, if he were to 
officiate even in all other sacrificial rites, for him the metres again replen¬ 
ish themselves from out of those oceans and after the metres, the world; 
after the world, his own self and after his own self, his offsprings and cattle. 
Surely, he who does not perform those rites for another, prospers day by 
day. For, these rites are his divine immortal body and by performing them 
for another, he gives away his divine body to another and is left with a dried 
up stump. 


XI.7.2.13] 


TRANSLATION 


193 


12. Now some say, “Having performed there for another, they either 
perform them for themselves or get them performed again (by yet another) 
and.this is an atonement ." This is not to be done so. It would be equal to 
watering a dried up stump (of a tree); it will either rot or die. One should 
realise that there is no atonement for this. Sandilya once said, Tura kavasya 
one built an Agni-altar for the gods at Karoti. The gods asked him, “O Sage, 
they say that building of Agni -altar is not a means to heaven and so why 
have you built it ?” 

13. He said, “What happens to be the means to heaven and what is not 
the means to heaven? The Yaqamana is the self of the sacrifice and the 
Rtviks are its limbs. Where there is the self (body), there the limbs are and 
where the limbs are, there is the body. If the Rtviks are to miss the heavens, 
then the Yajamana also misses it Because both of them share the same 
worlds. Only in the case of daksinds there should be no bargaining. Only by 
bargaining iri the matter of daksinds the Rtviks forego their claim to the 
heaven."(Second Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter Seven Ends.) 
(SACITIKANDA ENDS) 


AGNIRAHASYA KANDA 

• 4 


Chapter One 
BRAHMANAI 

1. First the Agnj-altar is built up over a period of one year and then the 
Mahad Ukiha is recited. When Prajapati became exhausted, his vital essence 
flowed upwards. 

2. Now that Prajapati, the year, who got exhausted is the year and his 
those limbs which got disjointed, they are the days and nights. 

3. That one, the Prajapati, the year, who got exhausted is the same as 
this Agn j-altar that is being built up. Those days and nights, his limbs which 
became disjointed are, doubtless the bricks. By placing these (bricks), he 
restores to him those disjointed days and nights; his disjointed limbs. What 
yajusmafi bricks (bricks laid down with specific Yajus formulas) he places in 
this altar, that much he restores the limbs. 

4. That vital essence which flowed upward became the Mahad Uktha. 
That essence is what they (priests) seek for, by means of the Rks and Samans, 
with the Yajus marching in front as if leading that (search party). That 
Yajus marches in front as if saying, “That one is mine; I will find it out”. 
They find out that (essence) in the course of a year. 

5. The Adhvaryu collects it by means of a graha (Soma-cup). Since he 
collects (gfhndti) by it, it is called graka. Into that, the Udgata puts that vital 
essence by means of the Mahdvrata Sdman. Indeed the Mahdvrata is equal 
to all the Samans. So he puts that essence into it by means of all the Samans. 
The Hota puts that vital essence into it by means of the Mahad Uktha. The 
Mahad Uktha is equal to all the Rks. So he puts that vital essence into it by 
means of all the Rks. They do so (put the vital essence into it) when they 
(the four members of the Udgatigana) praise (by Samans) and he (the 
Hota) recites the sastras. 

6. Then he (Adhvaryu) offers.that (vital essence contained in the graka) 
at the utterance of Vasal. They consider it only as the vital essence of his 


XII.1.1.10] 


TRANSLATION 


197 


(Agni-Prajapati) and not as the Mahavrata that lies there and is praised. 
Nor they consider it as the Mahad Uktha. They notice only the Agm-altar. 
The Agm-altar is the body and these two (the Mahavrata and the Mahad 
Uktha ) the Rk and Saman become that vital essence and enter it in (the 
body) and thus they both enter into the Yajus. 

7. Now that Agra-altar consists of productive pairs; the first layer with 
the second, the third layer with the fourth and the fifth layer has the fire 
placed on it as its mate. So the body (of the altar) indeed, consists of pairs. 

8. In the same manner (in human body) the thumbs and big toes are 
the males, while the fingers and small toes are the females; the ears are 
males and the eyebrows are the females; the two lips are the males and the 
nostrils are the females, the teeth are the males and the tongue is the fe¬ 
male - thus all in pairs. So with this body of pairs (that vital essence) enters 
that Agni-altar consisting of pairs. 

9. This is how it enters. Even in this way too (by the method in which 
the essence enters) the Agnj-altar consists of productive pairs. The fire-altar 
built up here is the same as this speech; for, it is with speech it is built up. 
The fire placed on this altar is the prana. Prana is the male partner of 
speech. Indeed this body is speech and the prana in it is its mate. With this 
body mated (with prana) that essence enters the Agra-altar which is in pairs. 

10. This is also the process of entering therein - there is no question of 
doubting him (Agni) being without issue, when one knows that the body (the 
altar) and Agni (fire) are in mating. But this self is food (since the self is also 
offered as daksina ) and daksina is food. Daksina fetches food, which is not 
the self - so said the rsi (in the Rgveda). This food which is eaten becomes 
twofold; that part of it which is immortal is above the navel and moves 
upwards due to the upward moving pranas and enters the air. That part of 
it which is mortal, it is below and passes below the navel and having got split 
into two parts, enters this earth as urine and faeces. Now that which enters 
this earth, comes to the fire-altar built here (in the form of bricks) and that 
which enters the air, goes to that fire which is placed on the built-altar. This 
is also (a process of) entering therein. (First Brahmana Ends.) 


XII. 1.2.6] 


TRANSLATION 


199 


BRAHMANAD 

1. Prajapati desired to gain these worlds. He saw this bird’s shape body 
of the AgTikdtar. He shaped it and thus gained this terrestrial world. He saw 
a second bird-shaped body, that is Mahavrata (the chant with which the 
great rite is performed). He shaped it and thus gained this aerial world. He 
saw the third bird-shaped body, i.e. Mahad Uktha ; he shaped it and thereby 
gained the sky. 

2. This fire-altar which is built up is indeed this world; this Mahavrata is 
the aerial world; this Mahad Uktha, the sky. All these, the altar, the 
Mahavrata, and the Mahad Uktha are to be simultaneously undertaken be¬ 
cause these worlds were created together. As to why this Agni-altar is built 
up first is because, of all the three, this terrestrial world was first made. This 
is the divine point of view. 

3. Now in the physical plane — the fire-altar is the mind; the Mahavrata 
is the prana and the Mahad Uktha is the speech. Therefore all these are to 
be gained simultaneously; the mind, the prana and the speech. But why the 
Agni-altar is built up first is because the mind preceedes the prana. 

4. The Agnkdtar is the body; the Mahavrata is the prana and the Mahad 
Ukhta is the body. All these are to be gained simultaneously; the head, the 
prana and the body. Why the Agnfaltar is built up first because it is the head 
that appears first of anything that is bom. Therefore when all these are 
made simultaneously, the Mahad Uktha (the great prayer) is indeed called 
Atman (the greatest); for the body is indeed the Mahad Uktha. 

5. The Agwniltar is the head and the Mahavrata is the vital air and Mahad 
Uktha is the body. All these are to be gained simultaneously because it is 
along with the head that the vital air and body exist. As to why the Agnir 
altar is built first is because, whoever is bom, his head is bom first. There¬ 
fore when all these are produced simultaneously, the Mahad Uktha is con¬ 
sidered the highest (Atman), for the Mahad Uktha is the self (Atman). 

6. Now they ask, “If these three are difficult to be obtained together, by 
what means they can be obtained.” (The reply is) by Jyoti?tom and 
Agnistbma, i.e. by performing that Jyotistoma form of Agnistoma. For this 


XII.1J.3] 


TRANSLATION 


201 


variety of Jyotistoma, there is the Bahispavamana stotra in Trivrt stoma. This 
is the head of the vrata. The following two Pavamanas are in fifteenfold 
stoma and seventeenfold stoma. They are the two wings. Ajya stotra recited 
by the Hota is in the fifteenfold. The Prstha stotra is in the seventeenfold 
and the Yajnayajniya stotra is in the twenty-onefold stoma. That is the tail. 
These two, the fifteenfold and the seventeenfold together consitute the 
thirty-two stotriyave rses. Out of these, twenty-five represent this body which 
is twenty-fivefold; the balance seven are the Parimada Samans (source of 
pleasure all around); because these are the catde and just like catde, they 
play around. This much is the Mahavrata and here itself (in the Jyotistoma 
form of Agnistoma) one obtains the Mahavrata. 

7. This Hota recites seven metres, each following single Rk metre in¬ 
creasing by four syllables. The Viraj is the eigh th. These eight together have 
two hundred and eighty-five syllables (three eighties plus forty-five). By the 
three eighties, the eighties of the Mahad Uktha are obtained; for the Mahad 
Uktha is counted by triplets of eighty. Out of the balance of forty-five, twenty- 
five represent this twenty-fivefold body and when the body is there, it in¬ 
cludes the wings and the tail. The balance twenty are the insertions 
(avapana ). This much is the Mahad Uktha By this one obtains the Mahad 
Uktha in this Jyotistoma form of Agnistoma itself. Thus all these three are 
obtained in this Jyotistoma. Let him therefore perform the Jyotistoma and 
Agnistoma (to gain the altar, the Mahavrata and the Mahad Uktha simulta¬ 
neously). (Second Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAHI 

1. Prajapati created the living beings. He created the gods from his. 
upward breathing (out-breathing) and the mortals from the downward 
pranas and over and above the mortals, he created Death, the devourer of 
the mortals. 

2. Of the Prajapati, only one half was mortal and the other half was 
immortal. That (half) which was mortal got scared of Mrtyu (death). Out of 
fear he split into two; namely the clay and water and entered this earth. 

3. That death asked the gods, “Where is he who created us ?* They 
said, “Afraid of you, he entered this (earth)Mrtyu said, “ Let us search for 


XII.1.3.7] 


TRANSLATION 


203 


him; let us unite him (who is in two forms); I will not hurt him.” The gods 
then collected him (unified his two forms) from out of this (earth). That 
(part of his) which was in the waters, they collected those waters; that which 
was in this (earth) they collected as clay. Having collected those two; the 
clay and the waters, they made the brick. Thus it is that these two become 
brick; the clay and waters. 

4. These five parts of his; namely hair, skin, flesh, bone and marrow, 
are mortal in nature (since they belong to the gross body and perish with 
the physical body). Those (five parts) of his, namely mind, speech, prana, 
sight and hearing are immortal (since they belong to the subtle body and 
do not die when the physical body dies). That Prajapati is the same as the 
fire-altar which is now being built up. Those five mortal parts of his body 
are these layers of earth and those immortal parts are the layers of bricks. 

5. The gods said, (to themselves) “Let us make him immortal.” By en¬ 
closing this mortal part of his body by means of the two immortal parts of 
his body, they made that (also) immortal, i.e. by covering the layer of earth 
with layers of bricks; same way the second, the third and the fourth. 

6. After building the fifth layer (of bricks) he scatters loose soil on it and 
over that he places the vikarni brick and the naturally perforated brick and 
then scatters gold pieces and then places the fire. This is the seventh layer 
and that part is immortal. In this way, by means of his two immortal bod¬ 
ies, he covers this mortal body and .rendered it immortal; the layer of earth 
with the layers of bricks. It is that Prajapati became immortal. In like man¬ 
ner this Yajamana, by making the body (of the altar) immortal becomes 
immortal himself. 

7. But the gods did not know whether they have (made him Prajapati) 
complete or they have made him too large or left him deficient. They saw 
this Rk mantra (mantra chanted while standing in prayer or upasthana ) Agni 
who hides the abodes (or brilliance), Indra, Brahma, god Brhaspati; and 
like-minded Visvedevas may lead this sacrifice of ours to happy end.” This 
Rk mantra has one part belonging to Agni, one to Indra, and one to 
Visvedevas. With that part belonging to Agni, they fashioned the Agni part 
of his (Prajapati); with that part belonging to Indra, they fashioned the 
Indra part of Prajapati and with that part belonging to Visvedevas, they 


XII. 1.4.2] 


TRANSLATION 


205 


fashioned the Visvedeva part of Prajapati. Thus here itself (in the Agnir 
altar) they fashioned him completely and wholly. When he stands by' (the 
altar in upasthdna) with this Rk mantra, he makes good all the parts of his 
(PrajapatTs) which he knowingly or unknowingly made too large or defi¬ 
cient in him (the fire-altar) — whatever is wanting in it, is made good. 

8. The Rk starting with u Dhamach” is in Anustubh metre and Anustubh 
is speech and the speech is hider of abode (or brilliance). It is by speech 
that he secures for him what was not secured for him. Some say that this 
s tandin g by in prayer ( upasthdna) is to be after building the layer of loose 
soil, on the ground that it is there that all that becomes complete. Some 
say the upasthdna should be with the Rk having the word “ Yavistha ” because 
that is his favourite abode which is referred to by u Yavistka'\ That is his 
favourite abode. By means of that he obtains that (completion) that which 
is not secured, is secured by it. Being a ritual concerning Agni, (it should 
be) by a verse of Agni; by Gayatri metre (in which the Rk “ Yavistha ", etc. is). 
As great as Agni is, as great as is his size, by so much he secures whatever is 
not secured of him (fire-altar). He secures by means of the indefinite; for 
all means indefinite and with all, he secures what has not been secured of 
him. (The mantra reads) “ Yavistha (the best saving agent) Ddsusa (benevo¬ 
lent).” Its significance has been explained. After building the layer of loose 
soil, let him stand by it in prayer. There thus she (vedt) becomes whole and 
complete. (Third Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMAN AIV 

1. Both these, the mortal and immortal, were originally Prajapati 
himself. His vital airs were the immortal parts and his body the mortal part. 
By these sacrificial rituals and by these procedures (of covering the mortal 
with immortals on either side), he made his body uniformly non-ageing 
and immortal. In the same way this Yajamana, who has both the mortal 
and immortal parts (his vital airs being immortal and his physical body 
being mortal), by means of this sacrificial ritual and by these proceedings 
in the order, he makes himself uniformly non-ageing and immortal. 


2. He builds up the first layer which, doubtless, is his prana and it is 
immortal; because the prana is something immortal; thus (the first layer) 



XII. 1.4.6] 


TRANSLATION 


207 


becomes an immortal layer. Then he scatters loose soil and that is indeed 
his marrow and it is mortal because the marrow is perishable. He places it 
(the perishable marrow) on immortal (prana) and thereby his this (mar¬ 
row) part of his becomes immortal. Then he builds up the second layer 
and this, doubtless, is apana (downwards breath) and it is immortal; be¬ 
cause the downward breathing is something immortal. Therefore, this layer 
is also immortal. He thus covers on either side, the mortal one by the im¬ 
mortals, so that the former also becomes immortal. Then he scatters loose 
soil on that, which doubtless, is his bones and it is mortal, for, the bone is 
perishable. He places it on that immortal part (apana) and thereby this 
part (bone) of his, also becomes immortal. 

3. He lays down the third layer which, doubtless, is his vyana (cross-wise 
breath) and it is immortal. Because the vyana is something immortal. By 
that, this layer becomes an immortal one. He thus covers up that mortal 
part on either side by immortal ones and thereby the former also becomes 
immortal. Then he scatters loose soil upon it which, doubtless, is his sinew, 
which is mortal. He establishes it on that immortal (vyana) and thereby 
this sinew part of his becomes immortal. 

4. He builds up the fourth layer which, doubdess, is his udana (upward 
breath) which is immortal; because the upward breath is something which 
does not perish. Therefore, this layer is also immortal. He thus covers that 
mortal part on either side by the immortal and thereby that part of his 
(sinew) becomes immortal. He scatters loose soil over it which of course is 
his flesh and it is mortal; because flesh is perishable. He establishes it (flesh) 
on that immortal part (udana) and thereby his that part (flesh) becomes 
immortal. 

5. He lays down the fifth layer and this, doubdess, is his samana (the 
pervading breath) which is immortal; because the samana is not perishable 
and, therefore, this layer becomes immortal. He thus covers on either sides 
that mortal part (flesh) by immortal ones and thereby his that part (flesh) 
becomes immortal. He then scatters loose soil upon it which doubdess, is 
his fat, which is mortal; for fat is perishable. He places it on that immortal 
element (samana) and thereby this part (fat) becomes immortal. 

6. He lays down the sixth layer which, doubdess, is his vak (speech) 
which is immortal; because the speech is not perishable and thereby this 


XII.1.4.10] 


TRANSLATION 


209 


layer becomes immortal. He thus covers the mortal element (fat) on either 
side by immortal one and thereby that part of his (fat) becomes immortal. 
He scatters loose soil thereon and this, doubtless, is his blood and his skin 
and they are mortal, because blood and skin are perishable. Thus he estab¬ 
lishes them on this immortal element (of speech) and thereby the skin 
and blood become immortal. 

7. Thus there are six layers of bricks and six layers of loose soil and that 
makes twelve. The year has twelve months and the Agnt-altar is the year; as 
great as Agni is, as great is his size, with so much, Prajapati then makes his 
body uniformly unageing and immortal. In the like manner, this Yajamana 
makes his body uniformly unageing and immortal. 

8. After having laid down the vikarnl brick and the naturally perforated 
brick, he scatters gold pieces and then places the fire on it. That makes 
Prajapati finally assume a golden form and in as much as he finally gives 
this form to his body, this is his final shape and hence people say that 
Prajapati is Hiranmaya. In the same way, this Yajamana makes his own 
body in golden form. Since he does it at the end, this is the final form of his 
body. That is why, whether knowingly or unknowingly, people say that an 
Agnicit (he who builds up an altar) is bom in yonder world with a golden 
form. 

9. Now on this matter, Sandilya and Saptaratha Vahani, the teacher 
and the pupil, were once arguing with one another. Sandilya said. This is 
his form (i.e. he assumes a golden form).” The,Saptaratha Vahani said, 
“hairs” (meaning his hairs become golden). 

10. Sandilya said, “A form may be inclusive of hair but there also is one 
without hair and that is this.” That is how it is, as said by Sandilya. When the 
altar is completely built, fire is taken to it and then the samidhas and obla¬ 
tions are offered (here perhaps the reference is to the citi itself as 
Hiranyarupa and when samidhcis and oblations are offered; the flames shoot 
out and they are the hairs. So, according to Sandilya, the citi with its sev¬ 
enth layer made of gold pieces is Hiranyarupa and when the flames come 
out at the top, it only looks like, having golden hair). 


XII. 1.5.2] 


TRANSLATION 


211 


11. The gods eat food by means of the route of prana (out-breath). 
Agni is the prana of the gods. That is why it is in the front (in the route of 
the prana which is nostril) that offering is made to the gods. So that, oy 
means of the route of the prana, the gods consume food. By means of apana 
(down-breath) human beings eat food. That is why, the food is introduced 
into the mouth. From the front towards the back through the route of the 
downward breath. 

12. Now some people say, “He who has built up an Agn^-altar must not 
eat any bird because he who builds a fire-altar (which is itself in the shape 
of a bird) becomes of a bird form. He would be likely to become sick.” 
Therefore, the Agnicit must not eat of any bird. Nevertheless, one who 
knows this may safely eat of a bird because he who builds an altar assumes 
the Agni’s form and indeed all food belongs to Agni; whosoever knows 
this, will realise that all food belongs to him. 

13. Here they say, “What is it that is done in this process of building up 
the altar by which the Yajamana conquers recurring death?” “He who builds 
the citi becomes the divine Agni himself and Agni indeed is immortal. The 
gods are fame and He becomes famous. Whosoever knows this (also be¬ 
comes famous and enters splendour) (Fourth Brahmana Ends.) 


brahmanav 

1. This fire-altar which is built is all these sacrifices. When he seizes a 
Pasu, it is the Agnyadheya (installing the sacred fire); when he prepares 
the ukha that is the oblations of Agnyadheya; when he gets initiated, it is 
the Agnihotra and when he places two samidhds into the fire after inititation, 
they are the two offerings of Agnihotra. 

2. He places them ( samidhds,) both in the evening and in the morning, 
because the Agnihotra oblations are offered in the evening and in the 
morning. He does (place the samidhds ) with the same mantra; because the 
two Agnihotra offerings are made with one and the same formula. Then 
the Vanwahana (driving about the cart, placing the ukha fire) and washing 
down of (to the water) the ashes constitute the Darsapurnamasa sacrifices. 


XII.1.5.4] 


TRANSLATION 


213 


When he builds up the Garhapatya, it amounts to Caturmasya sacrifices. 
All actions subsequent to the (building up of) the Garhapatya upto the 
stage of (sowing) the seeds of all herbs, constitute the various istis. What 
happens after the (sowing of) all herbal seeds and upto (the laying) of the 
layers or citis, constitute the Pasubandhas (animal sacrifices). Those 
Visnukramas (strides of Visnu) he makes are these Visnukramas and those 
mutterings (of chants) constitute the Vatsapra. 

3. The first citi is the Soma sacrifice; the second citi is the Rajasuya upto 
the consecration ceremony; the third layer is the Vajapeya; the fourth is 
the Asvamedha and the fifth layer is the Satra sacrifice. The Sdmans he 
sings around the built altar is the Mahavrata; the chanting of the text 
(Arcika) in the beginning (while laying the citi) is the Satarudriya; the 
Vasordhard is the Mahad Uktham, that which is after the chanting of Sdmans 
and before the Vasordhard is the prior mutterings of the Hota. That which 
follows Vasordhard is the Grhamedhas ( satras) . This much is all the sacrifice 
which he obtains by the (building up of) the Agm-altar. 

4. Now (let us examine) the powers (conferred by) performance of the 
sacrifices. He who performs Agnihotra in this world, both in the evening 
and in the morning, he eats food in the world beyond, because that much 
energy is (acquired by) that He who performs the new-moon and full-moon 
sacrifices (eats food in the yonder world) every half-month. He who per¬ 
forms the Caturmasya (eats food in the yonder world) once in every four 
months; he who performs the Pasubandha (animal sacrifice) is getting food 
in the yonder world twice a year at the interval of six months. He who per¬ 
forms Somaydga (eats food in the yonder world) once a year. He who builds 
up the fire-altar, if he so wishes eats food every hundred years (in the yon¬ 
der world) or goes without eating at his will; for a hundred years is as much 
as immortality, unending and ever-lasting. Verily, for he who knows this, 
shall have immortality; unending and ever-lasting. Even that which he 
touches as it were, with a read, shall be for him immortal, unending and 
ever-lasting. (Fifth Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter One Ends.) 


Chapter Two 
HRAHMANAI 

1. Prajapati desired to ascend to the heavenly world. Prajapati is indeed 
all the Ptisus (sacrificial animals). He could not do so (ascend) with the 
forms of man, horse, bull, ram and he-goat. He saw this bird-like form of 
his body, the fire-altar and built it up. He tried to spring upwards without 
contracting and expanding his wings; but could not succeed. By contract¬ 
ing and expanding his wings he could take off. That is why, these birds are 
able to fly only when they contract their wings and spread their feathers. 

* f 

% He measures it (the altar) with the breadths of fingers. Sacrifice is 
man and it is by means of him (human limbs) everything is measured here. 
These finger-breadths are the smallest units of his (body). He thus secures 
for him that smallest measure of his and with that he measures him. 

3. He measures by twenty-four finger-breadths; for Gayatri consists of 
twenty-four syllables and Agni-altar belongs to Gayatri; as great as Agni is, 
as great as is his size, by so much he measures it. He contracts inside on 
both sides (of the wing when it is connected to the body) by four finger- 
breadths and expands it outside on both sides by four finger-breadths. He 
thus expands it as much as he contracts it. That is neither excess nor short. 
Same way he does the tail and the left wing. 

4. He spreads into twofolds, the wings; for there are two folds in a bird’s 
wings. These (folds) are made in one-third part (of each wing), for the 
bird’s wings have these folds at one-third parts; three folds are in the inner 
one-third parts; because it is in the inner one-third part of the bird’s wings, 
these folds are found. He expands each of these in front by four finger- 
breadths, and contracts it behind by four finger-breadths. He thus expands 
it as much as he contracts it. Thus indeed he makes it neither excess nor 
too short. 

5. On that fold, he places a brick. By this he provides that nodi (con¬ 
necting tube) from the fold to the body (of the bird) when it flies. Same he 


XII.2.2.2] 


TRANSLATION 


217 


does in the left side. He then makes the wings curved; for a bird’s wing is 
curved. He expands them behind by four finger-breadths and contracts 
these in front by four finger-breadths. Thus he spreads them out just as 
much as he draws them in. That is how, he neither exceeds (in size) nor 
makes it too short. 

6. He now gives to him (the altar) the final shape. This Agni is fash¬ 
ioned in his entirety. On that, the gods bestowed this final shape. In the 
same way this one (Yajamana) bestows final shape unto him. He makes a 
thousand bricks with straight lines marked on them; a thousand marked 
this way (from left to right) and a thousand marked that way (from right to 
left). 

7. Then after laying down the fifth layer; he measures the altar into 
three parts. On the central part, he places those one thousand bricks marked 
with straight lines. Thereby he provides those straight plumes (hairs) on 
the bird pointing backward right from the head to the tail. Then one thou¬ 
sand bricks marked with lines (from left to right), he places on the right 
side. By this he provides it with those curved plumes (hairs) on the right 
side. Then he places thousand bricks marked (with lines from right to left) 
on the left side. By this he provides it with those curved plumes (hairs) on 
the left side. He makes these with thousand; for thousand means everything. 
Thus with everything he gives him the final shape. He does so with three 
sets of thousands; for Agni is threefold; as great as Agni is, as great as is his 
size, by so much he gives him thus the final shape. (First Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAH 

1. Prajapati is the one person made of those seven persons. He created 
living beings and after creating the beings he soared upwards and reached 
that world where the yonder sun shines. Apart from him (Prajapati) there 
was no one else at that time, worshipable by sacrifice. So gods readied them¬ 
selves to worship him with sacrifice. 

2. That is why, it has been said by the rsi - “The gods worshipped sacri¬ 
fice by means of sacrifice” — for the yajna (Prajapati), the gods indeed wor¬ 
shipped by means of sacrifice. “Those were the first laws ordained” — be¬ 
cause those laws were first enunciated (by the gods). “Those great ones 


XII.2.2.5] 


TRANSLATION 


219 


enjoy the Naka” - for Naha, is indeed the heavenly world and the gods are 
the great ones. Those gods who worshipped that sacrifice enjoy the heav¬ 
enly world. “Where the ancient Sadhya-devas are living”; the Sadhya-devas 
(creators of Prajapati) are indeed the pranas (vital airs); for it is they that 
perfected him earlier, when they were desirous of becoming that (one form 
of Prajapati out of their own seven forms). Even how, indeed, they fashion 
him. ‘Thereafter this other, became fit to be worshipped by sacrifice due to 
the abundance of the immortal world”; for, thereafter, indeed, others (like 
Indra etc.) whosoever is immortal, became fit for worship by sacrifice. 
“Savita's Garuda with shining wings verily was first born; he takes after this 
one” -for, Prajapati indeed is Garuda of shining wings (in the form of the fire- 
altar). He was bom first, bom of Savita and takes after the nature of Savita. 

3. He (that Prajapati in the form of Garuda) is sevenfold man; for, this 
one is equivalent to seven. Because his body proper (trunk) is of seven 
man-measure and his wings and tail measure three; for, his trunk measures 
four man-measures and his wings and tail account for three man-measures. 

4. He is measured by the length of a man with upstretched arms. For, 
the sacrifice is a man and by him (as unit) everything here is measured. 
That is the highest man-measure when he stands with upstretched arms. 
So he secures for him that highest measure and with that he measures 
him. That size which he attains by standing on the toe, that is obtained by 
the parisrita (stones that form the enclosure) . Hence he should mark a line 
for tAe enclosing stones outside (the vedi). 

5. Two cubits he leaves for the two wings. Thereby he puts strength 
into the wings. For the wings are indeed the arms and by means of the 
arms, food is eaten. He gives them (wings) that space for the sake of food. 
Moreover, why he leaves two cubits for the wings is because one takes food 
from a distance of a cubit. To the tail, he leaves (the space of) a span. 
Thereby he puts strength into the base, because the tail is the base and the 
space for it is of a span and it is by the hand, food is eaten. So he leaves that 
space only for the food. So, by leaving one span space in the tail, he estab¬ 
lishes him in food. When he gives less (space) to this (part of the body) he 
thereby setdes him in the midst of food. This much it (wing) measures and 
this much (the tail). By measuring them thus, he obtains that (proper 
measure) for him. (Secoiid Brahmana Ends.) 


XII.2-3-4] 


TRANSLATION 


221 


BRAHMANAm 

1. Now this vedi (the altar site of the Somaydga called mahavedt) is the 
correct measure of that sevenfold vedi. He after fixing the spot for the sacri¬ 
ficial ground, enters the wife’s abode (Patnlsala) by the eastern entrance. 
After marking the ground for the Garhapatya, he sprinkles it with water. 
From the raised site of Garhapatya, he takes seven steps towards the east 
and after moving two hand’s length to the east, marks the spot for 
Ahavanlya in the middle thereof; sprinkles it with water. From the front 
. part of that at two hand’s length distance, he (again) takes three steps 

eastward. That is the order of the vedi. 

2. Now, there are here eleven steps including the two hand’s length 
distance between the border of the vedi and the Garhapatya. The Tristubh. 
meter has eleven syllables and Tristubh is a thunderbolt. Tristubh is 
strength. Thus by the thunderbolt and strength', the Yajamana, at the out¬ 
set of the sacrifice, drives away the terrible Raksasas. This is the womb of 
the v<?*£, because it is from that womb, the gods produced the vedi. This 
vydma (two hand’s length) is the womb of the Garhapatya. It is from this 
very womb, the gods produced Garhapatya. From Garhapatya (they pro¬ 
duced) Ahavanlya. From the end of the vedi he takes thirty-six steps east- 
ward to measure the vedi, then thirty steps behind and twenty-four in front 
— that makes ninety. This then is the vedi measuring ninety steps. On that 
he builds up the sevenfold fire-altar. 

3. Now they ask, “How does this sevenfold (Puru§a or fire-altar) corre¬ 
spond to the vedi (measuring ninety steps)?” These ten are the pranas in a 
Purusa; four limbs and the body proper as the fifteenth. Same in the sec¬ 
ond (layer). The same in the third (layer). Thus insix Purusas (represented 
by the six layers) it comes to ninety. Now one Purusa(layer) is in excess and 
man is fivefold — hair, skin, flesh, bone and fat. This vedi is also fivefold — 
the four quarters and the body of the altar as the fifth. Thus this sevenfold 
(altar) does indeed correspond to this vedi. 

4. Some people with the intention to make higher altars increase the 
number of steps and this two hand’s length accordingly, claiming, “We en¬ 
large the womb in this way.” But let him not do so, because the womb does 
not enlarge according to the child that is bom. As big the growing child is 
in the womb, that much alone the womb enlarges (to enable the child to get 
out on its own) . Here the enlargement of the embryo is only this much. 


XH.23.9] 


TRANSLATION 


223 


5. Those who do so (enlarge the womb), render this father Prajapati 
bereft of proportion and they by performing sacrifice (on such a vedi) be¬ 
come sinners because they are indeed rendering the father Prajapati lose 
his proportion. As large this vedi of the sevenfold (altar), is, fourteen times of 
this size, he measures out the vedi for the hundred and onefold (fire-altar). 

6. He now measures off a cord, thirty-six steps. He lays it sevenfold. 
Three parts of this he covers behind (with bricks) and leaves out four parts. 
He then measures a cord thirty steps long and folds it into seven. Out of 
them, three parts he covers behind (with bricks) and leaves the rest four 
parts. Then he measures a cord twenty-four steps and folds it into seven 
parts. Three parts of it he covers in front (with bricks) and leaves four parts. 
This is the measure of the vedi. 

7. Now as to the (other) forms of the fire-altar. The body of the altar is 
twenty-eight times a man’s length lengthwise and twenty-eight man’s length, 
cross-wise. That is the proper body. The right wing is fourteen man’s length, 
the left one fourteen man’s length and the tail is fourteen man’s length. 
On the right wing he covers fourteen cubits (with bricks). On the left wing, 
fourteen cubits he covers and on the tail he covers fourteen vitastis (spans). 
Thus (the whole altar) has the measure of ninety-eight man’s length in 
the excess space (for wings and tail). 

8. Now he measures a cord, three man’s length and makes it sevenfold. 
Four parts of it he covers (with bricks) on the body (of the altar) and three 
parts in the wings and tail. Then he measures a cord of one cubit, makes it 
sevenfold and three parts of it, he covers in the right wing and (similarly 
taking a cubit long cord and making it sevenfold) he covers the left wing 
and the remaining four parts (in each), he leaves out. He then measures 
(a cord of) one span-length and makes it sevenfold and three parts of it, he 
covers (with bricks) in the tail and leaves out four parts. In this way does 
this one hundred and onefold (Agni) correspond to this vedi. 

9. Now they say, “ When thirteen man’s lengths are in excess, how is it 
that these do not affect the proportions (of the altar)?” That which is the 
proportion of this seventh Purusa (layer) that same proportion is (appli¬ 
cable) to all these. That is why, they say, “Prajapati himself while forming 
his body, whenever there was deficiency in it, those he made up with these 
excess ones. That is how, he became proportionate.” 


XII.2.43] 


TRANSLATION 


225 


10. Some say, “The first time they construct a simple altar, then the one 
higher by one (man's length) — so on upto the one of unlimited size. Let 
him not do so.” Because, in the beginning, Prajapati was, indeed, created 
sevenfold. He went on developing his body and stopped at the hundred 
and onefold stage. He who constructs less than sevenfold, mutilates father 
Prajapati and by performing sacrifice thereon, he becomes a sinner; just as 
one would by hurting someone venerable. One who constructs in excess of 
one-hundred and onefold, he goes beyond all this (universe); for Prajapati 
is all this (universe). Therefore one has to construct first only the sevenfold 
and then the next higher upto the hundred and onefold one. But one 
should not construct beyond the hundred and onefold. This way he nei¬ 
ther mutilates, father Prajapati, nor he steps beyond all this (universe). 
(Third Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMAN AIV 

1. Prajapati is, indeed the year and Agni is all objects of desire. This 
year i.e. Prajapati wished, “May I build up a body for myself containing Agni, 
i.e. all objects of desire.” He made a body of hundred and onefold. By this 
making a body of hundred and onefold, he collected within his body, Agni, 
i.e. all objects of desire. He himself became all objects of desire. Not a single 
object of desire was beyond him. That is why, they say the ye t is < l objects 
of desire. There is not a single object of desire outside the year. In like 
manner, this Yajamana, making himself hundred and onefold, collects 
Agni, i.e. all objects of desire within him and he himself becomes all objects 
of desire. Therefore nota angle object of desire is beyond him. 

2. That which is the year is yonder sun. He is the hundred and onefold; 
his rays are hundredfold and he himself who bums yonder is the hundred 
and fir st and he is established in everything here (universe). Similarly this 
Yaj amana, making himself hundred and onefold, gets himself established 
in all these (the universe). 

3. In other words, the hundred and onefold becomes sevenfold. Yon¬ 
der sun made of hundred and one parts is established in the seven divine 
worlds. The seven divine worlds are the four quarters and three, these worlds 
_thus they are seven divine worlds. In these he is established. In like man¬ 
ner, this Yajamana having made himself hundred and onefold, gets estab¬ 
lished in the seven divine worlds. 


XII.2.4.7] 


TRANSLATION 


227 


4. And again how he of hundred and onefold becomes sevenfold (is 
thus) - yonder sun made of hundred and one parts is established in the 
seven seasons; in seven stomas , in seven prsthas, in seven metres, in seven 
vital airs and in seven quarters. In the same way, this Yajamana having 
made himself hundred and onefold gets himself established in all these. 

5. And again how he of hundred and one parts becomes sevenfold - 
yonder sun is indeed, made of hundred and one parts and he is estab¬ 
lished in the seven syllabled Brahman (Veda). Rk is one syllable, Yaju is of 
two syllables, Sama is of two syllables and what other Veda there is, it is just 
Brahman of two syllables. All these (together) form the seven-syllabled Veda 
and this one (sun) is established in it (Veda or Brahman). Similarly, this 
Yajamana, after making himself hundred and onefold, gets established in 
the seven-syllabled Brahman. That is why, they lay down (bricks) all round 
in sevens each time. Thus the hundred and onefold becomes sevenfold 
and the sevenfold one becomes hundred and onefold. 

6. Initially, Prajapati was created sevenfold. He saw this body made hun¬ 
dred and onefold. Fifty bricks in the pranabhrt (variety), fifty in the yajusmati 
(type) - that makes hundred. The settling and sudadohasa together consti¬ 
tute the hundred and first, because they (settling and sudadohasa) are one 
and the same; because it is after settling, the sudadohasa is recited. He with 
this hundred and onefold of his body gained that victory and attained this 
success. Similarly that Yajamana with his body of hundred and one parts 
gains this victory and attains this success. This is how the sevenfold be¬ 
comes hundred and onefold. He who is hundred and onefold is the seven¬ 
fold and he who is sevenfold is hundred and onefold. So much to the forms 
(of the altar). 

7. Now what is the cay ana (building up) — he builds up between the 
(performance of) the two Upasads. This is because here the gods got scared 
lest here this should not be smitten by the terrible (Raksasas). They saw 
these Upasads (fort cities), namely these worlds. For these worlds are in¬ 
deed fort-cities. They entered them and after entering them, they fash¬ 
ioned that body at a place free from fear and danger. Similarly, this Yajamana 
having entered these fort cities, completed this body at a place free from 
fear and danger. 


XII.2.4.14] 


TRANSLATION 


229 


8. And as to why he builds up between the two Upasads is this — when 
the gods got scared lest these terrible Raksasas may not smite it here, they 
saw these thunderbolts (in the form of) Upasads. The Upasads are indeed 
thunderbolts. They entered these and after entering them they fashioned 
this body at a place rid of fear and danger. So, also this Yajamana having 
entered these thunderbolts, fashions this body at a place free from fear 
and danger. 

9. These Upasads are the austerities (heat) in sacrifice. Upasad is in¬ 
deed tapas (involving fasting and austerity). Since it is built (ci) in tapas 
(austerity) it is called Tdpascitds. As long as they perform the Upasads, so 
long they perform Pravargya. If it is for one year they observe Upasad, they 
perform Pravargya also for one year. 

10. The Upasads are indeed days and nights and the sun is Pravargya. 
He thus establishes that sun in the days and nights. That is why, he is estab¬ 
lished in days and nights. 

11. And if (the Upasads are for twenty-four days), it is because there are 
twenty-four half months and the Upasads are half months and the sun is 
Pravargya. He establishes that sun in the half months. Thus he becomes 
established in half months. 

12. And if (the Upasads are) for twelve days, it is because there are 
twelve months and Upasads are the months and the sun is the Pravargya. 
He establishes that sun in the months. Thus he gets established in the 

months. 

13. And if (the Upasads are) for six days, it is because six are the seasons. 
And Upasads are seasons and the sun is the Pravargya. He establishes that 
sun in the seasons. Thus he gets established in the seasons. 

14. And if (the Upasads are) for three days, it is because three are these 
worlds and these worlds are Upasads. The sun is the Pravargya. He estab¬ 
lishes that sun in these worlds. Thus he gets established in these worlds. 


231 


XII. 2.4.21] TRANSLATION 

15. Now-the inquiry about the layers of loose soil - one month for (the 
building up) of the first layer (of bricks) and one month for the layer of 
loose soil. That much of desire in the spring season. He thus builds up is 
body with that much of desire which is in the spring season. 

16. One month for (the building up) of the second layer (of bricks) 
and one month for the layer of loose soil. That much desire in the sum¬ 
mer season. He thus builds up his body with that much of desire which is in 

the summer season. 

17. One month for (the building up) of the third layer (of bricks) and 
one month for the layer of loose soil. That much of desire in the rainy 
season. He thus builds up his body with that much of desire which is in the 

rainy season. 

18. One month for (the budding up) of the fourth layer (of bricks) and 
one month for the layer of loose sod. That much of desire in the autumn 
season. He thus binlds up his body with that much of desire which is in the 

autumn season. 

19 . About the fifth layer (of bricks) he lays down the ospalna brick and 
the virdi brick with first day and each day one stomabhdga bnck He settles 
them once and once recites the sudadohasa. For a month they sdently apply 
loose sod for the stomabhaga. Thismuch is the desire in the winter season. 
He thus builds up his body with that much of desire which is m the winter 

season. 

20. The sixth layer (takes) one month (for layer bricks) and one 
month for layer of loose soil. That much of desire m the dewy se son. He 
thus builds up his body with that much of desire which is in the dewy season. 
This much is the desire (plan to build) in the course of twelve months or in 
six seasons. With that much of desire in the twelve months or in six seasons 

with all that, he builds up the body. 

21 He exceeds (the year) by three days; they are the ones on which he 
makes the Satarudnya offering; the one when he makes preparation and 
the one on which the Soma impressed. When he performs Upasads on those 
(three) days, they become the days and nights of that thirteenth in! i- 


translation 


233 


XH.2.5.4] 


lary) month and when he performs Pravargya (on those days) he estab¬ 
lishes yonder sun also in that (seventh) season. This much is the desire in 
the thirteen months and in the seven seasons. With that much of desite in 

the thirteen months and seven seasons-with all that he builds up is o y. 


22. The Soma should be pressed for a year. The year is all, and one 
hundred and onefold is all; by means of all he thus gains everything If he 
is unable to press Soma for a year, he should perform the Visvajit Atiratra 
with all the pnthas (Sarvaprstha Visvajit Auratra). In that he should give 
away all his property (as daksma) because Visvajit is “all (i.e. conquering 
the whole universe) and Atiratra with all the prfthas means evervihing. 
property” means everything and the hundred and onefold (altar) is 
everything. By means of all he gains everything. (Fourth Brahmana Ends.) 


brahmanav 

1. The hundred and onefold Prajapati is no doubt, the year, which 
consists of days and nights, half-months, months and seasons. There are 
sixty days and nights for a month and in the months indeed the days and 
nights of the year are included. There are twenty-four half months tuid 
thirteen months and three seasons (of four months each) - they together 
make one hundred parts and the year itself is the hundred and first part. 

2. With the seasons only, it becomes sevenfold, six seasons and the 
year itself the seventh part. He who shines yonder is the light of that year 
Lid its rays are hundredfold and his (sun’s) orbit is the hundred and first 

part 

S. With the quarters, he is sevenfold; his rays that are on the eastern 
direction form one part; those on the southern direcuon foim one part, 
those on the western direcuon, one part; those on the northern direction, 
one part; those on the upward direction, form one part and those in die 
downward direction, form one part. The orb itself is the seventh part. Be¬ 
yond this is the wish-yielding world and wish-yieldmg wur Id is the lmmoi - 
ity. Thus it is immortality that lies beyond this (year). That very light which 

shines yonder is immortal. 

4. That Savita distributes variety of boons in the foim of longevity of life 
to the creatures distributed (far and wide); to the plants and to the trees. 


XII.2_5.8J 


TRANSLATION 


235 


To some he distributes more as it were and to some others less as it were. 
Those to’ whom he distributes more as it were, live longest and those to 
whom he gives less, (live for) shorter duration. 

5. This is how it is said in the (relevant) ** P^ge“We invokethe 
distribution of variety of boons in the form of longevity of life dial Santa, 
“mess of (the actions of)men.” That is the full span of life which » 
lone What is called “long” is endless. When they say, “May your life-span be 
long” Jhey mean, “May you reach the fulMspan of) life”; which amounts to 

say “that world (of immortality) be yours. 

6 Thus the thoughtful speech is saying. That (immortality) has to k® 
obtained either by the hundred and onefold (altar) or by 
hundredyears. Whosoever builds up a hundred and onefo!d v altar) or w 
ever lives for hundred years, he, indeed obtains that (immortality). There¬ 
fore whether knowingly or unknowingly, people say "hundred years lvmg 
make's for that world (of heaven).” Therefore one should not on h.s own 
desire oass away before the full extent of life. By that (ending before hun- 

dreTyearsonone’sown accord) fails to win for him that (heavenly) worMs. 

These are indeed the worlds consisting of days and nights, the 1 If months, 
months, seasons and the year. 

7 Those who pass away in a year which is before the twentieth, enter 

the worlds which consist of (only) days and nights. Those «>» P"* 
rf^the twentieth and before the fortieth year, enter (the worlds of) hatf 
months* ^hose who (pass away) after the fortieth and before the someth 
year, enter (the worlds of) the months. Those(who pass away) after the 
sixtieth and before the eightieth, enter (the worlds of) the seasons. Thos 
(whcrpass away) after the eightieth and before the hundredth, enter (die 
worldT of) theyetm Only those who live for hundred years or more enter 

that world of immortality. 

8. Only by many sacrifices, indeed, a single day or a single night (of 
life) is gained Only he who builds up the hundred and onefold (atarij or 
he whoYves for a hundred years is sure to obtain that supreme munomhty. 
He who keeps him ( WtftyS-Agni) for a year alone makes thM hundr ed-one 

fold (altar). Hence one should build (altar) for such a one (Agn.) who has 

been kept for a year. This much for the divine aspect of it. 


XII.2.5.14] 


TRANSLATION 


237 


9. Now the sacrifical point of view — when he measures that hundred 
and one man’s length with upstretched arms, that is the form of the hun¬ 
dred and onefold (altar). The sevenfold one is by means of the layers; the 
layers are of six rtavya (seasonal) bricks and the fire itself is the seventh 
form. In respect of bricks too it is hundred and onefold. The first fifty bricks 
and the last fifty together make one hundred and the bricks which are laid 
down in between those two sets are the hundred and first part. 

10. He (the Agni) is again hundred and onefold, since he has Yajus as 
his vital power. The first fifty Yajus formulas (for the prdnabhrts) and the last 
fifty formulas together make up one hundred. The Yajus formulas used 
(for the laying of bricks) in between, form the hundred and first part. Thus 
too the sevenfold (Agni) becomes hundred and onefold. Whosoever knows 
this wins even by the sevenfold whatever wish there is both in a life of hun¬ 
dred years and in the hundred and onefold (altar). 

11. All sacrifices upto Agnihotra, are thus hundred and onefold in terms 
of Rks, Yajus formulas, words, syllables, rites and Samans. Whosoever knows 
thus, wins by each one of the sacrifice, whatever wish there is either in a life 
of hundred years, or in the hundred and onefold (altar) or in the seven¬ 
fold (Agni). This is the sacrificial point of view. 

12. Now in respect of the physical body. There are these four sets of five 
fingers and toes; the wrist and elbow make two; the arm, the shoulder blade 
and the collar bone - they together make up twenty-five. In the same way, 
each of these other limbs — that accounts for hundred parts and the trunk 
(of the body) is the hundred and first part. Regarding the sevenfold nature 
of the body, it has been explained. 

13. He is again hundred and onefold. Since he has prana as his vital 
power. He is a hundred and onefold by the pranas limb by limb; for there is 
prana in each limb. Whosoever knows this, wins by this knowledge what¬ 
ever wish there is in a life of hundred years or in the hundred and 
onefold (altar) or in the sevenfold one (Agni) or in all the sacrifices. Be¬ 
cause he has gained a body perfected by all the sacrifices. 

14. There are these three fivefold things — the year, the fire and the 
Purusa (man). Their five forms are food, drink, excellence, light and 
immortality. That food (that grows) in the year is its food, whatever water. 


X1I.2.5.17] 


TRANSLATION 


239 


that is its drink; its excellence is the night; for it is in the night that all beings 
stay together in excellence (bliss); its light is the day and its immortal part is 
the sun. This much is the divine aspect. 

15. Now to the sacrificial aspect - that food which is offered in the fire is 
his food; waters are the drink; the enclosing stones are the excellence; be¬ 
cause the parisrits (enclosing) stones are the forms of nights; the yajusmati 
bricks are the light, because it has the form of day; Agni is the immortal 
part and that is the form of sun. This much alone is to the sacrificial aspect. 

16. Now to the body point of view - whatever food there is in man, that 
is his food; whatever water, that is his water; his excellence are the bones, 
for they are in the forms of the enclosing stones; his light is the marrow, for 
that is the form of the yajusmati (bricks); prana is his immortal part, for that 
is the form of fire. Indeed people say that prana is fire, the prana is the 
immortal. 

17. Now hunger is removed by food; thirst through drink; evil through 
excellence, darkness through light and death through immortality. Who¬ 
soever realises this, in fact, all these disappear from him. He conquers re¬ 
curring death and attains the full life. So let him worship this (take to this as 
means of achieving) immortality in yonder world and as life in this (terres¬ 
trial) world. Some worship it as prana on the ground that prana is fire and 
prana is immortal. It should not be so understood. That prana is 
impermanent. The Yajus passage also reiterates this— “From the middle 
of your life-span, I shall not delink the prana” (which implies that prana is 
otherwise detachable and impermanent). Let him therefore worship it as 
immortality in the other world and as life here (in the terrestrial world) 
below. Thus, indeed, he attains the whole life. (Fifth Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter Two Ends.) 


Chapter Three 
BRAHMANAI 

1. The Gayatri is the prana (of Prajapati, the altar); the Usnik is the eye; 
the Anustubh the speech; the Brhati is the mind and Parikti is the ear. The 
Tristubh is what is here the generative prana and the Jagati is what consti¬ 
tutes the downward breath. These are the seven metres, each having four 
syllables more than the previous one, that are produced in the Agra-altar. 

2. The Gayatri is the prana — that greatness and that vigour is in this 
thousand (bricks). This vigour indeed, belongs to prana . If, while building 
up, his prana is to pass away, this altar itself cannot be built up. By this its 
form that (altar) becomes built (so as to contain) a thousand Gayatris (This 
accounts for one thousand chandasya bricks). 

3. The Usnik is the eye — thus that greatness and that vigour which is in 
the eye, that is in this thousand (bricks). This vigour indeed belongs to the 
eye. If, while building up, his eye-sight is to pass away, this altar itself cannot 
be built up. By this its form that (altar) becomes built (so as to contain) 
thousand Usniks (This accounts for one thousand chandasya bricks). 

4. The Anustubh is the speech — thus that greatness and vigour which 
is in speech, that is in this thousand (bricks). This vigour indeed belongs to 
speech. If the speech of his is to pass away while building up, this (altar) 
itself cannot be built up. By this, its form that (altar) becomes built (so as to 
contain) thousand Anustubhs (This accounts for one thousand chandasya 
bricks). 

5. The Brhati is the mind — thus that greatness and vigour which is in 
mind, that is in this thousand (bricks). This vigour indeed belongs to the 
mind. If his mind were to pass away, while building up, this (altar) cannot 
be built up. By this its form that (altar) becomes built (so as to contain) 
thousand Brhatls (This accounts for one thousand chandasya bricks). 

6. The Parikti is the ear — thus that greatness and that vigour which is 
in the ear, that is in this thousand (bricks). This vigour indeed belongs to 
the ear. If while building up, his hearing faculty fails, this altar itself cannot 


XII.3.2.4] 


TRANSLATION 


243 


be built up. By this its form, that (altar) becomes built (so as to contain) 
thousand Panktls (This accounts for one thousand chandasya bricks).. 

7. The Tristubh is the prana which is generative — thus that greatness 
and that vigour which is in that prana, that is in this thousand (bricks). This 
vigour indeed, belongs to the prana. If, while building up, his prana passes 
away, this altar itself cannot be built up. By this, its form, that (altar) be¬ 
comes built (sd as to contain) thousand Tristubhs (This accounts for one 
thousand chandasya bricks). 

8. The Jagatl is the downward breathing — thus that greatness and that 
vigour which is in the downward breathing is in this thousand (bricks). 
This vigour indeed, belongs to that breathing. If, while building up, his 
downward breathing fails, this (altar) itself cannot be built up. By this its 
form, that (altar) becomes built (so as to contain) thousand Jagatls (This 
accounts for one thousand chandasya bricks). These are the seven metres, 
each successive one, increasing by four syllables from the previous one and 
they are established into one another. One who, knowing thus, recites as 
many number of metres, by so much his (altar) becomes built, metre by 
metre, and all the metres he would have well-uttered, or stotras chanted or 
sastras recited or bricks laid down upon. (First Brahmana Ends.) 

brahmanah 

1. Now they ask, “Which metre and which deity constitute the head of 
the fire-altar”. The metre Gayatri and the deity Agni are the head. “Which 
metre and which deity form (his) neck”— the Usnik metre and Savita, the 
deity form the neck. 

2. “Which metre and which deity are its spine?” The metre Brhati and 
Brhaspati, the deity form the spine. 

3. “Which metre and which deity are its two wings?” The Brhad and 
Rathantara are the metres and the heaven and earth are the deities of the 
two wings. 

4. “Which metre and which deity are its middle part?” The Tristubh 
metre and Indra, the deity form the middle part. 


XI13.3.2] 


TRANSLATION 


245 


5. “Which metre and which deity are its hips?” Jagati metre and sun is 
the deity for the hips. 

6. “Which metre and which deity are for its prana from where the seed 
flows?” The metre is Atichandas and the deity, Prajapati. 

7. “Which metre and which deity for this downward breath?” The metre 
is Yajna Yajnlya and the deity is Vaisvanara. 

8. “Which metre and which deity for the two thighs?” The metre 
Anustubh and the deities Visvedevas are (for) the two thighs. 

9. “Which metre and which deity are his knees?” The metre Pankti and 
that deity, the Maruts are the knees. 

10. “Which metre and which deity for his feet?” The metre Dvipada 
and the deity Visnu are the feet 

11. “Which metre and which deity are the pranas ?” The metre is 
Vicchandas and the deity Vayu are the pranas. 

12. “Which metre and which deity constitute the deficient and exces¬ 
sive parts?” The metre with less number of syllables and that deity, the wa¬ 
ters are the deficient and excessive parts. This then is the knowledge of the 
body (of the altar) and the deity that enters into it Is also such like. In this 
(b uildin g up of the altar) there is nothing beyond what is said, to enable 
one to attain divine world. (Second Brahmana Ends.) 

RRAHMANAHI 

1. Once upon a time Dhlra Satapameya approached Mahasalajabaia. 
(The latter asked) “After knowing what, you have come to me”. (Dhira 
said) “I know Agni”. “Which Agni you know? , He asked again. He replied, 
“Speech”. (Again he asked) “What will become of him who knows that 
Agni?” “He becomes eloquent”, he said, “speech will not desert him.” 

2. Jabala said, “You know Agni, knowing what else you have come to 
me?” “I know Agni” - “What Agni you know?” - “The Eye.” - What be¬ 
comes of him who knows the Agni?” “He possesses vision”, he said, “the eye 
does not fail him.” 


XU3.4.1] 


TRANSLATION 


247 


3. Jabala said, “You know Agni; knowing what else you have come to 
me?” - “I know Agni” - “What Agni you know?” “The mind.” “What be¬ 
comes of him who knows that Agni.” “He becomes thoughtful”, he said, 
“the mind does not fail him.” 

4. Jabala said, “You know Agni; knowing what else you have come to 
know?” - “I know Agni - “What Agni you know?” - “The ear.” - “What be¬ 
comes of him who knows that Agni?” “He comes to possess hearing power”, 
he said. “The ear does not fail here.” 

5. Jabala said, “You know Agni; knowing what else you have come to 
me ?” - “I know Agni” - “What Agni you know?” - “That Agni which is every¬ 
thing here” - on hearing the reply, he (Jabala) stepped down to him and 
said “Sir, teach me that Agni.” 

6. He(Dhira) said, “ Prana is indeed that Agni.” When man sleeps, his 
speech enters into the prana; his eye (sight) enters the prana ; the 
mind (enters into) the prana. , his ear(enters into) the prana. When he wakes 
up they (speech etc.) emerge from the prana - this much at the level of 

the physical body. 

7. Now to the divine view point — that which is speech is no doubt, 
Agni* that which is the eye is of course, yonder sun; that which is mind, that 
is the moon; that which is the ear is the quarters; that which is the prana is 
indeed this Vayu (wind) which blows. When the fire goes up to the wind, it 
gets lost in the wind and hence people say of it, “It has extinguished” for it 
gets lost in the wind. When the sun sets, it enters the wind, the moon too. 
The quarters are also established in the wind and out of the wind they are 
bom again. When one who knows thus passes away from this world, he 
enters into the fire by his speech, (enters) the sun by his eye; (enters) the 
moon by his mind, the quarters by his ear and the wind by his prana. He 
having become these (fire, sun, moon and quarters), becomes whichever 
of these deities he desires to and goes about. (Third Brahmana Ends.) 


brahmana iv 

1. Sevtaketu, son of Aruni was once about to perform a sacrifice. His 
father asked him, “Who are the Rtviks you have invited?” 


XII.3.4.5] 


TRANSLATION 


249 


2. He said, “This Vaisvavasavya is my Hota.” To him (Vaisvavasavya), 
the father asked, “O Brahman, Vaisvavasavya, do you know the four great 
things?” “I know them sir”, he replied. “Do you know the four great ones of 
the great ?” “Yes sir.” “Do you know the four vratas?” he asked. “Yes sir.” “Do 
you know the four vratas of vratas?” “I know sir” he said. Do you know the 
four things related to Kd?” “I know sir”, he said. “Do you know the four kyas 
(sacred to ka) of the four kyas?” “I know sir” he said. “Do you know the four 
Arkas (worshippable) of the four effulgences?” “I know them sir”, he said. 

3. “Do you know the Arka”, he asked. “Now you revered sir may tell us” 
he replied. “Do you know the two leaves of Arka?' “You may tell us.” “Do you 
know the two flowers of Arka?” He replied, “You may tell us.” “Do you know 
the two sheaths of Arka ?” “You may tell us,” he said. “Do you know the two 
opened lipshaped parts of a Arfc^pod?” “You may tell us sir” he said. “Do 
you know the nodule in Arka bud?” “You may tell us sir”, he said. “Do you 
know the root of Arka?” “You may tell us sir , he replied. 

4. When he asked, “Do you know the four great things am do you 
know the four great among the great”, he meant Agni, as the great one 
and the great among great are the plants and trees; because they are his 
food. Vayu is the second great thing and the great one for that great is 
waters; for they are his food. Aditya is the third great one and his great of 
the great is the moon; because that is his food. Purusa is the fourth great 
and his great of the great are the.catde; since they are his food. These are 
the four great things and these are the four great of great. These are the 
four vratas and these are the vratas of the vratas. These four are related to 
ka and these are the four kyas of the kyas. These are four effulgences and 
these are the four effulgences of effulgences. 

5. When he asked, “Do you know Arka”, he meant Purusa. By Arka-parne 
(two leaves of Arka), he meant his two ears. By Arka puspe (the two flowers 
of Arka), he meant the two eyes. By Arka kosyau (the two sheaths of Arka), 
he meant the two nostrils. By Arka samudge (the two open lip shaped parts) 
he meant two lips. By Arka dhdndh (grains of Arka) he meant the teeth. By 
Arkasthila (nodule in the bud), he meant the tongue. By Arka mula \the 
root of Arka) he meant the food. This Agni- altar is Arka, the Purusa. He who 
thus worships Agni as Affaf-Purusa, he realises “I am Agni Arka and with 
that knowledge this Agnt-altar, Arka gets built up in his own bod). ( Fourth 
Brahmana Ends.) 


XI1.3.5.3] TRANSLATION 251 

BRAHMANAV 

1. Now, he who blows here (VayU) is the Yajus ; for, even while he passes 
along, he creates all these and everything here is created after him who 
moves along. This is how the Yajus is nothing but Vayu. The mover (one 
who enables the wind to blow) is this space, for, it is along this space (yat 
and ju) representing the moving and the mover. That yat (the mover) is 
this (Adhvaryu) for when he moves about (performing the rites) the Rk 
and Samans carry that Yajus which is based on the Rk and Saman. Hence, it 
is that the Adhvaryu who does his work with the very same grahas (Soma 
cups) though each time different stotras (Samans ) and different sastras ( Rks ) 
are recited. It is like (the same person) driving on the first pair (of horses), 
again drives by the second pair. Now Agni is in front and these creatures 
worship after keeping Agni in the forefront. The sun is (symbolising) mo¬ 
tion, for as soon as he rises, everything here is activated (moves). This is 
the divine aspect of Yajus with the preparatory rites. 

2. Now its physical aspect. The Yajus is the prana, because, while mov¬ 
ing (yat), it creates all these. All these get generated after the movement of 
the prana. So the Yajus is the prana. This space which is inside the body is 
the “ju” or space, because of which this (prana) moves. So, prana arid space 
are the “yat” and “ju” (moving and the mover). So, Yajus is indeed prana; 
for the prana moves. The Yajus is indeed food; for it is by food one gets 
produced and by food one moves. Food carries along that Yajus based on 
food. Hence different food is fed into the same channel of prana. Mind is 
in front; because the mind is in the forefront of the pranas. The eye is the 
movement; for it is with the (help of) eyes this body moves. Such are the 
firmly established divine and physical aspects of the Yajus with the prepara¬ 
tory performance. Indeed, whosoever thus understands this Yajus with the 
preparatory performance (knows it both in the divine angle and in the 
physical angle). 

3. He indeed succeeds in reaching the completion of the sacrifice, un¬ 
scathed and unharmed. He becomes the supreme in the forefront, enjoyer 
of food and the over-lord. If anyone in his clan wants to be a contestant 
against him who knows this, (that rival) will not be populai nong his 
people. Only the one who respects him (acknowledges the superiority of 
the knower of this) becomes popular in his clan and becomes capable of 
supporting his kinsmen. 


XII.3.5.7] 


TRANSLATION 


253 


4. This is for the supermost Brahman (secret knowledge) for, there is 
nothing superior to this. The supermost one who thus knows it becomes 
most venerable to his kinsmen. He who realises this secret, before which 
there is nothing and beyond which there is nothing, he becomes more 
prosperous among his equals and more and more prosperous progeny will 
be borne out of him. If anyone desires to reach his greatness, let him stand 
thus in reverence before him and never (think) ill of him. 

5. Indeed the secret import is the essence of this Yajus. And with what¬ 
ever (small) Yajus formula the Adhvaryu, collects the Soma cup — it is equal 
to both the stotra and the sastra and rises up to (the status of) both of them. 
Just as whatever (little) essence of the food makes the entire food protected 
(rendered tasty) and pervades the whole food and leads to satiation, so too 
just as one gets satiated by the food, he feels as if he has succeeded. The 
pleasure and the knowledge thereof is the soul and all the gods do have 
that pleasure in their souls. This indeed is the true knowledge that exclu¬ 
sively belongs to the gods. He who knows this is no more a human being. 
He is indeed one among the gods. 

6. Priyavrata Rauhinayana, knowing this, once spoke unto the blowing 
wind — “Your own nature is joy; blow you either this way or that way” — so 
indeed it now blows. Therefore, any one who wants some boons from the 
gods let him pray to them with this ( mantra spoken by Priyavrata) — “Your 
own nature is joy. I desire for such and such. Let it be granted to me.” (By 
this) whatever desire he has, will be fulfilled to him. For, whoever knows 
this, attaining this contentment, this success, this joy and this (elation of) 

soul. 

7. The Yajus is (uttered) in undertone, indistinct. For, the Yajus is prana 
and prana is of silent abode. If any one were to say (of that Adhvaryu) who 
pronouces (this Yajus) distinctly “he has uttered distinctly the indistinct deity, 
his prana shall pass away from him”, really it will happen so. He who knows 
its indistinct (way of) pronouncement, he blossoms forth in fame and glory. 
In undertone, the Adhavaryu collects the Soma cup with the Yajus. Once 
drawn and deposited, it becomes distinct. With the Yajus muttered in un¬ 
dertone, the fire-altar is built up and once built up, it gets manifested. With 
muffled chanting of Yajus, he cooks the oblauons and once cooked and 
taken up for Offering, it becomes manifest. In this manner, whatever is 


XII.3.5.7] 


TRANSLATION 


255 


done in undertone, once it is done and made ready, becomes distinct (mani¬ 
fested). He who knows thus the distinct manifestation of it, he becomes 
prominent with feme, glory and brahmanical lustre. He becomes well-known 
quickly and he becomes the Yajus itself and people identify him by the 
Yajus. (Fifth Brahmana Ends.) 

(Chapter Three Ends.) 


Chapter Four 


BRAHMANAI 

1. When the gods restored the withered Prajapati, they poured him, 
who had the form of seed, into the ukha, (fire-pan), the womb. Ukha is in¬ 
deed a womb. In the course of a year they prepared this food for him, 
namely the fire-altar built up. They enclosed it with a body and it became 
the body itself. Therefore food enclosed in a body, becomes the body itself. 

2. Similarly this Yajamana pours himself, in the form of the seed, into 
the ukha, the womb. The ukha is of course a womb. Thus he prepares the 
food for itin the course of ayear, by the build up fire-altar. He covers it with 
a body and it becomes body itself. So, food covered by a body becomes the 
body itself. 


3. He places him (the Ukhya-Agni in the altar) saying “ vausat * For, vauk 
is Agni and sat is the food. This six layered fire-altar making this food, he 
places it on it He offers it to him proportionate to his body. For, food which 
is proportionate to the body, nourishes, it does not affect. If it is more it 
affects and if it is less, it does not nourish. 

4. Now that Arka, is the same as this fire which is brought here. For that, 
this Kya is his food. So this altar which is built up becomes Arkya in respect 
of the Yajus. He (the Agni) is the great ( mahan) and this vrata (rite) is his 
food. That makes the Mahdvrata Saman, in respect of the Saman. This Agni 
is uk and its food is tha. That makes the Uktha (the sastra) in respect of the 
Rk. Thus, while being only one, it is really threefold. 

5. Now Indra and Agni were created as the Brahman (priesthood) and 
Ksatra (martial class), where the Brahman was Agni and the Ksatra was 
Indra. When created, the two were separate. They said (to themselves), “By 
remaining (separate) like this, we will not be able to create the beings; let 
us both become of one form.* They both merged into one form. 

6. Those very Indra and Agni are these gold-plate and goldman. The 
gold-plate is Indra and the goldman is Agni. They happen to be golden 
and gold means lustre. Indra and Agni are the light. Gold means immortal¬ 
ity and Indra and Agni are immortal life. 


XII.4.1.12] 


TRANSLATION 


259 


7. They are building up these two — Indra and Agni. That which is of 
bricks is indeed Agni. That is why, it (the brick) is baked in fire. Whatever is 
baked by fire is itself fire. That which is of loose soil is Indra indeed. That is 
why, it (the loose soil) is not baked by fire, lest it should (also) become Agni 
and not Indra. Thus it is these two - Indra and Agni, that are built up (as 
citi). 

8. That placing of fire on the built up altar is (the process of) these two 
becoming of one form. So only those two with this (one) form, create these 
creatures. Now Agni, indeed, is this single brick and into this the whole 
Agni passes. This is the one perfect brick. This is the syllable (aksara or 
unperishing) U vaug.” Into this one the entire Agni passes. This is the per¬ 
fect syllable (aksara). 

9. On seeing this, the rsi said, “I praise that which is (existent) in the 
past and in future; that great Brahman, the non-dual Aksara (unperishing 
principle).’* This is the manyfold Brahman, the non-dual Aksara. All gods 
and all beings pass into that Aksara. This is the Brahman and the Ksatra; 
Brahman being Agni and Indra the Ksatra. Indra-Agni constitute the 
Visvedevas and Visvedevas are the Vis (commoners). Therefore this Brah¬ 
man is priesthood, martial class and commoners (all in one). 

10. Realising this, once, Syaparna Sayakayana said. If this sacrificial 
performance of mine succeeds, my own progeny will become the kings; my 
kinsmen will be the brahmins, mine the martial class and mine the people 
of the Salvas.” Even with this much completion of my (sacrifical) rites, my 
succeeding generations will dominate the Salvas in both aspects j>i os- 
perity and fame); because this altar is prosperity; it is fame and it is the 
eater of food. This is what Sandiiya after instructing Vamakaksayana said, 
"You will become prosperous, famous and enjoyerof food.” Indeed, he who 
knows thus becomes prosperous, famous and enjoyer of food. 

11. This Agni is indeed Prajapati. The gods having restored this Agni- 
Prajapati in the course of a year, prepared this food for him, which is the 
Soma cup called Makdvratiya. 

12. The Adhvaryu draws it by means of a graha (cup) and while he 
draws it, the Udgata puts into it the essence by (chanting) the Makdvrata 



XII.4.1.17] 


TRANSLATION 


261 


Saman. This Mahavrata is (equal to) all the Samans. So he puts essence into 
it by means of all the Samans. Then the Hota puts essence into it by the 
Mahad Uktha (chants of Rk). This Mahad Uktha is (equal to) all the Rks. So 
he puts essence into it by means of all the Rks. When they (Udgata and his 
associates) chant the stotra and (Hota and his associates) recite the sastra. 

13. In that when the Vasatkara is uttered (the Adhvaryu) makes the 
offering to him (Agni-Prajapati). Now vauk is this Agni and sat is this six¬ 
fold food. Having prepared it, he offers it to him proportionate to his body. 
For, food which is proportionate to the body satisfies and does not hurt. If 
it is more, it affects and if it is less, it does not nourish. 

14. Now that Aika is this fire-altar built up; and the Kya (that which 
belongs to Ka) is this food; i.e. the Mahavrata Graha. Together they make 
the Arkya in respect of the Yajus. The great one ( mahdn) is this Agnj-altar 
and this rite (vrata) is his food; and together they make the Mahavrata in 
respect of the Saman. Uk is this Agwi-altar and tha is his food and together 
they make the Uktha in respect of the Rk. Thus, even though it is only one, 
it is (actually) known as threefold. 

15. And this Agnfr-altar is Prajapati, the year. The Savitra oblations con¬ 
stitute its one half and the Vaisvakarma oblations the other half. The Savitra 
has eight units (seven Rk chants and one Yajus) and the Vaisvakarmana 
has eight units (of eight Rks). That which is offered in between them is the 
seventeenfold Prajapati. What is a unit in human terms is the aksara of 
syllable in the case of gods. 

16. Lama (hair) accounts for two syllables. Tvak (skin) makes two syl¬ 
lables; asrk (blood) has three; medas (fat) accounts for two; mdmsa (flesh) 
consists of two; snava (sinew) has two; asthi (bone) has two and majjd (mar¬ 
row) has two syllables - these (together) form the sixteen units. The prana 

(life-breath) that moves among all these is the seventeenfold Prajapati. 

/ 

17. Therefore these sixteen units carry the food for this prana. When 
they cease to convey (food) it (prana) consumes these (sixteen) themselves 
and passes out (of the body). Hence, he who is hungry here feels very un¬ 
easy since he is being consumed by the prana. Hence he who is undergoing 
mortification (due to starvation or illness) becomes lean as it were because 
he is getting eaten by the vital airs. 


XII.4.1.23] 


TRANSLATION 


263 


18. Now for that seventeenfold Prajapati, they prepare this 
seventeenfold food, the Soma sacrifice. Those sixteen units of his are these 
sixteen priests. One should not have a seventeenth priest, lest one should 
over do. That essence which is here (in the form of) oblations offered is 
the seventeenfold food. 

19. When they recite the stotra and they chant the sastra thereafter, he 
(Adhvaryu), offers while uttering the Vasatkara. Now vauk is this Agni and 
sat is this sixfold food. Having prepared it, he offers what is proportionate 
to his body. Food which is proportionate to the body satisfies and does not 
harm the body. If it is more, it affects and if it is less, it does not nourish. 

20. That Arka is indeed this Agn t-altar that is built-up. This food of his is 
the Kya; the Soma sacrifice and together they form the Arkya in respect of 
Yajus. The great one ( mahan ) is this Agn t-al tar and this rite ( vrata ), his food 
; and together they form the Mahavrata in respect of Sdman. Uk is this Agnir 
altar and tha is his food and together they make the (Mahad) Uktha in re¬ 
spect of the Rk. Thus though only one, it becomes threefold. 

21. With this food he soared upwards and he who soared upwards is 
yonder sun and that food with which he soared upwards is that moon. 

22. This Arka is the same as the one who burns (sun) and this Kya is his 
food, the moon. Thus it becomes Arkya in respect of the Yajus. He (sun) is 
the great one (mahan) and this rite (vrata) is his food. Thus it becomes 
Mahavrata in respect of Sdman. This one (sun) is the uk and his food is tha. 
Thus it becomes (Mahad) Uktha in respect of theitt. In this way that single 
one is known threefold. This is the divine aspect. 

23. Now the physical aspect - Arka is the vital air and Kya is its food. 
That becomes Arkya in respect of Yajus. The great one (mahan) is vital air 
and this vrata (rite) is its food. That becomes Mahavrata in respect of Sdman. 
The uk is the vital air and tha is its food. That becomes ( Mahad) Uktha in 
respect of Rk. Thus being single it is called threefold. Thus that Agni is that 
sun from the divine angle as well as from the physical angle, (First Brahmana 

Ends.) 


XII.4.2.8] 


TRANSLATION 


265 


BRAHMANAn 

1. Prajapati, the year is indeed Agrai-altar and king Soma is the moon 
and he explained about himself to Yajnavacas Rajas tambayana thus, “As 
many units of effulgence I have, so many bricks I have.” For, this Prajapati, 
the year, has seven hundred and twenty days, (correspondingly) he has 
seven hundred and twenty bricks. There are three hundred and sixty parihtt 
bricks and three hundred and sixty yajusmati bricks. This Prajapati, the year, 
produced all this creation; those that breathe and those that do not breathe 
-both gods and men. After producing all this creation, he felt as if emptied 
out and was afraid of death. 

2. He contemplated, “How do I absorb all this creation into myself; 
how to put them back into me and how do I again become the body of all 
this creation?” 

3. He split his body into two halves, with three hundred bricks in one 
half and the same (number) in the other. But he did not succeed in achiev¬ 
ing his objective. 

4. He split himself into three, each of the three with three sets of eighty 
bricks (i.e. two hundred and forty in each of the three parts to make seven 
hundred and twenty); but did not succeed. He made himself into four parts 
with one hundred and eighty bricks in each part; again he did not succeed. 

5. He split himself into five parts with one hundred and forty-four bricks 
in each, but still did not succeed. 

6. He made himself into six parts and each of them had one hundred 
and twenty bricks each; and he did not succeed. Nevertheless he did not 
split himself into seven. 

7. He made himself into eight parts and each with ninety bricks; but 
did not succeed. 

8. He split into nine and had eighty bricks for each part; but still he did 
not succeed. 


XII.4.2.18] 


TRANSLATION 


267 


9. He made himself into ten parts with seventy-two bricks in each* but 
did not succeed. He did not split into eleven parts. 

10. He split into twelve parts with sixty bricks in each; but did not succeed. 
He did not try thirteen fold and fourteen fold. 

11. He made himself into fifteen parts with forty-eight bricks in each; 
but did not succeed. 

12. He split into sixteen parts with forty-five bricks in each; but did not 
succeed. He did not make himself into seventeen fold. 

13. He split into eighteen parts with forty bricks in each; but did not 
succeed. He did not make himself nineteen fold. 

14. He split into twenty parts with thirty-six bricks in each; but did not succeed 
He did not try twenty-one fold, nor twenty-two fold nor twentythree fold 

15. He split himself into twenty-four divisions with thirty bricks in each. 
There he stopped at the fifteenth splitting. Because he stopped splitting at 
that fifteenth time, there are fifteen forms (units) of the waxing and fifteen 
forms (units) of the waning (moon). 

16. Now, because he split himself into twenty-four parts, the year has 
twenty-four half months. With these twenty-four parts each with thirty bricks 
for their bodies, he had not developed (his full stature). He saw the fifteen 
parts of the day, as his own bodies, namely, the muhurtas (which are) 
lokampma bricks. Similarly, fifteen ( muhurtas) of the night. Because they 
readily (or from time to time muhurtas come to) save (found handy to fill 
up or trdyante), they are muhurtas. Though they are small but (still) fill up 
these worlds (space) they are lokamprnas. 

17. That yonder one (sun) bakes everything here, by means of days 
and nights, by half-months and months, by seasons and by the year. This 
Agni (fire) is (again) baking what is baked by that one (sun). That is why, 
Bharadvaja called him (Agni) as the baker of the baked; because he bakes 
what is already baked by him (sun). 

18. These ( muhurtas ) total to ten thousand and eight hundred. He 
(Prajapati) stopped at this (point of) ten thousand eight hundred. 


X1I.4.2.24] 


TRANSLATION 


269 


19. He then looked around at all the created things. He saw all those 
created things in the Trayi Vidya (the triple Vedas), because it is in that 
( Trayi) , there are the forms of all the metres, of all the stomas, , of all the 
pranas and of all the gods. This is what exists because it is indeed immortal. 
That which is immortal exists, this is (also) what is mortal. 

20. He realised, “Indeed all the existing things are in the Trayi (triple 
Vedic lore) and so I will fashion for myself a body so that it includes the 
entire threefold lore.” 

21. He arranged the Rks into twelve thousand Brhatls; this much are 
the Rks created by Prajapati. They in the thirtieth arrangement ended up 
in Pankti metres. Since they ended up in the thirtieth alignment, there are 
thirty nights for a month. Since they (ended up) in Panktis, he (Prajapati) 
is Pankta (fivefold). Thus ten thousand and eight hundred Panktis came 
into being. 

22. Then he arranged the other two Vedas into twelve thousand Brhatls 
— eight thousand of the Yajus and four thousand of the Sdman. Because 
that much was what was created by Prajapati in these two Vedas. At the 
thirtieth alignment it ended up in Pankti metre. Because they ended up at 
the thirtieth arrangement, there are thirty nights for a month; and because 
in Panktis (they ended up) he Prajapati is Pankta (fivefold). Thus ten thou¬ 
sand and eight hundred Panktis came into being. 

23. All the three Vedas totalled to ten thousand eight hundred eighties 
of syllables (i.e. 10,800 x 80 = 8,64,000 syllables). By each mukurta, he gained 
eighty (two Panktis together forming eighty syllables) and by every muhurta, 
one set of eighty is completed. 

24. He (Prajapati) passed his own self in the form of metres, stomas, prana 
and deities, as seed into the womb, namely the ukhd which is in the form of 
these three worlds. In the course of a half -month, the first body (of his) 
was fashioned; in another (half-month), the next body, in a further one, 
the next. Thus in a year, he is completely fashioned. When he placed the 
enclosing stone, he laid down a night. With that he placed fifteen muhurtas 
and in placing fifteen muhurtas, he placed fifteen (times) eighty sets (of the 
syllables of the sacred lore). When he laid down a brick with a Yajus for- 


XII.4.3.1] 


TRANSLATION 


271 


mula ( yajusmatl brick) he placed a day. With that he laid down fifteen 
muhurtas and in placing fifteen muhurtas, he laid down fifteen (times) eighth- 
sets (of the syllables of the sacred lore). In this way he puts this Trayi into 
his own self and made it his own. By means of this he came to contain 
(within his body) all existing things; including the metres, stomas, pranas 
and deities. Having become one with all these, he ascended. He who thus 
ascended is that moon. He who bums yonder (sun) is his foundation; be¬ 
cause he is built up over him. On him he was built up out of his own self. 
Thus he made him out of his own self. 

25. When he (the Yajamana) intending to build up an altar gets initi¬ 
ated, just as Prajapati poured his own self made into seed into the ukha, the 
womb, he (Yajamana) pours into the ukha , his own self, made of metres, 
stomas , pranas and deities, as seed into the womb, i.e. the ukha. In the course 
of a half-month, his first body is fashioned, in another (half-month) the 
next (body) and in yet another (half-month) his next (body) - thus in a 
year he is made up whole and complete. When he places a parisnt (enclos¬ 
ing stone), he lays down a night and with that he places fifteen muhurtas 
and in placing the fifteen muhurtas, he lays down fif teen (times) eighty sets 
(of the syllables of the sacred lore). When he places a brick accompanied 
by Yajus formula ( yajusmati brick, he places a day and along with that, fif¬ 
teen muhurtas and with the muhurtas, fifteen (times) eighty sets (of the syl¬ 
lables). In this way, he puts that Trayi into his own self and makes It his 
own. By means of this he comes to contain (within his body) the forms of 
all the existing things; the forms of metres, of stomas, of prdnasand of deities. 
Having become the forms of all that, he ascends upwards. He who shines 
yonder is his foundation, for over him he is built up, on him he is built up 
out of his own self and generates him (altar). He who knows thus, depart¬ 
ing from this world, passes into that body composed of metres, stomas, pranas 
and deities and assumes all those forms. He who performs the rite with this 
knowledge, or even knows (about) this, ascends upwards. (Second 

Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMANAHI 

1. This year is no doubt, death; because it liquidates the lives of mor¬ 
tals by means of days and nights and they the (eventually). So this (year) 
itself is Mrtyu. He who knows this year as death, his life, the day and night 
do not destroy before old age, and he attains his full span of life. 


XII.43.8] 


TRANSLATION 


273 


2. This (year) is itself, the Aritaka (one who causes the end) because, 
he, by means of day and night causes the mortals to reach the end (pf their 
life-time) and they die. So he is indeed Antaka. He who knows him (the 
year) to be the Antaka, does not reach before old age, the end of his life by 
day and night and he attains the full span of life. 

3. The gods were afraid of this liquidator; Mrtyu; the year, Prajapati; lest 
he, by day and night should make them reach the end of life. 

4. They organised these sacrificial rituals; the Agnihotra, the 
Darsapurnamasa sacrifices, the Caturmasya rites, the Pasubandha and the 
Soma sacrifices. By performing these sacrificial rituals they could not attain 
immortality. 

5. They also built up a fire-altar. They laid down countless enclosing 
stones, coundess yajusmatl bricks and coundess lokamprna bricks. Just as 
some persons do even today saying “the gods did so.” Even then they did 
not attain immortality. 

6. They went on propitiating and toiling in their endeavour to attain 
immortality. Prajapati told them, “You are not laying down all my forms. 
(By not so doing) You make me either too large or leave me defective. That 
is why, you do not become immortal.” They said, “You yourself tell us that 
(method) by which all your forms can be laid down.” 

7. He said, “You lay down three hundred and sixty parisrits (enclosing 
stones), three hundred and sixty yajusmah bricks and one thousand eight 
hundred lokamprnas. This way you will be placing all my forms and will be¬ 
come immortal.” The gods did so and then became immortal. 

8. That Mrtyu (death) spoke to the gods, “Surely in this way all men will 
become immortal and then what share will be (left over) there for me?” 
They replied, “Hereafter no one shall become immortal with his body; only 
when you shall have taken away the body as your share, he who is to be¬ 
come immortal either thropgh knowledge or through action shall become 
immortal after separating himself from the body.” When they said,“through 
the knowledge or through action” this (knowledge of) the Agni-altar is that 
knowledge and this (building up) of the Agn^altar is the action (they meant). 


X1I.4.3.15] 


TRANSLATION 


275 


9. Those who know this, doubtless and those who perform this action, 
they after death, come to life again and having come to life, attain 
immortality. He who does not know this or who does not perform this ac¬ 
tion, comes back to life after death and again become the food of this 
(death) as mortals. 

10. When he builds up the Agni- altar, he obtains (the result of achiev¬ 
ing) the Agni, Prajapati, the year, the death and the liquidation, whom the 
gods achieved. He is laying him down whom the gods thus (then) laid down. 
He attains his nights by means of the parisrits (enclosing stones) and by 
means of yajusmati bricks, he attains his days, half-months, months and 
seasons; and by means of the lokamprnds, he attains the muhurtas. 

11. Those very parisrits which enable him to attain the nigh t regions are 
themselves the representatives of the nights and they are sixty and three 
hundred. Because there are three hundred and sixty nights for a year. 
Twenty-one out of them, he lays around the Garhapatyarahar; two less than 
eighty around the Dhisnya hearths and two hundred and sixty-one around 
the Ahavanlya. 

12. Then the yajusmati bricks (are laid down as follows) - the fistfull of 
darbha grass, the logestakds (four); the lotus-leaf, the gold-plate and the gold 
man, the two sruks (offering spoons), the naturally perforated brick, the 
durva brick; the dviyajus brick, the two retassicds; one visvajyoti, two rtavyd 
(seasonal) bricks, the asddha; the tortoise, the mortar and pestle, the ukhd, 
the five pasusirsas (heads of animals); fifteen apasyas , five chandasyds, and 
fifty pranabhrtas- all together ninety-eight constitute the first layer. 

13. Now the second layer (consists of) five asvin bricks; two rtavyds (sea¬ 
sonal bricks), five vaisvadevyd bricks, five pranabhrtas; five apasyas and nine¬ 
teen vayasyas — these forty-one form the second layer. 

14. Now the third - the (one) naturally perforated brick; five disyas (re¬ 
gional bricks); one visvajyoti, four rtavyds, ten pranabhrtas, thirty-six chandasyds 
and fourteen vdlakhilyas . These seventy-one form the third layer. 

15. Now the fourth - eighteen prathma (stoma bricks); then twelve (made 
of ten sprtas and two rtavyds) then (Srstis) seventeen totalling forty-seven 
constitute the fourth layer. 



XII.43.19] 


TRANSLATION 


277 


16. Then the fifth-five asapatnasr, forty virdj bricks; twenty-nine 
stomabhagas, five nakasadas', five pancacudas, thirty-one chandasyd bricks; eight 
gdrhapatyas, eight punascitis, two rtavyds", one xrisvajyott, xnkarnv, one natu 11, 
perforated brick; the asmdmth spots and the fire placed on the altar; these 
are hundred and thirty-eight constituting the fifth layer. 

17. All these together make five short of four hundred. Of these, three 
hundred and sixty, supplying the place of days, are the ones by which the 
days are obtained. They are the replicas of the days. There are three hun¬ 
dred and sixty of them, corresponding to three hundred and sixty days in 
the year. For the thirty-six (additional days of intercalary months), thePuii$a 
(loose soil) is the thirty-sixth. Twenty-four of them supply the place of half¬ 
months and are the ones by which the half-months are obtained. They are 
the replicas of the half-months. The remaining twelve supply the place of 
months and are the ones by which the months are obtained. They are the 
replicas of the months. Then to avoid any vacancy in the place of the sea¬ 
sons, these twelve (representing the months) by two and two (six pairs) 
provide the place of the seasons. And then the lokamprnds (space filling 
bricks), supply the place of muhurta and are the ones by which the muhurtas 
are obtained. They are the replicas of the muhurtas. There are ten thou¬ 
sand-eight hundred of them, for there are so many muhurtas in the year. 
Out of these, twenty one (lokamprnds), he lays down in Garhapatya, and 
seventy-eight in the Dhisnya hearths. The remaining in Ahavaniya. This 
much is the form of the year. They are obtained and laid down here. 

18 . Now, there are some who want to get this total (of 10,800 lokamprnds) 
in the Ahavaniya itself. Their logic is that those fire-altars are different and 
why should we have those (bricks of the Garhapatya and Dhisnyas) taken 
into acco un t here (in Ahavaniya)? One should not do so. Actually he is 
building up ten fire-altars — eight Dhisnya hearths; the Ahavaniya and the 
Garhapatya. That is why, Agro-altar is (collectively) called Virad and there 
are ten syllables in the Virad metre. All these (ten altars) are indeed re¬ 
ferred to as one Agro-altar. These are all (only) the forms of that (Agni). 
Just as Hays and nights, half-months, months and seasons are but the forms 
of the year, these (ten altars) are the forms of the (single) Agnfaltar. 

19. Those who do as above (excluding the bricks of Garhapatya and 
Dhisnya hearths) are really keeping out those forms of his (Agro-altar) and 
create confusion. They create discord and rivalry between the Ksatra and 


XII.4.4.4] 


TRANSLATION 


279 


thesis (nobility and peasantry). Surely, on the Agnidhnyahe th he p 
the spotted stone and takes it into account. Why then he should not take 
others into account’ That (altar) by which they ward off Nirrti, the evil, is 

the eleventh. 

^. Regarding this they ask, “Why then, they do not take into account 
here those (bricks of the Nirrti altar)?” That is because, he makes no offer- 
ihg on them. Only by offering, a brick becomes whole and complete. 

21. Now they ask, “How are these (bricks) laid down without becoming 
excessive?” These (bricks) are his (Agni-altar’s) strength and man’s strength 
is never excessive. Thus whosoever knowing this, performs this holy rite, or 
he who only knows this, fashions this Prajapati wholly and in entirety. (Third 

Brahmana Ends.) 


brahmana iv 

1. Prajapati, while creating the creatures was attached all around by the 
sinful Mrtyu (death). He observed tapas (austerities) for one thous id years, 
hoping to get rid of that evil. 

2. While practising tapas, flames shooted up from the pores of his h 
and those flames are those stars. As many stars there are, he has so many 
pores of hair and as many pores of hairs he has, so many are the muhurtas 
of (a sacrifice) lasting for thousand years. 

3. He on the thousandth year, cleansed himself and that (by which) he 
cleansed himself is that Vayu which blows and cleanses. That evil which was 
cleansed (removed) is this body. But who is the human being capable of 
keeping on (his body) for thousand years (since man’s life is only hundered 
years). It is by Vidya that one who knows it is capable of holding on for 

thousand years. 

4 . One should consider (or worship) all these bricks as thousandfold. 
Each of the parisrits (enclosing stones) should be considered as containing 
(equivalent to) thousand nights; each (of the 360yajufmaSs) that holds the 
day to be considered as containing thousand days; each(of the twenty-four 
yajusamaUs out of the remaining 36) that holds the days as having thou- 


XII.4.5.1] 


TRANSLATION 


281 


sand days; each (of the twelve remaining yajusmafis) that holds the month 
as having thousand months; each pair of the twelve (yajusmatis) that holds 
the seasons as containing one thousand seasons; and each (of the 
lokamprnds) that holds one muhurta as containing thousand muhurtas. The 
year itself should be considered as containing thousand years. Whoever 
knows thus the Agni-altar as containing the year, he knows the thousandth 
kald (unit) of his (Agrot-altar) and he who does not know him thus, does 
not know even one thousandth kald (unit) of Agnt-altar. But he who knows 
this or who performs this sacred rite, obtains this whole and entire Prajapati, 
Agni altar whom Prajapati (himself) obtained. So he who knows thus should 
undergo tapas (austerity). Indeed when he who knows this practises tapas 
(abstinence) upto sexual intercourse, every part of his comes to share that 
heavenly world. 

5. This is what has been explained in the Rk (stanza) - “It is for noth¬ 
ing that the gods favour the tired (one who is emaciated by tapas) (mean¬ 
ing) the efforts of one who knows thus do not go in vain; (as a reward) for 
that the gods safeguard all his (actions or all his parts). (I ourth Btahmana 

Ends.) 


brahmanav 

1. Now (we deal with) the injunctions contained in the Upanisads-the 
Sakayanin consider Agnt-altar as Vayu. But some others say that Agn is 
Aditya (sun). Perhaps Sraumatya or Halingava it was who said that Agni is, 
no doubt, Vayu and that is why, when the Adhvaryu performs the final rite 
he (as sacrifice personified) enters into that (Vayu)i. Satyayani is of the view 
that Agroi-altar is the year itself; the spring is his head, the summer is his 
right wing, the rainy season, his left wing; the autumn season is his middle 
body (trunk) and the dewy season and winter are his tail that supports. 
Agni (fire) is his speech, Vayu is his prana, Aditya is his eye; moon is his 
mind, the quarters are his ear, waters are his mate, tapas is his foundation; 
the months are his joints, the half-months are the veins; the days and nights 
are his golden and silver feathers. Thus he joins the gods. So the year itself 
is to be understood as Agwi-altar. One should know that he becomes < - that 
(year’s) form. Celaka, Sandilyayana said, ‘These three worlds are the lay¬ 
ers made of naturally perforated bricks and the Yajamana constitutes the 


XII.4.5.1] TRANSLATION 

fourth layer. All objects he wishes for, form the fifth layer. One should know 
thus, that he (Agnkiltar) is fashioned by means of these worlds, his own 
self and all his desired objects. (Fifth Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter Four Ends.) 


Chapter Five 
BRAHMANAI 

1. The secret import of this Agni is, doubtless, the speech. It is indeed 
fashioned by means of speech; namely, by Rks, Yajus formulas and Sdmans 
which are of divine nature. When he (Adhvaryu) employs herein speech 
(in the course of the cayana) like “do this, do this”, that (speech) also goes 
into the building up of the altar (so both divine and human speech are 
employed in fashioning it). 

2. This speech is found three-fold; namely the Rks, the Yajus mantras 
and the Sdmans. By these he is fashioned (in a) threefold manner. It is 
threefold even for this reason, namely, that three types of bricks are laid 
down in it. They are with masculine names, with feminine names and with 
neuter names. Indeed the limbs of this human form are also threefold, 
with masculine, feminine and neuter names. 

S. This body is made up of threefold and with this threefold body he 
obtains this threefold laid god (Agni&ltat) which is immortal. All these 
called istakd (brick in feminine) and not as istakah (in masculine) or istakam 
(in neuter) when referred to in speech. All these, namely feminine, mascu¬ 
line and neuter, are speech. Everything is achieved by means of speech, 
that is why, all these (bricks) are placed by saying (the mantra) “Lie thou 
firm like Angiras” (where dhruvd is feminine). He does not say dhruvah (in 
. masculine) steady like Angiras or dhruvam (in neuter) st idy like Angir 
For it is that speech (in feminine) which fashions it (the altar). 

4. Now this speech is yonder sun and this one (the fire j is 
(death). Therefore whatever is on this side of the sun is devoured by Mrtyu. 
When one builds it (altar) up on this side of the sun, builds it as one posr 
sessed by death and thereby submits himself to death. He who builds it up 
above (on the other side of the sun), he conquers death. It is by m e ns of 
knowledge that the other is built above (the sun). 

5. This speech is divided into threefold, namely Rks, Yajus and Sdmans. 
The orb is the Rks; the flames are the Sdmans and the man (in the sun) is 


XII.5.2^] 


TRANSLATION 


287 


the Yajus mantras. That which is the immortal principle of it, is this lotus 
leaf. Thus when he builds up the fire-altar after placing the lotus leaf, he is 
actually building up a body for himself made oiRks, Yajus and Samans on that 
immortal principle and becomes (himself) immortal. (First Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAH 

1. That orb which shines is the Mahad Uktha constituted of Rk chants; 
that glowing flame is the Mahavrata, made of the great Sdman hymns and 
this is the world of the Sdman. The Purusa in that orb is fire and the Yajus 
formulas constitute that and that is the world of Yajus. Thus it is the triple 
vidyd (Trap) that is burning. Even those who do not know thus, neverthe¬ 
less say, “ This threefold lore does shine” for it is the pasyanti vdk (the mani¬ 
fest speech) which says so. 

2. That Purusa who is in that orb (of the sun) is indeed death (Mrtyu) 
and the flame or glow that shines is the immortal principle. That is why, 
death does not die, for he (Mrtyu) is enclosed in the immortal. That is also 
why he (Mrtyu) is not to be seen; because he is within the immortal. 

3. There is this verse (in respect of that) “Mrtyu within (the immortal) 
is itself immortal” (because it is protected from the mortal world outside 
the orb) 4 Because the immortal principle is below the mortal one (m the 
sun) and the immortal is covering the mortal; since based on this Purusa; 
the immortal orb is blazing forth. “Death puts on the Vivas van the radi¬ 
ant) .” The radiant one is indeed the sun. It is him (the radiant orb) that he 
(Pum$a) puts on (covers himself with). Because he (Purusa) is covered on 
every side with him (the immortal radiant orb). “Death’s self is in the radi¬ 
ant”, for the body of that Purusa is indeed in that orb (of the sun). This is 

what that verse is (saying). 

4. This orb is the foothold of those two; namely of that radiance and of 
that Purusa. Therefore the Mahad Uktha should not be recited for another, 
lest it should cut away, that foothold of his by being recited for someone 
else. That is the reason why a (professional) singer of sastras is condemned; 
for, he is cut off from his foothold. This is as far as the divine aspect is 

concerned. 

5. Now the sacrificial aspect - that orb which is shining is this gold plate 
(on the altar) and that glow (of the sun s orb) is that lotus leaf. Those are 


X1I.5.2.9] 


TRANSLATION 


289 


waters (the effulgence of the sun are conceived as waters) and the lotus 
leaf is water. That Purusa in the sun’s orb is the same as this gold man (in 
the altar). Thus he fashions these three and constructs that (two) which at 
the completion of the sacrifice rises upwards and enters that one (sun) 
who bums yonder. So one need not worry about the Agn*-altar (need not 
mind destroying the altar after the sacrifice) because by then he is in that 
yonder sun. This is as far as the sacrificial aspect is concerned. 

6. Now with regard to the physical aspect — that burning orb and this 
golden plate (on the altar) are the same as the white portion of the eye. 
That glow (of the sun’s orb) and this lotus leaf (on the altar) are the s me 
as this black portion of the eye. That human figure in the sun’s orb and 
this gold man (on the altar) are the same as this man in the right eye. 

7. The lokarhpmd bricks are the same as the Purusa (in the sun s orbit). 
Depending on that lokamprnd (in the form of sun) the entire Agnt-altar is 
made. For him (the Purusa in the right eye) the Purusa in the left eye is the 
mate. That which is the mate is one half of the self (of the Purusa in the 
right eye); for onlv when one is with a mate, he is whole and complete; thus 
the second (in the left eye) is for the sake of completeness. Now they are 
two of them. A pair means a productive couple and that is why, bkampmas 
are laid down in pairs each time. (Virtually) they construct the layer with 
two (kinds of bricks, one male and the other female forming a couple). 

8. This Purusa in the right eye is indeed Indra and this (in the left eye) 
is Indram- It is for the sake of these two, the gods made a partition between 
the two eyes (in the form of) the nose; so that he (the husband) would not 
eat food in the presence of his wife. Apowerful offspring is indeed bom out 
of that. She gives birth to apowerful child in whose proximity (he) does not 

eat. 


9. This is what is ordained by gods—among humans, the princely males 
keep themselves far away (from their mates while eating) and hence it is 
that vigorous son is bom of them. Among the birds (the variety called) 
Amrtavaka (eats food away from its mate) and gives birth to Ksiprasyem 
(the eagle that flies very fast). These two (Purusas) of the eyes enter into 
the space of the heart (Daharakasa) and enter into union. When they reach 
the end of cohabitation, then this man sleeps. Even as here (in daily life) 


XII.5.2.13] 


TRANSLATION 


291 


on reaching the culminatinon of a human union, he becomes insensible 
(unconscious) as it were, so does he (the Aksipurusa) become unconscious, 
as it were, for this is a divine union and the bliss (that he experiences) is 
supreme. Therefore, he who knows this goes to sleep, for it is heavenly 
(bliss). By doing so, he makes these two deities (the Aksipurusas) enjoy 
their union and achieve their desired state. That is why, one should not 
forcibly awaken a person asleep, lest he should harm these deities engaged 
in union. That is why, the mouth of the one who has been sleeping is vis¬ 
cous (pasty), as it were. Because these two deities are shedding seeds (due 
to union in sleep) and from that seed everything here originates, whatso¬ 
ever exists. 

10. Now that Purusa in the (sun s) orb and that Purusa in the right eye 
are indeed death. His feet are struck deep in the heart and having pulled 
them out, he comes forth and when he emerges then that man c lie That 
is why, they say of a man who dies as having been cut off. He is indeed the 
pranas and it is he who leads forward (motivates) all these creatures. These 
pranas are his own (sva) and when he sleeps, these pranas take charge of 
him ( sva-apiyantd ) as their own. That is why, it is termed Svdpyaya (being 
taken possession of by one’s own people). Svdpyaya is w mystically 
called svapna (sleep) for, the gods like mystic terminology. 

11 . When he (Purusa) sleeps along with these prdrias he does not know 
of anything; he does not resolve with his mind, nor he recognises the taste 
of food with his tongue; nor by his breath identifies smell, nor sees with his 
eyes; nor hears with his ears; at that time all these (pranas) are merged in 
him (the man in the sun or in the eye). Whilst being only one, he (the 
Purusa) is numerously distributed among living beings. That is why, the 
lokarhprna (representing the Purusa in the sun); though only one (in kind) 
pervades the whole altar. Because the Purusa is only one, (the lokampmd ) is 

also one. 

* V 

12. Now they raise the question, “Is Mrtyu only one or many?” It has to 
be answered, “Both one and many.” In as much as he is that (Purusa in the 
sun) in yonder world, he is one and in as much as he is manifold mani¬ 
fested here among the creatures, he is also many. 


XII.5.2.17] 


TRANSLATION 


293 


13. Now they ask, “Is Mrtyu near or far away?” The answer is, "Both 
near and far away.” In so far as he is here in the body (of living beings) he 
is near and since he is that one (in the sun) in the yonder world, he is also 
far away. There is a verse regarding this (which can be interpreted in two 
ways as follows) - “This orb (of the sun which is shining is food and the 
Purusa who is in the centre of the orb is the eater and he is shining while 
concealed in that food.” This is the interrelation from the deity pomt of view. 

14. Now at the physical level (the interpretation is) - this body itself is 
food. This Purusa in the right eye is the eater. He shines while concealed in 

this food. 

15. Him (theAksipuiusa) as well as the Purusa in the sun), the Adhvaiyus 
( Yajurveda priests) worship as Agni (fire-altar), the Yajus. It is he who links 
up all these (various parts of the sacrifice). 

16. The chandogas (Sdmaveda priests) worship him as Sdman, because it 
is in him that all this (creation) is equal; the Bahvrcds (Rgvedicpriests) wor¬ 
ship him as Uktha because it is he who generates (makes to nse up) a 
these. Those who are well versed in occult science worship him as Yatu {jatu 
meaning sorcery), because everything here held is check by him. The ser¬ 
pents (worship him) as poison; the snake-charmers (worship him) as snakes; 
the gods (worship him) as energy (essence); the men (worship him) as 
wealth; the Asuras (worship him) as mdyd (magic power); the pars (worship 
him) as svadhd; those who know about divine beings (worship him) as di¬ 
vine being; the Gandharvas, as beauty, the Apsaras as fragrance-thus under 
whatever form he serves (the particular class of beings), that form he in¬ 
deed becomes (for that class) and having assumed that form he protects 
them. So one who knows him thus should worship him in all these (forms). 
He becomes all these (for him who worships as all these forms) and having 

become all he protects him. 

17 Now in this fire-altar having three (kinds of) bncks, the Rk consti¬ 
tutes one, the Yajus another and the Saman the third. Whatever (brick) he 
places with a Rk mantra, it has the gold plate as its base. Whatever (brick) he 
lays with a Torus formula, it has the gold man as its base and whatever (bnck) 
he places reciting a Sdman , has the lotus-leaf for its base. Thus he consists 
of three bricks. These two, namely this gold plate and the lotus leaf get 
absorbed in the gold man. (In other words) both Rk and Sdman get ab¬ 
sorbed in the Yajus. Thus he consists of a single brick. 


XII.5.3.3] 


TRANSLATION 


295 


18. That Purusa in yonder orb (of the sun) and this Purusa in the right 
eye are no other than Mrtyu and he becomes the self of him who knows 
this. Whenever he who knows this departs from this world, he is bom in 
that body and becomes immortal because Mrtyu itself becomes his body. 
(Second Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMANAHI 

1. In the beginning, this universe was neither existent nor non-existent 
as it were. In the beginning this universe indeed as it were existed and did 
not exist. There was then only that mind. 

2. Therefore it has been said by the Rsi, “Neither the non-existent was 
then there nor the existent was there then.” The mind was then neither 
existent nor non-existent. This mind when it was created wanted to mani¬ 
fest itself more defined and more gross. It searched for a self (body for 
itself). It practiced tapas and became prominent. It discovered the thirty-six 
thousand fire-altars {vedis) for worshipping, which were in the forms of 
mental ideas (thoughts); built up by mind; established only mentally and 
fashioned by mind. Men tally the Soma cups were drawn for that; they men¬ 
tally chanted the stotras; mentally they recited sastras for them. Whatever 
rite is done in a sacrifice, all those sacrificial activities were performed men¬ 
tally on those mentally conceived fires over those mentally conceived citis 
(layers of altar). Whatever these living beings wished for in their minds,that 
was done in those fires. They set up those hearths; they built up those al¬ 
tars; they drew Soma cups in them; they chanted the stotras on them, and 
recited the sastras. This much was the expanse of the mind; that much the 
creation of mind; so great is the mind with thirty-six th ousand worshippable 
fires. Each of these was as great as the previous one. 

3. That mind created speech. This speech, so created wanted to mani¬ 
fest itself more definitely and in a grosser form. It searched for itself. It 
practised tapas and became distinct. It saw thirty-six thousand Agni-altars 
{vedis) of worship; all in the form of speech and made of citis (layers) of 
speech. They made the hearths by speech; built up the altar by speech; 
collected the Soma cups for them by speech; chanted the stotras by speech 
and recited the sastrasby speech. Thus whatever rite is performed in a sac¬ 
rifice and whatever happens to be a sacrificial work, all that was done in 
those fires in the form of speech, on those layers made up of speech and 


XI1.5.3.5] 


TRANSLATION 


297 


performed by speech. Whatever these beings say orally, that action is only 
of those sayings; he places only those, builds up only that, collects Soma 
cups only in them; chants stotras only on them and recites the sastras only 
for them This much is the expanse of speech and this much its creation; 
this much speech constitutes thirty-six thousand Agni vedis of worship. Each 
of them was as great as the previous one. 

4. That speech produced prana ; this prana so created wanted to mani¬ 
fest itself more definitely and in a grosser form. It searched for itself. It 
practised tapas and became distinct. It saw thirty-six thousand Agm-altars 
(vedis) of worship, all in the form of prana and made of citis (layers) of 
prana. They made the hearths by prana ; built up the altar by prayer, col¬ 
lected the Soma cups for them by prana ; chanted the stotras by prana and 
recited the sastras by prana - thus whatever rite is performed in a sacrifice 
and whatever happens to be a sacrificial work all that was done in those 
fires in the form of prana on those layers made up of prana and performed 
by prana. Whatever these beings orally say, that action is only of those say¬ 
ings; he places only those, builds up only that, collects Soma cups only in 
them; chants stotras only on them and recites the sastras onlyTor them. This 
much is the expanse of prana and this much its creation; this much consti¬ 
tutes thirty-six thousand Agnis (vedis) of worship. Each of them was as great 
as the previous one. 

5. That prana created the eye; this eye so created wanted to manifest 
itself more definitely and in a grosser form. It searched for itself. It prac¬ 
tised tapas and became distinct. It saw thirty-six thousand Agwi-altars (vedis) 
of worship, all in the form of eye. They made the hearths by eye; built up 
the altar by eye; collected the Wicups for them by eye; chanted the stotras 
by eye and recited the sastras by eye - thus whatever rite is performed in a 
sacrifice and whatever happens to be a sacrificial work all that was done in 
those fires in the form of eye, on those layers made up of eye and per¬ 
formed by eye. Whatever these beings orally say, that action is only of those 
sayings; he places only those, builds up only that, collects Soma cups only 
in them; chants stotras only on them and recites the sastras only for them. 
This much is the expanse of eye and this much its creation, this much 
constitutes thirty-six thousand Agnis (vedis) of worship. Each of them was as 
great as the previous one. 


XII.5.3.8] 


TRANSLATION 


299 


6. That eye created the ear, this ear so created wanted to manifest itself 
more definitely and in a grosser form. It searched for itself. It practised 
tapas and became distinct. It saw thirty-six thousand Agni-altars (vedis) of 
worship all in the form of ear and made of citis (layers) of ear. They made 
the hearths by ear; built up the altar by ear; collect the Soma cups for them 
by ear; chanted the stotras by ear and recited the sastrds by ear. Thus what¬ 
ever rite is performed in a sacrifice and whatever happens to be a sacrificial 
work all that was done in those fires in the form of ear; on those layers 
made up of ear and performed by ear, whatever these beings say orally that 
action is only of those sayings; he places only those, builds up only that, 
collects only in them; chants stotras only on them and recites the sastrds only 
for them. This much is the expanse of ear; this much is its creation. This 
much constitutes thirty-six thousand Agnis ( vedis) of worship. Each of them 
was as great as the previous one. 

7. That ear created Karma and that Karma amalgamated with the vital 
airs; to form this compound and this composition of food (i.e. body); for, 
Karma, without vital airs, is incomplete and vital airs without Karma is also 
incomplete. This Karma wanted to manifest itself more definitely and in a 
grosser form. It searched for itself. It practised tapas and became distinct. It 
saw thirty-six thousand Agnt-altars (vedis) of worship all in the form of Karma 
and made of citis (layers) of Karma. They made the hearths by Karma; 
built up the altar by Karma; collected the Soma cups for them by Karma; 
chanted the stotras by Karma and recited the sastrds by Karma — that what¬ 
ever rite is performed in a sacrifice and whatever happens to be a sacrificial 
work all that was done in those fires in the form of Karma, on those layers 
made up of Karma and performed by Karma. Whatever these beings say 
orally, that action is only of those sayings; he places only those, builds up 
only that, collects Soma cups only in them; chants stotras only on them and 
recites the sastrds only for them. This much is;the expanse of Karma; this 
much its creation; this much constitutes thirty-six thousand Agnis (vedis) of 
worship. Each of them was as great as the previous one. 

8. That Karma created the Agni — fire is indeed more manifested than 
work; for it is by means of Karma they produce the Agni and by Karma 
they kindle it. This Agni when created wanted to manifest itself more defi¬ 
nitely and in a grosser form. It searched for itself. It practised tapas and 
became distinct. It saw thirty-six thousand Agwi-altars (vedis) of worship all 


XII.5.4.3] 


TRANSLATION 


301 


in the form of Agni and made of citis (layers) of Agni. They made the hearths 
by Agni; built up the altar by Agni; collected the Soma cups for them by 
Agni; chanted the stotrasby Agni and recited the sastras by Agni. Thus what¬ 
ever rite is performed in a sacrifice and whatever happens to be a sacrificial 
work all that was done in those fires in the form of Agni on those layers 
made up of Agni and performed by Agni. Whatever these beings say orally, 
that action is only of those sayings; he places only those, builds up only 
that, collects Soma cups only in them; chants stotras only on them and re¬ 
cites the sastras only for them. This much is the expanse of Agni; this much 
its creation; this much constitutes thirty-six thousand Agnis {vedis) of worship. 
Each of them was as great as the previous one. 

9. These fires are built up indeed by vidya. All beings at all times build 
them for him who knows this vidya, even when he is asleep. By mdyd alone 
these fires (altars) are built for him who knows this. (Third Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMANA IV 

X. Truly this fire-altar that is built (by bricks) is this terrestrial world. For 
it, the enclosing stones are the waters themselves. Its yajusmati bricks are 
the human beings. Its sudadohasa , are the cattle. Its loose soil are the plants 
and trees; its oblations and the samidhas too; its lokamprna bricks is fire itself. 
Thus this (terrestrial world) constitutes the whole Agntaltar. And the whole 
Agni comes to be the space-filler. Whosoever knows this, thus becomes that 
whole (Agni) who is the space-filler (holds sway over this whole world). 

2. Truly this fire-altar that is built (by bricks) is that aerial region. Its 
enclosing stones is that which joins the heaven and earth (i.e. horizon); 
for it is beyong the aerial region that the heaven and earth join and that 
joining point is the enclosing stones. Its yajusmati bricks are the birds, its 
sudadohasa are the rains; its loose soil (fillers) are the rays of light, its obla¬ 
tions and samidhas too. Its lokamprnas are the \ayu thus this (aerial re¬ 
gion) constitutes the whole AgTit-altar and the whole Agni comes to be the 
space-filler. Whosoever knows this, thus becomes that whole (Agni) who is 
the space-filler (holds sway over the whole aerial region). 

3. Truly this fire-altar that is built up (by bricks) is that sky. Its enclosing 
stones are the waters. Just as a box is closed, these worlds are encased in the 


X1I.5.4.5] 


TRANSLATION 


303 


waters. These waters which are beyond these worlds are the parisrits' (en¬ 
closing stones). Its yajusmati bricks are the gods; its sudadohasa is what food 
is there in that world. Its loose soil are the stars; the oblations and samidhds 
too. Its lokamprna is the sun. Thus this (sky) constitutes the whole Agnt- 
altar which is the sun and the whole Agni comes to be the space-filler. Who¬ 
soever knows this, thus becomes that whole (Agni) who is the space-filler 
(holds sway over the whole region of the sky). 

4. Indeed that fire-altar which is built up is also the sun. Its enclosing 
stones are the quarters and they are three hundred and sixty because three 
hundred and sixty quarters encircle the sun. Its yajusmati bricks are his rays 
and they are three hundred and sixty, for the sun has three hundred and 
sixty rays. As much as he establishes the yajusmati bricks within the enclos¬ 
ing stones, he establishes the rays in the quarters. Its sudadohasa is what is 
between the rays and the quarters. Its loose soil is that food in the quarters 
and the rays; the oblations and samidhds too. Those that are called “quar¬ 
ters” and “rays” are the lokamprna. Thus this (sun) constitutes the whole 
Agrai-altar and the whole Agni comes to be the space-filler. Whosoever knows 
this, thus becomes that whole (Agni) who is the space-filler (holds sway 
over the whole region of the sky). 

5. Truly that fire-altar which is built up is also the Naksatras. They hap¬ 
pen to be twenty-seven and there are twenty-seven secondary stars accom¬ 
panying each Naksatra; this makes seven hundred and twenty with extra 
thirty-six. Of these seven hundred and twenty, the parisrits account for three 
and sixty and the yajusmati bricks for three hundred and sixty. The extra 
thirty-six are the thirteenth month and that is the body. The truth is made 
of thirty, the feet with two and the pranas (channels of breath) with two 
and the head with two accounts for the (thirty-fifth and) thirty-sixth; be¬ 
cause the (word) sira has two letters. Its sudadoha is that which is in the 
interspace of the Naksatras. Its loose soil is the food in the Naksatras; the 
oblations and samidhds too. Its lokamprna are those that are called Naksatras. 
Thus all these called Naksatras come to be the Agni-altar and the whole 
Agni comes to be the space-filler. Whosoever knows this, thus becomes that 
whole (Agni) who is the space-filler (holds sway over the whole Naksatras). 
These (seven hundred and twenty plus thirty-six) correspond to twenty- 
one Brhati metres (since each Brhati has thirty-six syllables). The heavenly 
world is twenty-onefold and Brhati is (great). Thus this fire-altar comes to 
be equal to the heavenly world; to the twenty-onefold stoma and the Brhati 
metre. 


XII.5.4.7] 


TRANSLATION 


305 


6. Truly that fire-altar that is built up is the metres. There are seven 
metres increasing by four syllables each successive one (i.e. from 24 syl¬ 
lables for the first metre, i.e. Gayatri, it goes on increasing by four syllables 
in the subsequent ones till the seventh having 48). The triplets of these 
make seven hundred and twenty syllables with an excess of thirty-six syl¬ 
lables (24 + 28 + 32 + 36 + 40 + 44 + 48 = 252 x 3 = 756). Those seven hundred 
and twenty are verily the bricks out of which three hundred and sixty are 
pansrits (enclosing stones) and three hundred and sixty are the yajusmati 
bricks. Those thirty-six in excess are the thirteenth month and that is the 
body of this altar. (Of these) the trunk accounts for thirty, the feet two and 
the channels of breath two, the head with two accounts for the (thirty-fifth 
and thirty-sixth). The head accounts for two because the word sira has two 
letters. The first ten syllables of the Brhatl, consisting of thirty-six syllables 
make an Ekapad (one-footed verse) of ten syllables; the first twenty of Brhatl 
make a Dvipada (two-footed verse) of twenty syllables; the first thirty make 
a Virad of thirty syllables; the first thirty-three make a Virad of thirty-three 
syllables and thirty-four syllables make a Svarat of thirty-four syllables. Since 
this fire-altar is built with all metres; it is an Atichandas (a metre with more 
than 48 syllables) and (so) are all these bricks. The three syllables in (the 
word) istakd— form a Gayatri of three feet, because this Agni is Gayatra (of 
three syllables) and (constitutents of the brick namely) the mrd (clay) and 
dpah (water) are also Gayatri of three feet. Thereby also he is Gayatri. That 
which is between each two metres; is its sudadohasa and its loose soil is the 
food which is in the metres; the oblations and samidhas too. What is called 
“metres” is the bkampmabnck— thus all these called metres come to be the 
Agn^altar and the whole Agni comes to be the space-filler. Whosoever knows 
this thus becomes that whole (Agni) who is the space-filler (holds sway 
over the metres). These are twenty-one Brhatis and the heavenly world is 
twenty-onefold and is great and this (altar) becomes equal to the heavenly 
world and to the twenty-onefold stoma and the Brhatl metre. 

7. That fire-altar that is built up is truly the year. Its enclosing stones are 
the nights and they happen to be three hunched and sixty and a year has 
three hundred and sixty nights. The yajusmati bricks are the days and they 
happen to be three hundred and sixty and there are three hundred and 

- sixty days for a year. These thirty-six bricks that are in excess are the thir¬ 
teenth (intercalary) month. Its body is made of half-months and months, 
i.e. twenty-four half-months and twelve months. Its sudadohasa is what is 


XII.5.4.9] 


TRANSLATION 


307 


between the day and the night; the loose soil is that food which is in the 
day and the night. The oblations and the samidhas too. What is called “days 
and the nights” that constitutes the lokamprna (brick). Thus all these come 
to be the Agni-altar and the whole Agni becomes the space-filler. Whoso¬ 
ever knows this, thus becomes that whole (Agni) who is the space-filler 
(holds sway over the year). There are twenty-one Brhatis and the heavenly 
world is twenty-onefold and is great This (altar) becomes equal to the heav¬ 
enly world and to the twentyonefold stoma and the Brhati metre. 

8. Indeed the fire-altar that is built up is the body. Its enclosing stones 
are the bones and they happen to be three hundred and sixty; for the 
human being has three hundred and sixty bones. Its yajusmati bricks are 
the marrow. They are three hundred and sixty corresponding to three hun¬ 
dred and sixty parts in man. Those thirty-six bricks in excess are the thir¬ 
teenth (intercalary) month; the trunk and the vital air (of the altar). In his 
body, there are thirty parts, two in his feet, two in his (channels of) prana 
and two in his head. Why (two in the head) is, because the head has two 
skull bones. Its sudadohasa is that which holds together these joints; its loose 
soil are those three by which this body is covered; the hair, skin and flesh 
are the loose soil. Its oblations are what he drinks and its samidhas are what 
he eats. That which is called the “body” is the lokamprna (bricks) - thus all 
these come to be the Agnt-altar and the whole Agni becomes the space- 
filler. Whosoever knows this, thus becomes the whole (Agni) who is the 
space-filler (holds sway over the body). These are twenty-one Brhatis and 
the heavenly world is twenty-onefold and it is great This (altar) becomes equal 
to the heavenly world and to the twenty-onefold stoma and the Brhati metre. 

9. This Agni (altar) that is built up is all beings, all the gods; for all the 
beings and all the gods are the waters and that altar built up is the same as 
those waters. Its enclosing stones are the navigable streams. They happen 
to be three hundred and sixty; for, there are three hundred and sixty streams 
of navigable nature which go round the sun. The yajusmati bricks are those 
navigable streams and they are three hundred and sixty as there are three 
hundred and sixty navigable streams flowing towards the sun. Its sudadohasa 
is what is between each (pair) of the navigable streams. Those thirty-six 
bricks which are in excess are the thirteenth month and the body (of this 
altar) is the same as this gold man. His feet are this gold plate and the lotus 
leaf; (in other words) the waters and the sun's orb are his feet; the two 
sruksr, (in other words) Indra and Agni are his arms; the two svayamdtmnd 


X1I.5.5.1] 


TRANSLATION 


309 


bricks are this earth and the air and the three visvajyoti bricks are the three 
deities; namely Agni, Vayu and Aditya. Because these three deides consti¬ 
tute all effulgence. The twelve rtavya (seasonal) bricks are the year, the 
body(of the altar and the gold man). The five nakasada bricks and the five 
pahcacudas are the sacrifice; the gods; and the vikarni the (third) naturally 
perforated brick and the spotted stone. The fire which is deposited (on the 
altar) is the thirty-fifth and the Yajus for the lokampma, brick is the thirty- 
sixth. That (goldman) indeed the body (of the altar) is the culmination of 
all. He is in the midst of all waters and is filled with all objects of desire; for 
all objects of desire are indeed the waters. While possessed of all (objects 
of) desires, he has no desire; for no desire of anything is there to (trouble) him. 

10. There is a verse on this - “By means of Vidya (true knowledge) they 
ascend to that wherefrom the desires have vanished. There the daksinds do 
not reach nor those who practise tapas without the knowledge” - that world 
(of self) is not achieved by giving liberal gifts or by tapastihe is not one who 
knows thus. Only by those who know thus (of true knowledge) that world is 
(attainable). The cloud is the loose soil (between the bricks); the moon is 
oblation; the Naksatras are the samidhds. Because the moon lives in the 
Naksatra, the oblation resides in the samidha. That staying of the moon in 
the Naksatra is the food of the oblation. That the moon resides in the 
Naksatra is (to say) that the oblation is residing in the samidha. This is the 
food of the oblation and it is its support. Therefore the ahuti or oblation 
does not diminish (na kstyate). This is indeed its food and support. What 
theycall “gods” is the lokampma and that is why, all these are called the gods. 

11. With reference to this it is said by the Rk - “All gods (Visvedevas) 
have followed this you Yajus” - for all beings, all the gods indeed become 
the Yajus here. Thus this whole Agni becomes the lokampma. Whosoever 
know this, thus, becomes to be that whole (Agni) who is the space-filler: 
Now, these (constitute) twenty-one Brhatis and the heavenly world is twenty¬ 
onefold and is the great. This (altar) thus becomes equal to the heavenly 
world and to the twenty-onefold stoma and the BrhatT metre. (Fourth 
Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMANAV 


1. Kusri Vajasravasa once constructed a fire-altar. Then Susravas, Kausya, 
told him the son of Gautama, “When you just now built up the altar, did 


X1U.5.3] 


TRANSLATION 


311 


you build, it up to make it face forward,or built it to make it face backward or 
downward or upward? If you have built him so as to face upward it would be 
just as if one were to feed a person from behind (facing the same direction 
as the altar, since the one who makes the offering has to face the east) to a 
person who is sitting with an averted face. In this process he will not receive 
your offering. If you have built it facing backward, then why have you put a 
tail (since that would amount to having a tail in front and not at the back). 
If you have built it facing downward it would be just as somebody is feeding 
from behind, a person lying with his face to the ground. Surely in this way 
he will not receive the offering. If you have built it facing upward, surely a 
bird does not fly (carrying its bite in its beak) with its face turned upwards 
and it (the altar being a bird is supposed to carry the Yajamana to the 
heaven) will not be able to carry you to the heaven and that sacrifice will 
not yield the fruit of heaven.” 

2. He(Kusri) said, “I have built it so as to face forward, to face backward, 
to face downward as well as to face upward. I have built it in all directions. 
In so far as the gold man is placed with his face turned to the east; the two 
sruks are placed with their spouts facing east; it (the altar) is built so as to 
face forward. By laying down the tortoise with its head westward; the heads 
of pasus turned to the west, the altar is built as to face backward. By placing 
the tortoise with its face turned downwards and the heads of the pasus 
looking downwards and the bricks with their faces (sides not marked by 
lines) downwards, the altar is built so as to face downwards. By placing the 
goldman with his face upward, and the two sruks (with their spouts) turned 
upwards and the mortar and pestle facing upward, the fire-altar is built so 
as to face upwards. By placing the bricks while moving round the altar in all 
directions, it is built so as to face all directions. 

3. Now, Rosas ( a particular group of Rsis) going about officiating as 
sacrificial priests, happened to build up the head of the altar seperately (in 
a particular Yajamana’s house). At that, someone said, "The head is in¬ 
deed Sri, prosperity) and by doing thus, the Yajamana s Sri has been 
seperated and he will .be always deprived of prosperity. So it happened. 
Another one said, ‘T’he head is indeed the vital airs and by doing thus, 
they have separated the vital airs from the Yajamana and consequently 
very shortly he will depart to the other world.” So it happened. Upward, 
indeed, it is built up by means of the darbhastamba, the logestakds; the lotus 


XII.5.53] 


TRANSLATION 


313 


leaf, the gold plate, the gold man, the two sruks, the svayamatmnd, the 
durvestaka, the dviyajus, the two retassicas, the visvajyoti; the two rtavyabricks, 
the dsadha and the tortoise. That fire which is placed on the top of the built 
altar is the most visible head; so let him not separate it. (Fifth Brahmana 

Ends.) 


(Chapter Five Ends.) 


Chapter Six 
BRAHMAN AI 


1. Once the following sages came to Aruna, the son of Upavesa. 
Satyayaina Paulusi; Mahasala Jabala; Budila Asvatarasvi; Indradyumna- 
Bhallaveya and Jana-Sarkaraksya. They assembled to know on Vaisvanaia 
(to learn about the nature of Vaisvanara), but they could not reach at an 
acceptable definition (from Aruna). 

2. They said,“Asvapati, the Kekaya king is the one who knows Vaisvanara 
at present; let us go to him.” They approached Aitopati-Kekaya and he 
ordered for them separate dwellings; separate hospitality and separate 
Somayagds , each with thousand cows as daksina. In the morning, they, with¬ 
out realising the intention (of the king to avail of their services for perform¬ 
ing sacrifices) came to him again with samtdhas in their hands (indicating 
their intention to learn) saying, “We seek to be your disciples. 

3. He (Kekaya) said, “You are learned in Vedas and sons of great ones 
well-versed in Vedic lore; how you come to approach me as students? They 
said “Sir, you know well the Vaisvanara (vidyd ); teach that to us. He said, 
“I do indeed know well the Vaisvanara; put the samtdhas in the fire and you 
are (admitted as) my students. 

4. He then questioned Aruna AupaveS, “O Gautama, which Vaisvanara, 
you know of ?” (i.e. tell me what is your idea of Vaisvanara). I know 11 “ 
earth O king”, he said. The king replied, “That means you know Vaisvanara 
as the foundation; and because you know Vaisvanara as the foundation, 
you are well-setded with cattle and children. One who knows the \ aisvanara 
thus as pratistha (foundation) conquers death and Uves the hill span of life. 
But this in reality, is only the feet of Vaisvanara. It is good that you know at 
least this much so that your feet did not wither away and you could come 
here.” (In other words) if you had riot come here, you would have known 

only the feet. 

5. He then asked Satyayajna Paulusi,“O Pracinayogya, which Vaisvanara, 
you know of?” T know it as water, O king”, he said. The king replied, That 
means you know Vaisvanara as wealth and because you know Vaisvanara, 


XII.6.1.8] 


TRANSLATION 


317 


the wealth, you are rich and prosperous. He who knows that Vaisvanara, 
the wealth, conquers death and lives the full span of life. But this in reality, 
is only the bladder of Vaisvanara. It is good that you knew at least this 
much so that your bladder has not become defunct and you could come 
here”, (in other words) if you had not come here you would have known 
only the bladder. 

6. He then questioned Mahasala-Jabala, “O Aupamanyava, which 
Vaisvanara you know of ?” “I know it as the Akasa(ether), O king , he said. 
The king said, “That means you know Vaisvanara as abundance; and be¬ 
cause you know Vaisvanara, the Bahula (abundant) you are having abun¬ 
dance of progeny and cattle. He who knows Vaisvanara, the abundant, con¬ 
quers death and lives the full span of life. But this in reality, is only the body 
(trunk) of Vaisvanara; it is good that you knew at least this much so that 
your body has not got disintegrated (perished) and you could come here. 
(In other words) if you had not come here you could have only known the 

body. 

7. He then asked Budila Asvatarasvi, “O Vaiyaghrapadya, which 
Vaisvanara, you know of ?” “I know it as Vayu; O king , he said. The king 
said, "That means you know Vaisvanara of multiple paths; and because you 
know Vaisvanara, the Prthagvartma, numerous rows of cars follow you. He 
who knows this Vaisvanara of multiple paths, conquers death and reaches 
the full span of life. But this in reality, is only the breath (prana) of Vaisvanara. 
It is good that you know at least this much so that your vital air did not pass 
out of you and you could come here.” (In other words) if you had not come 
here, you would have known only the prana (of Vaisvanara). 

8. He then questioned Indradyumna-Bhallaveya, “O Vaiyaghrapadya, 
which Vaisvanara you know of ?” I know it as sun, O king , he said. The 
king said, That means, you know Vaisvanara, the Sutatejas (of the splendour 
of Soma juice). Because you know Vaisvanara, the Sutateja, that Soma juice 
is ever available in your house, eaten and cooked (i.e. Soma is always pressed, 
to prepare various offerings in your house). Truly he who knows this 
Vaisvanara, the Sutatejas, conquers death and lives the full span of life. But 
this in reality, is only the eye''of Vaisvanara. It is good that kn ow at least 
this much so that your eye did not become defunct and you could come 
here.” (In other words) if you had not come here you would have known 

only 4he eye. 


Xli.6.2.2] 


TRANSLATION 


319 


9. He then asked JanarSarkaraksya,“0 Sayavasa, which Vaisvanara, you 
know of ?” “I know it as the heaven only, O king”, he said. The king said, 
“That means you know Vaisvanara, the Atistha (the one that surpasses ev¬ 
erything) . Because you know Vaisvanara, the Atistha, you are excelling your 
equals. Truly he who knows the Vaisvanara, the Atistha, conquers death 
and lives the full span of life. But this in reality is only the head of 
Vaisvanara.” (In other words) if you had not come here, only the head 
would have been known to you. 

10. He said to them, “Each of you know different Vaisvanaras (or you 
have understood him each differendy). (It is like) eating different kinds of 
food. But the Devas who knew it well conceived it as of a span-size and they 
attained the goal (of knowing it). So I shall tell you about it in such a way 
that I will present it as of the measure of a span. (I shall tell you how the 
Atman encompasses all these different parts conceived by each of you as 
well as the span-size Vaisvanara known to the gods). 

11. He said pointing to the head, “This indeed is the Vaisvanara, sur¬ 
passing everything.” Pointing to eyes he said, “This indeed is the Vaisvanara 
of Soma's splendour.” Pointing at the nostrils he said, “This indeed is the 
Vaisvanara of multiple paths.” Pointing to the space in the mouth he said, 
"This indeed is Vaisvanara the abundant ” Pointing at the water in the mouth 
he said, “This indeed is Vaisvanara, the prosperity.” Pointing at the chin he 
said, “This indeed is Vaisvanara, the foundation.” “This Agni Vaisvanara is 
of the nature of Purusa and as established inside the Purusa, he conquers 
death and reaches the hill span of life. Vaisvanara does not harm him who 
says so. (Common in all these Vaisvanaras, like Vaisvanara, the Pratistha 
etc.), there is one Agni-Vaisvanara who is the supreme Brahman and if one 
knows him, other Vaisvanara dare not harm him.” (First Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAH 

1. This world is twofold, the eater and the eaten and when these two 
come together it is called the eater and not the eaten. 

2. That which is called the eater is Agni itself and whatever is put into it 
is its share (dhita ). What are ahitas are called ahuiis (oblations) in a mystical 
way, because gods perfer mystical reference. The sun is the eater and his 
dhutls (share) is the moon. This is the divine point of view. Now the physi- 


XII.6.3.1] 


TRANSLATION 


321 


cal aspect; the prana is the eater and for him the food are the ahitas (share) 
for the prana consumes food. Thus both these eater and eaten are of Agm. 

3. Now about Arka (effulgence) - Agni is Arka and his kdma (satiation) 
are the oblations; for the oblations are indeed cause of pleasure to Agni. 
The sun is Arka and the moon is his kdma (pleasure); because the moon is 
the cause of satiation for the sun. This is the divine aspect. Now from the 
physical angle; the prana is Arka and his kdma (satiation) is by food, for the 
food is the (cause of) pleasure for the prana. Thus both these, the eater 

and eaten are of Arka. 

4. Now about the uktha (Sdman praise) - Agni is the uk and its tham is 
the oblations; because it is by the oblations that Agni rises up in glow. The 
sun is the uk and the moon is the tham, for it is by the moon that the sun 
rises up. This is the divine point of view. Now about the physical aspect. 
The prana is the uk and food its tham - because it is by food that prana rises 
up. Thus both these, the eater and the eaten are of uktha. That in the form 
of Agni, that in the form of Arka and that in the form of uktha, is this Purusa. 
Whosoever knowing this, thus worships the Purusa in the form of Agni, in 
the form of Arka, and in the form of uktha, his enemy withers away. 

5. By prana, Agni shines; by Agni, Vayu shines; by Vayu, Aditya; by Aditya, 
the moon; by the moon, the stars and by the stars the lightning; so much is 
the shining, both in this world and in the yonder world. Whosoever knows 
this, shares with all these effulgences in this world as well as in yonder 
world. (Second Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAHI 

1. Meditate upon Brahman (the cause of creation, sustenance and de¬ 
struction of this universe) as truth (eternal). Man is indeed the product of 
his will. How great his will with which he departs from this world, with that 
much wiU, he on passing away, appears in yonder world. Meditate upon the 
Atman (self) which is made up of intelligence, endowed with aerial body, 
with an effulgent form, with an etheriel nature, with its shape changing at 
its wiU, swift as thought, with an unfailing resolve, firm in its purpose, hay¬ 
ing all odours, all tastes with its authority over aU regions, pervading this 
whole universe, speechless and unattached. Even as a grain of rice, a grain 


XH.6.3.1] 


TRANSLATION 


323 


of barley or a grain of millet or the smallest granule of millet, so is this 
golden Purusa in the heart; like an effulgence without smoke. He is bigger 
than the sky, bigger than the ether and greater than all existing things - 
that Atman of the prana is my Atman (self). On departing from this body, 
I shall emerge as that (self). Verily whosoever has this determination shall 
not waver — so said Sandilya and thus it is. (Third Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter Six Ends.) 
(AGNIRAHASYA KANDA ENDS) 


ASTADHYAYIKANDA 

• • • • 

Chapter 1 
BRAHMAN AI 

1. Surely Prajapati is the year, that is the sacrifice. The new-moon night 
is its opening and the moon itself is the bolt of the door. When one kindles 
the two fires on amdvdsya, it is just as one would reach a city through the 
gateway when the doors are open. He who kindles (the fires) on amdvdsya, 
reaches the heaven. 

2. If one kindles the fires under a (particular) naksastra, it is like one 
trying to get into a fortress with closed gates, through some other way and 
fails to get entry. This is how one lays down the fires under a naksastra. Let 
him not therefore kindle the fires under a naksastra. On that very day w lien 
he (the moon) will not be visible at the East or at the West, that day he 
should fast, for it is on that day the moon comes down to this world and on 
that day he stays put here. 

3. All the gods stay here, all bhutas, all deities, all seasons, all stomas, all 
prsthas and the metres; because the two fires are setup for (in service of) all 
gods, all bhutas, all deities, all seasons, all stomas, all prsthds and all metres. 

4. The two fires become well set-up only when laid down on amdvdsya. 
Therefore one should lay down the two fires only on amdvdsya day. Let him 
set them up on the amavasyd in the month of Vaisakha. It coincides with 
the Rohini naksatrcc, for Rohini is the self, the offspring and the catde. This 
means they get established in one’s self, in the offspring and in the cattle. 
Indeed amdvdsya is the form of Agnyddheya. Let him therefore set up the 
fires on amdvdsya. On the full-moon day, let him pe rform the prelim inary 
rites and the Diksa on the amdvdsya day. (First Brahmana Ends.) 


XIU.1.2.4] 


translation 


327 


BRAHMANAH 

1. Thinking “today is the amdvasycT he observes the fast and then it 
(the moon) is seen in the west. That (moon) is indeed the heavenly dog 
who watches the cattles of the Yajamana and that may not be for the good 
of the catde if atonement is not made. Afraid of that moon, they hide them¬ 
selves in the shade and that is why they call that feeling of suffering (on the 
part of the cattle) as Svalucitam (dog’s clutch) and also call it the hare of 
the moon. The moon is indeed the Soma which is the food of the gods. 
They extract out of him (by pressing) on the full-moon day and the next 
fortnight he (Soma) enters the waters and plants. The cattle feed on the 
waters and plants. During that night (of amdvasya) he collects him (Soma) 
from the cattle. So when the Yajamana enters fast thinking “today is 
amdvasya and later sees (the moon) he swerves from the path of sacrifice. 

2. Now they ask, “What should he do if he swerves from the path of 
sacrifice?” “Should he proceed with the yaga or should he not? He should 
certainly perform the sacrifice; there is no other alternative. Because on 
the subsequent days he (the moon) will be rising up still bigger each day. 
He should perform the sacrifice strictly at an amdvasya sacrifice and supple- 
ment it with an isti (atoning offering) on the same day or on the following 

day. 

3. This isti (of atonement) has three oblations; purodasa in eight pot- 
sherds for Agni, the way-finder ( Patkikrt ); purodasa in eleven potsherds for 
Indra, the killer of Vrtra and purodasa in twelve potsherds for Agni, the 

Vaisvanara. 

4. When he offers to Agni, the Pathikrt, since Agni is the maker of the 
path, the Yajamana who has (earlier) swerved from the path of sacrifice, 
him he puts back on the path. When he offers to Indra, the killer of Vrtra, 
he destroys the sin with the aid of Indra the Vrtraghna. Because Vrtra is 
indeed the an which stands obstructing prosperity, auspiciousness and good 
deed. So the offering to Indra, the killer of Vrtra, when he offers purodasa 
in twelve potsherds to Agni, the Vaisvanara, he completely bums the sin. 
When Indra killed Vrtra, he burnt him completely by Agni, Vaisvanara and 
thereby burnt all the sins of Vrtra. In like manner, having killed the sm 


Xffl.13.2] 


TRANSLATION 


329 


(Vrtra), the Yajamana bums it with the help of Agni-Vaisvanara. One who 
knowing this, performs this isti, even slightest sin does not remain in him. 

5. For this there are seventeen sdmidhenis. He offers to the deities in a 
muffled voice. Whichever verses at his will he uses forydjydnuvdkyds, same 
way for Ajyabhagas and for Svistakrt offerings. 

6. A bow with three arrows, he gives as daksina for this. For, a dog is 
driven away with a bow. He (the Yajamana) thus drives away that dog, the 
moon) by giving a bow with three arrows as daksina. 

7. He gives a stick as daksina; for a dog is driven away by a stick. So too 
he drives away (that dog, the moon) by giving a stick as daksina. These are 
the prescribed daksinds. He may as well give away other daksina as may be at 
his disposal. This offering is indeed for the well-being of the catde. He may 
perform it even if he has not seen the moon after fasting on (the amavdsya 
night). (Second Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMAN Am 

1. Now when he prepares for the fast, it is said, If he does not eat, he 
will be one who honours the pitrs as gods and if he eats he will be by-passing 
the gods. So they ordain that he may eat what grows in the forest. If he eats 
cultivated agricultural produce, it amounts to his eating the essence of the 
purodasa. If he eats what is widely grown, he eats the essence of the barhts 
gr ass . If he eats what is procured from trees, he eats the essence of the 
sacrificial samidhds. If he consumes milk, it will amount to, consuming the 
essence of the Sanndya and the gh£& If he drinks wafer he is consuming the 
essence of the Prdsitra waters (all these being utilised in the sacrifice, his 
eating any of these, amounts to his tasting them before they are offered to 
the gods). If he refrains from eating (any thing) it amounts to his honouring 

only the pitrs as deities. 

2. Now they ask “what is the solution for this?” Well let him on those 
two nights (of paurnima and amavdsya) take the Agnihotra offerings. When 
he eats after offering that, he does not become one who has honoured the 
pitrs as deities (he becomes eligible to worship the gods as well). Because 
that offering (in Agnihotra) is offering unto himself and by that he does 


XIII, 1.3.2] 


TRANSLATION 


331 


not become one who eats the essence of those (sacrificial) items. Because 
all the nights are contained in these two nights. All the nights of the waxing 
moon concentrate in the nights of paurnamasa and all the nigh ts o e 
waning moon are in the amdvdsaya night. He who knows thus and offers 
himself the Agnihotra on the day he enters the fast, becomes one who has 
performed Agnihotra on all the days (even though he might have got it 
performed through a proxy on other days). (Third Brahmana Ends.) 

(Chapter One Ends.) 


Chapter Two 
BRAHMAN AI 


1 Verily the year is sacrifice. One who, knowing that the year is sacri¬ 
fice, offers Orifice at the end of the year, by him all that is done in the year 
becomes attained, secured and won for him. 


2. The officiating priests are the seasons. One who, knowing that the 
officiating priests are the seasons and offers sacrifice at the end o e sea¬ 
sons, by him, all that is done in the seasons, becomes attained, secured, 

and won for him. 


3. The oblations are the months, one who, knowing that the oblabons 
are the months and offers sacrifice at the end of the months, by him all 
that is done in the month becomes attained, secured and won for him. 

4. The oblation yessels are the fortnights. One who knowing that the 
oblation yessels are the fortnights, offers sacrifice at the endofthefort- 
nights, by him, all that is done in the half-months becomes attained, se- 

cured and won for him. 

5. The panvestns (the pair of fire-tongs) are the day and night; one 
who having known that the panvestns are the day and night; and o ers 
sacrifice's"^ end of the day md night, by him all that is done m the day 
and night becomes attained, secured and won for him. 

6. The fust samdlvni (kindling formula) is this earth; ^-c°nd°neis 
ffie fire; the third, the Vayu; the fourth, the aenal «e«ton die iBfth one^The 
Skv- the sixth the sun; the seventh is the moon; the eighth is die mind, 
rfinthdie speech; die tenth is intense inland the eleventh is the Bmhman. 
For, it is these that kindle, all this (universe) and by them all this is kindled. 
That is why these are called saimdhenis or kindling formulae. 

7. He recites the first (sdmidhmi) three times. By reciting it first ome he 
conquers the eastern region; by the second time he gains the southern 
region and by the third recitation he gains the upper region. 


X1II.2.1.14] 


TRANSLATION 


335 


8. He recites the last ( samidheni ) three times. By reciting it first time, he 
conquers the western region; by the second time, he wins the northern 
region and by the third recitation he gains this (earth) itself as a resting 
place. Thus by these samidhenis, he gains these worlds and these regions. 

9. The first aghara (libation of ghee) is rta, the Eternal Law; the second 
one is salya or Truth and by these (ghee libations), he attains bothrta and 
satya and he now gains all that is attainable by rta and satya. 

10. The first praydja (fore-offering) is effulgence; the second one is 
honour; the third is fame; the fourth is brahminical lustre and the fifth is 
food etc; The first praydja is to be followed by his uttering, “Let me become 
effulgent”; the second to be followed by uttering, “Let me be honoured”; 
the third “let me be famous”, the fourth “let me gain brahminic lustre” and 
the fifth to be followed by uttering “let me enjoy prosperity.” Verily whoso¬ 
ever knows this becomes effulgent, honoured, famous, possessed of 
brahminical lustre and prosperous. Now knowing this, Svetaketu Aruneya, 
once said, “People from all directions will one day converge on that one 
who knows that the greatness of the praydjas (fore-offerings) as if they are 
eager to see a divine cobra.” 

11. The first ajyabhdga is no doubt the past, the second, the future and 
whatever is attainable by past and future, all that he now gains. 

12. The puroddsa offered to Agni is the Brahman (priesthood) and 
whosoever knows Agni's puroddsa as Brahman, secures for himself the priest¬ 
hood and whatever is attainable by priesthood he gains all that. 

13. The updmsuydja (offering made in low voice) is ksatra (martial valour). 
Whoever knows the updmsuydja is ksatra secures for him sc If the martial valour 
and whatever is attainable by martial valour, he gains all that. Some per¬ 
form it as updmsuydja (in low voice) and other make the offering in loud 
voice and that also is for ksatra so they say. 

14. The second puroddsa is the vis (common folk). Whosoever knows 
the second puroddsa as vis, secures for himself (the mastery over) the vis, 
whatever is attainable by the commonfolk, he gains all that. In so far as the 
puroddsa for Agni and the updmsuyaga come first, therefore the priesthood 
(Brahma) and martial class (ksatra) are established on the vis (common folk). 


XIII.2.2.4] 


TRANSLATION 


337 


15. The sdnndya (a preparation of fresh milk and curd) is rostra (na¬ 
tionhood). Whosoever knows the sdnndya as nationhood, secures himself 
the (control of) rostra and whatever is attainable by nationhood, he gains 
all that Some mix (milk and some curd) together and others do not There¬ 
fore the rostra is both in unitary form and in a federal form. 

16. The svistakrt (the well-offered offering) is tapas (austerity). Whoso¬ 
ever knows the svistakrt as tapas, secures for himself the tapas and whatever 
is attainable by tapas, he gains all that. 

17. The prasitra (the fore-portion on avaddna of that name) is the loka 
(heavenly abode). Whosoever knows prasitra as the loka, secures himself 
the abode in heaven and whatever is attainable by the loka, all that he gains. 
Indeed he does not fall even a litde from his abode. Even for a little, people 
fall from their heavenly abode. But this one (who knows this that prasitra is 
loka) will not fall even if he had committed great sin. (First Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANA II 

1. The idd is faith; and whosoever realises that commitment to the per¬ 
formance of prescribed rites is ida, gains (more of that) faith and whatever 
is to be achieved by faith, he acquires. 

2. The first anuyaja (after-offering) is the thunderbolt, the second one 
is the hail-storm, and the third anuyaja is the meteor. So the first anuyaja is 
followed by the chanting, “O thunderbolt, kill so and so (referring to the 
one whom he hates).” The second anuyaja to be followed by saying “O 
hailstorm, destroy so and so (referring to the one whom he hates)”; and 
the third, chanting “O meteor ! smite so and so (referring to him whom he 
hates).” That one (enemy) who dies soon is killed by that thunderbolt of 
the anuyaja; that one (enemy) who dies with oozing blood, is smitten by 
the hail-storm of the anuyaja and that (enemy) who is burnt all over is 
struck by the meteor of the anuyaja. 

3. This is the weapon in the form of sacrifice. It is with this weapon, the 
gods overpowered the Asuras. Hence the Yajamana who knows thus de¬ 
feats his sinful hating foe. 


xm.2.2.10] 


TRANSLATION 


339 


4. If the sacrifice is to end with anuyajds, it will be ending with the thun¬ 
derbolt or hail-storm or meteor. (Since it is not desirable to end a sacrifice 
with the discharge of a weapon), therefore the sacrifice of the gods end 
with idaoT with samyvanta. 

5. Indeed, by the prayajas (fore-offerings) the gods reached the heav¬ 
enly world. The Asuras tried to reach there after them and the gods drove 
them back by the anuyajds (after-offerings). Thus when the Yajamana of¬ 
fers the anuyajds , he repels that sinful, hating enemy. 

6. The prayajas (fore-offerings) are the pranas (out-breathing). The 
anuyajds (after-offerings) are the apdnas (off-breathing). That is why the 
prayajas are offered in front (forward direction) because that is the direc¬ 
tion Of prana. The anuyajas are offered in the back (backward direction) 
because that is the direction of apdna. These ( anuyajds) are the upasads of 
the new-moon and full-moon sacrifices (i.e. the three upasad offerings to 
Agni, Soma and Visnu). So here (too) they are offered in the backward 
direction (as done while offered as upasads in the Soma sacrifice). 

7. The suktavaka is the termination and whosoever knows the suktavdka 
as marking the end, gains the completion (of the sacrifice) and whatever is 
obtainable by completion, he gains all that and lives upto the end of his 
life-span. 

8. The samyoruaka is the resting point Whosoever knows the samyorvdka 
as marking the resting point he gains the resting place and whatever is 
obtainable by the pratisthd (getting firmly established in the resting point), 
all that he attains and gets himself firmly established. 

9. The gods protected the patnisamydjds from behind and placed a pro¬ 
ductive pair thereon for the sake of procreation. Thus when he offers the 
patnisamydjds he is only placing a productive pair thereon for the sake of 
procreation. By this, just as in the case of gods, offspring is produced (for 
the Yajamana). For him who knows this, offspring is produced pair after 
pair. 

10. The samistayajus is the food—whosoever knows the samistayajus as 
food, gains food. Whatever is obtainable by food, he attains all that 


XIII. 2 . 2 . 12 ] 


TRANSLATION 


341 


11. The Yajamaiia is the year. The seasons cause him to perform 
sacrifice. The Agnidhra is the spring season; that is why the forest confla¬ 
grations occur during spring. That is a form of Agni. The Adhvaryu is the 
summer; because the summer is scorched as it were. The Adhvaryu emerges 
(from the sacrificial site) as if scorched. The Udgata is the rainy season and 
that is why when it heavily rams, it sounds as if Sdtiuin is chanted. The 
Brahma is the autumn. That is why when the crops ripen they say the crea¬ 
tures are said to have become prosperous. The Hota is the win te i and that 
is why during winter, the cattle cry in anguish as if uttering vasal Thus the 
Yajamana who is the year is caused to perform sacrifice by these deities in 
the form of the seasons. He who meditates upon these deities as thost t 
cause him to perform the sacrifice, is caused to do so (enable him to per¬ 
form) by these deities even if not fully qualified priests officiate for him. 

12. Now what constitutes the balance ? The right end of the vedi (is the 
balancing point). Whatever good deed the Yajamana does, that is inside 
the vedi and whatever evil deeds he does, falls outside the vedi. Let him 
therefore, touch the right edge of the vedi while seated. Is he not mounted 
on the balance in the yonder world (to weigh his good and bad deeds) r 
Whichever side is prominent, he follows that, whether it is good, or bad. 
Verily, he who knows this, mounts the balance here itself (ensures that he 
is on the heavier pan of good deeds) and escapes being weighed in the 
balance in the yonder world. For; his good deeds become weightier and 
not his evil deeds. (Second Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter Two Ends.) 


Chapter Three 
BRAHMANAI 

1. Whosoever knows the six pairs in the Agnihotra, bequeaths offsprii lg 
by pair after pair in all generations. The Yajamana and his wife this 
forms one pair, by which his Agnihotra becomes possessed of a wife. He 
thinks “let me obtain this pair.” The calf and the Agnihotra cow - this 
forms the second pair; by this his Agnihotra cow becomes possessed of a 
male-calf. He thinks “May I obtain this pair.” The sthdR (pot) and the red 
hot embers - this is another pair. The sruk and the sruva - this forms one 
pair. The dhavaniya fire and the samidhd - this is yet another pair. The 
oblation and the svdhdkara (uttering of svaha) — this is one pair. These are 
the six pairs in Agnihotra. He who knows these as such has offspring bom 
to him pair after pair, by all generations. (First Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAH 

1. The Brahman handed over the creatures to death. Only the 
brahmacdrin (the student of Vedas) he did not give away (to death). He 
(death) said, “Let me have a share in this (brahmacdrin) too.” (Brahma 
said) “Only on that night when he fails to bring samidhds (he too shall be 
your share).” So, on whichever night the brahmacdrin does not bring samidhd 
(to his gurukula) that (night) he exists by cutting out of his life-span (that 
might reduce his life-span by one day). Therefore the brahmacdrin should 
fetch samidhds (daily) otherwise he lives (each such night) by cutting it from 
the span of his life. 

2. He who enters the brahmacarya is indeed entering a long sai 
session. The samidhd that he places on the fire while entering (brahmacarya 
airama) that is the firayamya offering (opening offering at a Dngha satra). 
That which he offers before he bathes (to mark the end of his student life) 
is the udayaniya (concluding oblatiori of the Dirgha satra). Those samidhds 
he offers in between these two (the beginning and closing offerings) are 
tgiose that belong to the satra (the sacrificial session). When abrahmin lad 
enters the brahmacarya (studentship)— 

3. (He) enters the living beings dividing himself into four; with a quar¬ 
ter enters the fire, with one quarter he enters death; with one quarter he 
enters his preceptor, the fourth quarter remains in his own self. 


xm.3.2.7] 


translation 


345 


4. In so far as he fetches samidhasiov Agni; by that he gets back his own 
quarter which has gone into the fire. Having polished it he takes it, unto his 
own self. That quarter enters him. 

5. In so far as he subjects himself to poverty as it were and without any 
sense of shame begs for food ( bhtksacarana ), by that he reclaims that quar¬ 
ter of his which had entered death. Having polished it, he puts it into himself. 
That quarter enters him. 

6. In so far as he obeys the biddings of his preceptor, and does service 
unto the dcaiya, by that he redeems that quarter of his which had entered 
into the preceptor. Having polished it, he puts it unto himself. It enters 

him. 


7. After the final ablution (marking the completion of studenthood) 
he shall not beg for his food. Because by the final ablution he drives off 
poverty (or need to beg)', drives away hunger from his kinsmen and from 
his pitrs (deceased ancestors). He who knows thus begs alms only from that 
housewife in whom he has confidence (she who will not look down upon 
him as an ordinary beggar); because it (such a bhiksd) wins him the heaven. 
If he does not find another woman fit to be approached for alms, let him 
approach his own preceptor’s wife and thereafter his own mother. The 
seventh shall not pass away for him without begging for alms (i.e. he shall 
not desist from bhiksacarana for more than seven nights). Knowing thus, 
he who goes about (begging for alms), into him, all the Vedas enter; just as 
the fire-blazes forth by samidhas, the one who knowing thus observes 
brahmacarya shines forth after licking the final ablution. (Second Brahmana 

Ends.) 


(Chapter Three Ends.) 


Chapter Four 
BRAHMAN AI 


1 Now Uddalaka, the son of Aruna, invited to officiate as sacrificial 
priest, went about the northern parts of the country. He was offered a prize 
of one gold coin. Because in the past there used to be offered a prize of one 

gold coin to those who were rushing to officiate as priests (to be won y e 

best among them) and for that (completion)the priests of the northern 
region were vying with each other. Now fear seized those brahmins of the 
north (because of Uddalaka’s arrival to challenge them). (They deliber¬ 
ated) “This son of a learned brahmin is from the Kuru-Pancala country 
and he may deprive us of our domain. Let us challenge him on a disputa¬ 
tion on metaphysical subject.” (Then the question arose) “With whom as 
our leader (we can challenge him).” (They decided) “With Svaidayana (as 
our spokesman).” Svaidayana was of the Saunaka family. 

2. They said “O Svaidayana, we shall defeat this (enemy) with you as 

our leader.” He (Svaidayana) said, “You all remain J*f re “ 1 

go and know (about) him.” He then proceeded to him (Uddalaka). When 
Svaidayana approached him, Uddalaka addressed him, O Svaidayana and 
the latter responded, O son of Gautama” - and straight away started ques- 

tioning him (as follows) 

S “He alone, O son of Gautama; may drive about (victorious) among 
people aschosen priest, who knows the eight ajyabhagas ottered in the start- 
tag five oblations made in the middle; six portions offered to Prajapati and 
eight ajyabhagas offered at the end - all of the Daria Purnamasa sacnfices? 

4 “He alone, O son of Gautama; may drive about (victorious) among 
people as chose priest, who knows from the Daria Purnamasa sacrifices, why 
creawres here are bom without teeth; why they then grow; why they fid ; 
why they (again grow) and stay on; why again at old age they fall (or decay), 
why lower fine teeth are first appearing and then the upper hue teeffi, w y 
the lower teeth are small and the upper ones are broader, and why the 
biting teeth (frontal ones) are longer and the palatal ones are of equal 

size?” 


xm.4.1.8] 


TRANSLATION 


349 


5. “He alone, O son of Gautama; may drive about (victorious) among 
people as chosen priest who knows from Daria Purnamasa sacrifices, as to 
why these creatures here are bom with hair; why later the hair grows again 
as it were, on the beard, arm-pits and other (remote) parts of the body; why 
on the head alone they become grey at first; and why in the old age they 
become grey all about ?” 


6. “He alone, O son of Gautama; may drive about (victorious) among 
people as chosen priest, who knows from the Daria Purnamasa sacrifices as 
to why the semen discharged at the stage of boyhood is not productive, 
why it is productive in his adult stage and why again in the last stage of his 
life it becomes unproductive; and he who knows the golden Gayatri of daz¬ 
zling wings carrying the Yajamana to the heavenly world ?" Then he 
(Uddalaka) surrendered to him the gold coin (the one betted) saying, O 
Svaidayana you are learned and surely gold is given to one who knows gold 
(who knows well what is to be explained) ” and after hugging him (in appre¬ 
ciation), he went away. They (the others among the priests of the north¬ 
ern region) asked him, “What happened to that son of Gautama ?" 

7. He said, “No doubt he (UddMaka) is brahmin, being the son of the 
brahmin (even though he is not upanita or initiated). Whoever makes this 
person (Uddalaka) a venerable priest, his head will fall (he will die)They 
(the other priests of the northern country) then dispersed. Then he 
(Uddalaka) with samidhd in hand (as a mark of studentship) returned to 
Svaidayana saying, “I seek you (as my teacher).” “What do you want to 
study”, (asked Svaidayana). (Uddalaka said) ‘Those very questions which 

you asked me, please explain them. 

8 He said “I shall explain those to you even without formal initiation 
(i.e. you are so great a brahmin that I don’t dare to accept you as my pu¬ 
pil).” He then told him, “The two offerings of ghee, the five prayajas(iore- 
offerings) and the ajyabhaga for Agni as the eighth — these are the eight 
anabhagas offered in the starting. The ajyabhaga of Soma, being the first of 
the portions of havis - for Soma is havirbhaga - the fmrodasa meant for 
Agni the low-voiced Updmiu offering to Agiu-Sraw, the /mrodasa for Agni- 
Semaand the SxHstakrt offering to Agni-these constitute the five sacrificial 
oblations offered in the middle. The praHtra, the ida, that which he gives to 
the Agnidha; the share of Brahma, the Yajamana’s share; and the armaharya 


XIII.4.1.12] 


TRANSLATION 


351 


(rice cooked for the consumption of the rtviks in general) — these consti¬ 
tute the six portions of Prajapati. The three anuydjas (after-offerings), the 
four patnlsamydjds and the samistayajus as the eighth these are the eight 
ajyabhdga at the end. 

9. Since the prayajds (fore-offerings) are without being accompanied by 
puronuvdkyas (invitatoiy formulas), these creatures are born without teeth. 
Since the (subsequent) havis offerings are accompanied by the chanting of 
puronuvdkyas , these teeth grow later. Again since the anuydjas (after-offer¬ 
ings) are without invitatory formulas, they (teeth) fell. Later the patnlsamydjds . 
are accompanied by puronuvdkyas and so they (teeth) again come to stay. 
The samistayajus that follows at the end has again no invitatory formula 
and that is why all of them decay at old age. 

10 After chanting the invitatory formula, he makes the offering with 
the ydjya (offering) formula and hence the teeth in the lower row appear 
first and then those in the upper row. He utters (the invitatory) verse m 
Gayatri metre (with twenty-four syllables) and offers with the ydjya verse m 
Tristubh (with forty-four syllables). That is the reason for the teeth in the 
lower row being thinner and those in the upper row being broader. He 
pours the dghdras (ten ghee sprinklings) from back to front and hence the 
frontal teeth are longer. Since the two samydjds (the invitatory and the of¬ 
fering formulas) are of the same metre (for the Svistakrt offering) the palar 

tal teeth are of same size. 

11 He spreads the barhi grass which accounts for these creatures being 
bom with hair. In as much as he again, as it were, spreads prastara (bunch 
of grass spread over the barhis) the hair later grows again as it were, on the 
beard, arm-pits and other (remote) parts of the body. Later he first throws 
only the prastara (into the fire after oblations), the hair on the head be- 
comes grey first. Lastly he throws all the sacrificial grass spread on the twfi 
(into the fire) and so in the last stage of life hair becomes grey all over. 

12. The prayajds (fore-offerings) have gteras their offering material and 
that is why a boys semen is not productive; but is like water and gha is in¬ 
deed only like water. In the middle of the sacrifice the offerings are made 
with sour curds and purodasa, it (the seed of the adult) is productive in the 
middle stage of life, because they (the offerings) are thick (not watery) 
and the seed also is thick (viscous), as it were (in adult stage). The anuyajas 


XIII.4.2.3] 


TRANSLATION 


353 


(after-offerings) have ghee for their offering material and hence again it 
(seed) is not productive in old age and is like water, for ghee is indeed like 
water. The vedi (altar) itself is the Gayatri. The former eight ajyabhagas of¬ 
fered. are her right wing. The eight subsequent ajyabhagas are her left wing. 

' t same golden bird Gayatri with shining wings, indeed carries the 
Yajamana who knows this, to the heavenly world. (First Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAII 

1. Now the taking up of the two sruks (will be discussed). Some people 
who assume they are experts, take up the juhu, with right hand and the 
upabhrt with the left hand. But let him not do so. In that context, if any one 
were to say of him, “Surely, this Adhvaryu has rendered the Yajamana’s 
hated enemy on a par with him and capable of challenging him, then that 
would indeed be likely to come true. ” It should be done like this - with both 
the hands the juhu should be taken and placed over the upabhrt. There is 
no arguing about this (procedure). It is for the welfare of the cattle and for 
longevity of life. Let him take them up without producing clinking sound. 
Were he to make them clink with each other, the Yajamana will meet with 
loss of his well-being; so one should take them without producing clinking 
sound. 

2. Now for the atikramana (stepping past the vedi) - one Adhvaryu drives 
away the cattle of the Yajamana with a thunderbolt (causes the Yajamana 
to lose his cattle wealth by adopting a wrong procedure of atikramana ) and 
the other Adhvaryu (who follows the right procedure) collects the cattle 
near to the Yajamana by using a thunderbolt. Now that Adhvaryu who 
steps past (the vedi) with his right foot while proceeding to call (on the 
Agnidhra) to pronounce srausat and with his left foot (steps past) after hav¬ 
ing called for the srausat, he is driving the cattle away from the Yajamana. 
When (on the other hand) he steps past (the vedt) with his left foot while 
proceeding to a call for srausat and with his right foot steps past after having 
called for srausat, he does indeed collect together the cattle for the Yajamana. 

3. Now (the procedure regarding) holding of the sruks- some persons 
who think they are wise, hold the two sruks without strectched hands. Let 
him not do so. When he does so, if anyone were to remark “Surely this 
Adhvaryu has made his two arms as a pair of spears, he will become a spear- 


XIII.4.2.9] 


TRANSLATION 


355 


holder” and this (forecast) will happen to come true. This navel is the cen¬ 
tral breath (seat of breath in the middle of the body) and he should make 
that middle channel bent and hold the sruks by its side (i.e. the sruks are to 
be held at the level of the navel made to tend downward by holding the 
breath in the abdomen). 

4. Now about asravana (or calling for the srausat ) - There are six variet¬ 
ies of asravana, namely, the descending (tone); the even; the ascending; 
the feeble; the open-mouthed (outward tending) and the inward tending. 
In the descending mode he begins in a loud tone and ends in a low tone. If 
one wants him (the Yajamana) to be extremely impoverished, for him he 
(the Adhvaryu) starts in a high tone and ends up in a low tone and thereby 
he (Yajamana) becomes poorer. 

5. The even one is that in which he ends up in the same tone in which 
he commenced. If he (Adhvaryu) wants the Yajamana neither to become 
more prosperous nor poorer, for him (he does the asravana) ending in the 
same tone as it started and by that he neither becomes richer nor poorer. 

6. The ascending variety is that in which it is started in a low tone and 
concludes in a loud pitch. For that one (Yajamana) whom he wishes to 
prosper more, he starts in a low tone and ends up a high tone and by that 
he becomes more prosperous. 

7. The feeble variety is indeed the one where he calls for srausat in a 
thin, long-drawn emaciated voice. In his case if anyone were to remark. 
This Adhvaryu has surely rendered the Yajamana weak and submissive to 
his hated foe” then that would indeed happen so. 

8. The outward-tending type of asravana is one in which he opens his 
lips wide and makes the call at a high toneless pitch. Tone being prosperity, 
he in this process keeps prosperity outside and starves of food. 

9. The inward-tending variety of asravana is one in which he closes his 
lips and makes the call in a loud toneful pitch. Tone being prosperity, in 
this way he puts prosperity inside himself and becomes an enjoyer of food 
(wealth). Having kept back (the tone) deep in the breast as it were, let him 
keep the middle pitch of the brfiat Saman both at the start and at the closing 


XIII.4.2.13] 


TRANSLATION 


357 


and end up in the loud tone ( tdra). There is no dispute about this since it 
enables to get cattle (wealth) and enhances life-span. 

10. Now about the homo, (offering in the fire) - some people who claim 
to be smart, having turned the sruk by moving it towards the east, pour out 
the oblation, turn it round and place it on the upabhrt. Let him not do so. 
While doing as if someone remarks, “This Adhvaryu has rendered his 
Yajamana dependent upon and submissive to his hateful enemies”, then 
that would indeed be likely to come to pass. Some people having poured 
out from the sruk by turning it sideways, turn it round and place it on the 
upabhrt. But let him not do so. In that case, if anyone were to say, “This 
Adhvaryu has blocked the oblations by adopting a wrong procedure and 
he (the Yajamana) will be shattered or will become one eaten by worms”, 
then that would indeed come to be true. In this (following) way alone it 
should be done - after turning the sruk eastwards and offering made, let 
him convey it up in the same way (i.e. tilted eastward) and place it on the 
upabhrt. There can be no dispute about this, since it adds to catde (wealth) 
and to life-span. 

11. One (type of) Adhvaryu renders the oblation burnt (charred) and 
another pleases the oblations. That Adhvaryu, who after offering gkee, of¬ 
fers portions of havis (called avadanas), verily burns the oblations. With 
regard to him, an invisible (source’s) voice has declared, ‘This Adhvaryu 
has rendered the oblations burnt or charred.*’ That Adhvaryu who after 
offering ghee, offers the avadanas and at the end again offers ghee, is consid¬ 
ered as one who pleases the oblations and these obladons having been 
pleased, the gods fill gold cups (for him). 

12. In this connection, Yajriavalkya said, “In as much as he makes an 
under-layer of ghee (in the sruk), before placing the avadanas (cut portions 
of oblations) and again sprinkles ghee over them, by that itself he pleases 
the oblations. They being satisfied, the gods fill (for him) gold cups. Now 
Saulvayana was Adhvaryu to those who had/ayasthuna as their family head. 

13. He (Saulvayana) said, “Surely this sacrificial session is conducted with 
emaciated posits and very litde ghee and this person claims himself the fam¬ 
ily head.” 


XIII.4.3.5] 


TRANSLATION 


359 


14. He (Ayasthuna) said, “Adhvaryu! You have insulted us. Now those 
two sruks are there which you have not, for a whole year, succeeded in tak¬ 
ing up (handling in the proper way). If I were to instruct you (how to handle 

them) you would become richer with progeny and catde (wealth) and would 
lead(the Yajamana) to the heavenly world.” 

15. He said, “Admit me as your pupil.” He (Ayasthuna) said, “You have 
officiated as Adhvaryu for one year and so I shall instruct you even without 
you formally becoming my pupil.” So he taught him this method of taking 
up the two sruks as explained (above) by us. So one has to appoint only 
such a person as his Adhvaryu, who knows this and not one who does not 
know this. (Second Brahman a Ends.) 

BRAHMAN A III 

1. Prajapati underwent suffering (got heated) by creating the living 
beings. As he became worn out, his Sri (charm or glory) came out of him 
and stood there brilliant, shining and pervading as it were. The gods got 
enamoured of that brilliant, shining and pervasive charm. 

2. They asked Prajapati, “Let us finish her (Sri) and take away all these 
(glory, brilliance and pervasive beauty) from her. He said, “This Sn is in¬ 
deed a woman. One does not kill a woman. Howeveryou take anythingyou 
desire from her even while leaving her alive.” 

3. Then Agni took nourishment from her; Soma took away her royalty; 
Varuna her imperial power; Mitra took her martial valour; Indra, her 
strength; Brhaspati grabbed her brahminical lustre; Savita, her kingship; 
Pusa took her wealth; Sarasvatl, her prosperity and Tvasta took away her 
beautiful forms. 

4. She said to Prajapati, “See; they have taken away (all) this from me.” 
He said, “Ask for these back by performing sacrifice. 

5. She then discovered this isti (sacrificial rite) involving ten offerings. 
They being - purodasa in eight potsherds for Agni; a cam for Soma; purodasa 
in ten potsherds for Varuna; a cam for Mitra; purodasa in eleven potsherds 
for Indra; a cam for Brhaspati; purodasa in twelve or eight potsherds for 
Savita; a cam for Pusa; a cam for Sarasvatl and purodasa in ten potsherds for 
Tvasta. 


XIII.43.13} 


TRANSLATION 


361 


6. She (Sri) addressed them with this invitatoiy chant, “May Agni, Soma, 
Varuna, Mitra, Indra, Brhaspati, Savita, the one who gives in thousands, 
and Pusa bestow on us cows (wealth) (influenced) by the sacrifices. Let 
Sarasvafi with fortune and Tvasta with charming forms (enrich me)They 
accordingly appeared there before her. 

7. By this Yajya (offering) formula she then appealed to them in the 
reverse order, “May Tvasta grant me forms; may the liberal Sarasvatl and 
Pusa bestow prosperity; may Savita and Brhaspati give (gilts to me), may 
Indra give strength; Mitra endow martial valour; may Varuna, Soma and 
Agni (bestow their shares).” They got ready to restore (what they took 
from her). Then she saw these supplimentary oblations. 

8. “In this sacrifice may Agni the eater of food and the owner of food 
bestow food upon me - svaha” Agni accepted the oblation and departed; 
later he bestowed food upon her. 

9. “In this sacrifice, may Soma, the king and the lord of kings bestow 
royal power upon me - svahaT - Soma received this oblation and departed; 
later granted kingship to her. 

10. “Varuna, the Majesty and over-lord of monarchs may bestow impe¬ 
rial power upon me in this sacrifice - svahd” Varuna received that oblation 
and departed; and later gave imperial power to her. “Mitra of martial valour, 
lord of the martial race, may give martial power unto me in this sacrifice - 
svahd .” Mitra accepted the oblation and departed; later bestowed martial 
power unto her. 

11. “Indra, the strong and the lord of strength, may bestow in this sac¬ 
rifice, strength unto me — svdhd. Indra taking the oblation departed, later 
bestowed strength unto her. 

12. “Brhaspati, the priesthood, and lord of priestly class may bestow in 
this sacrifice brahminical lustre on me - svdha. n Brhaspati received the ob¬ 
lation and departed; later conferred brahminical lustre unto her. 

13. “Savita, the kingship and lord of kings, may in this sacrifice bestow 
kingship unto me — svdhd .” Savita accepted the oblation and went away, 
later bestowed kingship unto her. 


Xin.4.3.19] 


translation 


363 


14. “Pusa, the wealthy and lord of wealth, may in this sacrifice endow 
prosperity unto me - svahaT - Pusa received the oblation and departed; 

later gave wealth unto her. 

15. “Sarasvati, the prosperous, and mistress of prosperity in this sacri¬ 
fice, grant prosperity unto me - svaha. 9 Sarasvati accepted the oblation and 
departed; later bestowed prosperity unto her. 

16. “Tvasta, the fashioner of forms and the lord of forms may in this 
sacrifice - bestow well-formed cattle unto me - svaha” Tvasta received the 
oblation and departed; later bestowed well-fashioned cattle unto her. 

17. These are the ten deities and ten offerings and ten daksinato priests. 
The Viral metre consists each of ten-ten syllables. \ iraj is same as Sri ( auty 
or charm). He thus establishes (the Yajamana) in the Viraj, in prosperity 

and food. 


18. For this there are fifteen samidheni (kindling) chants. He offers them 
to the gods in muffled voice. There are five firayajas (fore-offenngs); three 
anuyajas (after-offerings); one samistayojus. The a^oWwgttschants contiun 
die word' “pustT (affluence), Through Agni. may he obtain wealth and 
affluence day by day, famous and abounding, m heroes. A harbinger of 
plenty in the Urse, a remover of trouble, a gainer of wealth,an augmenter 
ofaffluence, a kind friend be you to us O Soma!”. The-o formu^of dre 
Smstakrt offerings contain the word “soW (thousand) - Grant you tmto 
us wealth, a thousandfold, with offspring and plenly and glonous manhood 
O Agni, most excellent and never-failing” and “grant us our F^asthe 
best invoker of the gods for our hymns, you blaze up auspiciously for^ , 
you who are inflamed by wind, O Agni, the giver of a thousand boons. 


19. Indeed, Gautama, the son of Rahugana knows this (sacrifice), she 
fthat isti) reached Tanaka of the Videha. He enquired about her (asked 
about the identity of that isti) to brahmins who knew (all) the Veda portion. 
He came to know that Vajnavalkya knew her. He sa id, “O V^navalk^, a 
thousand (cows) we offer toyou since we found out this (isticallcd) ™tiW“ 
in you.” Whoever knowing thus, performs this isti, gains friends, die kmg_ 

dom becomes his own; he conquers recurring dealh and epws fflll span of 

life, whoever knows thusabout it (also gets these benefits). (Third Brahmana 

Ends.) 


XIU.4.4.7] 


TRANSLATION 


365 


BRAHMAN AIV 

1. Now (we discuss) about the appropriateness of oblations — Indeed 
there are six doors to the world of Brahman. They are Agni, Vayu, waters, 
moon, lightening and sun. 

2. He who makes offering with burnt oblation, enters the Brahman 
world through the door of fire and having entered through the door of 
Agni, he becomes one with Brahman and wins a place in the same world. 

3. He who makes offering with the oblation that has fallen on the 
ground, enters through the door of Vayu and having entered through the 
door of Vayu, becomes one with Brahman and shares the world of Brahman. 

4. He who offers oblation with uncooked havis , enters the Brahman 
world through the door of water and having entered through the door of 
water, becomes one with Brahman and shares the world of Brahman. 

5. He who offers brownish oblations, enters the Brahman world through 
the door of the moon and having entered through the door of the moon, 
becomes one with Brahman and shares the world of Brahman. 

6. He who offers oblations with havis darkly browned (or reddened), 
enters the Brahman world through the door of lightening and having en¬ 
tered through the door of lightening becomes one with Brahman and 
shares the world of Brahman. 

7. He who makes offering with well-cooked oblations, he enters the 
Brahman world through the sun and having entered through the door of 
the sun becomes one with Brahman and shares the world of Brahman. 
This much about the appropriateness of oblations. He who knows thus, 
the appropriateness of havis, when he makes sacrificial offering, it becomes 
offered by wholly appropriate havis oblations. (Fourth Brahamana Ends.) 


XIII.4.5.5] 


TRANSLATION 


367 


brahmanav 


1. Now(let us discuss) the wholesomeness of a sacrifice Now what¬ 
ever is deficient, that is productive of offspring and that which is extra oi 

superflous contributes to (Yajamana’s) catde wealth. That which is discon¬ 
nected in the sacrifice, that makes for prosperity. That which is perfect m it, 
is conducive to heaven. 

2. If he finds, “There has been this deficiency in my sacrifice , let him 
have the faith that it would produce offspring for him. 


3. If he finds, “There has been this excess in my sacrifice , let him have 
the feith that it would augment the cattle wealth and he would come to 

own (many) cows. 

4. If he finds, There has been this break (disconnection) in my sacri¬ 
fice”, let him have the faith that it would be for his prosperity and prosper¬ 
ity, accompanied by splendour, fame and brahmimcal lustre will come to 

him. 


5. If he finds, “(Everything) was perfect in my sacrifice • 1 «hun have 
the feith that “it would reach to the heavenly world and I shall be one m 
the heavenly world.” This much for the wholesomeness of sacnfice-Who- 
ever knows thus the wholesomeness of sacrifice the sacnfice he perfoims 
will be one of alkround success (wholesome). (Fifth Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter Four Ends.) 


Chapter Five 
BRAHMANAI 

1. The apsara, UrvasI, fell in love with Pururavas, the son of Ila. While 
marrying him she said, “You shall approach me with your masculine desire 
thrice a day; you shall not sleep with me without my consent and you shall 
not appear before me naked; for this is the prescribed behaviour towards 
us, the women.” She then lived with him for long and she lived so long that 
she had a child from him. 

2. Then the Gandharvas told (among themselves), “This UrvasI has 
indeed lived among men for quite long. Think of a plan so that she may 
come back to us.” Now, an ewe with two lambs was tied to her cot. (One 
day) Gandharvas carried away one of the lambs. 

3. She cried, “Alas they are taking away my child as if there is no hero 
and no one here (to question).” Then they earned away the second (lamb) 
and she cried the same way. He (Pururavas) thought, “How can this (place) 
be without a hero or without anybody when I am here” and naked (though 
he was) sprang up chasing them (the intruders) thinking that dressing him¬ 
self would involve loss of time. 

4. At that time the Gandharvas produced lightning and no sooner she 
saw him naked, as if in day-light, she vanished. He came back saying, “Here 
I am” but lo! she had disappeared. Pratding due to agony, he wandered all 
over Kuruksetra. There was a lotus-pond there called “Anyatah plaksa on 
whose banks he wandered. 

5. The apsaras damsels were swimming in that pond assuming the f orms 
of swans. Recognising him she (UrvasI) said, “this is the man with whom I 
lived.” They (her companions) said - “Let us make ourselves visible to him.” 
She replied “Yes” and they all became visible to him. He (the king) 
recognised her and appealed to her, “Hey ! my better half Please wait; 
cruel-hearted (that you are, don’t abandon me and run away). Let us ex¬ 
change words (pleasantries). These secrets of ours if not told (exchanged 
between us) will not bring us joy in the coming days,” “ 1 any, I beg of you to 
exchange words” — this is, what he meant. 


XIIIJ.1.12] 


TRANSLATION 


371 


6. She replied, “What for I should exchange these words with you? I 
have departed like the early part of the dawn (never to return). Therefore 
O Pururavas! go back to your abode. I am inaccessible to you like the wind.” 
“You have failed to do what I asked you and so I am beyond your reach; so 
go back to your home” - this is what she meant. 

7. Then he in anguish said, “Is it then that this friend of yours should 
run away this day, never to come back, to the farthest distance? Should he 
(i.e. I) lie on the lap of Nirrti (as a condemned sinner) or should the wolves 
devour him ?” “Your friend will either hand himself to death or fall down 
(on the earth) so that wolves or dogs will eat him” - This is what he meant. 

8. The other one (UrvasI) replied, “Pururavas! do not die nor fall down. 
Let not the cruel wolves devour you. Really, there is no friendship with 
women, and they have the hearts of a wolf.” “Do not be sentimental; there 
is no friendship with women. Return home”- this is what she meant. 

9. “When I walked among mortals in my changed form and spent the 
nights of four autumns, I took a litde ghee, once a day (at your place) and 
even now I feel the satisfaction of it.” This conversation contained in fif¬ 
teen Rk verses has been handed down by Bahvrcas (traditional reciters of 
Rgveda). Then her heart took pity on him. 

10. And she said, “On the last night of the year commencing from to¬ 
day, you come here; then you shall spend one night with me and by that 
time, this son of yours (who is in my womb) would have been born. He 
(accordingly) came on the night that marked the end of one year from 
thence and there were palaces of gold (in front). There they (the people 
there) bade him just this “Get in” and then sent her (UrvasI) to him. 

11. She said, “Tomorrow morning the Gandharvas will grant you a boon 
and you can choose one.” He (Pururavas) said, “You yourself suggest to me 
as to what boon (I should ask for).” She said, “Ask them.” “ Let me be one 
among you.” In the morning, the Gandharvas granted him a boon and he 
said, “Let me be one among you.” 

12. They said, “There is no human being having that body of Agni, fit 
for sacrifice, by which he can perform a sacrifice to become one among us.” 




translation 


373 


(However) they placed fire in a sthtiU (pan), gave it to him saying, Perform¬ 
ing sacrifice with this (fire) you can become one among us.” He took tl 
fire-pan and his son and returned to his home. He kept the fire-pan m the 
forest (at the out-skirts) and reached home with his son. He came ba c 
that spot where he had kept the pan) thinking. *1 have come back (let me 
collect the fire and perform the sacrifice).” Butlo! the fire had disappeared. 
What had been the fire was an Asvattha tree and what had b e 5an 
was a Sami tree. He then returned to the Gandharvas. 

13. They said, “For a full year, prepare a cam of rice sufficient to feed 
four persons; take each time three samidhds from Asvattha, smear it with 
ghee and put them on the fire with those mantras which contain the words 
sarmdhd and ghrta? The fire that will be generated thereby will be that fire 
(which we originally gave you). 

14 They said, “This (method of recovering that fire, as stated above) is 
somewhat recondite,as it were. So you (better) make the upper part of the 

fire-churning derice (arani) with this Asvattha wood and the lower part 
(adhararuni) with this Sami wood. The fire which will be generated (by churn¬ 
ing the two) will be the same as that (one we had given).” 

15. They again said, “But that (process) also seems to be involved. You 
rather make the uttardrani and the adhardrani out of the Asvattha wood 
itself The fire generated (by churning these two) will be that very fire (we 
had given).” He then (accordingly) made the uttardrani and the adhararam 
out of the Asvattha wood and produced (by churning them ) fire which was 
the very fire (the Gandharvas originally gave him). By making offerings 
therewith, he became one among the Gandharvas. Let him (the Yajamana) 
therefore make by himself the uttardrani with Asvattha wood and the 
adhrdrani with Asvattha wood, so that the fire which he would produce will 
be that very fire, using which for sacrifice, he (the Yajamana) becomes one 
among the Gandharvas. (First Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMANAH 

1. Prajapati developed a body for himself by means of the Caturmasya 
sacrifices. He fashioned his right arm by the havis of the Vaisvadeva (one of 
the four Caturmasya sacrifices). This thumb, thereof is the oblation mean 
therein for Agni, this fore-finger is the havis to Soma; this middle fin ger is 


XIII .5.2.6] 


TRANSLATION 


375 


the oblation to Savita. That puroddsa to Savita is doubtless, the largest and 
that is why, this (middle finger) is the largest of these (fingers). That {hams) 
to Sarasvatl is this (ring) finger and that one to Pusa is this (little finger). 
This joint above the hand (wrist) is the oblation to the Maruts and this 
(elbow) is the oblation to the Visvadevas. This joint between the shoulder 
and the arm is the havis to heaven and earth. Since the offering to heaven 
and earth is indistinct, this (joint) is also indistinct. 

2. The right leg of his is of Varunapraghasa. Its five oblations which it 
has in common (with the other Caturmasya sacrifices) are these five toes 
and the havis to Indra-Agni is the knuckles. These oblations (to heaven 
and earth) are for twin deities and hence there, are these two knuckles. 
The havis to Varuna is this (shank) ; that to the Maruts, this (thigh) and 
that puroddsa to “Ka” is the back-bone. This oblation is indistinct and hence 
this back-bone is also concealed. 

3. This mouth of his is the Anikavafi off ering. Mouth is the support for 
the pranas. The Sdntapaniya offering is his chest, because it is the chest that 
gets heated up. The Grhamedhtya offering is his belly, for the belly is the 
support (for the food* consumed) and hence it provides support. The 
Kraidana oblation is his male organ, for, it is therewith that (man) plays as 
it were. The offering to Aditi is the downward breathing. 

4. This left leg is the Maha havis (the great oblation). The five offerings 
which it has in common (with the other Caturmasya sacrifices) are these 
five toes. The oblation to Indra-Agni are these knuckles. This oblation is 
for the twin deities and hence there are these two knuckles. The havis to 
Mahendra is this (shank); that to Visvakarman is this (thigh). This offering 
isindistinctandhence this (thigh) is also indistinct The /umisfor the Pitryajha 
is the intestine, etc., inside the stomach. This havis is indistinct and hence 
the organs inside the stomach are concealed. 

5 > This left arm is no doubt, the oblation of Sunaslriya. I hcse five fin¬ 
gers are the five offerings it has in common (with other Caturmasya sacri¬ 
fices) . This joint over the palm is the havis of Sunaslriya. This (elbow) is the 
offering to Vayu and this arm is the offering to Sun. This one to Sun is 
indistinct and hence this (arm) is indistinct. 

6. Now these Caturmasya offerings are (spread over) three intervals 
and have two joints between them. Hence these thumbs of man have each 


XIII.5.3.2] 


TRANSLATION 


377 


three parts and have two joints. Two of these four (sacrifices) have each 
three Imrukta (indistinct) oblations (made in a low voice) and two of them 
have two (aniruito oblations) each. At each one of those four (Catunnasy 
sacrifices) they churn out the fire. That is why (the draught animal) pulls 
with all the four limbs. At two of them, they lead the fire (straigh t to the 
Ahavanim without the need for the uttaravedt ). That is why, man (among 
die animals) walks on two feet. This Prajapati fashioned hisbodyby means 
of the Caturmasya sacrifices. In like manner, this kajamana who knot 
thus, develops fw himself a (divine) body by means of the Caturmasya 

sacrifices. 

7. Now they say, “Let all (the formulas of) Vaisvadeva be in Gayatri 
metre- all Varunapraghasa be in the Tristubh metre; all Maha hams be in 
lagati metre and all (the formulas of) Sunasiriya be in the Anustubh me e 
1 ^ese end up in a Catuftoma" But let him not do so. Because (even 
otherwise) these (sacrifices attain that nature of Gayatn, etc.) and by a 
itself his desire gets fulfilled. 

8 Thus, indeed these offering formulas of the Caturmasya sacrifices 
amount to three hundred and sixty-two Brhati verses. With these he o^ 

tains both the year and the Mahavrata; and thus, b 

also has a twofold support (since the total number of Byhatis exceed 3b0 by 
two) add that make the Yajamana reach the heavenly world and make him 
established there. (Second Brahmana Ends.) 

brahman Am 

1 Pracmavogya, son of Suci approached Uddalaka, son of Aruni for a 
discussion (sa^nf), “Let me know the spiritual import of Agmhotra. 

9 He asked (Uddalaka), “Oh Goutama! What is the nature of your 
AgnLua cow ? lat is the nature of its calf ? ^hat isdt lik^ when mrited 
trith its calf? What constitutes the rope used to bmd the calf. What is the 
nature of that (cow) being milked ? What is its nature after being milked ? 
What like it (milk) is being brought (from the cow-shed to the 
Carphapatya)? Whatis its nature when placed on the burning coals (at the 
noZ side of the Garhapatya)? What is its nature when igmt^ djrbha gm^ 
is held over it ? What is it like when water is added to it (with sruk to calm 


XIII.5.3.5] 


TRANSLATION 


379 


down the boiled milk)? What is its nature when removed from the fire? 
What is it like when it is being ladled out? What is it like after it is ladled out? 
What is its nature when lifted up (to be carried to the Ahavanlya)? What is 
it like when placed down?” 

3. What is the nature of the samidha that you put on ? What is the na¬ 
ture of the first oblation? Why did you put it down (the sruk) containing the 

milk on the enclosing darbha grass ? What constitutes the second oblation.-* 
Why do you shake the sruk after making the offering? After cleaning the 
sruk all around its spout, why did you wipe it again on the bunch of darbha ? 
Having cleaned it a second time all over, why did you place your hand on 
the southern side(of the vedt). Why did you consume the milk first time 
and why the second time? Slowly moving away (from the vedi) why did you 
sip water ? Why having put water into the sruk, you sprinkled the same" Why 
did you do it (sprinkle it) a second time and why a third time in that north¬ 
ern direction? Why did you pour down water behind the Ahavanlya." Why 
did you bring the offering to a close (after that)? If you have performed 
Agnihotra after knowing these, then indeed I concede that you have per¬ 
formed it? If you have done without knowing these, then (it is as good as) 

you have not performed it. 

4. He (Uddalaka) replied, “My Agnihotra cow is Ida, the daughter of 
Manu; the calf belongs to Vayu; when united with its calf, it (cow) is the sky; 
the Virad metre of ten syllables is the rope to bind the calf; the milk that is 
being milked is of Alvins.” When it has been milked, it belongs to Vilvadevas, 
When brought (from the cow-shed) it belongs to Vayu. It becomes that of 
Agni when put on fire; when the ignited darbha is held over, it becomes that 
of Indra and Agni; by adding water it is made to belong to \ ai una. Again it 
becomes that of Vayu when taken out of the fire. When earned away it 
belongs to heaven and earth; when being ladled out it is of Alvins and after 
it has been ladled out it is of Vilvadevas. When lifted up, it is of Mahadeva 
and when taken to the Ahavaniya, it belongs to Vayu and when placed 

down, it is of Visnu. 

5. The samidha I put on the fire is the support of the ahutis. With the 
first offering I gratified the gods. When I laid down the smh with milk, it was 
meant for Brhaspati. When I looked away, then I connected together this 
earth and the yonder world. By the second offering I settled my sell in the 


XIII.5.3.7] 


TRANSLATION 


381 


heavenly world. When I shook the sruk after offering, it is for Vayu. After 
cleaning the sruk all round the spout, when I wiped it on the darbha bunch, 

I gratified the plants and trees. After cleaning it for a second time, when I 
placed my hand on the south of the i>edi, I gratified the pips. When I con¬ 
sumed the milk the first time, I gratified myself. By second time consuming, 

I fed my discendents. When having slowly moved away I sipped water, by 
that I gratified the cattle. After pouring water into sruk and sprinkled all 
over, I pleased the fore-most among serpents. When I sprinkled a second 
time, I pleased the Gandharvas and the Apsaras. When I poured towards 
north, I opened the gate of heaven. By pouring down water to the west of 
the altar, I ensured rain on this earth. When I brought the sacrifice to a 
close, whatever was wanting on this earth, those I bestowed on it (I made 
up all deficiencies on this earth). Sauceya said, “Revered one! We too know 
this much in common. Again I want to ask you a question, O great one. 
“Ask, Oh! Pracinayogya”, said Uddalaka. 

6. He said, “At that time when those fires are taken out and the vessels 
brought down and you are about to offer, if the offering fire gets extin¬ 
guished, do you know what harm will befall the one who offers?” He re¬ 
plied, “I know; ere long, his eldest son would die, if the one who offers 
does not know this (vidyd); but since I have that knowledge, I have over¬ 
come that.” “What is that knowledge and what is the expiation T asked 
Sauceya. “The prana of the mouth has entered the udana and I should 
make an offering in the Garhapatya fire. That is the expiation and thereby 
I don’t comit any wrong”, said Uddalaka. “This much we both know in 
common; again I want to ask you a question, sir.” “Do ask, Pracinayogya”, 

said Uddalaka. 

7. He asked - “If at that time, the Garhaptaya fire is to get extinguished, 
do you know what calamity it portends to the one who makes the offering 
and what is the atlonement thereof ? He said “I know; the master of the 
house would soon die, in the case of one who does not know (the vidya) 
and since I know it, I have withstood it”- said Uddalaka. “What is that mdya 
and what is the attonement?” “It means that the udana (upward breath) 
has entered the prana and I would make offering in the Ahavamya fire, this 
is the attonement. Thereby I don’t comit any wrong"- said Uddalaka. “This 
much we both know in common; but I want to ask you a question, sir 
said Sauceya. “Go ahead” said the other. 


XIII.5.3.10] 


TRANSLATION 


383 


8. He said - “If at that very time, the Daksinagni is to get extinguished, 
what danger awaits the one who makes the offering? Uddalaka said — I 
know; very soon all his cattle will die, if he does not happen to know (the 
vidyd ); I have got over it by my knowledge.” “What is that knowledge and 
what is the expiation ?” asked Sauceya. “It means the vyana (the pervading 
breath) has entered the udana and I would make an offering in the 
Garhapatya fire and that is the expiation; thus knowing. I don’t commit 
any wrong” - replied Uddalaka. “This much both of us know in common. 
Again I want to ask you a doubt, sir”. “Do ask” said Uddalaka. 

9. He asked “If at that very time, all the fires are to get extinguished, do 
you know what evil effect will befall that one who makes the offering' I do 
know; in the case of one who does not know (the vidyd ), his family will very 
soon be devoid of any heirs. But I could avert that by my knowledge (of 
that vidyd)” - said Uddalaka. “What is that vidyd and what is atone¬ 
ment ?”- asked Sauceya. “I would quickly chum out fire (afresh), take out 
the Ahavanlya in the direction where the wind blows and make an offering 
to Vayu.” I would thereby conclude that an Agnihotra is a success, since it 
would belong to all the dieties. Because all beings get absorbed in Vayu and 
are again produced out of Vayu. This would be the atonement and I should 
not be comitting that wrong (since I know the vidyd ). “This much, O sir, we 
both know in common. Again I would ask you a question” - said Sauceya. 
“You may do so, O Praclnayogya” said the other. 

10. He asked, “At that very time, if all the fires happen to get extin¬ 
guished and there is no wind blowing (to lift out the Ahavanlya from the 
freshly churned Agni) what ill-fate it indicates to the one who makes the 
offering?” He replied, “I know: he would witness only unpleasant things in 
this world and unpleasant things in the world beyond, if he were unaware 
(of the vidyd ); but I know it and so I have overcome that”, said Uddalaka. 
“What is that vidyd and what is the expiation?” Asked Sauceya. “I would 
quickly chum out the fire (afresh) and take the Ahavanlya out of it and 
move eastwards. After sitting behind it, I would myself drink (the Agnihotra 
milk). That will make me consider that my Agnihotra is a success, since it 
belongs to all the deities. For, all beings indeed merge into the Brahmana 
and all beings emerge again from out of the Brahmana. That will be the 
expiation and I would not commit that wrong (since I know this vidyd). 
Sauceya said, “This of course, I did not know, sir, here are the samidhds to 


XII1.5.4.4] 


TRANSLATION 


385 


form the fuel and I will be you pupil, O revered sir.” Uddalaka said, “If you 
had not spoken (confessed your ignorance and volunteered to be my pu¬ 
pil) your head would have blown out. Come, and be my pupil.” He said, 
“Yes, sir.” He (Uddalaka) admitted him as a student and taught him that 
vydhrti which overcomes misery; namely, the truth. Therefore one should 
speak only truth. (Third Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMAN AIV 

1. He (a prospective student) announces, “I have come for brahmacaiya 
(I seek studentship under you).” Thereby, he reports himself to Brahman 
(knowledge or vidya on spiritualism). He says, “Let me be a Brahmacarin.” 
And thereby offers himself to the Brahman. Then (the guru) says, “ko 
namasi ?” (Literally it means “of what name you are” but it really means 
“you bear the name Ka”) Ka is Prajapad and he thus initiates him after 
making him one belonging to Prajapad. 

2. He (guru) holds his right hand while chanting “You are the disciple 
of Indra; Agni is the teacher; I am your teacher”(thus saying he calls him 
by his name). These two (Indra and Agni) are the greatest and mightiest 
of gods and to these two greatest and mightiest of gods, he entrusts him. 
And thus his disciple does not suffer any harm; nor who knows this (suffers 
any harm). 

3. He then entrusts him to the bhutas (gods of nature) “I entrust you to 
Prajapad; to the god Savita, I entrust you.” These are the two most respected 
and most important deities and he entrusts him to these most respected 
and most important deities. Thereby his (guru's) brahmacarin does not meet 
with any kind of suffering. Those who know this also do not meet with any 
kind of suffering. 

4. “I entrust you to the waters, to the plants.” Thus he entrusts the 
disciple to the waters and plants. “I entrust you to the heaven and earth” 
and thereby he entrusts him to heaven and earth. “To all deities of nature 
I entrust you to be guarded against injuries.” Thereby he places him under 
the care of all deities of nature, for protection from injury. Thereby the 
brahmacarin does not suffer any harm nor the one who knows thus. 


XIII.5.4.12] 


TRANSLATION 


387 


5. “You are a brahmacdriri* , he says. Thereby he entrusts him to the 
Brahman itself. He further commands him, “sip water”-water is indeed 
nectar (he means) “taste nectar.” “Do your work*-work means strength 
and he only says “exert yourself.” “Offer samidha (on the fire).” He thereby 
tells him, “Enkindle your mind with brilliance and Brahmanic lustre.” “Do 
not sleep (during day time) ” - he really means do not die. (Again) he says, 
“sip water” - water is nectar and what he means is “taste nectar.” Thus he 
encloses him on both sides with nectar (the starting command and the 
ending command of “sip water”). By this, the brahmacarin is insulated from 
all suffering; he who knows this also does not suffer. 

6. He then teaches him the Savitri {mantra). Originally they taught this 
only at the end of the year (of studentship), on the plea that a child is bom 
only after a pregnancy period of one year and let us impart speech to him 
soon after his birth. 

7. Or (the Savitri is taught) after six months on the ground -A year has 
six seasons and the children are delivered after one year’s pregnancy and 
let us impart speech unto him soon after he is bom. 

8. Or on the twenty-fourth day (after initiation), on the ground - “There 
are twenty-four fortnights for a year and chUdren are bom after one year’s 
pregnancy and let us impart speech to him soon after he is born. 

9. Or on the twelth day (after initiation)for there are twelve months for 
a year and children are bom after one year’s pregnancy. “Let us impart 
speech into him soon after he is bom” - so he thinks. 

10. Or on the sixth day; for, there are six seasons for a year and chil¬ 
dren are bom after one year’s pregnancy. “Let us impart speech into him 
soon after he is bom”— so he thinks. 

11. Or on the third day, for, there are three seasons for a year and 
children are bom after a pregnancy of one year. So he thinks, “Let us put 
speech into him as soon as he is bom. 

12. In this context they recite a verse. “The acarya bears him in the 
womb by placing his right hand on the disciple and in the third night he 


XIII.5.4.17] 


TRANSLATION 


389 


(the disciple) is bom as a Brahmin along with the Savitri.” Nevertheless, 
(in spite of the alternative timings said above), let him impart Savitri at 
once, for the Brahmana belongs to Agni and Agni is bom at once by 
churning. Therefore he should impart to the Brahmana at once. 

13. Now some people impart that Savitri which is in Anustubh, saying, 
“Anustubh is speech and let us impart speech unto him.” But let him not 
do so; for in that case, if someone were to say of him, “this student has 
certainly taken away his (the teacher’s) speech, the latter will become dumb.” 
That would surely come true. Let him therefore teach him that Savitri in 
the Gayatri (metre). 

14. Some impart it (Savitri) to him while he (the pupil) is standing or 
sitting to his (teacher’s) right. Let him not do so. If he does so and some¬ 
body remarks, “this teacher has made him (the student) bom sideways, he 
(the pupil) will turn away from him”; then that would indeed, come true. 
Let him therefore impart to him in an eastern direction with the student 
facing him (towards the west). 

15. He first recites it in padas (i.e. three pddas one by one), correspond¬ 
ing to the three breathings; the prana, the udana and the vyana. Thus he 
puts into him these (breathings). Then he (recites) in half-verses, corre¬ 
sponding to these two pranas', namely, the prana and udana. Thereby he 
puts into him these two breathings. Then (he recites) the whole verse; cor¬ 
responding to this one; namely, prana. Thereby he puts his entire prana 
into the whole of him. 

16. Now they say, “When one has initiated a Brahmana to the 
brahmacarya order, he should not have sexual intercourse, lest he should 
generate this Brahmana from a cast seed; for he who is initiated into 
brahmacarya becomes an embryo.” They also say in this matter. He may 
(have sexual intercourse) if he so chooses. For these beings are of two kinds, 
the divine and the human. The human ones are bom out of the procre¬ 
ative organs and these Vedic mantras like Gayatri are divine beings, gener¬ 
ated from the mouth. It is from there (the mouth) that he (teacher) pro¬ 
duces him and hence he may, if he so chooses, do so (have intercourse). 

17. They also say, “One who has entered brahmacarya should not eat 
honey; for honey is the ultimate essence of plants. But Svetaketu, son of 


XIII35.3] 


TRANSLATION 


391 


Aruni, while a student, was eating honey and said, “This honey is the re¬ 
mainder of the triple vidyd (the three Vedas). He who has this remainder 
portion he is himself the essence.” If one understands this (trnth) as 
Brahmacarin and eats honey, he is (virtually) reciting the Bk or Yajus or 
Saman. Therefore one can as well take honey. (Fourth Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMANAV 


1. When the gods were going upwards towards the heavens, the Asuras 
enveloped them with darkness. They (gods) said (among themselves), 
There is no other way than by (performing) a satra sacrifice, this (dark¬ 
ness) can be dispelled. So let us sit in a sacrificial session. They started a 
sacrificial session of a hundred Agnis(omas and drove away the darkness as 
far as one could see it sitting. In like manner they (the Yajamanas) enter¬ 
ing a session of hundred ukthyas dispelled the darkness as far as one may 

see standing. 


2 They said, “Well, we may be able to dispel the darkness (by three 
hundred Agnistomas) but not the whole of it Come; let us consult father 
Prajapati.” They went to father Prajapati and asked, “O Lord, Mums envel¬ 
oped us with darkness when we were proceeding upwards to the heavens. 
We performed a satra of hundred Agnistoma and dispelkd the darkness as 
far as we could see while sitting. In like manner, by performing hundred 
ukthnas we could dispel darkness as far as one could see, while standing. 
Please teach us how we can dispel the Muras and darkness (created by 
them) and destroy all evil and go to the heavenly world. 

3. He (Prajapati) said, “Alas 1 you proceeded not with a sacrifice involv¬ 
ing all the Kratus, when you performed Agnistoma and uhthya You K 
foL the satra involving hundred Ariratrasand thereby, you can destraylhe 
Muras and die darkness, remove all evil and proceed to five heavenly world. 
They (accordingly) performed the satra yaga involving hundred Attratras. 
By that they vanquished all the Asuras and darkness and destroyed ali evi 
Zd reached the heavenly world. In this (performance o^urndred Al.ratm) 
during the first fifty days, the Sdmans to be chanted in the night, extended 
into the (next) day and the Sdmans to be recitedm die day, extended into 
the (following) night. (In the Atiralra samsthd, the Asmna sastra started m 


XIII.5.5.5] 


TRANSLATION 


393 


the previous night, ends only on the next morning, after sunrise. Then 
follows the remaining rituals of the previous night. Thus two to three hours 
of the following day are taken away by the previous night’s items and corre¬ 
spondingly, the day’s functions do not get completed before sunset and so 
it over-extends to the night). 

4. They said (among themselves), “We are now in a fix and know not 
what to do. Let us approach father Prajapati.” Going to father, Prajapati, 
they said, “Our night-hymns happen to be (chanted) in day time and the 
day-hymns at night. O wise one advise us, who are in confusion, regarding 
the sacrifice.” He (Prajapati) sang (explained to them with an illustration), 
“the great serpent staying in a big pond is chased as it were by a more pow¬ 
erful one (foe) and driven away from its abode. (The Prdtar anuvdka is com¬ 
pared to the great serpent which has been driven away or made to recede 
by the Asvina sastra which is more powerful). Hence the sacrifice does not 
develop (properly). The Asvina sastra which you recite (similarly) gets up¬ 
rooted from the Prdtar anuvdka (morning schedule) and you in spite of 
your wisdom, have driven it away from its place like unwise persons. It 
should have been carried forward slowly (in a low-tone) by the Prasastra 
without causing hindrance to the Hota ih his work.” “(Le. even while the 
Hota is busy with the Asvina sastra, that Prdtar anuvdka should be quietly 
carried on by the Prasastra (Maitra-Varuna) so that the Prdtar anuvdka is 
not out of the time schedule).” Then they asked - “O Lord, how then that 
(.Asvina sastra) becomes one (properly) recited and how the recitation not 
disturbed (by the Prdtar anuvdka )? 

5. He (Prajapati) said, “When the Hota, reciting the Asvina sastra reaches 
the end of the Gayatra metre of the Agneya Kratu, then the Pratiprasthata 
should carry round the Vasativan water and recite the Prdtar anuvdka to 
(the hearing of) Maitra-Varuna, in between the two Havirdhana carts, (the 
Asvina sastra has three divisions - Agneya, Usasya and Asvm and each has 
chants in seven metres starting from Gayatri. So when the chants in Gayatra 
of the first division ends, the Pratiprasthata should move to the Havirdhana 
carts carrying the Vasari water and chant the Prdtar anuvdka to the Maitra- 
Varuna seated there).” The Hota recites the Asvina sastra in a loud voice 
and the other (Maitra-Varuna) recites (the Prdtar anuvdka) in alow voice, 
only just muttering it. This way he does not disturb the Hota’s recitation 
with his, nor he counters metre by metre. When the Prdtar anuvdka is over, 


XIH.5.6.2] 


TRANSLATION 


395 


the Prastota should make the offerings of the Upamsu graha and the 
Antaryama graha in time, press out the straining cloth and puts it in the 
Drona kalasa. After offering the fermented Soma, he should return to the 
sodas and drink the remaining portion of the fermented Soma (from those 
graha cups). Then he should complete the Yajhapuccha (the last rituals of 
the sacrifice) according to the rules, take up the Soma grahas placed behind 
the Antaryama cup, offer drops from them (into the fire) and recite Santani 
and Bahispavamana stotras and attend to the day-rituals. 

6. There are these verses in this connection — Those learned gods 
who caused the Satakratu (sacrifice involving hundred Soma yagas) per¬ 
formed, they dispelled the darkness far away by means of four hundred 
horses " Here indeed four (priests) are harnessed (pressed into service) - 
two Hotas and two Adhvaryus. “Like a craftsman fixing a spike to the spear, 
the wise ones coupled the ends of the two days. Now the Asuras willnot, we 
are sure disturb the sacrificial thread (which we have learnt from PrajapaU). 
“Even when the previous day’s work is unfinished, they carry it through on 
the following day - it is indeed difficult to understand the wisdom of the 
gods; streams of Soma (of the previous day) flow interlinked with streams of 
Soma (of the following day) - over as the horses (ofjanamejaya) when they 
have performed their task, have (sweet dnnks) poured out of jars emptied 
for them and are pleased with liquor in the house of King Janamejaya , 
then the Asuras-Raksasas went away. (Fifth Brahmana Ends.) 


brahmanavi 

1. There are five MoAay< 9 'nas(greatsacrifices) and they are indeed die 
great satra sacrifices. They are the Bhutayajna, the Manuyayajna, the ftfr- 
yajna, the Devayajna znA the Brahmayajna. Day by day one should offer bah 
(food) to living beings and that constitutes the Bhutayajna. Every day one 
should offer (hospitality) to guests upto (the offering of) ajar of water and 
thus he performs the Manusyayajha. Day by day, one should offer (to the 
pitn) with the (uttering of) svadha, alongwith (or at least in the form of) pot 
of water and that consitutes the Pitryajna. Every day one should make offer¬ 
ings, at least a log of wood, with (the utterance of smha into the fire) for the 
gods; that consitutes the Devayajha. 

2. Now about the Brahmayajna — Brahmayajna means reciting one s 
own Veda sakhd (that branch of Veda traditionally studied in his family). 


X1II.5-6.6J 


TRANSLATION 


397 


For this Brahmayajna, speech is ihejuhu; mind is the upabhrt, eye, its dkruva; 
intelligence is its sruva; truth is its avabhrta and the heavenly world, its udayana 
(finale). Whatever worlds one gains by giving as gift this entire earth cov¬ 
ered with wealth, thrice that and much more and imperishable (worlds) he 
gains who knowing this, recites his Vedic lesson day by day. Therefore let 
him recite his Veda ( sdkha ) every day. 

3. These Rk (verses recited in Brahmayajna) are milk-offerings to the 
gods. One who knows thus and recites the Rk (verses) in his svddkydya day 
by day, virtually pleases the gods with milk-offerings and they pleased (by 
these) make him happy with wealth, well-secured, with breath (longevity of 
life) with vitality; with well-being of his whole body and with all auspicious 
prosperities. Rivers of ghee and rivers of honey flow as svadha offerings to his 
pitrs. 

4. These Yajus (formulas recited in Brahmayajna) are gfa*K>fferings to 
the gods. One who knows thus and recites the Yajus (formulas) in his 
svddhydya everyday, virtually pleases the gods with ghee offerings and they 
pleased (by these) make him happy with wealth, well-secured, with breath 
(longevity of life), with vitality; with well-being of his whole body and with 
all auspicious prosperities. Rivers of ghee and rivers of honey flow as svadha 
offerings to his pitrs. 

5. These Sdmans (chan ts recited in Brahmayajna) are Soma-offerings to 
the gods. One who knows thus and recites the Saman (chants), in his 
svddhydya day by day, virtually pleases the gods with Soma-offerings and they 
pleased (by these) make him happy with wealth, well-secured, with breath 
(longevity of life), with vitality; with well-being of his whole body and with 
all auspicious prosperities. Rivers of ghee and rivers of honey flow as svadha 
offerings to his pitrs. 

6. These Atharua-Ahgirasa (passages recited in Brahmayajna) are fat-of¬ 
ferings to the gods. One who knows thus and recites Atharva (passages) in 
his svddhydya every day, virtually pleases the gods with fat-offerings and they 
pleased (by these) make him happy with wealth, well-secured, with breath 
(longevity of life); with vitality, with well-being of his whole body and with 
all auspicious prosperities. Rivers of ghee and rivers of honey flow as svadha 
offerings to his pitrs. 


XIII.5.7.1] 


TRANSLATION 


399 


7. The Anusasanani (Veche injunctions on duties), vidyd (Vedic com¬ 
mands on updsana ); Vakovakayas (metaphysical discussion in the Brahmapa 
texts); Itihasa (Brahmana texts dealing with cosmology etc.); Purana (his¬ 
torical narratives found in the Brahman as); Gathd (illustrative statement in 
Brahmana texts); Ndrdsamsas (Brahmana passages in praise of individuals) 
are the honey offerings to the gods and who knows thus and studies them 
day by day, virtually pleases the gods with honey-offerings and they pleased 
(by these) make him happy with wealth, well-secured, with breath (longev¬ 
ity of life); with vitality, with well-being of his whole body and with all auspi¬ 
cious prosperities. Rivers of ghee and rivers of honey flow as svodhd offerings 
to his pitrs. 

8. This Brahmayajna has four vasatkdras (vausat uttered at the end of 
the offering formula to signal the pouring of the oblation into the fire); 
they are the blowing wind; the lightening; the thunder an< the rumbling. 
One should recite the svddhydya (one’s own Veda sdkhd) (as part of 
Brahmayajna) to avert uselessness of vasatkdra. Unlike in the case of study¬ 
ing of Vedas which is avoided on days when there is lightening or thunder 
storm or rumbling of clouds (cloudy day), the svddhydya as part of 
Brahmayajna should be performed even on such days and these natural 
phenomena are like vasatkdra for the offerings, and if the offerings in die 
form of reciting Veda in the Brahmayajna are not performed, these vasatkaras 
will be rendered useless (cchamvasatkdra) . He (who performs Brahmayajna) 
is freed from recurring death and attains communion with Brahman. Even 
if he is altogether unable to recite (the whole svddhydya) , let him at least 
recite a single divine word(of the Veda) and that saves him from falling 
away from divine beings. (Sixth Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANA Vn 

1. Now let us discuss the greatness of svddhydya (study of scriptural texts). 
The study and teaching of one’s own traditional Veda sdkhd with devotion 
and earnestness is source of pleasure and makes one independent of oth¬ 
ers; day by day he acquires wealth. It is great tonic (to keep him healthy), 
he sleeps peacefully. He develops control of senses, single-mindedness and 
growth of intelligence and fame. He is able to guide people around and 
due to increase in intuition, he becomes respected with regard to the four 
duties ordained to a Brahmin,viz., Brahmanic glory, capacity to withstand 
repression, fame and social status. The world, with the four dharmas of 


XLII.5.7.8] 


TRANSLATION 


401 


Brahmin getting ripened, becomes enjoyable by liberal chanty, strength to 
resist opression and freedom from being killed. The svddhyaya is the sym¬ 
bol of culmination of all sufferings between the heaven and the earth and 
it is the goal (of human beings). One who studies his traditional Veda sdkhd 
after knowing this reaches the fulfilment of his life. Therefore one should 
study (svddhyaya). 

2. Whatever portion of svddhyaya one studies daily, it amounts to his 
having performed the sacrifice related to that portion. Knowing this, he 
who studies svddhyaya, owns the merit of having performed the sacrifice. 
Therefore one should study ( svddhyaya ). 

S. Even if one annointed with oil, well adorned and comfortably lying 
on a bed, if only he performs the svddhyaya, he earns the merit of one who 
has observed the most severe penance getting heated upto very tips of his 
nails. (A person who studies svddhyaya earns the merits or punya of observ¬ 
ing severe austerities like krcchra and candrdyana which put the body to 
severe strain). 

4. The ftks are the honey; the Sdmans are indeed the ghee and the Yajus 
are the nectar. The study of vdkovdkya (statements and counter statements 
of Mimamsa) is a mess of milk and rice or meat and rice, 

5. He satisfies the gods with honey, who studies the Rks everyday know¬ 
ing that (they are honey). Those gods thus pleased make him happy by 
granting all desires and all enjoyments. 

6. He is pleasing the gods, with ghee, who daily recites Sdmans as part of 
his svddhyaya, knowing that (the Sdmans as ghee). The gods thus satisfied 
bestow all desires and enjoyments on him. 

7. He satisfies the gods with nectar, who daily recites the Yajus formulas 
as part of the svddhyaya, knowing that (the Yajus is nectar). Those gods 
thus satisfied grant him all desires and all enjoyments. 

8. He pleases the gods with a mess of rice and milk or rice and meat, 
who pleases them by studying vdkovdkya as part of the svddhyaya, knowing 
that (they are the rice and milk or rice and meat). So pleased, the gods 
confer upon him all desires and all enjoyments. 


XIII.5.8.7] 


TRANSLATION 


403 


9. The waters move on; the sun moves; so too the moon and stars move. 
But for a person who does not do his svddhyaya for a day (it is as if) these 
deities did not move on that day and did not carry out their schedule on 
that day. Therefore one should study his svddhyaya. Let him at least recite a 
single Rk mantra or a single Saman or one Yajus formula or one gatha (mythi¬ 
cal story) or one Brahmana passage (explaining a Samhita text), so that 
there is no break in his vow (of svddhyaya). (Seventh Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANA Vm 

1. In the beginning Prajapati was alone here and he desired, “Let me 
survive and proliferate.” He underwent austerities and got heated in 
penance. From him thus toiled, and got heated — 

2. — the three worlds got created; the earth, the aerial region and the 
sky. He heated the three worlds and from those thus heated — 

3. — three luminous objects were bom, viz. the fire, the one who blows 
(Vayu) and the sun. He heated these three luminous bodies and from those 
thus heated — 

4. — the three Vedas appeared. The Rgveda from Agni; the Yajurveda 
from Vayu and the Sdmaveda from the Sun. He heated these three Vedas 
and from those thus heated — 

5. — three glowing flames (essence) were bom; Bhuh from Rgveda r, 
Bhuvah from Yajurveda ; and SuaAfrom Sdmaveda. The hautra (the duties of 
the Hota priest) were derived from the Rgveda; the ddhvaryava (the duties 
of the Adhvaryu) were drawn from the Yajurveda and the udgita (the duties 
of the Udgata priest) were derived from the Sdmaveda and what pure es¬ 
sence (which remained) of all the three was available, from that he derived 
the duties of Brahma. 

6. Those gods asked Prajapati, “If our sacrifice is to fail, due to the Rk or 
the Yajus or the Saman, with what shall we heal it ?” 

7. He (Prajapati) said If (it fails) due to Rk, take four ladle full of ghee 
and offer it in the Garhapatya, chanting u Bhuh n . If it is due to Yajus, four 
ladle-full of ghee should be offered in the Agnidhriya altar or Anvdhdrya 


XIIL5.8.8] 


TRANSLATION 


405 


Vacana chanting “ Bhuvah .” If it fails due to Samaveda, four ladle-full of ghee 
should be offered in the Ahavaniya altar, chanting “Svah” If you cannot 
identify as to which of the three Vedas is the cause for failure, you should 
offer at the Ahavaniya chanting all the three ( Bhuh, Bhuvah, and Svah). In 
this way the Rgueda is healed by the Kk, the Yajurveda by the Yajus and the 
Samaveda by the Saman even as one would join together the broken parts 
of the limbs (with their corresponding parts). This is how he rectifies the 
broken sacrifices. If he were to heal it in some other way, it would be like 
putting together two different parts or would be like applying some poison 
in the place of an ointment to a broken limb. Therefore the Brahma should 
be one who knows thus (procedure of treatment) and not one who does 
not know. 

8. If somebody should ask, “When the hautra is done with Rk, the ddhvarya 
is done with Yajus and udgitha is done with Saman , with what should the 
deities of Brahma be made of ?” One should say with all the three vidyds. 
(Eighth Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter Five Finds.) 


Chapter Six 
BRAHMAN AI 

1. Bhrgu, the son of Vanina, considered himself superior to his father in 
knowledge. Varuna came to know that and thought, “He considers himself 
superior to me in knowledge.” 

2. He told (Bhrgu), “My son, first go eastwards and having observed 
there what you might see, you proceed southwards; having seen there what 
you might see, you go westwards; having observed what you might come 
across there, you go northwards and having seen what you might see there, 
proceed to the intermediate direction to the north (north-east) and tell 
me what you shall see there.” 

3. He accordingly went towards the eastern direction and there men 
were cutting men, chopping off one by one their limbs and saying (among 
themselves), “This to me, this to you.” He (Bhrgu) exclaimed, “What a hor¬ 
rible thing! men here have chopped off men limb by limb and are sharing 
(among them).” They (the men who were cutting) said, “This is how, in¬ 
deed, these men dealt with us in the yonder world and so we now return 
that (treatment) to them.” He (Bhrgu) asked, “Is there not any atonement 
for this ?” “Yes, there is.” They said, “Your father knows it.” 

4. He then proceeded to the southern direction. There men were cut¬ 
ting men, chopping off limb by limb and saying, “This to me; this you.” He 
(Bhrgu) exclaimed, “What a horrible thing ! men here have chopped off 
men limb by limb and sharing (among them).” They said, “This is how, 
indeed these men dealt with us in the yonder world and so we now return 
that (treatment) to them.” He asked, “Is there not any atonement for 
this?” “Yes, there is,” they said, “Your father knows it” 

5. He then went towards the western direction. There men sitting quiet 
were being eaten by men, sitting still. He exclaimed, “What a horrible thing. 
Men sitting quiet are eating men sitting quiet.” They replied, “This is how, 
indeed, these men dealt with us in the yonder world and so we now return 
that (treatment) to them.” He asked, “Is there not any atonement for it ?” 
“Yes, there is,” they said, “Your father knows it.” 


XIII.6.1.12] 


TRANSLATION 


409 


6. He thereafter proceeded northwards. There men, shouting aloud 
were being eaten by men crying aloud. He exclaimed, “What a horrible 
thing ! Here men shouting aloud are eating men who are crying aloud.” 
They replied, “This is how, indeed, these men dealt with us in the yonder 
world and so we now return that (treatment) to them.” He asked, “Is there 
not any atonement for it ?” “Yes, there is,” they said, “your father knows it” 

7. He then proceeded to the intermediate direction to the north (north¬ 
east). There were two women, one handsome and the other more 
handsome. A man stood between them dark in complexion, yellow-eyed, 
with a stick in his hand. On seeing him, he (Bhrgu) got scared and re¬ 
turned home and sat (quiet). On seeing him (idle), his father said, “Do 
your daily study (of scriptures). Why you are not studying your lessons ?” 
He replied (in despair), “What shall I study ! there is nothing to study.” 
Then Varuna knew that he has indeed seen it (seen what he wanted to see, 
hence the despondency). 

8. He (Varuna) said. Those men whom you saw in the eastern region 
being cut by men chopping off limb by limb and saying “This to you, this 
me” by way of sharing, were the trees. When one puts the samidhds (col¬ 
lected) from the trees on (the fire) he thereby subjugates the trees and 
conquers the kingdom of trees. 

9. Those men whom you saw in the southern region, being cut by chop¬ 
ping off limb by limb and saying “This to me, this to you” byway of sharing, 
were the catde. When one makes offerings (in the fire) with milk, he subju¬ 
gates the catde and conquers the world of catde. 

10. “Those men whom you saw in the west, sitting quiet were being 
eaten by men sitting still, were the herbs. When one lights up (shows a 
burning darbha over) the Agnihotra milk with a (lighted) grass, he subju¬ 
gates the herbs and conquers the world of herbs.” 

11. “Those men whom you saw in the northern direction where men 
who were shouting were being eaten by men who were shouting, were the 
waters. When he brings back the waters, he subjugates the waters and con¬ 
quers the world of the waters.” 

12. “Now about the two women whom you saw, the one handsome and 
the other more handsome - the handsome one is faith. When one makes 


XIU.6.2.4] 


TRANSLATION 


411 


the first offering (of the Agnihotra), he subjugates faith and conquers faith. 
The more handsome one is unbelief. When one offers, the second obla¬ 
tion (of Agnihotra) he subjugates unbelief and conquers unbelief (i.e. he 
loses faith in doing unholy acts). Now the man whom you saw between the 
two ladies, dark in complexion and yellow-eyed, with a stick in hand, he was 
anger; when having poured water in the spout of the sruk and pours it (into 
the fire), he subjugates anger and conquers anger. Surely, one who know¬ 
ing this, performs Agnihotra, he conquers everything and subjugates 
everything.” (First Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMAN An 

1. Janaka (the king) of Videha once came across some priests going 
about (officiating at sacrifices); they were Svetaketu, son of Aruni 
Somasusma, son of Satyayajna, and Yajnavalkya. He asked, “How do each 
one of you perform the Agnihotra ?” 

2. Svetaketu, son of Aruni said, “O Emperor ! I offer into each other 
the two heating principles (Agni and Aditya), the eternal ones, overflowing 
glory.” The king asked, “How is it ?” He replied, “Aditya is the heating prin¬ 
ciple and I offer to him in the evening into the fire. Agni is the heating 
principle and I offer to him in the morning into the sun.” The king asked, 
“What happens to one who does thus ?” He said, “He, for ever becomes 
possessed of prosperity and fame and gets identified with these two deities 
and shares their worlds. ” 

3. Then spoke Somasusma, son of Satyayajna, “O Emperor! I offer tejas 
(light) into tejas” “How come”, asked the king. “Aditya is light and I offer to 
him in fire in the evening. Agni indeed, is tejas; to him in Aditya, I make 
offering in the morning.” The king asked, “What becomes of him who does 
thus ?” He said, “He verily becomes illumined, famous and eater of food.” 
He attains identity with these two deities and shares their worlds. 

4. Then spoke Yajnavalkya, “When I take out the fire (from the 
Garhapatya to the Ahavaniya), it is the Agnihotra itself, I am raising.” Where 
the sun sets, all the gods follow him and on seeing this fire raised, they 
return. Then I clean the (Agnihotra) vessels, set them (on the vedx) and 
after milking the Agnihotra cow, I see them (the gods) gladdened on see- 


Xin.6.2.10] 


TRANSLATION 


413 


ing (that).” The king said, “O Yajnavalkya you have closely inquired into 
the nature of Agnihotra. I shall give you a hundred cows (as gift). Never¬ 
theless, even you have not known the emergence, the course, the support 
or the contentment in respect of these two offerings (of Agnihotra). Nor 
you have known the returning or the reascent world of the two offerings.” 
Thus saying he got into his chariot and drove away. 

5. They deliberated among themselves, “This (vain-glorious) Ksatriya 
has outwitted us. Let us call him for philosophical debate (in which he can¬ 
not outdo us, the Brahmins). ” Then Yajnavalkya said, “We are Brahmins 
and this one (Janaka) is a Ksatriya. If we defeat him (in philosophical de¬ 
bate) , whom should we claim to have defeated ? (after all a Ksatriya getting 
defeated by Brahmins in philosophical debate is no great credit to the lat¬ 
ter). If he were to defeat us, people will say that Brahmins have been de¬ 
feated by a Ksatriya (which is a great discomfiture to the whole commu¬ 
nity). So, do not resort to this (proposal),” They approved of his counsel. 
Then Yajnavalkya got into a chariot and followed him (the king) and over¬ 
took him. 

6. The king asked him, Ts it to know Agnihotra (you have chased me)?” 
“Yes, the Agnihotra, O King”, he replied. (The king said) “Those two offer¬ 
ings when made, rise up.” 

7. “They enter the aerial region and make the aerial region itself the 
Ahavaniya altar; have Vayu as their samidhd, the rays of the sun, their pure 
libations; and they satiate the aerial region and from there they rise up.” 

8. “They enter the sky and make the sky itself their Ahvanlytr, have the 
sun as their samidhd, make the moon their pure libation and satiate the sky. 
They therefrom return.” 

9. “They enter this earth and make the earth itself their Ahavaniya al¬ 
tar; have the Agni as their samidhd, make the herbs their pure libation. 
They satiate the earth and they rise up.” 

10. "They enter the man and make his mouth itself their Ahvaniya al¬ 
tar; have the tongue for the samidhd and make food their pure libation. 
They satiate man. Surely the one who knowing this, eats (food), it amounts 
to his offering Agnihotra. Then they rise up.” 


XIII.6.3.4] 


TRANSLATION 


415 


11. “They enter the woman and make her lap itself their Ahavaniya 
altar; her womb the samidha ; for that (womb) is called dhdraka (one that 
bears) since Prajapati bore the creatures by means of it. They make the 
seed, the pure libation. They satiate the woman. Surely the one who know¬ 
ing this, goes into sexual union, it amounts to his offering Agnihotra itself. 
The son that is born out of that (mating) is the renascent world. This is the 
Agnihotra; O Yajnavalkya; there is nothing greater than this” - thus he 
spoke. Yajnavalkya granted him a boon. The king said, “Let me have (the 
boon of) asking you questions as I wish O YSjnavalkya.” From thence Janaka be¬ 
came a Brahman (came to be honoured as a Brahmin). (Second Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMAN Am 

1. Janaka of Videha, once performed a sacrifice with plenty of daksind. 
He collected thousand cows (to be given away as daksina) and said, “O Brah¬ 
mins! whoever is most learned in Brahmayidya among you, may drive away 
these (cows).” 

2. Yajnavalkya then said, “This way (lead) them.” They (others) asked, 
“O Yajnavalkya! are you the most learned in Brahmavidyd ?”. He replied, “I 
bow to him who is most learned in Brahmavidyd. We are only desirous of 
the cows.” They asked (among them), “Who amongst us shall ask ques¬ 
tions of him ?”. The clever Sakalya said, “I shall.” Noticing him, he 
(Yajnavalkya) enquired, “O Sakalya, are you the one chosen by (these) 
Brahmins to put out the firebrand (to challenge me)?” 

3. Sakalya asked, “O Yajnavalkya! how many gods are there?” (He re¬ 
plied) “Three hundred and three and three thousand and three.” (Sakalya 
said approvingly) “Yes.” “How many are really the gods?” - “Thirty-three.” 
“Yes”, he said. “How many are the gods, actually, O Yajnavalkya ?” “Only 
three” (he said). “Yes”, it is so. “How many gods are there really, O 
Yajnavalkya.” (He said) “One and a half.” “Yes”, he said, “How many are the 
gods in reality. O Yajnavalkya?” (He replied) “One.” (Sakalya said),“Yes”. 
(He further asked) “Who are those three hundred and three and three 
thousand and three ?” 

4. He said, “Those are but their powers and there are only thirty-three 
gods.” “Who are those thirty-three ?” “They are the eight Vasus; the eleven 
Rudras and the twelve Adityas - totalling thirty-one and Indra and Prajapati 
make it thirty-three. ” 


XIII.6.3.10] 


TRANSLATION 


417 


5. “Who are those Vasus ?”-“Agni, earth, Vayu, aerial region, sun, sky, 
the moon and the stars - they form the Vasus. These (deities) enable all 
this creation to survive (vdsayanta) and hence are Vasus. 

6. “Who are the Rudras ?” - “These ten vital airs in man and the self is 
the eleventh - when these depart from this mortal body, they cause (people) 
to cry (todayanti) . Since they make (people) cry they are Rudras.” 

7. “Who are the Adityas ?” - “The twelve months of the year, they are 
the Adityas. They move taking these (creations) along with them ( ddaddndh 
yanti) and hence they are Adityas.” 

8. “Who is Indra and who is Prajapati ?” - “Indra indeed, is thundering 
cloud and Prajapati is the sacrifice.” “What is thundering cloud ?” ‘The thun¬ 
derbolt” “What is sacrifice?”. “It is the Pasus” 

\ 

9. “Who are those three gods ?” - “These three worlds; because all the 
gods are in these worlds.” “Who are those two gods ?” “They are food and 
prana” What constitutes the one and a half ? — “It is this (wind) which 
blows.” “Who is that one god ?” “It is prana” 

10. Now he (Yajnavalkya) said, “Enough of it, you have been question¬ 
ing me beyond the divine. Beyond this, there shall be no more questioning. 
(If you persist) you will die before the next day dawns; even your bones will 
not reach your home.” Exactly so; Sakalya died and robbers earned off his 
bones mistaking them for some other thing. Therefore, one should not 
over-talk (prattle before the spiritually elevated person). He who knows thus 
should (in all humility) be interested in knowing the tattua (truth about 
prana). (Third Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter Six Ends.) 


Chapter Seven 


BRAHMANAI 

1. He performs the Pasubandha (animal sacrifice). Now Pasubandha 
means cattle. He performs Pasubandha so that he may come to own cattle. 
Let him perform it at his home, hoping “Let me (come to) bind catde at 
my house.” Let him perform it in the season when plenty of fodder is avail¬ 
able, thinking, “Let me own to myself catde in a season when plenty of 
fodder is available.” While making offerings, the Yajamana’s fires become 
worn out. The Yajamana becomes worn out along with the fires that whither 
away and the house-hold and catde of the Yajamana whither away, follow¬ 
ing the Yajamana. 

2. When he performs the Pasubandha sacrifice, he renews the fires. By 
the rejuvenation of the fires, the Yajamana gets rejuvenated and after him 
his home and the catde (get rejuvenated). It confers longevity of life. In¬ 
deed it is reclamation of his self. While the Yajamana offers Agnihotra, his 
fires develop a desire for flesh (look forward to an animal sacrifice when 
flesh will be offered). They think of the Yajamana himself and make him 
take a decision (to perform Pasubandha). In other fires, people cook any 
kind of meat. But these sacrificial fires do not covet for any other flesh 
except this (flesh of the sacrificial Posy) from the one who possess them 
(the sacrificial fires). 

3. When he performs Pasubandha, he redeems his own self, thereby. By 
means of xhra (the oblation of meat), he reclaims his xhra (self, possessed of 
flesh and health); for the Pasu is xhra and the Yajamana is (also xhra). This 
flesh is indeed the most superior food and thereby he becomes one who 
eats the highest quality of food. Let him not miss a whole year without the 
performance (of Pasubandha ); for the year means life and it is thus immor¬ 
tal life that he bestows to his own self. (First Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAH 

1. There is one Pasubandha of the Haxhryajhya type (on the lines of the 
Darsapurnamasa isti ) and another of the Somayaga type. The Haxhryajhya 
type is that in which, he (the Adhvaryu) brings for the Yajamana, the vrata 


XIII.7.2.4] 


TRANSLATION 


421 


food (i.e*. milk from the cow meant for that, mixed with rice or barley); 
pours forward Pranita waters (waters used for soaking the Soma creeper); 
pours out purnapdtra (pot full of water) and takes Vtsnukrama steps. The 
Somaydga type of Pasubandha is one where these are not done. 

2. Now they raise the question, “Is Pasubandha , an isti or a great yajha 
(Somaydga) ” One should say, “It is a great yajna” For, in that (case of isti) it 
would amount to “Your having made the Pasubandha, an isti and shattered 
it.” Its (Pasubandha's) fore-offerings (praydjds) constitute the morning 
savana; the after-offerings (anuydjas)the third savana and the Purodasa (of¬ 
fering) constitutes the mid-day savana. 

3. Some persons offer daksindwhen the vapd is offered. Let him not do 
so. In that case, if some one is to comment, ‘This Yajamana has brought 
the daksind outside (the jurisdiction) of pranas”] it would mean that he has 
not strengthened his pranas and (consequendy) he (the Yajamana) will 
become either blind, or lame or deaf or paralyzed on one side. Then that 
would indeed so happen. So it is to be done thus — only when the idd has 
been invoked following the Purodasa offering, he should take up (the distri¬ 
bution of) daksind. 

4. They ask, “O Adhvaryu! a person who is initiated for sacrifice (diksita) 
to go without an avabhrta (purificatory ablution) is improper. (Tell) When 
did you initiate him (the one who performs Pasubandha). (Since the per¬ 
son performing Pasubandha does not undergo the initiation at the hands 
of the Adhvaryu, where is the question of avabhrta which marks the culmi¬ 
nation of diksd ? The Adhvaryu, the Pratiprasthata, the Hota, the 
Maitravaruna, the Brahma and the Agnidhra — together form the team of 
six (priests), and therefore the formula (prescribed for this occasion) is 
Sadhotn ; they (all together) mutter that when he makes either a single of¬ 
fering with ghee taken in the sruk five dmes or five separate ghee offerings. 
(They recite) “Vacaspati (lord of speech) the sky is your back, the aerial 
region is your self (heart); you reached the sacrificial place with your own 
limbs. Similarly you pervade this earth with the bodies (of individual beings 
like man). By your faultless speech (employed in reciting stotrds and sastrds) 
and with your faultless juhu( sruk) , you reach to the skies, the offerings (made 
here), which gladden the gods, Svaha.” This (Sadhotn) is the diksd for 
Pasubandha. 


XIU.73.1] 


TRANSLATION 


423 


5. Now they question, “O Adhvaiyu! since it is not proper to skip avabhrta 
(final ablution) for one who is initiated (for a sacrifice), when do you cause 
him to do the avabhrta (in the case of the one who performs Pasubandha )?” 
“When he proceeds with the offerings of the Hrdayasula (the log of wood 
on which the cut piece of the Pam’s heart is roasted), it constitutes the 
avabhrta for this Pasubandha sacrifice. Madhuka, of Paingi gotra, once said”, 
Some perform the Pasubandha without Soma juice and others with Soma. 
The Soma was in the heavens and Gayatri, assuming the form of a bird 
fetched him. One of its plumes was cut off and it became parna (Palasa 
tree). That is how it is told in olden days in the Brahmana dealing with the 
origin of the Palasa tree. Soma , no doubt, perform the Pasubandha without 
Soma and some others with Soma. He who makes the yupa (for the sacri¬ 
fice) with a wood other than Palasa wood, performs the Pasubandha with¬ 
out Soma and he who makes the yupa with Palasa wood, performs the 
Pasubandha with Soma. Therefore, let him make his yupa with Palasa wood 
(since it is advisable to perform it with Soma ). (Second Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMANA m 

1, That one {yupa) made of very hard wood (like Khadira) is not good 
for catde and hence he who desires to have catde should not make such a 
yupa (with hard wood). That (yupa) with litde hardness is good for catde 
and he who desires to have catde should make his yupa with such a wood. 
That (Palasa wood) which is crooked and has a sharp top is called Kapoti. 
If one were to make his yu/>awith that (type of Palasa), certainly departs to 
the other world before his full-span of life. Therefore no one who wishes to 
live long makes his yupa of that type. 

That (Palasa wood) bent at the top and curved outward in the middle 
is a symbol of poverty. He who makes his yupa of such a one, his depen¬ 
dents will certainly remain hungry (impoverished). Therefore no one de¬ 
sirous of being fed, makes such a one as his yupa. That (Palasa wood) which 
is bent at the top and is curved inwards in the middle, is a symbol of 
prosperity. So he who wishes for food (plenty) makes such a yupa. (Third 
Brahmana Ends.) 


X1I1.7.4.3] 


TRANSLATION 


425 


BRAHMAN AIV 

1. One who is engaged in performing a Pasubandha, were to make a 
yupa, one cubit long, he thereby gains this terrestrial world. If he makes 
one two cubits long, he thereby gains the aerial region. If he makes one, 
three cubit long, he thereby wins the heaven. If he makes one, four cubit 
long, he gains the quarters. That yupa for the Pasubandha sacrifice, of 
course, happens to be three cubits or four cubits long. And if it (the yupa) 
is above four cubits it belongs to Somaydga. 

2. Now they ask, “Should he offer the two ajyabhagas or not.” “Let him 
offer”, they say, “For, the two ajyabhagas are the eyes of the sacrifice and can 
a person be without eyes?” For, as, long as a claimant of a share does not 
get discharged by (getting) his share, so long does he consider himself 
undischarged (a claimant). Only when he is discharged by giving his share, 
he ceases to be a claimant. On that occassion when the Hota recites, “Give 
blood to Raksasa”, he gets himself discharged by (getting) a share for him. 
For at that time grief gets accumulated at the heart of the Pasu that is being 
slaughtered. From the heart, it enters the spit (iron roaster). When he 
cooks the organs of the Pasu including the heart, (on that spit) then tl 
agony will pervade the entire Pasu . So let him, therefore cook it (the heart 
separately) after transferring it on one side on a log of wood. 

3. He smears ghee at the bottom (of the offering ladle). Thereby he 
makes a form of the earth. He then puts a gold piece thereon. Thereby he 
makes a form of the fire. He then places the vapa thereon and thereby 
makes a form of the aerial region. Then he puts a gold piece on it; thereby 
makes a form of the sun. When he sprinkles ghee over it, he makes a form 
of the heavens. This then is that vapa of five parts. Fivefold is the sacrifice, 
fivefold is the Pasu and there are five seasons for the year and therefore the 
vapa has five parts. (Fourth Brahmana Ends.) 

(Chapter Seven Ends.) 


Chapter Eight 

BRAHMANAI 

1. Even as a chariot wheel or a potter’s wheel will break if not steadied 
(by an axle), these worlds were, indeed unfixed and unsteadied. 

2. Prajapati then contemplated, “How can these worlds be fixed and 
steadied ?” By means of the mountains and rivers, he stabilised this earth; 
by means of the birds and sun’s rays, the aerial region and by means of the 
clouds and stars, the sky. He (having stabilised them) exclaimed, “ mahah” 
“maha” means catde. That is why he who has plenty of these (cattle), his 
household is held in great esteem. This one (Yajamana) indeed, comes to 
possess plenty of them and hence his household is held in great esteem. If 
he (the Yajamana) is being driven out of his house or made to vacate, let 
him after performing Agnihotra, stand in veneration saying “mahah.” He 
thereby gets steadied with offspring and catde and is not thrown out of his 
house. (First Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAn 

1. There are indeed four fires — the one laid down; the one lifted up; 
the one taken forward and the one spread over (the altars). This earth is 
the one laid down, the aerial region is the one lifted up; the sky is the one 
taken upward; and the quarters are the one spread over. That which is laid 
down is the fire; that which is lifted up is the Vayu; that which is taken 
forward is the sun and that which is spread is the moon. The Garhapatya is 
the one laid down; the Ahavaniya is the one lifted up; that which is carried 
eastwards to the Ahavaniya is the one taken forward and that fire which is 
carried northwards for cooking the Pasu is the one that is spread and it is 
used for the secondary offerings. Therefore let him perform the Pasubandha 
on the Praharya Agni (that is taken forward). (Second Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAm 

1. Now they ask, “To which deity this Pasu belongs?” They say “It is of 
Prajapati.” Because it was Prajapati who first discovered this ( Pasubandha) 
and therefore this Pasu should belong to Prajapati. 


XIII.8.3.6] 


TRANSLATION 


429 


2. Again they say, “That Pasu should belong to Surya”; that is why when 
the sun sets, the cattle are tied up; some of them they tie-up in their sheds 
and others they flock together (at one place). Hence this Pasu should be¬ 
long to Surya. 

3. Again others say, “That Pasu should belong to Indra-Agni”; because 
all the other gods are behind these two deities and if one who is in agony 
performs sacrifice; those two deities take care of him and if he performs 
with a (particular) desire, the other (gods) take care of him. If one per¬ 
forms it with a desire for greatness (abundance of prosperity) they (Indra 
Agni and other deities) take care of him. Therefore that Pasu should be¬ 
long to Indra-Agni. 

4. The Pasubandha is indeed, prana. As long as one lives, no one else 
ran have sway over his cattle, for they are tied to him. 

5. That Prajapati told Agni “I will perform sacrifice seizing upon you (as 

pasu)” He (Agni) said, “No, you better tell Vayu.” He (Prajapati) told Vayu, 
“I will perform sacrifice seizing upon you (as Pasu) ” He (Vayu) said, “No, 
you better tell man.” He (Prajapati) told Purusa, I will perform sacrifice, 
seizing upon you (as the Pasu).” He (Purusa) said, “No, you the tattle. 

He asked the cattle, “I will perform sacrifice, seizing upon you (as the Pam)” 
They (cattle) said. “No, you tell the moon.” He (Prajapati) asked the moon, 
“Let me perform seizing upon you (as the Pasu). He (moon) said, “No, 
you tell the sun.” “Yes”, said he (the Sun). “Since these (Agni etc.) did not 
agree (to be the Pasu) , what out of them will become mine (for agreeing)?” 
He (Prajapati) said, “Whatsoever you want” — “Let it be so”, he replied. He 
(Prajapati) seized upon him and this Pasu which is seized upon (for 
Pasubandha) is his (sun’s). When slaughtered, that Pam of his, bloated and 
he propitiated him with these Apn offerings. Since with these offerings, he 
propitiated ( aprivat) they are called Apn (offerings). Therefore when a Pasu 
is slaughtered, it should be said, “Let it lie for two ghaiikds . What much 
worlds he gains by performing Asvamedha, that much worlds he gams by 
this {Pasubandha). 

6. The eastern quarter breathed over that (lifeless Pasu of the sun lying 
bloated) saying, “Breath on” and bestowed prana into it. The southern quar¬ 
ter breathed over it saying “Breath through” and thereby bestowed vydna 


XIII.8.3.11] 


TRANSLATION 


431 


into it. The western quarter breathed over that, saying “Breath off” and 
thereby bestowed apdna into it. The northern quarter breathed over it say¬ 
ing, “breath up” and thus bestowed uddna into it. The upper region 
breathed over it saying, “Breath all about” and thereby bestowed samdna 
into it. That is why when a son is bom, let him ask five Brahmins before the 
umbilical chord is cut, “Breath over him in this way (standing on all the five 
directions).” If one is not able to collect (five of them) let him go round 
(the child) himself and breath over him. He (that son) lives the full span of 
life and lives to old age. 

7. He (the sun, as per the boon from Prajapati) took unto himself the 
prana from Agni. That is why the fire does not blaze unless it is fanned or 
kindled {prana is not passed into it), because its prana has been taken away 
(by the sun). He who knows this can take away the life breath from his 
hateful foe. 

8. He (the sun) took unto himself the form from Vayu. That is why the 
Vayu is heard as if blowing and we do not see him; because his form has 
been tak en away. He who knows this can take away , the form of his hateful 
enemy. 

9. He (the sun) took unto himself the man’s will. That is why they say 
(of one whom they wish well) “Let god’s will protect you” and not human 
will. Because his will has been taken away. He who knows this can take away 
the will of his hateful foe. 

10. He (the sun) took unto himself the eye of cattle. That is why even 
when they seem to be clearly seeing, they do not understand and only by 
smelling, they understand. Because their eye has been taken away. Cer¬ 
tainly he who knows this can deprive his hateful foe of his eye-sight 

11. He (the sun) took unto himself the moon’s glow. That is why these 
two (sun and moon) even though similar, the moon not sh ining as much 
(as the sun). His (moon’s) glow has indeed been taken away. He who knows 
this, takes away the glow of his hateful foe. Thus since he (the sun) took 
away (the qualities of each one— ddatta) he is called Aditya.( Third Brahman a 

Ends.) 


XIII.8.4.4] 


TRANSLATION 


433 


BRAHMAN AIV 

1. Once upon a time, a tiger killed a Sam rad cow (the cow that yields 
milk for Pravargya) belonging to those who were engaged in a satrayajna 
under king Kesin as their grhapati (main Yajamana). He called together the 
satrins (fellow Yajamanas) and asked “What is the atonement for this?” They 
said, “There is no atonement for this (that we know of); Khandika-Audbhari 
alone is aware of the atonement for this”; but he (Khandika) desires this 
much and worse than this calamity for you. 

2. He (Kesin) told his charioteer, “Get ready (my chariot); I shall go to 
him (Khandika). If he tells me (the atonement, well and good) I will suc¬ 
ceed in compledng my sacrifice. If he (by not telling me) have me dead, I 
shall be shattered along with my sacrifice.” He (got) the chariot yoked and 
proceeded and reached there. He (Khandika) without allowing him (Kesin 
to say) said (himself), O Kesin! The skin (of the cow that yields milk for 
Pravargya) which you put on your shoulder, same kind of skins are found 
on the antelopes. Among them,-even small antelopes are unskinned and 
cooked by us. That skin (of the black antelope) is tied to my neck. Seeing 
that, have you dared to come here with the intention of killing me (for 
taking away the skin of the gharmadhugha belonging to you) ? (Is it that you, 
by mistaking this black antelope skin on my neck for the black skin of the 
Pravargya cow of yours, have dared to challenge me on the ground that I 
might have killed your Pravargya cow and taken away its skin?) “No sir”, 
said the king, “It was the tiger that killed my Pravargya cow, O revered one. 
If you would (kindly) tell me {the atonement), I shall complete my sacri¬ 
fice; if not you would have me dead. I shall be shattered along with my 
shattered sacrifice.” 

3. He said, “Let me consult those who counsel me.” After calling to¬ 
gether (the counsellors) he said, “If I tell him (the atonement, his race will 
prosper here and not mine; but I will gain the higher worlds. If I do not tell 
him, my race will prosper here but I will not gain the higher worlds.” They 
(counsellors) said, “Do not tell him; for, (by telling) this world become that 
of the Ksatriyas (and we Brahmins will lose it).” 

4. He (Khandika) said, “I shall tell him; because there are more nights 
in the yonder world (and by telling him though I may forego this earth 
which has fewer nights or less longevi ty, I will gain the other world which is 


XII1.8.4.4] 


TRANSLATION 


435 


more enduring).” Accordingly he told him (the atonement for the 
Pravargya cow being killed), “After offering the Sprti oblations, commission 
another cow and that shall be your Pravargya cow.” (He told the Sprti 
offerings) “From the moon, I take your mind — svaha; from the sun, I take 
your eye - svaha; from Vayu, I take your prana — svaha; from the quarters, I 
take your ear - svaha; from the waters, I take your blood — svaha; from the 
earth, I take your body — svaha” (After offering these) let him say, “Bring 
another cow.” That shall be the Pravargya cow. He (Kesin) then left that 
place. Verily the progeny of Kesin race are bom here (on the earth) even 
to this day. (Fourth Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter Eight Ends.) 
(ASTADHYAYl KANDA ENDS) 



MAD HYAM KANDA 

• • 


Chapter One 

BRAHMANAI 

1. This sacrifice (Gavtim Ayanam, a year-long Satra ) is the same as this 
(wind) that blows. It is this they want to gain by entering a year-long vow 
(Diksd). Out of those (priests) the Grhapati (master of the house where it is 
performed) is initiated first; for the Grhapati represents this terrestrial world 
and everything is established on this world. Others (who participate in that 
Satra Yaga) are established in the Grhapati. Thus seated on a firm founda¬ 
tion, they get initiated. 

2. Then he (the Adhvaryu) initiates Brahma. Now, Brahma is the moon; 
the moon is Soma and the plants belong to Soma. Thus he connects the 
plants with this earth. So none else should be initiated between these two. 

3. Next he initiates the Udgata. The Udgata is the cloud. Rains originate 
from the clouds. Thus he connects rains with the plants. So, no one should 
be initiated in between these two (Brahma and Udgata). If some one else 
were to be initiated between these two, the plants will be separated from the 
rains and there will be draught. Therefore no one else should be initiated 
in between these two. 

4. Then he initiates the Hota. Hota is Agni in his divine aspect. The 
speech is the physical aspect and rain is food. Thus he connects both Agni 
and speech with food. Therefore no one else should be initiated between 
these two (i.e., Udgata and Hota). If some one else were to be initiated in 
between them, it will amount to separating Agni and speech (mouth) from 
food and there will be starvation (among the people). Hence no one else 
should be initiated between these two. These four (priests) are initiated by 
the Adhvaryu. 


XIV. 1.1.9] 


TRANSLATION 


5 


5. Then the Pratiprasthata initiates the Adhvaryu. Adhvaryu is the mind 
and the Hota is speech; thus he connects the mind and the speech. There¬ 
fore no one else should be initiated in between these two. If he were to 
initiate some body else between them, he will be separating mind and speech 
and that will be fatal (to the people). Therefore no one else should be initi¬ 
ated between them. 

6. He then initiates the Brahmanacchamsin for (helping) the Brahma 
under whom he.is. Then he initiates the Prastotafor (helping) the Udgata 
under whom he is; after him, he initiates Maitra-Varuna for (helping) the 
Hota under whom he is. All these four (Adhvaryu, Brahmanacchamsin, 
Prastota and Maitra-Varuna) are initiated by the Pratiprasthata. The Nesta 
initiates the Pratiprasthata for (helping) the Adhvaryu, under whom he is. 
Af ter fixing up these nine, others are fixed up (initiated). Because there are 
nine Pranas and thereby he puts the /Yanas into them, so that they reach 
the full span of life and they do not depart from this world before attaining 
there full span of life. 

7. He then initiates the Pota for (helping) the Brahma, under whom he 
is. He then initiates the Pratiharta for (helping) theUdgata, under whom 
he is. Then he initiates the Acchavaka for (helping) the Horn, under whom 
he is. These four are initiated by the NestiL. Then the Unneta initiates the 
Nesta (helping) the Adhvaryu, under whom he is. 

8. He now initiates the Agnidhrafor (helping) the Brahma, under whom 
he is. Then he initiates Subrahmanya for (helping) the Udgata, under whom 
he is. Then he initiates the Gravastuta for (helping) the Hota, under whom 
he is. These four, the Unneta initiates. 

9. Then either a Snataka (who has just completed his studentship) or 
Brahmacarin or some one else not initiated initiates the Unneta. For they 
say one who is purified should not purify; this is the sequence of initiation. 
Knowing this (sequence) when they are initiated, even as they are initiated, 
they make ready for sacrifice. The readying of the sacrifice ensures the well¬ 
being and security of those who participate in the Satra. With the well-being 
and security of the satrins (priests) there is well-being and security in that 
region (where the sacrifice is organised). Out of them the Unneta is the last 
to be initiated; but he is the first to emerge out of the final ablution (Avabrta ); 



XIV. 1.3.3] 


TRANSLATION 


7 


for Unneta is the vital air. Thus he (the Unneta) infuses Prana into all of 
them on both sides (in the beginning and at the end). Thus they attain full 
span of life and they do not depart from this world before their full life span. 
This is the right sequence of initiation. Thus one should get initiated, only 
when persons knowing thus perform the initiation. (First Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANA H 

1. The gods produced (the following parts of the Gavam Ayanam ) thus - 
Diksa (initiation) from Sraddhd (intense faith); Prdyamya (opening ritual) 
from Aditi, Kraya (purchase of some plant) from Soma; Atitthya (honouring 
the guests) from Visnu; Pravargya from Aditya, Upasada from Svadha, Upavasa 
(fasting) from Agni-Soma; Prdyamya Atiratra(the first day of the Gavam 
Ayanam sacrifice) from this world; the Caturvimsa day ( Ukthya of that name) 
from the year; Abhiplava from brahmin class; Prsthya from the warrior class; 
Abhijit from Agni; Svarasdman from waters; Visuvat from Aditya; Visvajit from 
Indra; the Gostoma and Ayustoma (i.e. the Agnistoma and the Ukthya) from 
Mitra-Varuna; the Dasaratra from Visvedevas; the Dasaratnya Prsthya ( Sadaha ) 
from the quarters; and the Chandoma days from these worlds; the tenth day 
(Dasaman Ahas) from the year; the Mahavrata from Prajapati and the 
Udayanlya (culminating) Atirdtra from the heavenly world. Thus the year 
(year-long Gavam Ayanam) was produced. Whosoever knows the origin of 
the year (Gavam Ayanam) thus becomes more glorious and comes to prossess 
of it, becomes one with the Samvatsara and becoming identified with the 
Samvatsara (Gavam Ayanam), reaches the Gods. (Second Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANA ffl 

1.,Now when they do the initiation, they are (actually) offering sacrifice 
to the twin deities Agna-Visnu. They themselves become the Agna-Visnu 
deities and attain identity with them and share the world of Agna-Visnu. 

2. When they offer Prayaniya (observe the opening sacrifice of Atirdtra) 
to the deity of Aditi, they become the Aditi deity themselves and get identi¬ 
fied with Aditi and share the world of Aditi. 

3. When they proceed with the purchasing of Soma plant ( Soma Krayana) 
they worship the deity, Soma; become Soma deity themselves and get iden¬ 
tified with that deity and share the world of Soma. 



XIV. 1.3.12] 


TRANSLATION 


9 


4. When they perform the Atitthya (offering to guests), they indeed wor¬ 
ship the deity of Visnu; become Visnu themselves and get identified with 
that diety and share the world of Visnu. 

5. When they offer sacrifice with Pravargya, they offer the deity of Aditya; 
become Aditya deity themselves; get identified with that deity and share the 
world of Aditya. 

6. When they proceed with the Upasada, they indeed offer sacrifice to 
those deities (who receive the oblations) of the Upasada', become Upasada 
deities themselves and get identified with those deities and share the world 
of those Upasada deities. 

7. When they perform sacrifice with the Pasu for Agni-Soma, they in¬ 
deed offer to the deities of Agni-Soma, become Agni-Soma deities them¬ 
selves, get identified with those deities and share the world of Agni-Soma. 

8. When they perform the PrayaniyaAtiratra (the opening ritual of Gavam 
Ayanam), they worship the deities of day and night; become day and night 
deities themselves and get identified with those deities and share the world 
of those dieities of day and night. 

9. When they proceed with the Caturvirhsa day, they worship the deity of 
the year itself and become that deity of the year themselves, get identified 
with that deity and share the world of the deity of the year. 

10. When they perform the Abhiplava and Sadaha, they worship the dei¬ 
ties of half-months and months and become the deities of half-months and 
months themselves; get identified with those deities and share the worlds of 
the deities of half-months and months. 

11. When they proceed with the Prsthya-Sadaha, they worship the deities 
of the seasons themselves and become the deities of the seasons; get iden¬ 
tified with those deities and share the world of the deities of the seasons. 

12. When they perform the Abhijit, they worship the deity of Agni itself 
and become the deity of Agni; get identified with that deity and share the 
world of deity of Agni. 



XIV. 1.3.21] 


TRANSLATION 


1 1 

13. When they proceed with the Svarasamans, they worship the deity-of 
waters and become the deity of waters themselves; get identified with that 
deity and share the world of deity of waters. 

14. When they perform the Visuvat, they worship the deity of Aditya it¬ 
self and become the deity of Aditya; themselves get identified With that deity 
and share the world of deity of Aditya. 

15. When they proceed with the Visvajit, they offer sacrifice to the deity 
of lndra himself and become the deity of lndra themselves, get identified 
with that deity and share the world of the deity of lndra. 

16. When they proceed with the Gostoma and Ayustoma, they worship the 
twin deities of Mitra-Varuna, and become the deities of Mitra-Varuna them¬ 
selves; get identified with those twin-deities and share the world of Mitra- 

Varuna. 

17. When they proceed with the Dasaratra , they worship the deities of 
Visvedevas and become the deities of Visvedevas themselves, get identified 
with those deities and share the world of Visvedevas. 

18. When they proceed with the Prsthya Sadaha of Dasaratra, they wor¬ 
ship the deities of the quarters; become deities of quarters themselves; get 
identified with those deities and share the world of deities of the quarters. 

19. When they enter upon Chandomas, they worship the deities of those 
worlds and become the deities of those worlds themselves, get identified 
with the deities of those worlds, and share the world of deities of those worlds. 

20. When they enter upon the tenth day (of the Dasaratra) , they worship 
the deity of the year; and become the deity of the year themselves, get iden¬ 
tified with that deity and share the world of the year. 

21. When they perform the Mahdmata, they worship the deity of Prajapati, 
become deity of Prajapati themselves, get identified with that deity and share 
the world of deity of Prajapati. 


XIV. 1.4.2] 


TRANSLATION 


13 


22. When they proceed with the Udayaniya (the concluding Atiratra) then 
indeed, having gained the year, they get settled themselves in the world of 
heaven. If some one is to ask “to which deity you are offering today (in the 
Udayaniya) ; what deity you are becoming today and which deity’s world you 
are sharing?” Each one of them should name that deity to whom they feel 
nearest in the Satra. Actually, they are well-seated because they are seated 
among good deities. Others ( who do not know the above enumerated co¬ 
relation between these ritualistic items and the corresponding deities) are 
merely participating in the Satra (they don’t gain identity with or share the 
worlds of those deities). If any one, doing the Satra, were to offend any of 
the initiated priests who know his relationship to the deities, he should be 
told ‘We will cut you off from the deities.” He will become a sinner and these 
(priests) will be superior to him. 

23. There are three Mahavratas in a year; namely the Caturvimsa 
Mahdvrata, the Visuvat Mahdvrata and the Mahdvrata itself. Formerly they 
used to conduct the Satra with (all) these three Mahavratas and they be¬ 
came glorious, truth-speaking and faithful to their vow. Now-a-days if any 
one sitting in Satra were to perform (all of them), they will get dilapidated 
like an unbaked clay pot when filled with water. Because by doing those 
(all) they are over-doing. The purpose of performing all these is attainable 
even by truth, by toil, by austerities, by devotion, by sacrifice and by offerings. 
(Third Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMAN AIV 

1. The year indeed is Purusa (man). The Prayaniya Atiratra (the com¬ 
mencing Atiratra) is his feet; because one walks (proceeds) with the feet. 
That (part of the feet) which is white is the form of the day and that which 
is black is the form of the night. The nails (of the toes) are the forms of 
plants and herbs. The Caturvimsa day is his thighs; the Abhiplava is the form 
of his breast and the Prsthya is of his back. 


2. The right hand of his is the Abhijit, these three Pranas (channels of 
vital air) on the right (right eye, right ear and right nostril) are the 
Svarasdmans, the head is the Visuvat and these three Pranas (channels of 
vital air) the left (the left eye, left ear and left nostril) are the Svarasdmans. 



XIV. 1.4.3] 


TRANSLATION 


15 


3. The right arm (of his) is indeed the Visvajit, about Prsthya and 
Abkiplava, we have already said (as back and breast); the two downward 
channels of the vital air are the Gostoma and Ayustoma; the limbs are the 
Dasaratra; the face is the Mahavrata; the hands are the Udayanlya Atiratra 
(concluding Atiratra ); because it is by them (hands) one reaches up; that 
which is white out of them is the form of the day and that which is black is 
the form of the night. The nails are the forms of the Naksatras. Thus that 
year is established in respect of the body. Whosoever thus knows that year 
as established in the form of the body, gets himself well-settled with off¬ 
spring and cattle in this world and with immortality in the yonder world. 
(Fourth B rah maria Ends.) 


(Chapter One Ends.) 



Chapter Two 


BRAHMANA I 

1. Those who get initiated for a year long ( Satra ) are verily crossing an 
ocean. The Prayaniya Atiratra is the entry-point (path leading to the waters); 
because one gets into the water (to cross it) through the entry-point (flight 
of steps) and when they commence the Prayaniya Atiratra, they are as if 
entering the ocean through the entry-point (by the steps). 

2. The Caturvimsa day is the shallow ford which provides with foot hold, 
with water upto the arm-pit or upto the neck where one can rest and enter 
(deep water). The Abhiplava is (the spot) suitable for the plunge and the 
Prsthya (also) is the spot for swimming. 

3. The Abhijit is the shallow ford which provides with a foot-hold with 
water upto the arm-pit or upto the neck from where they come out after 
resting a while. Or the Svara -samans, the first is thigh-deep, the second, 
knee-deep and the third ankle-deep. The Visuvat is an island providing with 
a foot-hold. In the reverse order, the first Svarasaman is ankle-deep, the 
second, knee-deep and the third thigh-deep. 

4. Then the Visvajit is the shallow ford which provides with a foot-hold 
with water upto the arm-pit or upto the neck. Resting there a while, he en¬ 
ters (the deep waters again). The Prsthya is (the spot) suitable for the plunge 
and so is the Abhiplava, the Go, the Ayus and the Dasaratra. 

5. The Mahavrata is the shallow ford which provided with a foot-hold, 
with water upto the arm-pit or upto the neck. Resting there a while, he 
emerges out of the water. The Udayaniya Atiratra is the exit point (of steps). 
For, it is by a flight of steps that people step out (of the water). Thus, when 
they perform the Udayaniya Atiratra, it is like having entered the sea through 
an entry point with flight of steps, they come out through an exit point with 
flight of steps. 

6. Now they ask - “How many Atiratras are there in the year; how many 
Agnistomas; how many Ukthyasr, how many Sodasins and how many Sadahas ?” 


XIV.2.2.1] 


TRANSLATION 


19 


There are two Atirdtras,one hundred and six Agnistomas, two hundred and 
forty Ukthyas - thus in the case of those who perform the Svarasamans as 
Ukthyas . 

7. In the case of those who perform them as Agnistomas , there are one 
hundred and twelve Agnistomas, two hundred and thirty-four Ukthyas , twelve 
Sodasins; and six Sadahas. Thus the year is obtained. There are, of course, 
twelve months for the year and their vital energy and power are the Prsthas. 
As these Prsthas come month after month, they obtain the vital essence of 
the year monthly (in monthly instalments). “How do they obtain the vital 
energy of the thirteenth (inter calary) month ?” “On the day following the 
Visuvat, they perform the Visvajit Agnistoma with all the Prsthas and thereby, 
they indeed obtain the vital energy of the thirteenth month. It is in respect 
of this SvetaketUj son of Aruni, knowing this once said - “Let me get initiated 
for one year.” His father looking at him asked “O, son of long life! do you 
know the shallow fonds and foot-holds of the Samvatsara (year long sacri¬ 
fice).” “I know them” he replied, because he said thus as one who knew it. 
(First Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMANAn 

1. Now they ask - “How come, the Abhiplavas have light (jyoti ) on both 
sides and the Prsthya has only on one side?” The Abhiplavas are these worlds 
and these worlds have light on both sides; Agni on this side and the Sun on 
the other side. The Prsthya being the seasons, have light on only one side. 
The one who burns yonder (i.e. the Sun) is their light. Verily these two 
divine wheels established in the Prsthyas revolve, crushing the sins of the 
Yajamana. If anybody, knowing this, were to announce the sin of (talk ill of) 
the initiated priests, their heads will be chopped off by those divine wheels. 
The Dasaratra is the seat (of the chariot) and the Prsthya and Abhiplava are 
the two wheels. On this the question arises - ‘The wheels (usually) are of 
the same dimensions; but how come, these two wheels are uneven?” Their 
Stomas being dissimilar, how do they come to be performed equally so as to 
coincide? (It is because) there are six days of one and six days of the other 
(i.e. since the number of days is equal, the dissimilarity in Stomas does not 
matter). 



XIV.2.2.5] 


TRANSLATION 


21 


2. Let him make the Prsthya and Abhiplavas woven in two’wraps (so that 
they together become one). Let their Stotras > and Sastras run together* By 
making them run together, these passages of the Pranas , though different, 
run together with one aim and merge into a common pattern (tapestry). If 
they are not made to run together, the Yajamana is likely to have a mishap. 
One who loses the sight or hearing indeed suffers a mishap. There are nine 
Agnistomas in a month; for there are indeed nine Pranas. Thereby he places 
only Pranas into them. Thus they reach the full span of life and they do not 
depart from this world before reaching the full span of life. 

3. There are twenty-one Ukthyas. A year has twelve months; there are 
five seasons and three worlds which together account for twenty and this 
one who bums(the Sun) is the twenty-first and this is the fulfilment. By this 
fulfilment, he month by month, ascends to the heaven and in monthly 
instalments he gains the heavenly world; the twenty-one Stomas and the 
Brhatl metre. Thirty-four Agnistomas get completed month by month; for 
there are thirty-three gods and Prajapati is the thirty-fourth. Since it gains 
all the gods, there is one Ukthya with Sodast (Stotra ); for Ukthya is food and 
Sodast is vitality. It is by means of this vitality and this food, the Gods at¬ 
tained all their desires and enjoyed all that they wished for. In like manner, 
this one (Yajamana) achieves all his desires and enjoys all that he wishes 
for, by means of this vitality and this food. Therefore, one initiated for a 
year long Satra should proceed with the Prsthya and Abhiplava together for 
attainment of that desire. 

4. Now that Adityas and the Arigiras, both offspring of Prajapati com¬ 
peted with each other saying - “We shall be the first to reach the heaven - 
we shall be the first.” The Adityas crossed over to the heavenly world by 
means of four Stomas, four Prsthas and simple Samans. Since they crossed 
over ( Abhi-Aplavanta ) with them, they are Abhiplavas. The Arigiras followed 
them by means of all the Stomas, all the Prsthas and complicated Samans, just 
reached the heavenly world. Since they just reached or touched (asprsan) it 
(six-days period) is called Prsthya. 

5. It is the Abhiplava of Sadaha since it consists of six days, or it is the 
Abhiplava of Pahcaha since it consists of five days, for the last day is the same 
as the first day. Or, it is the Abhiplava of Caturaha (four days) since there are 
only four Stomas (used in it); namely the Trvrt Stoma, the Pahcadasa Stoma, 


XTV.2.2.12] 


TRANSLATION 


23 


the Saptadasa Stoma and the Ekavimsa Stoma (using three Stoma verses; fif¬ 
teen Stomas, seventeen or twenty-one Stoma vferses respectively) . Or it is the 
Abhiplava of Tryaha (three days Abhiplava) since it involves three turns, 
namely Jyoti, Go and Ayus. Or it is the Abhiplava of Dvyaha (two day’s Abhiplava) 
because it involves only two Sdmans viz., Brhat and Rathantara or it is the 
Abhiplava oiEkaha (one day’s Abhiplava) since it is performed with the Sto¬ 
mas of one day’s ( Soma sacrifice). Twelve Stotras and twelve Sastras of the 
four Ukthyds are in excess, which amout to a seventh Agnistoma and thus 
there are seven Agnistoma\s. 

6. Protr descendent of Kausamba (or hailing from Kausambl) son of 
Kosuribindi lived with Uddalaka Aruni, as a student. The preceptor asked 
(the pupil) - “Son, how many days, did your father consider, that there are 
in the year ?” 

7. He (Protr) said, “Ten; ten indeed becasue the Viraid metre has ten 
syllables and the sacrifice is of the nature of Virad.” (Again he asked) How 
many (days) are there exactly ?” 

8. He said, “Nine; definitely it is; for there are nine Pranas and it is in¬ 
deed by the Pranas, the sacrifice expands.” (He again asked) “How many?” 

9. He said, “Eight; definitely it is eight, because the Gayatri has eight 
syllables and the sacrifice is of Gayatri.” (Again he asked) “How many ?” 

10. He said, “Seven; seven indeed (he said), for there are seven metres, 
each having four syllables more than the previous one and the sacrifice gets 
spread by means of metres.” (Again he asked) “How many?” 

11. He said, “Six”; indeed it is six (he said); for there are six seasons for 
the year and the sacrifice is the year. The starting and concluding Atirdtra 
are one and the same” (Again he asked) “How many?” 

12. He said, “Five”; “Of course five” he said. For, the sacrifice is fivefold 
and the Pasus are fivefold, the seasons for the year are five and the sacrifice 
is the year; The Caturvirhsa and the Mahavrata are one.and the same. (Again 
he asked) “How many?” 



XIV.2.3.2] 


TRANSLATION 


25 


13. He said, “Four.” “Indeed it is four” - he said; for the Pasus are 
quadripeds and the sacrifice is the Pasus. The Prstya and Abhiplava are one 
and the same. (Again he asked) “How many?” 

14. He said, ‘Three”; “Surely it is three”, he said; for, there are three 
metres, three worlds, and the (Soma) sacrifice consists of three Savanas 
(sessions). The Abhijit and Visvajit are one and the same. (Again he asked) 
“How many?” 

15. He said, “Two.” Two indeed”, he said, for, man is a biped and the 
sacrifice is Purusa and the Svarasamans constitute one and the same day. 
(Again he asked) “How many?” 

16. He said, “One”; “Indeed a day”, he said, for, the year is made of day 
after day. This is the mystic import of the year. Whosoever knows this mystic 
significance of the year becomes more prosperous and becomes possessed 
of a (new) body and gains the form of the year (itself). Becoming the year, 
he joins the gods.( Second Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMAN Am 

1. That year doubdess, is equal to Brhati. Out of the days covered by it, 
there are two Sadahas (groups of six days amounting to twelve); Prsthya and 
Abhiplava account for two days. Adding (the days of) Gostoma, Ayustoma and 
Dasaratra, it comes to thirty-six. There are ten syllables in the Brhatl. It was 
only through Brhatl, the gods readied the heavenly world. They gained the 
heaven only by means of Brhati. In the same way this Yajamana is trying to 
gain the heavenly world through the Brhati. He gains the heaven by means 
of the Brhati. He who knows this, obtains whatever desire there is in Brhati. 

2. That which is the twenty-fourth day is the seventh or the ninth day of 
Dasratra. Out of the Abhiplava, the Prsthya was created; the Abhijit out of 
Prsthya, the Svarasamans from Abhijit, the Visuvat out of the Svarasamans; 
from the Visuvat (again) the Svarasamans; the Visvajit from the Svarasamans-, 
the Prsthya out of the Visvajit from the Prsthya the Abhiplava', from Abhiplava, 
the Go and the Ayus; out of the Gostoma and Anustoma, the Dasaratra. That 
Mahamata is a winning day; for its Stoma is twenty-five fold. A metre does not 



XIV.2.3.6] 


TRANSLATION 


27 


disintegrate by (the excess or shortage of) one syllable; nor from two 
syllables. Nor a Stoma is affected by (having excess of) one Stoma. (Le. 
Pancavimsais as efficacious as Caturvimsa ). 

3. He performs Abhiplava before Visuvat and then Prsthya. For, Abhiplava 
is the son and Prsthya is the father. That is why in the early life, the son 
depends on the father. After the Visuvat, they observe Prsthya first and then 
Abhiplava. That is why in the advanced age, the father depends on the son 
for livelihood. He who knows this, for him his son depends on him in the 
early days and in his old age he is looked after by his son. 

4. Now they ask - “If he were to die after entering on the Caturvimsa day, 
how does he become one who has merely uttered the Agni formulas?” ( Yajcr. 
ye Yajamahe are the Agni formulas in the form of a promise to do the offer¬ 
ing) . If he dies on entering the Caturvimsa, the question of his actually car¬ 
rying out this promise does not arise. So the question for this reply is in so 
far as they perform the Prayaniya (opening) Atiratra, it includes the Udayaniya 
(concluding Atiratra) also (and so it amounts to his having completed the 
promised offering). 

5. Now they ask - “Since, there are twelve months for the year, now that 
the one day of Visuvat is in excess, does it belong to those months that 
precede or those that succeed?” Let him reply “It belongs to both those that 
precede and those that succeed.” The Visuvat is the trunk of the body of the 
year; and the months are the limbs and where the body is, there the limbs 
are and where the limbs are, there the body is. The limbs do not stand 
exclusive or exceeding the body. Nor the body is exclusive of the limbs. 
Thus that ( Visuvat) belongs to both the preceding and succeeding (months). 

6. Indeed, the year is that great Suparna (eagle). The six months which 
they perform, prior to the Visuvat form its one wing and those six months 
they perform subsequently form its ( Suparna’s ) other wing. The body proper 
is the Visuvat. Where there is the body, there are the two wings; where there 
are the wings; there is the body. Neither the body is in excess of the wings 
nor the wings are in excess of the body. In this way it (Visuvat) belongs to the 
prior months and to the subsequent months. 



XIV.23.I0] 


TRANSLATION 


29 


7. Again they raise the question — “In so far as they perform for the six 
months prior to the Visuvat, Stomas tending upwards and for six months 
(subsequently) Stomas in the reverse order, how do the latter come to tend 
upwards?” Let hini say (in reply) - “Since they perform the Dasaratra with 
upward tending Stomas (the subsequent ones also become upward tend¬ 
ing).” The Mahavrata was not accessible to the gods on the plea “You have 
performed the Visuvat with upward tending Stomas and me with reversed 
Stomas.” 


8. Those gods said (to themselves) - “Try to find out that sacrificial 
ritual which has upward tending Stomas, so that we may gain this. They 
discovered this Dasaratra which has upward tending Stomas, very much like 
the year. In Prsthyahah Sadaha is the seasons; its Chandomas are these (three) 
worlds and the tenth day is the year. With that they gained this (upward 
tending Stomas for the latter six months). Then the Mahavrata became ac¬ 
cessible (to the gods). For him who knows thus, the Mahavrata becomes 
accessible. 

9. Thus, there is one advancement of the days. By means of the Prayaniya 
(openilng) Atirdtra, they climb to the Udayantya (concluding) Atirdtra. By the 
Caturvimsa, they climb to the Mahavrata. By the Abhiplava they cover the 
later Abhiplava. By the Prsthya, they climb to the later Prsthya. By the Abhijit, 
they cover the Visvajit. By the Svarasamansthey climb to the later Svarasamans. 
This day of the Visuvat alone is not climbed (does not lead to another day). 
He who knows this, ascends to greater heights of prosperity and no one 
inferior to him can over step (or equal) him. 

10. Or, in this manner there is a descent of the days. The Prayantya Atirdtra 
descends to the Caturvimsa day; the Caturvimsa day to the Abhiplava , the 
Abhiplava to the Prsthya. The Prsthya to the Abhijit, the Abhijit to the 
Svarasamans $nd the Svarasamans to the Visuvat. The Visuvat (descends) to 
the Svarasamans, the Svarasamans to the Visvajit, the Visvajit to the Prsthya ; 
the Prsthya to the Abhiplava', Abhiplava to the Gostoma and Ayustomar, the Go 
and Ayus to the Dasaratra; the Dasaratra to the Mahavrata; the Mahavrata to 
the Udayantya (concluding) Atirdtra and the Udayantya Atirdtra to the heav¬ 
enly world, the resting abode and to riches. 



X1V.2.4.3] 


TRANSLATION 


31 


11, This indeed is the wilderness of the sacrificial forest or the intricate 
by-lanes* in it which the learned traverse by tens and tens of days of chariot- 
ride. This is as if one who is gullible (unfamiliar with the forest) enters into 
it, without the knowledge, will suffer from hunger or thirst and will be at¬ 
tacked by cruel Raksasas, any one (Yajamana) venturing to enter into this 
labyrinth of sacrificial jungle without knowledge will suffer from hunger or 
thirst and will be attacked by cruel Raksasas. (On the other hand) just as a 
knowledgeable person (entering the floods) moves on from one stream to 
another and from one spot of safety to another; so too one who knows (the 
intricacies of this sacrifice) moves on from one deity to another and safely 
reaches the world of heaven. 

12. They ask - “How many are the forward moving days from the year 
and how many backward moving?” Those that are performed once each 
are the onward moving days; those performed repeatedly are the backward 
moving days. Let him meditate upon these as the backward ones because 
they move in accordance with the reverse course of the Sadahas. (Third 
Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAIV 

1. The year indeed is Purusa. His Prana is*the Prayaniya Atiratra; for it is 
with Prana (men) move forward. The Arambhantya (the first day of the 
Caturviihsa ) is the speech; for it is by means of speech (men) start whatever 
they undertake. 

2. The Abhiplava Sadaha is this right hand (of the Purusa). Its first day is 
this (little finger). Its upper joint is its morning Savana ; this middle joint is 
mid day Savana and this lower joint is its third (evening) Savana. It is in the 
place of Gayatri and hence this (little finger is the shortest among the fin¬ 
gers). 

3. This (ring-finger) is its second day. This upper joint is its morning 
Savana; this middle joint is its mid day Savana and this lower joint is its third 
(evening) Savana. It is in the place of Trsthubh metre and hence it is longer 
than the little finger. 



X1V.2.4.8] 


TRANSLATION 


33 


4. This (middle-finger) is its third day. This upper joint is its morning 
Savana; this middle joint is its mid day Savana and this lower joint is its third 
(evening) Savana. It is in the place of Jagati metre and hence it is longer 
than the litde finger. 

5. This (fore-finger) is its fourth day. This upper joint is its morning 
Savana; this middle joint is its mid day Savana and this lower joint is its third 
(evening) Savana. It is in the place of Virad metre. Virad is indeed food and 
hence this (fore-finger) eats the maximum food among these fingers. 

6. This (thumb) is the fifth day. This upper joint is its morning Savana; 
this middle joint is its mid day Savana and this lower joint is its third (evening) 
Savana. It is in the place of Pankti metre. Pahkti is big (with five feet). Hence 
this (thumb) is the thickest of these (fingers). 

7. This (right arm) is the sixth day. This (fore-arm) is its morning Savana; 
this (upper arm) is its mid day Savana and this (shoulder) is its third Savana. 
It is in the place of the Aticchandas (excess metre). Hence it is larger than 
those (fingers). That day is of Gayatri and hence this shoulder-blade is the 
shortest. This Abhiplave-Sadaha extends to these two hands and two legs 
and the Prsthya is the body (trunk). This is what Paihgya who knew it told - 
“The Abhiplavas are floating about as it were and the Prsthya is steady as it 
were.” That is, he (the Purusa) leeps about as it were, with his limbs and is 
steady as it were with his body. 

8. The head (of the Purusa) is the Trvrt Stoma. Hence it is threefold; skin, 
bone and brain. The neck is the Pahcadasa Stoma; for there are fourteen 
joints (cervical vertebrae and dorsal vertebrae together) and the vital force 
is the fifteenth. Hence by means of that (neck), though it is small, man 
bears a heavy burden. Therefore the Pahcadasa Stoma is the neck. The chest 
is the Saptadasa Stomd, for there are eight jatru (rib-links) on one side and 
eight on the other and the chest itself is the seventeenth. Therefore the 
Saptadasa Stoma is the chest( of the Purusa). The belly is the Ekavimsa Stoma; 
for there are twenty-Kuntapas (spike-like projections of vertebrae in the stom¬ 
ach) and the belly (itself) is the twenty-first. Therefore the belly is Ekaviihsa 
Stoma. The two sides (bt the Purusa) are the Trinava Stoma - there are thir- 



XIV.24.10] 


TRANSLATION 


35 


teen ribs on the one side and thirteen on the other side. The two sides 
together constitute the twenty-seventh ( Trinava ). Therefore the two sides 
are the Trinava Stoma. The spine (of the Purusa) is the Trayastrirhsa Stoma. 
There are thirty-two Karukaras (lumber-vertebrae) and the spinal append¬ 
ages together and the spine itself the thirty-third. Thus the Trayastrirhsa Stoma 
is the spine. 

9. This right ear (of the Purusa) is the Abhijit. That which is the white 
portion of the eye, is the first (set of) Svarasaman. That which is the black 
(portion of the eye is the second set of) Svarasaman. That which is the pupil 
(of the eye) that is the third Svarasaman. The nose (of the Purusa) is the 
Visuvat. This pupil of the eye is the first reversed Svarasaman the black in the 
eye is the second reversed Svarasaman and the white in the eye is the third 
reversed Svarasaman. 

10. This left ear (of the Purusa) is the Visvajit, The Prsthya and Abhiplava 
have already been dealt with. The two downward Pranas (of the Purusa) are 
the Gostoma and Ayustoma; the limbs (of the Purusa are the Dasaratra and 
the mouth is the Mahavrata. The Udana (up-breathing of the Purusa) is the 
Udayaniya Atiratra; for it is by means of the Uddna, men go upwards. Thus it 
is that year (year-long sacrifice) established in the human body. Whosoever 
knows thus the physical aspect of this year (sacrifice) gets himself estab¬ 
lished with offspring and cattle in this world and (gets established) in im¬ 
mortality in the world beyond. (Fourth Brahamana Ends.) 


(Second Chapter Ends.) 


Chapter Three 
BRAHMANAI 

1. “O Balaki; whereas this threefold Universe (comprising of theAdhyatma, 
Adhiyagha and Adhidaiva) keeps on passing into one another, how, is it that 
these - the sacrifice, the Purusa and Prajapati - do not exceed one another ?” 

2. “Whereas the upward Stomas follow the sacrifice, fitting themselves to 
the Samans simultaneously recited, how is it they enter the Purusa and get 
united with the Pranas ? * 

3. “How do the Prayaniya Atiratra, the Caturvimsa day, the four Abhiplavas 
and Prsthys enter the Purusa and get united with the Pranas ?” 

4. “How does the Svarasaman, fitted out with Abhijit, get united with Visuvat 
on both sides and how do these enter the Purusa and become one with the 
Pranas ?” 


5. “Getting out with the Trivrt, fitted out with the ( Pancadasa and) 
Saptadasa and ending with the Trayastrimsa; with (the series of Stomas) in¬ 
creasing succesively by four (syllables) - how do these enter the Purusa and 
become one with the Pranas ?” 

6. The Trivrt is his (Purusa’s) head; the Pancadasa his neck; the chest, as 
they say, corresponds to Saptadasa Stoma ; the belly they corelate to the 
Ekavimsa, the two side-ribs are made of the Trinava Stoma. 

7. The Abhiplavas on both sides (of the Visuvat, the body) are his arms; 
the Prsthya is the back - so say the wise. His spine, the Brahmins make up in 
the nearby means of the series of Stomas increasing successively by four 
syllables. The Abhijit and Visvajit are his ears and (three parts of) his eyes, 
they say, correspond to the three sets of Svarasamans. The Visvajit, they say 
is the Prana of his nostril. The Gostoma and Ayustoma are his two downword 
Pranas. The Dasaratra they identify as his limbs and the MahavrUta, the priests 
so arranged as to be the mouth of the year. Thus the Atman or spirit has 
entered the body consisting of all Stomas and all Samans. The sage (wise 



XIV.3.2.5] 


TRANSLATION 


39 


one) thus makes the sacrifice equal to his own body and with no affliction 
(nearing him) reaches that high pedestal of the reddy Sun (First rahmana 
Ends.) 


BRAHMANAH 

1. The year is indeed the Purusa (Yajamana). Purusa forms one unit 
and the year is another unit. They are equal or same. There are in the year, 
the two, day and night. Correspondingly there are in the Purusa the two 
Pranas They are thus the same. The year has three seasons: there are three 
Pranas in the Purusa and they are same. The (word) Samvatsara (year) has 
four letters and the (word) Yajamana has also four letters and thus they 
correspond (to each other). There are five seasons for the year and there 
are five Pranas for the Purusa; thus they are same. There are six seasons for 
the year and there are six Pranas for the Purusas; thus they correspond. 
There are seven seasons for the year and there are seven Pranas for the 
Purusa. Thus they are same. 

2. There are twelve months for the year and here there are twelve Pranas 
for the Purusa. They are equal. There are indeed thirteen months for the 
year and there are these thirteen Pranas in the Purusa; the naval being the 
thirteenth; thus they are same. Twenty-four are indeed the half-months for 
the year. This Purusa is the twently-fourth with twenty fingers and toes to¬ 
gether and four limbs. Thus they correspond with each other. There are 
twenty-six half-months for the year - -and this Purusa is twenty-six-fold, the 
two feet making up the twenty-six; thus these two are the same. 

3. There are three hundred and sixty nights for the year and the Purusa 
has three hundred and sixty bones. Thus, they are equal. There are three 
hundred and sixty days for the year and there are three hundred and sixty 
marrow-portions for the Purusa; thus they correspond with each other. 

4. There are seven hundred and twenty days and nights (together) for 
the year and there are seven hundred and twenty bones and marrow por¬ 
tions (together) in the Purusa. Thus they are the same. 

5. There are two thousand and eight hundred Muhurtas (units of time) 
for the year; fifteen times the number of Muhurtas are the number of Ksipras 


XIV.3.3.2] 


TRANSLATION 


41 


in the year. Fifteen times the number of Ksipras are the number of ‘Etarhis’ 
in a year. Fifteen times the number of Etarhis are the number of ‘Idanis’ in 
a year. Fifteen times the number of ‘ Idanis ’ are the number of Pranas; As 
many the number of Pranas, so many the number of Aktanas. As many the 
number of Aktanas , so many are the Nimesas; so many are the hair-pits. As 
many are the hair-pits, so many sweat-pores. As many sweat-pores, so many 
drops it rains. 

(Muhurtas -10,800; Ksipras-1,02,000; Etarhis- 24,30,000; Idanis- 3,64,50,000; 
Pranas, 54,67,50,000; Ataanas-54,67,50,000; Nimesas - 54,67,50,000 Lomagartas 
(hair-pits)-54,67,50,000; Svedayanas (sweet-pores) - 54,67,50,000; Rain drops 
-54,67,50,000). Regarding this, Varkkali said - “I know the raining cloud rain¬ 
ing all over the earth and the drops of the rain”. 

6. There is a verse told in this regard - “While going about, standing or 
sitting, or even sleeping, except when he is toiling, how many times man 
inhales and exhales breath regularly by day and night?” 

7. This verse is recited in reply ‘Ten thousand and eight hundred times 
- so often does man regularly inhale and exhale the breath by day and night” 
(Second Brahmana Ends). 


BRAHMANAIH 

1. The gods once performed the initiation for a sacrificial session of a 
thousand years. When five hundred years had passed, everything (about 
that sacrifice) namely, the Stoma, the Prsthas and the texts withered away. 
Then the gods discovered the undecayed aspect of that sacrifice and by 
means of that undecayed part, they gained the success that was in the Vedas. 
For him who knows, this secret, the Vedas are inexhaustible and with the 
inexhaustible threefold Vedas, the functions of the Riviks (officiating priests) 
are being carried out. 

2. Now, the inexhaustible aspect of the sacrifice is this “O Sravaya, Astu 
Srausat, Yaja; Ye Yajamahe and Vausat .” In these five utterances (associated 
with each offering in the sacrifices) together, there are seventeen syllables; 
O Sravaya consists of four; Astu Srausat has four, Yaja has two, Ye Yajamahe 
has five syllables and the Vasatkara (the utterance Vausat) has two syllables. 


XIV.3.3.9] 


TRANSLATION 


43 


This is the seventeen-fold Prajapati as established in the divine as well as 
physical aspects. Whoever knows thus, the seventeenfold Prajapati, estab¬ 
lished in the divine and physical aspects, gets himself established with prog¬ 
eny and cattle wealth in this world and immortality in the world beyond. 

3. The gods then said, “Let us find out that sacrificial rite which shall be 
a substitute (shortened version) of the one to be performed in a thousand 
years; for which man is there who can achieve over a period of one thou¬ 
sand years?” (there cannot be a human being who may live for thousand 
years to perform this). 

4. They saw this Visvajit with Sarvaprstha (all the Prsthas ), a quick-moving 
Soma-Sava (Soma session) as a good substitute for the Prstha-Sadaha, for in 
that there are the same Stomas , same Prsthas and same metres (as the Prstha- 
Sadaha) . 

5. They discovered that the Prstha-Sadaha as a quick-moving Soma-Sava 
to be a good substitute for the Dvadasaha', since it has the same Stomas, the 
same Prsthyas and the same metres as (the Dvadasaha ). 

6. They discovered that the Dvadasaha as a quick-moving Soma-Sava to 
be substitute for the Samvatsara (year long session), since it has the same 
Stomas, the same Prsthas and same metres (as the Samvatsara). 

7. They discovered the Samvatsara as a quick moving Soma-Sava to be a 
substitute for the Tapascita; since it has the same Stomas, the same Prsthas 
and the same metres (as the Tapascita ). 

8. They discovered the Tapascita itself a quick-moving Soma-Sava to be a 
substitute for the thousand-year long session; since it has the same Stomas, 
the same Prsthas and the same metres. 

9. He performes the rites of initiation for one year; the Upasada for one 
year and the Sutyas for one year; By passing one year in initiation, he se¬ 
cures for himself the first part of the thousand years’ session. By passing 
one year by performing the Upasadas, he secures for himself the middle 
part of that thousand years’ session. By passing one year by Sutyas, he gains 
for himself the final part of the thousand years’ session. 


XIV.3.4.2] 


TRANSLATION 


45 


10. He spends twelve months in initiation; twelve in Upasada and twelve 
in Sutya. Thus thirty-six (months) correspond to Brhatl metre with thirty-six 
syllables. Indeed it was with Brhatl, the gods tried to reach heaven and ob¬ 
tained the heavenly world by means of the Brhatl. In like manner, this one 
(Yajamana) strives to reach the heavenly world and achieves the heavenly 
world by means of Brhatl . He who knows this, secures for himself whatever 
desire there is in Brhatl. 

11. In this, the three are simultaneously performed - the fire-altar, the 
Arkya and the Mahad Uktham. By passing a year with the rites of initiation 
and a year by performing the Upasada , Agni (altar) and Arka are gained by 
him. In so far as he spends one year with the performance of Sutyas, by that 
he secures Mahad Ukthyam. Thus this Tapascitais the substitute for the thou¬ 
sand-year long sacrificial session. Thus Tapascita is for procreation of the 
beings (Third Brahmana Ends). 

BRAHMANAIV 

1. Prajapati once spoke to Purusa, Narayana “Perform sacrifice! perform 
sacrifice!” He (Narayana) said “verily you ask me “perform sacrifice, per¬ 
form sacrifice”; but thrice I have performed Yaga. By the morning Savana, 
the Vasus have gone, by the mid day Savana, the Rudras have gone and by 
the third Savana the Adityas. Now I have only the sacrificial ground (all 
other things they have taken away) and I am seated on the sacrificial site. 

2. He (Prajapati) said “Still (I say) you perform sacrifice. I will tell you 
how your Ukthyas shall be strong as a pearl in a thread or a thread is passed 
through a peafl.” Then he explained — In the morning Savana, during the 
Bahispavamana chanting, you place yourself behind the Udgata and say, 
“You are the eagle formed of the Gayatri metre. I hold on to you, take me to 
well-being.” During the midday Savana, when the Pavamdnaxs chanted, you 
stand behind the Udgata and say - “You are the Suparna (eagle) formed of 
the Trsthubh metre; I hold one to you; take me to well-being.” During the 
third Savana, when the Arbhhhava Pavamana is chanted, you stand behind 
the Udgata and say, “You are Rbhu (god of gods) formed of the Jagati 
metre; I hold on to you, take me to well-being.” 


XIV.3.5.2] 


TRANSLATION 


47 


3. At the closing of each Savana, you shall mutter - “There be light in 
me; there be might in me; there be fame in me, there be everything in me.” 
This terrestrial world is the light; the aerial region is might, the sky is fame. 
Everything stands for all other world. Agni is light; Vayu is might and Aditya 
is fame. ‘Everything’ stands for all other gods. The Rgveda is light; the Yajur 
veda the might; and the Samaveda, the fame. ‘Everything’ stands for other 
Vedas. Speech is light; Prana is might and the eye is fame. ‘Everything else’ 
stands for other Pranas .” 

4. One should know “I have placed all the world within myself and placed 
myself in all the worlds. I have put all the gods; I have put all the Pranas in 
myself and have put myself into all the Pranas .” Therefore, imperishable 
indeed are the worlds; imperishable are the gods; imperishable are the Vedas 
and imperishable are the Pranas. Everything is imperishable. He who knows 
this, moves on from imperishable to imperishable and conquers recurrent 
death and reaches the full span of life (Fourth Brahmana Ends). 

BRAHMANAV 

1. In olden days they were seizing the Pasu meant for Savita (in the 
Gavam Ayanam) . Now they seize the Pasu meant for Prajapati, saying “fie 
who is Savita is same as Prajapati.” Therefore after mixing together the 
sacrificial fires, they should perform this ( Gavam-Ayanam) sacrifice on the 
Grhapati’s own fires, thinking “May we also have a share in this tail where¬ 
with the offerings are made to the wives (of the gods).” Thereafter they 
enter initiation whenever they choose. 

2. Here they raise a doubt - “Let them have separate fire-places.” If one 
of the initiated priests becomes ill, he can separately perform Agnihotra. Later, 
if he becomes all right, the fires can be again mixed and he may be called 
upon to join (the Satra). If one of them were to die, he can be connected 
with his own (. Agnihotra) fire. There is no need for a separate Pretagni (fire 
for cremation) for him. Another Yajamana will be continuing to attend to 
the sacrifice (and it will go on uninterrupted). Such is the performance in 
the case of one who keeps up his sacrificial fires; but indeed, they have their 
fire-places in common. The logical explanation for this is the same as for 
Purascarana. 


XIV.3.5.10] 


TRANSLATION 


49 


3. Now they ask - “When those who sit in the Samvatsara sacrifice (of 
GavamAyanam) enter into year-long initiation, how is it that their Agnihotra 
continues uninterrupted?” The reply to it is “Through the Vrata (fast-milk).” 

4. Now they ask - ‘When those who sit in the Samvatsara sacrifice (of 
GavamAyanam) enter into year-long initiation, how is it that their Purnamdsa 
offering continues uninterrupted?” The reply to it is “By means of ghee and 
Purodasa (offerings). ” 

5. Now they ask - “when those who sit in the Samvatsara sacrifice (of 
Gavam-Ayanam) enter into year long initiation, how is it that their Pitr-Yagha 
(sacrifice to the Pitrs) continues uninterrupted?” The reply to it is “By the 
performance of Aupasanas” 

6. Now they ask - “When those who sit in the Samvatsara sacrifice (of 
Gavam Ayanam ) enter into year long initiation, how is it that their Amavasya 
offering continues uninterrrupted? The reply to it is “By curd and Purodasa 
offerings.” 

7. Now they ask - “When those who sit in the Samvatsara sacrifice (of 
Gavam Ayanam) enter into year long initiation, how is it that their Agrayanesti 
continues uninterrupted?” The reply to it is “By the Caru (offering) to Soma.” 

8. Now they ask - “When those who sit in the Samvatsara sacrifice (of 
Gavam-Ayanam) enter into year long initiation, how is it that their Caturmasya 
sacrifice continue uninterrupted.” The reply to it is “By the Payasya 
(offerings). 

9. Now they ask - “When those who sit in the Samvatsara sacrifice (of 
Gavam- Ayanam) enter into year long initiation, how is it that their 
Pasubhandha sacrifice continues uninterrupted?” The reply to it is “Through 
the Pasu and Purodasa (offerings).” 

10. Now they ask “When those who sit in the Samvatsara sacrifice (of 
Gavam-Ayanam) enter into year long initiation, how is it that their Soma 
Yaga continues uninterruped”? The reply to it is “By means of the Savanas.” 


XIV.3.5.13] 


TRANSLATION 


51 


11. Thus the sacrificial rituals get merged in the Samvatsara (year long 
GavamAyanam ). He who knows thus the merger of the sacrificial rituals in 
the Samvatsara, becomes one who shares the heavenly world. 

12. The sequencial balance in the Samvatsara Satra is to be understood. 
They perfprm two Atiratras; one before and one after the Visuvat, fifty-three 
Agnistomas before and the same number after the Visuvat. They also ob¬ 
serve hundred and twenty Ukthya days before Visuvat and another hun¬ 
dred and twenty after. This is the position in the case of those who observe 
the Svarasdman as Ukthyas. 

13. Those who observe the Svarasamans as Agnistomas, perform fifty-six 
Agnistomas before and fifty-six after the Visuvat, hundred and seventeen 
Ukthya days before and hundred and seventeen after; six Sodasins before 
and six after; thirty Sadahas before and thirty after. This is the sequencial 
balance of that Samvatsara. He who knows thus performs the sacrificial ses¬ 
sion which is balanced and fruitful. It is neither defective nor repetitive. 
(Fifth Brahman a Ends.) 


(Chapter Three Ends.) 


Chapter Four 


BRAHMANAI 


1. Indra killed Tvasta’s son, Visvarupa. Tvasta, who lost his son performed 
Abhicara (exocised) on him (Indra) and fetched Soma juice meant to de¬ 
stroy Indra by Abhicara. Indra drank that by force and thus desecrated the 
sacrifice. He wandered about in all directions and his vital essence flowed 
out of all his limbs. 

2. The essence that oozed out of his eyes became the grey-coloured he- 
goat and that which oozed out of his eye-lashes became wheat and that 
from out of his tears became the Kuvala fruit. 

3. That essence from out of his nostrils became that animal, the ram; 
and that which came out of the phlegm became Upavaka grain and his 
moisture became the Badara fruit. 

4. The essence that came out of his mouth became the animal, the bull 
and the foam therein became barley grains. The moisture thereof (in the 
mouth) became the Karkandhu fruit. 

5. The foam that oozed out of his ear became the one-hoofed animals- 
the horse, the mule and ass. 

6. The essence that flowed out of his breasts, became milk, the glory of 
the animals. From his heart and chest, what glow flowed out, became the 
eagle, the king of birds and the eater of the birds. 

7. His life-breath flowed out of his naval and became lead, which is other 
than iron and silver. From his seed, flowed out his form, which became 
gold. From his genitals his essence flowed and became Parisrut (hot unproc¬ 
essed liquor). His glow flowed out of his hips and became the Surd (pro¬ 
cessed liquor) which is the essence of food. His vigour came out of his urine 
and became the wolf, (possessed of) the dashing speed of the wild beasts. 
His wrath flowed out of his intestines and became the tiger; the king of the 


XIV.4.1.12] 


TRANSLATION 


55 


wild beasts. His might flowed from his blood and became the lion, the ruler 
of wild-life. 

8. His thought flowed out of his hair and became millet; from his skin 
his honour came out and became Udumbara tree. From his bones, flowed 
out Svadha (his sweet drink) and became the Nyagrodha tree. From his 
marrows his beverage, the Soma flowed out. 

9. It ( Soma ) became rice; thus his energies and vital powers flowed out of 
him. Then Indra was moving about in the company of the Asura called 
Namuci. Then Namuci thought - “He. (Indra) is finally undone. I will grab 
his energy and vital power; his Soma drink and his food.” By grabing his Surd 
- liquor, he took his energy, vital power, Soma drink and his food. He (Indra) 
lay there completely emptied. The gods flocked around him and said - “He 
(Indra) was the greatest among us and he has been struck down by evil. Let 
us treat him.” 

10. They told Asvins - “You are the brahmin physicians you treat him 
(Indra).” They (Asvins) said, “Let us have a share.*” They replied “That he- 
goat shall be your share.” They said, “Yes.” Hence the smoke coloured he- 
goat is sacred to the Asvins. 

11. They told Sarasvatl, “You are the physician, you cure this one.” She 
said, “let me have a share.” They said, “That ram shall be your share.” She 
said “Yes” and hence the ram belongs to Sarasvatl. 

12. They (Asvins) said - “Even now there is as much in him (Indra) as 
that bull. So let it (bull) be his. They (gods) said “Yes.” Therefore the bull 
belongs to Indra. Those Asvins and Sarasvatl together took out that es¬ 
sence and vital power from out of that Namuci and replaced them in him 
(Indra). Thus saved him from affliction, (rejuvenated him). They said, “We 
have saved him from afflication and he is well-saved ( sutrdtd) . This (pro¬ 
cess of saving) came to be the Sutramani. This is the reason for this (sacri¬ 
fice) to have the name, Sautramani — that it saves the self from death and 
removes the affliction, of whosoever thus knows that saving potential of 
Sautramani. There are thirty-three Daksinas for this, because thirty-three 
gods healed him (Indra). Therefore they say Daksina is medicine (First 
Brahmana Ends). 



XIV.4.2.1] 


TRANSLATION 


57 


BRAHMANAD 

1. One from whom the Soma flows upwards or downwards, all his es¬ 
sence and vital powers go out. 

2. That is why they say, u Soma is the food of brahmana”, indeed when a 
brahmin vomits Soma, it is not due to (taking in) of Soma. “It only indicates 
that even though fit for prosperity, he is not gaining prosperity and hence 
he vomits Soma” and while one is entided to possess catde (wealth) he does 
not possess and that is why he vomits Soma. 

3. Let him sacrifice the grey he-goat for Asvins, the ram of Sarasvad and 
the bull of Indra. Because the Asvins are the physicians of gods and it is by 
them that he (Adhvaryu) heals this one (Yajamana); Sarasvad is the medi¬ 
cine to heal and it is because of her he prepares the medicine for him. 
Indra stands for vitality or strength and it is because of him that he puts in 
energy or strength into him (the Yzyamana). 

4. The two Asvins are indeed the eye-sight, the light. By means of that 
( Pasu) belonging to Asvins, he puts into him that light. The ear also, thereby, 
he endows him with, for the eyes and the ear are the same. Sarasvad stands 
for Prana, the vital power. By sacrificing that (Pasu) of Sarasvad, he puts in 
him that Prana, the vital power. The Apdna and Samdna are also thereby 
bestowed on him, because they are the same as Prana. Indra is speech, the 
strength. By (sacrificing) that (Pasu) of Indra, he puts in him that spefech, 
that strength. He thereby endows him with mind as well; for mind is same 
as speech. “He-goats are of Asvins; the rams of Sarasvad and bulls of Indra” 
- they say. By offering these Pasus he gains those animals through those 
(respecdve) deidtes.. 

5. There is a mare with a foal (in the Sautramanx ); thereby he gains the 
one-hoofed animals, he secures fame thereby. There are hairs of the wild 
beasts, for securing the wild beasts. There are the hairs of wolfs, by which he 
gains ‘The energy and dashing speed of the wild animals.” There are hairs 
of dger and thereby he gains the courage, and lordship of the beasts. There 
are hairs of the lion - thereby gains the wild-beasts. 


XIV.4J.il] 


TRANSLATION 


59 


6. There are grains of rice and of millet, grains of wheat of Kuvala (wa¬ 
ter-lily); Indrayava, Badara, barley, Karkandhu , grass (special variety), green 
barley — by which he secures both types of food viz., cultivated and wildly 
grown. By means of both kinds of food, he infuses energy and vital power 
unto him. 

7. With lead he buys the (special) grass; with (sheep’s) wool, he buys the 
green barley, with threads he buys the rice grains. Lead has the form of 
both iron and gold and the Sautramaniis both an Isti and an animal sacrifice. 
Thus he secures both of these. 

8. He buys with wool and thread. (Making) wool and thread is the job of 
women and job indeed means energy or vital power which is extinct in ladies. 
Thus he gains that energy and vital power which is extinct in women. 

9. Now some Adhvaryus purchase that (special) grass with lead from a 
eunuch saying “That (lead) is that eunuch; for an eunuch is neither woman 
nor.man and Sautrdmanl is neither an Isti nor an animal sacrifice.” It should 
not be done so. Sautrdmanl is ofcourse both an Isti and a Pasubandha. Eu¬ 
nuch is some one useless among humans. By doing so (by purchasing from 
eunuch) they render the very opening of the sacrifice useless by doing so. 
Let him purchase from a seller of Soma, for the Sautrdmanl is Soma. By so 
doing he puts a form of Soma into the very mouth (at the outset) of the 
sacrifice in order to enrich the sacrifice. 

10. There is a pot ( Kumbht) with one hundred holes; because he (Indra) 
had his essence ooz out (through) several outlets and the sacrfice has hun¬ 
dredfold importance ( Daksina ) and thus he gains the sacrifice. There is a 
Sata (bowl to keep Surd or milk for offering); thereby he gains the real (good). 
There is a Cappa (cup) by which he secures food. There is a Pavilra (filter) 
for purifying. There is a Vala( tail) to ward off evil. There is shining gold for 
securing form (colour). This (gold) is to weigh hundred (grains) for man 
has a life-span of hundred years and hundred fold energy. Thereby he lays 
life and energy into his own self. 

11. There is a vessel made of Asvattha wood, by which he secures honour. 
There is one (vessel) of Udumbara wood; thereby he seeures energy. There 
is (a vessel) of Nyagrodha wood; by which he gains Svadhd (a sweet beverage). 
There are (earthem) pots; thereby he secures the food of the earth. 


XIV.42.18] 


TRANSLATION 


61 


12. There are Upasayds (extra vessels) made of Palasa wood. Palma is 
indeed the Brahman (Veda or Priesthood). It is by Brahman he gains the 
heavenly world. There are two feathers of Apasthiha (a kind of vulture that 
kills the prey with its claws). He thereby secures the ferocity and lordship of 
birds. Thus there are these thirty-six (items); and the Brhatl metre has thirty- 
six syllables and catde belong to Brhatl. Thus by means of the Brhatl, he 
secures catde for him. 

13. Now they ask - “The Pasus belong to one set of gods and the Purodasa 
are for a different set of deities. This topsy-tervy. How to make them proper?” 
To Indra belongs the last of the Pasus and to Indra is the first of the Purodasas. 
Energy is indeed that of Indra, the vital power. Through (Indra’s) energy 
he thus endows him with energy or vital power. By means of (Indra’s) en¬ 
ergy he secures energy or vital power. 

14. There is a Purodasa for Savita to make him impelled by Savita. There 
is one (Purodasa) to Varuna, for it is Varuna who takes captive of him, who is 
overcome by evil. So by that of Varuna, he releases him from that (captiv¬ 
ity) of Varuna; he thus releases him from the noose of Varuna. 

15. There is a Purodasa in eleven potsherds to Indra. There are eleven 
syllables for Trsthubh metre, Trsthubh is energy and vital power and thereby 
he secures the energy and vitality (of Indra). 

16. There is a Purodasa in twelve potsherds for Savita. There are twelve 
months for the year and year means food inexhaustible. From the year he 
thus secures food for him. 

17. There is a Purodasa for Varuna in ten potsherds; the Virat metre has 
ten syllables and Virat is food. Vruna is the lord of food. Through Varuna, 
he thus secures food for him. In the middle (of the sacrifice) they proceed 
with these Purodasas . The middle means womb, and thereby he causes them 
to be produced by their own womb. 

18. A mare with a foal is the Daksina, for such a man produces both the 
horse and the mule. Sautramanx is both an Isti and Pasubandha. That is to 
enable him to gain both of these. (Second Brahmana Ends.) 


XIV.4.3.4] 


TRANSLATION 


63 


BRAHMAN A III 

1. Namuci carried away Indra’s strength, the essence of food, and the 
Soma drink. He (Indra) ran up to the Asvins and Sarasvatl, crying I have 
taken an oath with Namuci saying, “I will not kill you by day or by night; by 
a stick or bow, by my palm or wrist; by a dry (weapon) or a wet one and yet 
he has taken away these things (strength etc.) from me. Please restore these 
to me.” 

2. The (Asvins and Sarasvatl) said- “Give us a share in them; then we will 
bring them back to you.” He said, “Let these be common to us, win them 
back.” Those Asvins and Sarasvatl poured out foam of water (to act as) a 
thunderbolt, since it (foam) is neither dry nor wet. When the night was 
ending and the Sun had not yet risen, Indra considering it as neither night, 
nor day, cut off Namuci’s head. 

3. That is why the Rsi said - “O Indra, you cut off Namuci’s head with 
foam of water. Thus you conquerred all enemies.” Namuci is evil and by 
killing that hateful evil enemy, Indra captured his energy or vital power 
from him. Let him who has an enemy, perform Sautrdmani so that he kills 
that hateful evil enemy and take his energy and vital power. In his (Namuci’s) 
head there was the Soma juice mixed with blood which was repulsive for 
them. They found out a way to separate the two and make it (Soma) 
drinkable. “King Soma, the drink of immortality, is pressed” - and thereby 
made that (Soma) tasty and took it (as food). 

4. “You the sweet (liquor), I mix with sweet (Soma)” - thus saying he 
mixes (the ingrediants of) Soma liquor and make it potable. “The strong 
(decoction) with the strong” — by this he bestows energy on him. “With the 
immortal with the immortal” — by which he endows life unto him. ‘The 
honeyed with honey” - he thereby bestows taste to it. “I mix with the Soma” 
- he thereby makes it (Surd) a form of Soma.“You are Soma\ get yourself 
readied for the Asvins; get you readied for Sarasvatl; get you readied for 
Indra, the Sutramana ” - for these were the deities who helped to prepare 
that sacrifice and now with the help of those deities, he now prepares it and 
provides these deitites with their shares. He distils it in order to make it a 
Soma - pressing (process) and it is kept for three nights, just as Soma which 
remains for three nights after it is purchased. Thus he makes it (assume) 
the form of Soma juice. 


XIV.4.3.10] 


TRANSLATION 


65 


5. There two vedis, for they say there are two worlds; the world of gods 
and the world of Pitrs. One of the vedi is in the north and the other in the 
south; for the world of gods he gains by the northern one and of the Pitrs by 
the southern vedi. 

6 . There are both milk and Surd- liquor; for milk is Soma And the Surd is 
food. He gains Soma through the milk and food through Surd- liquor. The 
milk is Ksatra (Warrior class) and the Surd is the subjects. He purifies the 
milk after purifying the Surd and thus produces the warrior class out of the 
Vis (commoners); for the nobility is produced out of the peasantry. 

7. (He purifies by saying) “Purified by Vayu’s purifier, the Soma over¬ 
flows forward” - thus in the right manner he purifies him (the Yajamana) 
who is purged by Soma. “Indra’s loyal companion” - Whatever energy or 
vital power flowed out of him, with that (Soma) he now replenishes him. 

8. “Purified by Vayu’s purifier, Soma over-flows backwards” thus in the 
right manner he purifies him (Yajamana) who has vomitted Soma. ‘Indra’s 
loyal companion’ — whatever energy or vital power flowed out of him, with 
that he now replenishes him. 

9. “Purifies your liquour” - so saying he purifies that of one who desires 
prosperity, to bestow prosperity on him. “You Soma, she is the daughter of 
Surya” - faith is the daughter of Surya and due to faith that (liquor) be¬ 
comes Soma juice; and by faith he converts it to Soma juice. “With a per¬ 
petual tail” - for it is with a tail-whisk that it (liquor) is purified. 

10. He purifies the milk saying - “The Brahman purifies the Ksatra ” - 
thereby he produces the Ksatra out of the priesthood; for it is from Brah¬ 
man, the Ksatra is produced. “The vigour and energy” - he thereby bestows 
on him the vigour and vital power. “By means of Surd, the Soma" - for the 
Surd is pressed with Soma. “Distilled” - for, the juice is obtained from the 
distilled; “For exhilaration” - Soma is the exhilaration, Sura is for exhilara¬ 
tion - both the Soma exhilaration and the Surd- exhilaration, he thus secures. 
“With pure juice, O god; satiatethe deities’’(meaning) “With the pure juice 
you satisfy the deities.” With the sap, you bestow food for the Yajamana” - 
Thereby he enriches the Yajamana with food in the form of sap. First the 
Grahas or cups of milk are drawn and then the Grahas of Surd. Thus he 
makes the Vis (peasantry) follow suit the Ksatra (ruling class). 


XIV.4.3.14] 


TRANSLATION 


67 


11. (He draws the Grahas saying) - ‘Just as'owners of barley (crops) cut 
their barley” - thus (saying) he (Adhvaryu) fills three Grahas of milk. Barley 
stalks are Soma branches and Soma juice is the milk. Thus he prepares Soma 
juice by means of Soma. He fills them with a single mantra and thereby he 
bestows prosperity singly and exclusive on the Yajamana — for milk is 
prosperity. “Individually, indeed, a seat acceptable to the gods, has been 
prepared for you two.” (So saying) he fills the (three) Grahas of Surd liquor. 
The Soma and Surd are different “acceptable to gods” - for it is for the liking 
of gods. “Different seats are prepared (for you two) ” (he says); for, there sire 
two vedis (seats) “Do not you get mixed up in the highest skies” - by this he 
keeps him (the Yajamana) from evil. “You are the strong Surd ” - by this he 
makes Surd out of Surd itself. “And this is Soma (creeper) ” and so he makes 
Soma juice out of Soma itself. “Don’tyou injure me while entering your own 
womb”- thereby he turns that (Surd) away to its own womb (seat) for his 
own safety. He fills it singly and exclusively and thereby confers fame on the 
Yajamana; for Surd is indeed fame. 

12. The Grahas of milk are the Ksatra (ruling class) and the peasantry 
are the Surd cups. Were he to draw them without being mixed up, he will 
keep the Ksatra aloof from the peasantry and peasantry away from Ksatra 
and would cause confusion in the sacrifice. Were he to draw them mixed 
up, he will unite peasantry with Ksatra and Ksatra with peasantry to avoid 
confusion and for the fulfilment of the sacrifice. 

13. The Grahas of milk are the Pranas , and cups of Surd are the body. 
Were he to collect them without being mixed up, he would be separating 
the Pranas from the body and the body he would be keeping aloof from the 
Pranas and the Yajamana will depart (from this world). Were he to draw 
them mixed up, he will be uniting the body with the Pranas and the Pranas 
with the body and thereby confer longevity of life in him (Yajamana). There¬ 
fore the one who performs the Sautramani lives his full-span of life; so too 
the one who knows thus. 

14. The Grahas of milk are Soma and the Grahas of Surd are food. By 
collecting the Soma Grahas and Surd Grahas, he secures the Somajuice as well 
as food. 


XIV.43.19] 


TRANSLATION 


69 


15. The Grahas of milk are the cattle and the Grahas of Surd are food. By 
collecting the Soma Grahas and Surd Grahas, he secures cattle and food. 

16. The Grahas of milk are the domestic animals whereas the Surd Grahas 
are the wild animals. By collecting the Soma Grahas and Surd Grahas, he 
secures both the domestic and wild animals. 

17. He mixes the Grahas of milk with both cultivated and wildly grown 
food (grains), whereby both the cultivated and wild food grains are secured 
for the domestic animals. 

18. Now they say - “These wild animals have the form of that ferocious 
deity (Rudra), and by stirring the Grahas of milk with the hair of these ani¬ 
mals, it will amount to throwing the cattle into the mouth of Rudra and the 
Yajamana will be deprived of his cattle.” If he were not to stir (with their 
hair), these animals will not be secured by him, because Rudra is the master 
of the animals. Therefore only the Surd Grahas are stirred by the hairs of 
these animals. And that ferocity (of Rudra) is put only into the Surd liquor. 
That is why after drinking Surd liquor one-becomes'violent in temperament. 
Therefore he directs the arrows of Rudra only on the wild beasts so as to 
ensure safety to the domestic animals. Thus his(domestic) animals become 
secured and he does not throw the animals into the mouth of Rudra. 

19. (He mixes up saying) “That Vtsucikd (cholera disease) which does 
not afflict the tiger and the wolf; the winged eagle and the lion, may spare 
this one (Yajamana) from affliction. As a child joyfully suckling, I hurt my 
mother. So now, O Agni, I get released from my debt (to my parents) and 
unharmed are my parents, by me.” Thus saying the Adhvaryu and the 
Pratiprasthata, with a pair of eagle’s feathers, purify both upwards and down¬ 
wards the Yajamana who (sits) turned to the east, behind the veM, This is 
the form of the Prana and Uddna and thereby he secures the Prana and 
Udana. This Prana moves in the body both upwards and downwards. (He 
further says) - “You are the link. You link me with happiness” and touches 
the Grahas of milk. Thereby he enriches him with prosperity and fame. (He 
says) “You are the separating one; separate me from evil.” Thus he touches 
the Grahas of Surd and thereby separates him from evil. (Third Brahmana 
Ends.) 


(Chapter Four Ends.) 


Chapter Five 


BRAHMAN AI 

1. When Indra’s energy and vital power flowed out, the gods restored 
them only by means of this sacrifice. By collecting the Grahas of milk and 
the Grahas of Surd, he restores in him that energy and that vital power. He 
offers the Grahas of milk into the northern fire and thereby enriches him 
with that bright Soma beverage. 

2. He offers (saying) “One supplied with Sura, seated on the Barhis (grass 
seat) and powerful*- for, this sacrifice ( SautramanT) is indeed supplied with 
Surd liquor and is seated on the Barhis . Of course with the Barhis and the 
sacrifice, he causes him to prosper. “By their devotion the Mahisas (the buf¬ 
falos) quicken the sacrifice” - the Mahisas are no doubt the priests and devo¬ 
tion is sacrifice and he enriches the sacrifices by means of the Rtviks (priests) 
and through the sacrifice he causes the Yajamana to prosper. “They who 
bestow Soma” - they (the Rtviks) supply the Soma drink upon him. “With the 
gods in heaven” - they ( Rtviks ) thus place him amidst the gods in heaven. 
“May we enjoy” - the Soma juice indeed, produces exhileration, so too the 
Surd produces exhileration. Thus he secures exhileration due to both Soma 
and Surd. “O Yajamana, with good Arka” - Arka is the food of gods and food 
is sacrifice. Thereby he enriches him with sacrifice and food. After offering, 
they drink (of the milk) and thereby increase what prosperity is in him. 

3. He drinks (saying) - ‘That (Soma) which Asvins confiscated from the 
Asura, Namuci” - for the two Asvins did snatch away that (Soto« juicer) from 
Namuci. “And Sarasvati distilled for the energy (of Indra)” - for Sarasvatl, 
indeed, distilled to (restore) the strength of Indra. That clear sweet draught” 
for the Soma draught is indeed clear and sweet. “I am now drinking the 
Ring Soma” - it is thus the king Soma who is drunk by him. On the southern 
fire they offer the Grahas of Surd liquor and thereby they free him from evil. 

4. He makes the offering (chanting) - That essence of yours which has 
been collected in the plants” - because, this Sura is the essence of water and 
plants and thus he enriches it with the essence of the waters and plants. 
“The strength of the Soma together with the Sura” - he thereby gains what 



XIV.5.1.9] 


TRANSLATION 


73 


strength is there in the Soma juice and the Swrajiquor. “By that intoxicating 
drink gladden the Yajamana” (meaning) with that make the Yajamana revel 
in exhileration. “Sarasvati, Asvins, Indra and Agni” - with these deitites he 
enriches the sacrifice, through the deities and the sacrifice he (enriches) 
the Yajamana. After offering, he drinks and thus recoups what is diffident 
in him. 

5. He drinks (chanting) - “Whatever is mixed herewith of (the Surd) the 
pressed and juicy” - Thereby he gains for him the essence of both the pressed 
(extracted ) and Asuta (infused) Soma. “That which Indra drank eagerly” - 
for Indra Indeed, drank it avidly”. ‘That (essence) I drink with auspicious 
thought” - this Surd is of course an inauspicious drink for a brahmin and he 
takes it into himself after making it auspicious. “I drink this king Soma now” 
for king Soma himself becomes the one drunk by him. 

6. Here now, other Adhvaryus (like the Carakas) engage one of the 
princely class or a Vaidya thinking “let him drink this (Surd).” But it should 
not be done so. Because this Sowwijuice drunk reaches the fathers and grand¬ 
fathers of that man who drinks it. Having taken out three coals of the south¬ 
ern fire and kept them on the enclosing stones, he should offer that Surd 
on those (coals) with these (three) chants. 

7. “Svadhabe with my prostrations to the Pitrs, who like Svadha”- He thus 
instals his Pitrs with the Svadha in the world of Pitrs. “Svadha be with my 
prostrations to the Pitamahas who like Svadha” - He thus instals his grand¬ 
fathers with Svadha in the world of the grand-fathers. u Svadha be with my 
prostrations to the Prapitamahas; who like Svadha” - He thus instals his great 
grand-fathers with Svadha in the world of great grand-fathers. 

8. He brings water and pours it (into the cups) saying - “The Pitrs have 
drunk” - by which he supplies food to them. These Pitrs have become 
exhilerated” - he indeed makes them exhilerated. The Pitrs are satiated”— 
Indeed he satiates his Pitrs. “May the Pitrs cleanse themselves” - he thus en¬ 
ables them to wash in the order (i.e. father, grand-fathers and then the 
great grand-fathers); because Sautramaniis purificatory. 

9. By three Pavitras (purifying instruments) they purify him. There are 
these three worlds and by means of these three worlds they purify him. 


XIV.5.1.12] 


TRANSLATION 


75 


They purify with the (chanting of ) Pavamajia Rks ; for Pavamanas are 
purificatory and thus they purify him with the purifiers. With three Rks each 
time, they purify him; for there are three Pranas ; viz; Prana, Udana and 
Vyana and by these they purify him. By means of nine ( Rks 3x3) they purify 
him, for there are nine channels of breath and by means of these nine 
Pranas, they purify him. In the Pranas they instal him, (thus) purified. They 
purify him with Pavitra (goat’s hair and sheep’s wool) because the Pavitra is 
a form of goat and sheep and thus they purify him by means of the goat 
and the sheep. They purify him with a tail (whisk) - - this tail is, no doubt, a 
form of the kine and the horse. Thus they pruify him with gold and this 
gold is a form of the gods; thus they purify him by means of the form of the 
gods. They purify him with Sum-liquor. Surd is purified and thus they purify 
him by means of the purified. Even as the liquor which distilled, gets rid of 
impurities, so is this Yajamana thereby rid of all impurities. So too the one 
who knowing this performs the Sautramam or even one who knows this. 

10. Now they may raise the question - “Is the Sautramam to be performed 
or is it not to be performed? (In any case) they continuously drive away all 
evil from him.” In this regard one Revottara Sthapati Cakra son of Patu 
once said, “Even after one making the surrender, one ought certainly to 
perform the sacrifice”; for the sacrificer is the body and the Rtviks are the 
limbs. “Whenever the body is pure, the limbs are also pure. Both of them 
indeed purify him and both these repel evil from him ; so even after surren¬ 
der of one’s self; one has to perform it. (Even if the Yajamana by knowing 
the greatness of the Sautramam s purificatory effect, need not actually per¬ 
form it since its knowledge purifies him as said in the previous Kandika, 
since the Rtviks are not purified even without its knowledge, he has to per¬ 
form it in their interest). 

11. Those who make the offering into the southern fire, indeed go to 
the world of Pitrs. He offers a ghee oblation and ghee is sacrifice. By means of 
sacrifice he gets established in the sacrifice. 

12. He makes the offering (saying) “The Pitjs who are as equal with one 
mind in the realm of Yama - may their world, the Svadha , with my prostra¬ 
tions and sacrifice, prosper among the gods. Thereby he entrusts the Pitrs 
to Yama and he also conquers the world of the Pitrs. Then all of them change 


XEV.5.1.15] 


TRANSLATION 


77 


their sacred threads to the left shoulders and approach the northern fire. 
This northern fire is the terrestrail world and they get established in this 
world. Then they offer (ghee) \ ghee is indeed sacrifice and by means of sacri¬ 
fice they get established in the sacrifice. 

13. He offers (saying) “Those who are my own living beings among liv¬ 
ing beings, equal to me and of the same mind with me, let their prosperity 
be with me in this world, for a hundread years.” He thereby secures the 
prosperity of his own people for himself and confers long life unto them, 
while they ( Rtviks ) stand touching each other, he (Adhvaryu) offers milk; 
for milk is Prana and food. They thus finally get established in Prana and 
food. 

14. He offers (saying) “I have heard of two paths for the Ptrs” - because 
they say there are only two paths; viz., that of the gods and that of the Ptrs” 
By those (two paths) all these living beings pass” - for, it is through either of 
those paths that everything living, passes. “What is there between the father 
and the mother”-The father, no doubt is this yonder (sky) and this (terres¬ 
trial world) is the mother. By these two he leads the Ptrs to the heavenly 
world. Then he drinks the remaining of the obltation all alone and thereby 
he exclusviely secures prosperity for himself for milk is prosperity. 

15. He drinks (saying) “May this Havis be productive for me” - for whether 
it is milk or Soma, it is productive indeed. “Possessed of ten heroes” - ten 
heroes are doubdess, the Panas; he thereby takes the Panas into himself, 
“with all the warriors” - all the warriors means the limbs. Thereby he takes 
into himself the limbs. “For well-being, breath-winning” - thereby he wins 
the life-breath. “Winner of offspring” - by which he wins progeny. “Winner 
of catde” by which he wins catde. “Winner of Loka (heavens) ” - he indeed 
performs sacrifice to win the worlds (beyond) and thus he wins it. “Winner 
of fearlessness” - for the heavenly world is the fearless one. Ultimately he 
establishes himself in the heavenly world. “May Agni make my progeny mul¬ 
tiply and bestow food, milk and potency in us.” To those who cause him to 
perform to sacrifice, he says thus “Bestow everything to me.” Then they 
clean themselves with gold, for gold is immortality and thereby they get 
established in immortality. (First Brahmana Ends). 


XIV.5.2.5] 


TRANSLATION 


79 


BRAHMANAU 

1. Prajapati created the (Soma) sacrifice and performed it. He felt as if 
withered away. Then he discovered this sacrificial rite, the Sautramam and 
performed it and thereby he got revitalised. Whoever performs the Somayaga 
feels as if withered away, for the prosperity is, as it were, taken away from 
him. Therefore after performing Somayaga one should perform t;he 
Sautramam, so that just like a cow being milked gets replenished again, he 
becomes revitalised. He get replenished by offspring and cattle. He who 
knowing this, performs Sautramam, or even one who knows this, gets estab¬ 
lished in this world and gains the heavenly world. 

2. Regarding this Supla Sarnjaya asked Pratidarsa, son of Abhavata, - 
“Since neither one becomes initiated nor even the Soma plants are pressed 
in it, how come Sautramam is considered as a Somayaga ?” 

3. He (Pratidarsa) said - “That which is called Vrata is the head of the 
sacrifice and Dtksa (initiation) is its body and Truth is the form of the Vrata 
and faith is that of the initiation. Mind is the form of the Yajamana and 
speech, that of the sacrifice. When he enters the Vrata, he is replacing the 
head of the sacrifice in his own body; that is, he reinstates truth in the faith. 

4. And he replaces the Yajamana into the sacrifice. So for this ( Sautramam) 
sacrifice, the observance of Vrata itself is initiation. Vrata is a male and Dtksa 
is the female, Vrata is the mind and Diksa is the speech and theYajamana is 
the male for his wife and so where the husband is, there the wife (resides). 
Thus at the beginning of the sacrifice itself, he sets up couples for the sake 
of procreation. These are indeed the Som/z plants of this sacrifice, they say 
- the tender rice-shoots, the green barley corns and fried rice. Those rice- 
shoots represent the morning Savana^ for this terrestrial world is the morn¬ 
ing Savana find that belongs to Asvins. With the milk of Asvin he mixes (the 
Surd) on the first night. Thus he enriches it (Surd) with its own world (i.e. 
this terrestrial world), with its own deity (Asvins) and with its own form, 
namely the morning Savana. 

5. Those green barley shoots represent the midday Savana. The aerial 
region is the midday Savana and it belongs to Sarasvati. ^Yith the milk of 
SarasvatT he mixes (the Surd) on the second night. Thus he enriches it 


XIV.5.2.11] 


TRANSLATION 


81 


(Surd) with its own world (i.e. the aerial region), with its deity (Sarasvati) 
and with its own form, namely the midday Savana. 

6. There fried rice-grains represent the third Savana . The sky is the third 
Savana and the third Savana belongs to Indra. With the milk of Indra he 
mixes (the Surd) on the third night. Thus he enriches it (Sura) with its own 
world (i.e. the sky). With its own deity (Indra) and its own form, namely the 
third Savana. 

7. With the milk of one (cow) he sprinkles (the Surd) on the first night; 
with that of two on the second night and with that of three (cows) on the 
third night. Thereby he supplies him (Surd) with the pressings, according 
to their forms and according to their deities. 

8. He pours the milk (saying) “pour all over the pressed Juice.” Thus he 
pours for the sake of pressing. “Soma who is the best offering” - for this 
Soma is the best among offerings. Thus he makes it to be the supreme 
offering. “The manly one who has run into the waters” - for, it is with waters 
passing in between, it is pressed. “I have pressed the Surd with the stones” - 
for, it is by means of stones the Soma is pressed. It is thus pressed by stones 
in the Soma; — pressing. 

9. Now they say - “This Sautramam has the nature of both, the pressed 
and the infused (Asuta) .” The milk which is the essence of plants is the form 
of the pressed one. This Parisrut (liquor) is of the nature of food and that is 
the form of the infused (Asuta) .Thus he presses it with both kinds of pressings 
and he endows it with both kinds of juice. 

10. Now they may ask - “In view of the fact that the Soma is pressed by 
stones, how as to the Sautramam ?”' Let him reply, “By the praise utterings 
and by the Afm chants”. For the praise utterings are in Brhatl metre and 
the pressing stones are of the Brhatl metre. Somais indeed pressed by stones. 
This also is pressed by stones for the Soma pressing. 

11. All (the utterings of praise) contain the word l Payas\ for Soma is here 
pressed in the form of milk. They all (praise utterings) also contain the 
word Soma for the sake of appropriateness in Soma pressing. They all con¬ 
tain the word ‘ Parisrut' for the Soma is pressed in the form of Parisrut (liquor). 


XIV.5.2.17] 


TRANSLATION 


83 


They all contain the word ‘ Ghrta' ; for the Ghrta {ghee) is evidently a form of 
the sacrifice. Thus he makes it evidendy a form of the sacrifice. All of them 
contain the word ‘ Madhu . This Madhu (honey) is evidendy a form of the 
Soma. Thereby he makes it evidendy a form of the Soma. 

12. All of them contain the word ‘Asvinah’ for the sake of healing. They 
all refer to Sarasvati for gaining food. They all contain the word ‘Indra’ for 
securing strength and vitality. 

13. Why all these (praise utterances) refer to Aivins, Sarasvati and Indra 
is because these are indeed, the deities who first organised this ( Sautramam) 
sacrifice. Hence he (Yajamana) organises it with those very deities. Thus he 
enriches these deitites with their shares. 

14. The Yajya (invocatory mantras) and Puronuvakyas (offering mantras) 
are uttered continuously and are for common deities. For the sake of off¬ 
spring and for the sake of unbroken race; all refer to Asvins, all to Sarasvati 
and all to Indra. 

15. The Apri chants are in Anusthubh metre. Anustiiubh is indeed 
speech. The Soma is pressed by means of speech and thus he presses it with 
speech for the sake of (making it) a Soma sacrifice. All of them (the Apri 
mantras) refer to Asvins, all of them to Sarasvati and all of them to Indra. 
The purport of this has been already told. 

16. The Ann Praisa uttered (the praise chants used afterwards) are in 
the Jagati metre. This earth isjagati and by means of her, Soma is pressed. 
By means of her, he thus presses it for the sake of (making it) a Soma sacrifice. 
All of them refer to Asvins, all of them to Sarasvati and all of them to Indra 
and the purport of this is same as already explained. So the Sautrdmam is 
evidently only a Soma.Yaga. If the sacrificer alone is to drink (the licjuor), it 
will be either an Isti or Pasubandha (and not a Soma Yaga). Therefore all the 
officiating priests drink it to give it (the character of) Soma Yaga. 

17. The Adhvaryu priests drink (contents) of the Asvina cup; for the 
Asvins are the Adhvaryus of the Gods. They each drink his share in his 
abode. The Hota, Brahma and Mitra Varuna drink (the contents of) the 
Sarasvati cup. For, Hota is the speech of the sacrifice: Brahma its heart and 


XIV.5.2.21] 


TRANSLATION 


85 


Mitra Varuna, the mind. They each drink their own shares in their abode. 
The Yajamana drinks (the contents of) Aindra cup; for this Sautramanl Sac¬ 
rifice belongs to Indra and even now he performs it in his place with Indra. 
Thus he drinks his own share in his own abode. 

18. The Asvina Graha is the eye; The Sarasvata is Prana and the Aindra 
Graha is speech. He pours (contents of) the Asvina cup into the Sarasvatas 
and thereby unites the eye with the Pranas . He pours from the Sarasvata 
Graha into the Aindra cups. Thereby he unites the Pranas with speech and 
thus establishes his Pranas in this speech. Hence it is, all Pranas are estab¬ 
lished in speech. 

19. Three ( Rtviks) drink the (contents of) Asvina cup, viz; the Adhvaryu 
the Pratiprasthata and the Agnjdhra. This eye is threefold, viz; white, black 
and pupil. Accordingly to its forms he thus bestows on him the eye. Three 
(Rtviks) drink the (contents of) Sarasvata Graha; viz., the Hota, Brahma and 
Maitra-Varuna. This Prana is divided three-fold; viz., the Prana, the Udana 
and the Vyana. Accoding to its forms, he thus bestows the Pranas on him. 
The Yajamana also drinks the (contents of) Aindra Graha, for the glory of 
those Pranas is unique; viz. the speech. He exclusively bestows upon himself 
the glory of speech. So he who performs SflMfrflJiwwj becomes the supreme 
all alone among his clan (equals). So too the one who knows this. 

20. The Rtviks are indeed the seasons; the drinks are the months. Six 
Rtviks drink it; for there are six seasons and thereby he gains the seasons by 
means of the Rtviks. There are twelve drinks; for there are indeed twelve 
months for the year. He thus gains the months by means of the drinks. The 
Rtviks drink repeatedly by turns and so the seasons and months succeed 
one another by turns. The thirteenth (sip) is drunk by the Yajamana, for 
indeed, that thirteenth month is evidently, the year itself. Having obtained 
that (drink) he owns it (the year). This Sautramant is that year itself. He 
wins everything by that and secures everything. 

21. There are three Pasusr, for these worlds are three. By them, he se¬ 
cures these three worlds. This terrestrail world by (the Pasufov) Asvins, that 
aerial region by (the Pasu for) Sarasvati and that heavely world by (the Pain 
for) Indra. Thus according to their forms and according to their deities, he 
conquers these world and owns them. 



XIV.52.25) 


TRANSLATION 


87 


22. There are three Purodasas; for there arje three seasons and by means 
of them he secures the seasons. By that ( Purodasa ) to Indra, he gains the 
summer season. By that {Purodasa) to Savita, he gains the rainy season and 
by that ( Purodasa) to Varuna, he gains the winter season. Thus according to 
their forms and according to the deities, he conquers the seasons and owns 

them. 


23. There are six Grahas (cups) ; for there are six seasons and by means 
of them he secures the seasons. By the Asvina Grahas (he gains) the spring 
and summer; by the Sarasvata Grahas, the rainy and autumnal seasons; 
and by the Aindra Grahas (he gains) the winter and the dewy seasons. Thus 
according to their forms and according to their deities, he conquers the 
seasons and owns them. 

24. The Yajya (invitatory) chants and the Puronuvakyas (offering man¬ 
tras) are continously uttered and they relate to the same deities; for the sake 
of succession of the seasons without any break. There are all the Yajya 
chants and all Puronuvakya mantras and hence all the seasons pass on and 
all of them come back. (By continuous chanting) all of them happen to be 
first, all of them of the middle and all of them last. Hence all the seasons are 
first, all of them are intermediate and all of them are last (due to continu¬ 
ous rotation). All the Grahas have two mantras, a Yajya (invitatory) chant 
and a Puronuvakya (offering) mantra and they represent the day and the 
night. Thus he secures the seasons, and the months are established on day 

and night. 

25. This Sautramanl is no doubt, the year and is the moon. The Yajamana 
is evidently the Sun. For him this earth is the sacrificial site and the aerial 
region is the high-altar and the sky is his Barkis (enclosing grass fencing); 
the quarters are his Rtviks. The trees are his fuel; water is the ghee, the plants 
are the offerings and Agni himself is his fire. His Samstha (the particular 
variety of sacrifice) is the year. Of course, everything here and whatever is 
here (in the Sautramam) is the year. Hence he who performs Sautramani, 
conquers everything and owns everything. (Second Brahmana Ends). 


XIV.5.3.6] 


TRANSLATION 


89 


BRAHMANAHI 

1. Tvasta, when his son was killed, fetched Soma capable of witchery after 
making it inaccessable to Indra. Indra forcefully desecrated the sacrifice 
and drank the Soma juice. He then wandered in all directions. From his 
mouth and Pranas , his prosperity and fame flowed out ( and entered the 
cattle). Hence cattle stand for fame. Knowing this, he who consecrates by 
Sautramanl becomes famous. Then the two Asvins and Sarasvati organised 
this ( Sautramani) sacrifce for him; for healing him. They consecrated him 
with that (Sautramanl) . Then only he became the supreme among the gods. 
So he who consecrates by this becomes supreme among his clan. 

2. He consecrates him (seated) on a black antelope-skin; for a black 
antelope-skin is the sacrifice. Thus it is at the sacrifice, he consecrates him. 
On the hairy side (of the skin he seates him) because the hairs are the 
sacred verses (metres). Thus he consecrates him on the sacred verses (metres). 

3. He consecrates him (seated) on a throne-seat, for throne-seat is the 
symbol of imperial authority. By means of imperial authority he makes him 
win imperial power. 

4. It (the throne seat) is made of Udumbara wood. Udumbara is energy. 
He consecrates him (seated) on energy. It is knee-high and this terrestrial 
world is knee-high and it is to rule over this world that a Ksatriya is consecrated. 
The one who is consecrated by Sautramanl becomes the ruling power. There¬ 
fore it (the throne-seat) is knee-high and of unlimited width. 

5. The throne-seat is (symbol) of the empire and empire is unlimited 
sway. It is covered with a cushion of Munja grass; and Munja grass are sacred 
for sacrifice. The two'legs (of the throne-seat) are in the northern vedi and 
two in the southern vedi . This terrestrial world is the northern vedi and the 
southern one is Pitrloka (the world of the Pitrs) . Thereby he consecrates him 
over both these worlds. This is what that learned Gauriviti Saktya said - “As 
rulers, we shall be in that yonder world.” Very often the king of Sviknas, 
named Rsabha Yajyhatura had said so. 

6. He places the throne seat (saying) “You are the navel of the Ksatra ”, 
which means you are the womb of the Ksatra. This (seat) which is the navel 
of the Ksatra is indeed the yoni or womb of the Ksatra. 


XIV.5.3.12] 


TRANSLATION 


91 


7. Then he covers it (the throne-seat) with the black antelop’s skin (say¬ 
ing) “Let it not harm you; do not injure me”—for the black antelop’s skin is 
the sacrifice and this is (a prayer) for non-injury to the sacrifice and to himself. 

8. He then mounts it (the throne-seat) by chanting the Rk mantra dedi¬ 
cated to Varuna; for Varuna is the ruler of the Gods. Thus hd consecrates 
him by means of its own deity. (He says while mounting) “Varuna, the up¬ 
holder of law has taken his seat in his abode, for the regal authority, that 
wise one.” 

9. Then he throws a piece of gold and piece of silver (under his feet) 
(saying) “Protect from death; protect from lightning.” The Virad metre is 
no doubt, the rain for which there are these two deadly forms, viz. , the 
lightning and hail-storm. Hence the gold piece is the form of the lightning 
and silver one of the hail-storm. He gives protection to him from those two 
deities. Therefore he who performs Sautramani has no danger from these 
two deities. So too for the one who knows thus. 

10. He consecrates him with the marrow of the flesh of the Pasus; for the 
marrow of the flesh of animals symbolises prosperity. Thus he consecrates 
with the marrow of animal flesh, that is their essence. Moreoever marrow of 
the flesh in the highest food. So he consecrates him with the highest kind 

of food. 

11. There are cups of hoofs (cups made of the hoofs of animals contain¬ 
ing that marrow of the flesh). It is by means of the hoofs that the animals 
stand steady. So he makes him established (steady) thereby. There are thirty- 
three Grahas (cups); for all gods (put together) come to thirty-three and 
thus he consecrates' him by means of all the gods. He makes the offerings 
(with mantras) injagatl metre; for the Pains are Jagatih (of moving nature). 
By means of Jagatis, he ensures catde (wealth) for him. He offers with six¬ 
teen Rk mantra. r, for thePaiushave sixteen parts and corresponding to those 
parts, he bestows prosperity unto him. 

12. (He chants the mantras starting with) “With leads, the wise ones who 
know the process” - Each time offering two (cup fulls), he empties the resi¬ 
due into a (common) vessel. He thereby establishes the days and nights. 


XIV.5J.17] 


TRANSLATION 


93 


the half-months and months and the seasons in the year. Thus these days 
and nights, half-months and months and the seasons get established in the 
year. 

13. The vessel (in which the residues are poured) is made of bamboo 
reeds. The bamboo reeds have their origin in the waters and waters are all 
the gods. Thus he consecrates him by means of all the gods. 

14. Then there is rubbing (of the sacrifice) with all fragrant substances. 
All fragrant substances means sweetest smell. Thus he anoints him with 
sweet-smelling things. 

15. He consecrates him in the front while he faces the west; for food is 
taken evidendy from the front. Starting from the head (he sprinkles) him 
for it is from the top, food is eaten. From the face, he pours (consecrating 
liquid), for it is through the mouth food is taken. He pours moving all around 
him and thereby he supplies him with food from all quarters. So for one 
who performs Sautramcini, food is assured from all directions. So too for the 
one who knows thus. 

16. First he sprinkles him with a Yajus to the Asvins. Then with one to 
Sarasvatl; then with one to Indra. Thus he consecrates him by means of 
these deities. Some (Adhvaryu) consecrate him with deities (in metres dedi¬ 
cated to Aivins, Sarasvati and Indra) and also with the three Vyakrtis - bhiih, 
Bhuvah and Svah. Because these Vydhrtis represent all this (universe). (They 
do so) thinking “Let us consecrate him with all this.” Let him not do so. He 
should consecrate him only (with the formulas of) these deities (Asvins, 
Sarasvati an Indra). Because these deities are no doubt, all this (universe). 

17. Before the Svistakrt offerings, he consecrates him. Svistakrt is the 
KsatrcCy he thus consecrates him by means of the Ksatra. He consecrates him 
in between the (oblation to) VanaspatiznA Svistakrt. The Vanaspati is indeed 
Soma and the Svistakrt is Agni. So he (encloses him by means of Agm and 
Soma and consecrates him. That is why those who know this as well as those 
who now not, say “A Ksatnyais the consecrator of a Ksatriya. ” 


XIV.5.323] 


TRANSLATION 


95 


18. They then lift him up to knee-height, then upto the navel height 
and then upto the face-height. Thus they provide him with abodes in these 
worlds. This Abhiseka (consecration) in Sautrdmant is like the Abhiseka in 
Vajapeya. Just as at the Vdjapeya, he (the Yajamana) mounts the Yupa, that 
same is done here (by raising the throne seat at three levels). 

19. Now they raise the doubt - “Is he not moving away from this world by 
being consecrated in the Sautrdmant (in this way)?” (No). He gets down 
upon the black antelop’s skin and the black antelop’s skin is indeed sacrifice. 
So he ultimately gets setded in the sacrifice itself. 

20. “In every Ksatra (regal authority) in the country, I got myself firmly 
setded” - Thus in the regal authority, in the empire, he gets settled so that 
he does not step away from regal authority and the empire. “I establish 
myself firmly in the horses and in kine” - Thus he gets established amidst 
horses and cows, so that he does not get divested of horses and cows. I get 
myself firmly established in each of my limbs and in my body” - thus he gets 
established in his limbs and the body, so that his body does not lose its 
limbs. “I get established in each of my Pranas and in health.” He thus gets 
established in the Pranas, in good health. So that he does not get separated 
from Pranas and health. “I get myself setded in the sky and the earth indi¬ 
vidually and in the sacrifice” - Thus he gets established in these sky and 
earth, within which all these (sacrifices) exist. 

21. He then sings a Sdman. The Sdman is Ksatra and it is thus by Ksatra, 
he consecrates him. Moreover Sdman is regal authority and by means of 
regal authority he makes him reach the imperial power. This Sdman, is no 
doubt, the essence of all the Vedas. Thereby he consecrates him with the 

essence of all the Vedas. 

22. He sings ( a Sdman) a Brhati verse, because the yonder Sun who 
bums is established in the big foundation of prosperity. Thus he establishes 
him in the big foundation of prosperity. 

yt j-jg sings a Brhati verse related to Indra, for, this sacrifice 
{Sautrdmant) is connected with Indra and the one who performs it has Indra 
as his resort. Thus he consecrates him in his own resort. 


XTV.5.328] 


TRANSLATION 


97 


24. Now why these ( Samans ) are called Samsanani (those that sharpen) 
is because with these Samans the gods sharpened (prepared) Indra for the 
vitality and power. Hence with these Samans, the Riviks sharpen (prepare) 
the Yajamana for vitality and power. These Samans are - Samsravasa, Visravasa 
Satyasravasa zndSravasa. They proclaim him with these titles in these worlds. 
These are four Nidhanas ( Sama endings) for there are four quarters. There¬ 
by they establish him in all the four quarters. All of them (Rtviks join in 
chorus to sing) the Nidhana and thus they in one mind bestow prosperity 
on him. 

25. Now they ask - “This Saman is sung alright; but where is the Uktha of 
the Saman and what is its basis? Because is it not useless if it is sung as Stotra 
and not accompanied by recitation ( Anusarhsana )?” 

26. (The mantra) “Three elevens are the Gods” - is the Uktha of this 
Saman and its basis.” 

27. Otherwise he offers the thirty-third Graha (with the mantra) “Three 
elevens are the gods” for, there are thirty-three gods. “Three and thirty the 
benovalent” for the gods are indeed thirty-three. “Brahaspati for them the 
Purohif - for Brhaspati is Brahman and it means “ Brahman as their priest.” 
“At the prompting of the God Savita” - they only mean produced by the 
God Savita. “Let the Gods protect me through the Gods” for the Gods in¬ 
deed consecrate him through the Gods ( Brahmins ). 

28. “The first with the second” - for the first gods (in earth) are conse¬ 
crating him with the second ones (on the aerial region) ”. “The second ones 
with the third” - for the second Gods (in the aerial region) are consecrating 
him through the third (in the heavens). “The third ones with the truth” - 
for the third gods (in the heavens) consecrate him with truth. “The truth 
with the sacrifice” - for the truth consecrates him with the sacrifice. “The 
sacrifice with the Yajus texts” - for the truth consecrates him with the Yajus 
formulas. ‘The Yajus with the Samans ”- for the Yajus formulas consecrate 
him with the Samans. The Samans with the Rks” - for the Samans consecrate 
him with the Rk mantras The Rks with the Puronuvdkyas ” - for the Rk con¬ 
secrate him with the invitatory chants. The Puronuvdkyas with the Yajus” - 
for, the invitatory chants consecrate him with the offering mantras. The Ydjyas 


XTVL5.3.29] 


TRANSLATION 


99 


with Vasatkara “- for the offering mantras consecrated him with utterance of 
Vausat. “The Vasatkdrasmth the offering”—for the Vausat utterances conse¬ 
crate him with the offerings. Let the offerings fulfil my wishes - “ Bhuh-Svdhd” 
- Thus having consecrated him by means of these deities from first to last, 
he thus, by means of these oblations makes all his wishes fulfiled. Having 
then obtained the approval of the Rtviks, he drinks (the remaining Vasa) (in 
the cup). The Rtviks are indeed the seasons and thus he seeks the approval 
of the seasons. 

29. He drinks (saying) “My hairs are my efforts, my skin is my submis¬ 
sion and approaching. The flesh is my inclination; my wealth is the bone; 
the marrow is my surrender” for, he who is consecrated by Sautrdmani en¬ 
ters the worlds and the gods. He has now invited himself (entitled to be) 
among them. Thus he is bom in the other world with a wholesome body 
and (all) limbs. (Third Brahmana Ends). 


(Chapter Five Ends.) 



Chapter Six 
BRAHMAN AI 


1. It is certainly from this sacrifice, man is born. Whatever food a man 
eats in this world, that (food) in turn eats him in the world beyond. Now 
this sacrifice ( Sautramaiu) is performed, by means of Parisrut (liquor). Parisrut 
is not to be eatern by a brahmin. He is thus born from out of that 
unconsumable. Him the food does not eat in turn in the world beyond. 
Hence this Sautramam is definitely a brahmin’s sacrifice. 

2. His hairs are the young rice-shoots, his skin is green barley, his flesh is 
the fried rice, his bones are the vessel with a hole; his marrow is the flesh, 
his essence (life-sap) is the Parisrut (liquor); its intoxicating character is the 
blood; his semen is milk; his wine is fermented liquor (Sura) and his 
undigested food in the stomach is the other impure matters. 

3. The Puroddsa to Indra is his heart; that to Savita is his liver; that to 
Varuna is his lung; the vessel made of Asvattha and Udumbara wood are his 
kidneys, the vessel made of the Nyagrodha wood his bile; the SthaVi (clay pot) 
is his intestines; the other extra vessels, his bowels. The two eagle f ^ ath ers 
are his spleen; the throne-seat is his navel; the round pot (Kumbha), his 
rectum and the earthem vessel with hundred perforations is his male organ. 
Since that vessel happens to have many holes, his male organ is of many 
shapes. The bowl (Sata in which the remainings of the Grahas are poured) 
is his mouth; the purifying strainer (bunch of grass) is his tongue; the dish 
Capya his arms and the tail whisk is his bladder. 

4. The Pasus dedicated to Asvins are his limbs; the Pasus to Sarasvati is 
his body and the bull dedicated to Indra is his form. Therefore it >ssaid that 
man’s form (wealth) is the kines. Gold is his life-span and it is hundred 
(grains) weighing and hence man is of hundred years life-span. 

5 The Asvina Grahas are his eyes; the wheat flour and the Kuvala flour 
are his eye-lashes. The two Senuvata Grahas are his nostrils and the Indra- 
Yava flour and Badara flour are the hairs in the nostrils. The Amdra Grahas 
are his two ears and the barley flour are the hairs on his ears and brows. 



XIV.6.1.9] 


TRANSLATION 


103 


The hairs of the wolf are the hairs in his abdomen and below, the hairs of 
the tiger are the hairs on his chest and arm-pits. The hairs of the lion are 
the hairs on his head and his beard. 

6. There are three Pasus, for the body of this man is of three parts; and it 
is the body he thereby gains (in heaven) for him. By means of the Pasu for 
Asvins, he gains that part of the body below the navel. By means of the Pasu 
for Sarasvatl he gains that part of the body which is above the navel and 
below the head. By means of the Pasu for Indra, he gains the head. Thus in 
accordance with the forms and in accordance with the deities, he saves his 
own self from death and make them immortal. 

7. There are three Purodasas and this life of man is divided into three 
stages. By these ( Purodasas ) he saves his life. The first stage (boyhead) he 
gains by means of the Puroddsa for Indra; the middle stage by that of Savita 
and the last stage by means of that of Varuna. Thus in accordance with the 
forms and in accordance with the deities, he saves his life from death and 
make them immortal. 

8. There are six Graham for there are these six Pranas (channels of vital 
breath) in the head, thereby he gains the Pranas. He wins his eyes by means 
of the two Grahas for Asvins, his nostrils by means of the two Grahas for 
Sarasvatl and his ears by those for Indras. Thus in accordance with the 
forms and in accordance with the deities, he saves his Pranas (channels of 
vital breath) from death and make them immortal. 

9. The Yajya chants (invitatory ones) and the Puronuvakyas (offering 
chants) are uttered continuously and relate to the same deities; to ensure 
continuity and unit-erruptedness of the vital airs, They are all Ydjyas and all 
are Puronuvakyas and hence all the vital airs move upwards and all of them 
move backwards. All of them become the first, the intermediate and the last 
(by turn) Therefore all the Pranas are first, all are intennediate and all are 
last For all the Grahas there are two Yajya and Puronuvakyas and they are 
the forms of Prana and Uddna. Thereby he secures the Prana and Udana. 
Therefore all the Pranas are established on the Prana (m-breathing) and 

Uddna (up-breathing). 



XIV.6.1.15] 


TRANSLATION 


105 


10. Verily the Sautramam is this body. The Yajamana is evidendy the mind, 
the speech. His body is the vedi; his off-spring is the high altar and his cattle 
are the Barhi (grass spread there). His limbs are the Rtviksr, his bones are the 
fuel, his marrow is ghee", his mouth is fire; his food are the offerings and his 
life is the concluding ritual (Samstha). Therefore he who performs the 
Sautramam gains life-span. 

11. Now these two appearing like men in the eyes are the Asvins; the 
black part (in the eyes) belongs to Sarasvati and what is white part (in the 
eyes) belongs to Indra. When he offers the Pasus to Asvins; he is offering to 
these deities in common. He thus combines those (deities or parts of eye) 
together and owns them unto himself. 

12. Mind, no doubt is Indra; speech is Sarasvati and the ears are the 
Asvins; that which one thinks in his mind, he expresses by his speech and 
that one he hears by his ears. When he offers the Pasu for Sarasvati, he is 
offering to these deities in commom. He thus combines these (deities of 
mind, speech and ear) together and owns them unto himself. 

13. Pranas , indeed are Indra, the Sarasvati is the tongue and the nostrils 
are the two Asvins. Through the channels of breath; food is introduced 
(Pranayati) into the body and hence it is called Prana. By the tongue one 
knows the taste of the food and the nostrils are the path of the breath. So 
when he offers the Pasu to Indra, he is offering to these deities in common. 
He thus combines these (deities of the Prana, tongue and nostrils) together 

and owns them unto himself. 

14 His heart is Indra: his liver is Savita and his lung is Varuna. When he 
offers" the Purodasa of India, he is offering to these deities in common. He 
thus combines these (deities of heart, liver and lung) together and owns 

them unto himself. 

15 His Prana is Savita; his Vyana is Varuna and his male organ is Indra. 
What "food he eats by means of the Prana, he digests it by means of the 
Vyana and through his male organ he sheds the seed which is the essence 
of the food. When he offers the Purodasa to Savita, he is offering to these 
deities in common. He thus combines these (deities of Prana, Vyana and 
male organ) together and owns them unto himself. 


XIV.6.2.4J 


TRANSLATION 


107 


16. His womb is, surely Varuna, his seed is Indra and the generator of 
the seed (potency) is Savita.When he offers the Purodasa to Varuna, he of¬ 
fering to these deities in common. He thus combines these deities (of the 
womb, seed and potency) together and owns them unto himself. Whoso¬ 
ever knows this comes into being along with these deities and is bom again, 
along with these deities. He who knowing this performs the Sautramani gets 
enriched with children and cattle-wealth, gets firmly established in this world 
and conquers the heavenly world; he also who (only) knows thus. (First 
Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMANAn 

1. After performing the sacrifice, they proceed for the Avabhrta (final 
ablution). They go for Avabhrta after completing Soma Yaga and this 
Sautramani is a Soma sacrifice. 

2. (He lets float the Masara Kumbha into the water with a verse starting 
with) “Whatever affronts to Gods, O Gods ! Thereby he delivers him (the 
Yajamana) from the offence committed to the Gods. “Whether in the day 
or in the night - by this he exonerates of the sins committed during day and 
night ‘While awake or while asleep” - While awake to men and while asleep to 
the Pitrs; thus he delivers him from offence committed to humans and Pitrs. 

3. “Whatever in the village, whatever in the forests” - by this he delivers 
him from the sins committed in the village as well as in the forest. What¬ 
ever in an assembly” - by this he exonerates him from offences committed 
in the assembly. “Whatever by sense-organs” - by this he delivers him from 
sins committed against the gods. “Whatever towards a Sudra or to an Arya, 
whatever against the right of any one, from those you are the expiation”- 
thus he exonerates him from all sins. “We swear by the unassailable waters; 
by Varuna, Save us O Varuna” - By this he delivers him from the offences 

committed to Varuna. 

4 {He then immerses the Masara Kumbha saying) - “O! Nicumpana, 
Avabhrta, you are flowing a long” - By Nicumpana, the whirlpool (now pro¬ 
duced by the dipping of the pot) is referred to. This is either the son or 
Varuna or his brother and he is praised by this. Along with the gods, you 



xrv.6.2.9] 


TRANSLATION 


109 


deliver me from the sins committed against the gods.” By this he expiates 
the sins against gods. “With the help of man, from those done against men 
- by this he removes the offences done to men. “From the fiercely shouting 
devil, 6 God, protect me.” “Protect me from all sorts of afflictions” is what 

he says. 

5. “In the ocean, deep under the waters, your heart” - The waters are 
ocean; and waters are essence. Now he unites him with that essence. “May 
the plants and waters enter you” - thereby he unites him with the essence of 
both, that which is in the plants and that in the waters. He takes two steps 
northwards (in the water) for that much is the briskness in man. As much 
he steps forwards that much is the briskness in him and with that he nds 

himself of the sin. 

6. “May the waters and plants be friendly to us” - so saying he collects 
water with his two palms held close to each other. The waters are a thunder¬ 
bolt and by this he enters into a concord with the thunderbolt. Let those 
who hate us and whom we hate, have wicked friends” - (so saying) he throws 
(that water) towards that direction where his enemy is. By that (act) itself, 
he overcomes him (the enemy). 

7 “As one is set free from a stake (imprisonment), as he who sheds away 
dirt by bathing, as the ghee is purified by the Pavitra (purifying bunch of 
grass), so the waters may cleanse me from sin.” (Thus saying) he allows his 
garment to float away. Just as one would pluck out a reed from out of its 
sheeth, he draws him out of all sin. He then bathes and thereby drives away 

stuper (darkness). 

8. (He emerges from the waters saying) “From out of darkness have we 
come out” - darkness is sin and it is darkness, evil that he thus descards. 
“Looking at the light high up" - this earth is higher than water and it is on 
this earth he gets established. “The divine Surya, the highest light, joined 
with Gods” - the highest light, Suiya is the heaven; it is in the heaven he 
thus finally secures a firm foundation for himself. 

9 He departs without looking back and approaches the Ahavaniya (say¬ 
ing) “I followed the waters today" thereby he secures the fessence of the 
waters “With their essence we have been united" - thus he takes into him- 



XIV.6.3.2] 


TRANSLATION 


111 


self the essence of the waters. “O Agni! the juicy ! I have come; you please 
unite me with splendour, offspring and with wealth.” This is by way of invok¬ 
ing a blessing. “You are a kindler (one who encourages); let us prosper” - so 
saying he takes a Samidhd. He then places that Samidha in the Ahavaniya 
(saying) “You are the enkindler of Agni and (hence) you are the kindler, 
the splendour - bestow splendour on me.” Thereby he enkindles the fire 
and thus enkindled, Agni bestows splendour into him. 

10. He prepares a cam for Aditi which he is about to proficiate Aditi. 
Aditi bring this earth, to who offers to Aditi purpose the sacrifice on this 
(earth) and by so offering, gets firmly established on this earth - The Daksina 
for this is a milch cow with calf. The milch cow is this earth and thus the 
milch out from her (the earth) all his wishes. 

11. In this connection they say - “Surely he who enters into the Avabhrta 
waters falls away from this world.” (That is not so). He after emerging from 
the bath, offers a cup of curd to Mitra-Varuna; Mitra is the terrestrial world 
and Varuna is that above and the cup of curd is what is. here between those 
two worlds. Thus by offering that curd to Mitra-Varuna, he establishes him¬ 
self in these (three) worlds. Mitra is the Prana and Varuna is Apdna and the 
curd is indeed, food. In as much as he sacrifices with curd to Mitra and 
Varuna, he ultimately gets established in the Prana and food. (Second 
Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMANAHI 


1. Now, Dustaritu - Paumsayana stood expelled from the kingdom for 
the last ten generations and the Srnjayas kept out Revottara Cakra-Sthapati 
(from the country). (The former is a Ksatriya and the latter a Brahmin). 

2. He (Revottara). told Dustaritu Paumsayana - “I shall enable you to 
perform the Sautrdmani and see that this kingdom which is in the hands of 
Srnjayas, I shall get for you.” He (Dustaritu) said “Yes” and he made him 
perform that. That (news) Balhika-Pratipiya, the king of the Kums, heard. 
“This Dustaritu Paumsayana was banished from kingdom since the last ten 
generations and him, this Cakra Sthapati is going to cause to perform 
Sautrdmani and this kingdom which is with the Srnjayas , he is going to vest in 

him.” 


XIV.6.3.8] 


TRANSLATION 


113 


3. He decided “I will inform him (Cakra) that if he confers, the kingship 
on him, he will indeed be thrown out of (my) country.” He came (to the 
place of the sacrifice) at that time when the Grahas (Surd cups) were being 
collected. 

4. He said - “O Sthapati ! Surd (liquor) should not be offered in the 
Ahavanlya fire, they say and (they also say) not any where else than in the 
Ahavanlya. If you offer Surd in the Ahavanlya, you will be causing disorder 
and a repetition in the sacrifice. If you offer anywhere else than in the 
Ahavanlya^ you will exclude him (Dustaritu) from the kingdom and will not 
keep him in the country; nor you will confer kingship upon him.” 

5. He (Cakra) said, “I will not offer Surd in the Ahavanlya, nor elsewhere 
(than the Ahavanlya), nor I will cause disorder or repetition in the sacrifice.” 
Nor will I keep him out of the kingdom. I will keep him in the kingdom and 
confer kingship unto him. 

6. He (Balhika) asked - “How will you do it?” He replied thus - “formerly 
that sacrifice of Sautramanl was in (the possession of) Asuras. He 
( Sautramanl) moved towards the gods and (in the process) entered the 
waters. The waters merrily welcomed him, as people welcome an honoured 
guest. They told him merrily, “Sir, please come.” 

7. He said, “Sirs, I am afraid, please escort me.” They (waters) asked - 
“Sir, from whom you are afraid?” He said, “I am afraid of the Asuras .” Agree¬ 
ing (to his request) the waters lead him. That is why the one who saves a 
victim, escorts him, the scared. Since the waters escorted ( Pranayan ) (those) 
waters are Pranltas. That is the aspect of Pranlta of the Pranlta waters. He 
who thus knows the Pranlta aspect of the Pranlta waters, gets well-established. 

8. Now the Prayajas (fore-offerings) had been offered upto the point of 
Paryagnikarana (taking the fire round the oblations, a rite to be performed 
before offering of oblations). They prevented the inimical Asuras from (en¬ 
tering) the sacrifice, by means of that Paryagni (fire taken round). In like 
manner, this one (Yajamana) by means of the Paryagni, keeps out, his hate¬ 
ful enemy from the sacrifice. 



XIV.6.3.13] 


TRANSLATION 


115 


9. That Ahavariiya is indeed the womb of the gods and those two fires on 
either side of it are its immortal wings. When they perform the sacrifice in 
the Ahavariiya, they perform it in the womb of the gods for the gods. The 
sacrifice becomes amenable to him and the sacrifice does not get separated 
from him who knows thus and same is the case of him, a knower of this, for 
whom the sacrifice is conducted. 

10. On the northern fire, the milk cups (Payo Grahas) are offered. The 
Pasus are cooked in the northern fire. Thereby he places the Pasus, mortal 
though they are, in the immortal womb. He makes them to be bom out of 
the immortal worhb. He then conquers the death of the Pasus. The sacrifice 
does not get separated from him, who knows thus and same is the case of 
him, a knower of this, for whom the sacrifice is conducted. 

11. They offer the Surd Grahas (cups of liquor) on the southern fire. 
Near the southern fire, they purify the Surd with threefold Pavitras (each 
Pavitra made of three strains of grass). Thus he places the Pitrs who are 
(actually) mortals, in the womb of immortality and causes them who are 
mortals to be bom out of the immortal womb. He conquers the recurring 
death of Pitrs and the sacrifice is not separated from him, who knows this 
thus. Same is the case of him, a knower of this for whom the sacrificial rite is 

performed. 

12. Since these two fires (the northern and the southern) are taken out 
of the Ahavariiya, they are Ahavaniyas. Since they do not unite with the 
Ahavariiya, subsequently, they are non- Ahavaniyas. Thereby he gains (the 
advantage of) both kinds of oblations viz., that offered in the Ahavariiya 
and that offered in the non -Ahavariiya^ that which is offered and that which 
is not offered. Later he (Balhika) went home and said “It was not as I 
thought. The kingdom of Srrijayas has gone to Dustaritu because Cakra 
Sthapati did such and such (offering in the northern and southern fires) in 
the sacrifice.” 

13. They proceed with the Pasus, Purodasas and cups of milk, in that or¬ 
der, and the other things as well in the northern fire. Thereby he pleases 
only the gods in the world of the gods. They (gods) thus pleased reward 
him and by that he conquers the world of gods. 


XIV.6J.151 


TRANSLATION 


117 


14. They offer the Surd Grahas (cups of liqupr) in the southern fire. (Near 
that) southern fire they purify them (Surd Grahas) with threefold Pavitras. 
Thereby he pleases only the Pitrs in the world of the Pitrs and so he con¬ 
quers the world of Pitrs itself. 

15. This Sautramant is indeed the body and hence it is defined; for the 
body is defined. This world is Indra-Vayodhd (who confers strength) and 
hence he is undefined; for the world is undefined. This Sautrdmam is the 
body of the sacrifice. Its two arms are the Pasu of Indra and the Pasu of 
Vayodhd. Since these two Pasus happen to be on either sides, they are the 
two arms on either side of the body. As the Pam so the Yupa and hence for 
the Sautramant, on both sides there are two extra Yupas. That is how there 
are arms on both sides of the body. (Third Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter Six Ends.) 



Chapter Seven 
BRAHMANAI 


1. Those who perform Agnihotra are entering a long-session Satra. This 
Agnihotra is a Satra that ensures death in ripe old age; for they are freed from 
it only by old age or death. 

2. Now they raise a question - “If Agnihotra, is a Lhrgha Satra (continuing 
from day to day) which one performs, then if some one else were to drive a 
chariot or some others were to intercede between the performer and the 
fires (which is not allowed in a continuing sacrifice), then what is to be done 
and what is the expiation?” He may indeed perform an expiation and offer 
an Isti. He may as well ignore it, because he who lays down the two fires (for 
Agnihotra) indeed spreads himself all over these worlds (and the question of 
some one interceding between him and the fire does not arise in his case). 

3. His Garhapatya is this terrestrial world; his Anvaharya pacana 
(Daksinagni) is the aerial region and his Ahavantya is the heaven. In be¬ 
tween these worlds, birds do move about in groups and alone between these 
worlds. Even if a whole crowd is to pass between his fires, let him be sure 
that no affliction, nor any harm will befall on him. 

4. There are three animals which are unfit for sacrifice; viz., a vicious 
boar, (a particular species of sheep called) Aidaka and a dog. If any one of 
them happens to intervene between (the fires) when the Agnihotra is on, 
what is to be done, what is the expiation? Some (Agnihotnns) .take nut the 
ashes from the Garhapatya and throw it beneath the Ahavantya saying “Here 
Visnu took stride.” They say that ‘Visnu is sacrifice and by sacrifice we con¬ 
tinue the sacrifice and with ashes we bestow its track’. But let him not do this 
way For if any one happens to comment, “This fellow has scattered the 
sacrificer’s ashes; he will have occassion to scatter his ashes, and the 
Yajamana’s family will be mourning”, then that word indeed becomes true. 
Let him do this way (expiation) - Having taken a cup of water or a pot of 
water pour out that water from the front side of Garhapatya upto the 
Ahavantya, uttering the same Rk mantra “Here Visnu took stride.” Because 
Visnu is sacrifice and thus by means of sacrifice, he knits together the sacri¬ 
fice- whatever affliction there is in the sacrifice and whatever disorder, wa- 



XIV.7.1.6] 


TRANSLATION 


121 


ter is the cure of all that. With the water, the healer, he calms it (cures it). 
This is the action there. 

5. They ask, “When the Agnihotra milk of some one spills while being 
milked, what is to be done; what is the expiation?” Having touched it (spilled 
milk) while chanting the formula meant as expiation for spilling and washed 
it with water, he can offer the remaining milk. But if the whole container is 
turned upside down or the vessel itself gets broken, he has to touch the 
spilled milk with the expiatory formula and wash it off with water and offer 
with other milk. In the event of spilling of milk, he should touch it with the 
mantra, “It has been spilled and it has been implanted”. For when (seed is) 
spilled it is implanted and when implanted it is born. This earth is a womb 
and the milk is the seed. Thus (it amounts to) implanting the seed in the 
womb. Immediately does the seed of one who knows this, when spilled, is 
born. It rains from the sky, and the plants and trees get generated. The 
seed comes out of men and animals and from that all these are produced. 
He (whose Agnihotra milk is spilled) should realise - A lot of production has 
accrued unto him”, and that he will be proliferating with offspring and catde 
and that he will become more prosperous. If there is a breaking of the ves¬ 
sel, let him pour water from a water-pot or water jar. Thereby whatever in¬ 
jury has been suffered by the sacrifice, water is the healer of all that. By 
those healing waters he treats it. (He should pour from the water jar) saying 
the three Vyahrtis- Bhiih Bhuvah and Svah. These Vyahrtis are expiations for 
everything. Thus by all, he conducts the expiation. After collecting those 
broken pieces of the vessel, throw them where the ashes are collected. This 
is the action there. 

6. Again they ask - “If one’s Agnihotra cow lies down while being milked, 
what is to be donfc; what is the expiation? Some people make her get up 
while chanting the Yajus formula - “The divine Aditi has got up - Aditi is this 
earth, (they mean to say) ‘let us raise up this earth for him’. “She has in¬ 
deed bestowed life upon the master of this sacrifice.” By which they mean to 
say ‘we thus bestow longevity on the Yajamana’. “Giving to Indra his share 
- thereby they say “It is Indra’s strength upon this (Yajamana).” “And also 
to Mitra and Varuna” - Mitra and Varuna are doubtless the Prana and Uddna. 
So they mean,“It is the Prana and Udanawe bestow upon him (Yajamana).” 


XIV.7.2.1] 


TRANSLATION 


123 


Then he should give that cow at this offering,, to a brahmin whom he will 
not see again. It is the evil in the Yajamana, seeing which the (Agnihotra) 
cow lied down (while milking), so they say ‘let us remove that evil on this 
person (the recepient) ’. (Hence the recipient of the cow as Daksina should 
leave the place, so that the Yajamana won’t contact the evil again). 


7. On this Yajnavalkya said: “The cow has gone away from him as if it 
would from a disinterested person”. (By giving it as Daksina, it would reflect 
the indifference of the Yajamana) and the offering is viciated. So let him do 
like this. Let him goad it with a stick and make it get up. Just as a person 
(driving a cart) would use a stick to goad a weary horse, mule or yoked bulls 
and make it get up and complete his journey and reach his destination, in 
the same manner, this cow is tired and hence has sat down and it should be 
made to rise up with a goad and he reaches the heavenly world which is his 

destination. 


8 But Aruni said - ‘The sky indeed is the Agnihotra cow of this Agnihotra 
and this one who blows (Vayu) is the calf, and this earth is the vessel used in 
Agnihotra (to collect the milk)”. For one who knows this, his Agnihotra cow 
does not perish, for how could the sky perish? for, how could that Vayu 
perish? Nor does the Agnihotra vessel of him who knows thus break to pieces; 
for how could this (earth) break to pieces? It is indeed prosperity that the 
cloud showers. Let him therefore think - “She ( Agnihotra cow) has sat down 
unable to withstand my prosperity and glory. I shall be more prosperous 
and keep her to himself. Thus he keeps that prosperity unto himself. This is 
what Aruni said. This then is the action prescribed in that event. 

9. Now they ask - “In the event of one’s Agnihotra cow bows while being 
milked, what is to be.done; what is the expiation?” Let him pluck a bunch of 
grass and feed her therewith. This is the action there. (First Brahmana Ends.) 


brahmanah 


1 They ask - “If some one’s Agnihotra cow were to milk blood (while 
milked), what rite is to be done and what is the expiation?” He should say, 
‘disperse’ and having made a Meksana (stirring spoon), ask the Daksinagni 
to be covered, boil that (blood) in the Daksinagni and offer it there lfself. 



XIV.7.2.4] 


TRANSLATION 


125 


silently in an undefined way. For, Prajapati is undefined and Agnihotra be¬ 
longs to Prajapati, and undefined means ‘all’. He thus makes amends for 
all. At this offering, he should give away that cow to a brahmin whom he 
does not propose to see again. Because she who milks blood, milks it on 
seeing the affliction and sin; he thus transfers that afflication and sin on to 
this one (brahmin). Let him then make offering with what other milk he 
can procure. Thus by that which is unafflicted, he removes that affliction of 
the sacrifice. This is the rite there. 

2. Now they ask - “When the Agnihotra milk of some one while being 
milked, becomes impure (unfit for sacrifice) what rite is to be done and 
what is the expiation?” Some (persons) say that it should be offered (de¬ 
spite being impure) on the plea that it is ready for offering and it would be 
improper if it is not offered and that the gods do not feel anything loathsome. 
But (if he feels) gods feel loathsome, then it should be done like this - Tak¬ 
ing out hot ashes from the Garhapatya, he should pour this milk silently on 
those hot ashes and then pour water ( apa ) over it and by means of the 
waters he gains it. Then he may make the offering with what other milk he 
can procure. This is the rite to be performed in that event. 

3. They again ask “If someone’s Agnihotra milk gets polluted (unfit for 
offering) after it is milked, what rite is to be observed and what is the expia¬ 
tion?” Let him take back the coals taken out (of the fire) for cooking the 
Agnihotra milk and let him pour this (impure milk) silently over it and then 
pour water over those hot cinders. Thus he secures it by means of the water. 
Then he may make offering with what other milk he can procure. 

4. They also ask - “If somebody’s Agnihotra milk becomes impure (unfit 
for offering) after it is placed on the fire (for cooking) what rite is to be 
done and what is the expiation?” Let him silently pour it on the coals re¬ 
moved from the fire for cooking the milk. This way it becomes both off ered 
and not offered. In so far as he offers it on those very coals, it is ottered and 
in so far as he extinguishes the coal by it, it is not offered. He then pours 
water thereon and secures it by means of the water. Then he may offer 
what other milk he can procure. This is the rite there. 

5. Now they ask - “If the Yajamana were to die after placing the milk on 
the fire, what is the rite to be done what is the expiation?" Having closed it 
(the milk) let him pour it out. That indeed, they say, is the expiation for all 
Havis offerings. This then is the rite in that case. 



XIV.7.2.7] 


TRANSLATION 


127 


6. They again ask - “If some one’s Agnihotra milk, after being taken into 
the sruk (for offering), spills out, what is the rite to be observed and what is 
the expiation?” Let him touch it, chanting the formula meant for in the 
case of spilling and pour water over it. Let him make the offering with what 
is left over if the sruk has turned upside down (leaving milk) or it is broken, 
let him touch (the spilled milk) chanting the formula of atonement for 
spilling and after pouring water on it, let him offer whatever is left in the 
pot. This is not the way to be done. This Agnihotra is bestower of heaven. If 
in that context some one should remark - “Surely this Yajamana has de¬ 
scended from the heaven and this offering will never enable him to win 
heaven”, then that Would indeed come true. So it should be done like this. 
Let him sit down there itself and let others carry by the sruk what is remain¬ 
ing in the pot and bring it to him. If someone is to discourage him saying 
“this is the remainder of an offering, worn out and it should not be offered”, 
let him not take note of it. Only, because it is not worn out, that it is used for 
curdling the Hams. Let him therefore take in the sruk whatever milk is left 
over in the pot and bring it to him. If nothing is left over in the pot, let him 
put on the fire what other milk he can procure. Let him show a burning 
stick over it, pour water on it and take it off the fire. In the former case 
(when the milk is left over in the pot) the Adhvaryu has to say “I will take 
out (to the sruk) ”. In the latter case (where new milk is substituted), it should 
be taken in the sruk as it is and brought to him. With that let him make the - 
offering. This is the rite to be done there. 

7. Now they ask - “If some one’s Agnihotra milk, carried in the sruk be¬ 
comes impure (unfit for sacrifice) what is the rite and what is the expia¬ 
tion?” Some say it is to be offered because they say, it will be improper if, 
having got ready, it is not offered, for the gods do not feel anything 
loatsome.” Some fill it to the point of over-flowing. It should not be done so. 
If some one is to comment there - “This fellow has poured out the Agnihotra 
and this Yajamana will.get poured away”, it may so happen (the Yajamana 
may die). So it shall be done thus - placing Samidhd in the Ahavaniya, he 
should take out hot cinders from the Ahavaniya itself and silently pour it on 
those hot cinders. Then he pours water thereon, thus he gains it by means 
of the water. Then what other milk he can procure, he should make the 

offering. 



XIV.7.3.3] 


TRANSLATION 


129 


8. Now they ask - “Supposing after the Agnihotra milk is taken in the sruk 
and then it rains from above, what is the rite to be performed and what is 
the expiation?” Let him consider “It is elixer that has come down from above, 
the gods have favoured me. I shall become more prosperous.” Let him by 
all means offer with that. This is the rite in that case. (Second Brahmana 
Ends.) 


BRAHMANA HI 

1. Now they ask - ‘Just after the first oblation is offered, if the fire gets 
extinguished what is to be done and what expiation there is ?” He should 
throw into the fire any piece of wood he may find there lying near and 
offering there-on saying “There is fire in every piece of wood” - for, there is 
indeed fire in every piece of wood. If his heart is disturbed (not satisfied by 
doing as above), he may offer upon gold, for gold is indeed Agni’s seed. 
The father is none else than the son and the son is none else than the 
father. (Gold and Agni are son and father). So he may offer upon gold. 
This is the rite to be performed there. 

2. They also say - “If someone’s Ahavaniya taken out (of the Garhapatya) 
gets extinguished before the Agnihotra offering, what is to be done and what 
expiation .is there?” Again he should take it out from the Garhapatya towards 
east and having settled it down let him offer the Agnihotra oblations. Even 
then if it gets extinguished, even for hundred times (repeatedly), again and 
again he should take it out from Garhapatya itself and having carried it east¬ 
wards and settled down, he should make the Agnihotra offerings. This is the 
action there. 

3. Now they ask - “Supposing his Garhapatya also gets extinguished fol¬ 
lowing it (the Ahavaniya) what is the rite and what expiation is there?” Some 
chum it out from a-burning stick, saying “This is by which man’s body is 
consumed at the end and it is from that he looks for expiation of this.” But 
let him not do so. He may, of course proceed with a burning stick or a piece 
of it and do thus — let him take a coal from that burning stick and crumble 
it on the Aranis. This way he realises both his desires, viz., obtaining fire 
from churing the burning stick and fire from the Aranipieces. This is the rite there. 


XIV.7.3.6] 


TRANSLATION 


131 


4. Now they ask - “If fire is brought (from Gdrhapatya ) for some one and 
that is placed in the burning Ahavaniya of another one (Yajamana), what is 
the rite to be observed arid what is the expiation there?” These two fires 
coming together become agitated and would burn away the offering and 
cattle of the Yajamana. It has to be (appeased) by chanting “you two come 
together, be united; loving and radiant, well-disposed, together partaking 
food and drink. I have brought together your minds; together your rites 
and together your thoughts. O Agni Punsya, be you the overlord and bestow 
food and drink upon our Yajamana.” He by these, prays for calming down 
of the two (fires) for the sake of the safety of Yajamana’s family and cattle. 
If he still feels disturbed at heart, let him offer a Purodasa in eight pot sherds 
to Agni-the Agnimat (fire-possessing). This is how it is to be done - Reciting 
seventeen Samidheni mantras (kindling verses)— the two Ajyabhagas to the 
killer of Vrtra ; the two Samyajas in Viraj metre and then the following Vajya 
and Anuvakya - “Agni is kindled by Agni, he the sage, the youthful lord of 
the house, the one with a mouth having a tongue that conveys the obla¬ 
tions” and the Yajya, “For you, O Agni, one kindled by Agni; priest as you 
are by another priest; a friend by friend, you get kindled” — thereby he 
appeases both these (fires), for ljie safety of the Yajamana’s offspring and 
catde. This is the rite there. 

5. Now they ask - “If someone’s Gdrhapatya gets extinguished even be¬ 
fore the Ahavaniya is taken out, what is the remedy; what is the expiation of 
it ?” Some persons take out (fire) from there itself and carry eastwards say¬ 
ing - “Agnis are Pranas and we lift the Pranas from this” - That should not be 
done so. If (while doing so) some one is to remark- This (Priest) has choked 
the vital airs of the Yajamana arid this Yajamana will die” - it may so happen. 

6. Some others carry it backwards (to Gdrhapatya) saying “these are the 
Prana and Udana” Let him not do so. This Agnihotra is winner of heaven. If 
(while doing so) some one is to comment - This Yajamana has discended 
from the heaven and this ( Agnihotra, ) ceases to be winner of heaven for 
him” - It may happen to be so. 

7. Yet other chum out (fire) for another Gdrhapatya. Let him not do so. 
If (while churning) someone were to say “This fellow has produced a ter¬ 
rible enemy for this fire; very soon a terrible enemy will be bom for him 
(Yajamana) and the one dearest to him will be weeping - It may happen so. 


XIV. 7.4.1] 


TRANSLATION 


133 


8. Some others put off that ( Ahavanlya fire) and churn out another, Let 
him not yield to this temptation. (If some one were to remark) “Whatever 
was left in him, he has extinguished it. There will no heir remaining for 
him.” That would indeed be likely to come true. Let him do only this way - 
Having taken out the two fires from the Arams, let him carry it northwards 
and having churned out stay there offering. Thus he does not offend any 
one and (it would mean) towards night, offering is made by him at his new 
resting place. 

9. In the morning, having taken out the ashes, smears the fire-places 
with cow-dung and after producing the fires from the Aranis, returns (to 
them original place). After churning the Garhapatya and lifting up the 
Ahavanlya, he brings it to the Anvaharypacana (fire to the southern hearth). 
On that he should prepare a Purodasa in eight pot sherds to Agni, the Pathikrt 
(the path-maker). The following is the procedure — He should chant the 
seventeen Samidhenis (kindling verses); the two Ajyabhagas related to the 
killer of Vitro; the two Samyajas in the Virad mtkre and the Yajya (invitatory) 
and Puronuvdkya (offering formulas) are as below. 

“You, O Agni who readily knows the ways and path's of sacrifices, you are the 
wisest and the divine dispenser”, and the Yajya- “We have entered upon the 
path of the gods to carry on what we can do; the wise Agni, let him (per¬ 
form) the sacrifice, he shall be the Hota, he shall order the sacrifice and 
their seasons” - For, Agni is indeed the pathfinder and the one who leads 
on the paths. He thus guides him upon the path of sacrifice. This then is 
the (expiating) rite in that case. (Third Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMAN AIV 


1. Now they ask - “If someone’s fires are to get mixed up, what is the rite 
and what is the expiation?” If the burning fire comes from behind and joins, 
he should think - “light (seed) has come to me from behind; the gods have 
favoured me and I will be more prosperous.” If however, his heart is dis¬ 
turbed (apprehensive), he may prepare a Purodasa in eight potsherds to 
Agni-vivici (the one discerning). Its procedure is thus - After chanting the 
seventeen Samidhenis (kindling verses), the two Ajay bhdgas of the killer of 
Vitro and the two Samyajas in Virad metre, he should chant these two Ydjyas 
and Anuvdkyas - “Your brilliant; mind-sped flames, bright Agni, spread in 



XIV.7.4.3] 


TRANSLATION 


135 


every direction; the ninefold divine destroyers overpower the woods, boldly 
crushing them.” And the Yajya “The tribes of men glorify you, O Agni, the 
discerning knower of offerings and most liberal distributor of riches - you 
the wealthy one, dwelling in secret, yet visible to all, loud — sounding of¬ 
ferer of sacrifice, gloryfying in ghee” If one were to wish to turn away a spite¬ 
ful enemy, he may make this offering with that intention so that he (the 
enemy) is turned away from him. This is all the rite to be done there. 

2. If however the burning fire comes from this side, let him know - I 
will overpower the spiteful enemy and will be more prosperous. If (how¬ 
ever) his heart is disturbed (apprehensive), let him prepare a Purodasa in 
eight potsherds to Agni - the Samvarga (the detroyer). Its procedure is thus 

- “After chanting the seventeen Samidhenisr, the two Ajyabhagas of the killer 
Vrtra the two Samyajas in Virad metre, let him utter these Vajyaand Anuvakya 

- “You cross over from the far region to the near. You protect (that place) in 
which I am.” And the Yajya - “leave us not in this great fight; like as the 
bearer of a load. You win the Samvarga (the booty) and win riches.” If any 
one wants to destroy his spiteful enemy, let him with that intention perform 
this offering and he will surely destroy him. This is the rite in that event. 

3. They now ask — “If someone’s fire is burnt by a lightning, what is the 
rite and what is the expiation?” Let him think — Light has come to me 
from above and the gods have favoured me. I will be more prosperous.” But 
nevertheless if his heart is disturbed (apprehensive), let him prepare a 
Purodasa in eight potsherds for Agni - the Apsumat (resident of waters). The 
procedure thereof is thus-Let him chantthe seventeen Samidhenis, the two 
Ajya bhdgas of the killer of Vrtra, the Samyajas in two Virad verses and the 
Yajya and Anuvakya as follow - “O Agni! your seat is in the waters and hence 
you are clinging to the plants; being in their womb you are bom again.” 
The Yajya “You are the child of the herbs; the child of the trees, the child of 
all that is; O Agni ! you are the child of the waters.” He thereby ensures 
peace to those two fires for the safety of the Yajamana’s offspring and cattle. 
This is the rite to be performed in that case. 

4. Now they ask - “If someone’s fire is to get mixed up with impure fires 
(unfit for sacrifice), what is the rite to be observed; what is the expiation.-' 
He should prepare a Purodasa in eight potsherds for Agni - the Sud (bright) 
and its procedure is thus - Let him chant the seventeen Sdmidhems, the two 



XIV.7.4.6] 


TRANSLATION 


137 


Ajaya bhagas of the killer of Vrtra, The Samyajaf in two Virad verses and the 
Ydjya and Anuvakya as follows - “Agni of brightest, austerity, the brightest 
priest, the brightest sage he shines brightly when fed with offerings.” And 
the Ydjya “Your flames rise up, the bright, the pure, and your lights are 
shining, O Agni.” Thereby he appeases those two fires for the safety of the 
Yajamana’s offspring and catde. This is the rite in that event. 

5. Now they say - “Supposing the Sun sets even when one s Ahavaniya is 
not taken out, what is the rite to be observed and what is the expiation?” 
Those rays of the Sun are Visvedevas and they are going away from him and 
that (Agnihotra) becomes futile. Because the gods are abandoning him. Af¬ 
ter that wasteful occurance, whether he knows so or does not know, those 
two fires say “He (the Sun) has set on his unlifted (fire).” In that case, the 
following is to be done — He should tie a piece of yellow gold with a grass 
shoot; let him order it to be taken towards the west. Thus it is of the form of 
the one who shines yonder (the Sun) and that Sun represents the day and 
this (gold) symbolises the day. The Darbhd plants are purifying and thereby 
he purifies it. Then he should kindle some fire-wood and order to carry it 
forward (to the Ahavaniya). A brahmin descendedt of a Rsi should take it 
out, for a brahmin descendent of a Rsi represents all deities. Thus with the 
help of all deities, he enriches (that fire). After laying it down, he returns. 
Heating the ghee on the Gdrhapatya and having brought down and purify¬ 
ing it, he should look down into it (the ghee) . Then he takes four ladleful of 
ghee and proceeds to the front with a log in hand. He then places the log on 
the Ahavaniya, he offers (the ghee) with his right knee bent, (saying)- “To 
the Visvedevas Svaha. Even as one would call back a brahmin who goes out 
of one’s house in a huff by (presenting him with) a cow eager to mate with 
a bull, in the same manner, he thereby calls back to him the Visvedevas. 
They indeed condescend and turn to him. This is the rite for that occassion. 

6 Now they ask - “If the Sun were to rise before the Ahavaniya if some 
one is not taken out, what is the rite and what is the expiation?” Those rays 
(of the Sun are Visvedevas) who having stayed there, are leaving him. That 
Agnihotra becomes infructuous, because the gods abandon him. On that 
failure (of Agnihotra) , (whether he knows or does not know) those two fires 
say - “He (the Sun) has risen on his unlifted (Ahavaniya). In this case, let 
him do thus — “Having tied a piece of white gold (silver) to a shoot of Darbha 
grass, order it to be carried towards the east.” Thus it gets the form of the 


XIV.7.4.6] 


TRANSLATION 


139 


moon. The moon being night, that (silver) comes to symbolise night. The 
Darbha shoots are purifying and thereby he purifies it (the night). Then he 
should kindle a fire-wood and order it to be taken after (the silver piece). A 
brahmin descendent of a Rsi should take it out; for a brahmin descendent 
of a Rsi represents the Visvedevas. It is thus with the help of all deities that 
he enriches it. Having laid it down, he returns. He places ghee in the 
Gdrhapatya and after taking it off and purifying it, looks down into it {ghee). 
He takes this ghee in the same way as before, takes a log of wood and pro¬ 
ceeds to the Ahavaniya, Placing that log of wood on the Ahavaniya, he offers 
the ghee with his right knee bent, (saying) “to the Visvedevas Svdhd.” The 
import is the same as before. There is no affliction nor any harm when this 
expiation is performed. This is all the rite to be done there. (Fourth 

Brahmana Ends.) 

(Chapter Seven Ends.) 



Chapter Eight 
BRAHMANAI 


1. Verily, Prajapati, the sacrifice is King Soma and these deities to whom 
he offers ( Soma) and those oblations which he offers are also Soma’s forms. 
If any part of the sacrifice is affected, let him make an oblation to that sdme 
deity for whom that part was intended. This offering is to be made on the 
Ahavantya, if it is during Diksa, and the Upasada; on the Agnidhra, if it is 
during pressing of Soma plant; for, whatever joint of the sacrifice gets worn 
out, it breaks and whichever is the deity for that part of the sacrifice, he 
heals the sacrifice through that deity. Thereby he makes the sacrifice com¬ 
plete again. 

2. If the sacrifice contemplated in his mind does not incline to him, let 
him offer an oblation (saying) “To Paramesthin-Svdha Then that (Soma) 
becomes Paramesthl. Thus he repels the evil and then the sacrifice inclines 

to him. 

3. If the sacrifice announced by him through his speech does not in¬ 
cline to him, he should offer an oblation saying - “ToPmjapati-Svaha Then 
it becomes Prajapati and thus he repels the evil; whence the sacrifice in- 

dines to him. 


4. If someone’s (emissaries) having gone to fetch King Soma, return 
without securing him, let him offer an oblation (saying) “Totheplants-Svaha , 
for them he becomes the plant; he thus reples evil and the sacrifice inclines 

to him. 

5 After being procured, if something befalls on him (the Soma), let him 
make an offering (saying) “To Savita-Svaha”, for he becomes Savita then 

and the sacrifice inclines to him. 


6. If something happens to the Soma during the Diksa let him make an 
offering (saying) “To VisvakarmarSvaha ”, for he becomes Visvakarma then 

and the sacrifice inclines to him. 



XIV.8.1.15] 


TRANSLATION 


143 


7. If something happens during the purchasing of Soma, let him make 
an offering (saying) “To Pusan-Svaha”, for then he becomes Pusan and the 
sacrifice inclines to him. 

8. When the Soma has come forward for being bought and at that time 
some mishap befalls on him, let him make an offering (saying) To Indra 
and the Maruts-Svaha”, for then he becomes Indra and the Maruts and the 
sacrifice inclines to him. 

9. If while being bought, something happens to him (Soma) let him 
offer an oblation (saying) “To AsuvorSvaha , for then he becomes the Asura 
and then the sacrifice inclines to him. 

10. If after being bought, something happens to him (Soma), let him 
offer an oblation (saying) “To Mitra-Svdhd”, for he then becomes Mitra and 
the sacrifice inclines to him. 

11. If something happens when he (Soma) is seated on the lap (of the 
Yajamana),lethim offer an oblation (saying) “To Visnu the Sipivista-Svdha , 
for he then becomes Visnu, the Sipivista and then the sacrifice inclines to 

him. 

12. If something should befall on him (Soma) when he is being drawn 
about (in the cart), let him offer an oblation (saying) “To Visnu, the 
Narandhisa-Svdha, for he then becomes Visnu, the Narandhisa and the sac¬ 
rifice inclines to him. 

13. When he (Soma) has arrived (at the hall) something happens to 
him, let him offer an oblation (saying) “To SomarSvaha ", for then he be¬ 
comes Soma and the sacrifice inclines to him. 

14. When seated on the seat he (Soma) meets with some mishap, let 
him offer an obladon (saying) ‘To Varuna-Svaha”, for he then becomes 
Varuna and the sacrifice inclines to him. 

15. When he (Soma) has reached the Agnidhara and something hap¬ 
pens to him, let him offer an oblation (saying) To AgnirSvdha , for then he 
becomes Agni and the sacrifice inclines to him. 



XIV.8.124] 


TRANSLATION 


145 


16. When he (Soma) has reached the Havirdhdna , something happens 
to him, let him offer an oblation (saying) “To Indra-Svdhd , for then he 
becomes Indra and the sacrifice inclines to him. 

17. If something happens to him (Soma) when being taken down from 
the cart, let him offer an oblation (saying) “To Atharvan-Svdha , for he then 
becomes Atharva and the sacrifice inclines to him. 

18. When he (Soma) is thrown down as Sowwi-stalks (on the pressing 
board), something happens to him, let him offer an oblation (saying) “To 
Visvedevas-Svaha *, for then he becomes the Visvedevas and the sacrifice 

inclines to him. 

19. While he (Soma) is invigorated (drenched with water for pressing), 
something happens to him, let him offer an oblation (saying) “To Visnu, 
the Apntapa-Svdhd”, for then he becomes Visnu, the Apritapa and the sacri¬ 
fice inclines to him. 

20 While being pressed something happens to him, let him offer an 
oblation (saying) “To Yama-Svaha’, for then he becomes Yama and the sac- 

rifice inclines to him. 

21. While being gathered together (in between the pressings) something 
happens to him, let him offer an oblation (saying) “To Vifnu-Svdha, for he 
then becomes Visnu and the sacrifice inclines to him. 

22 While being purified(strained), (strained) something happens to him, 
let him offer an oblation (saying) “To Vayu-SvahiT, for he then becomes 
Vayu and the sacrifice inclines to him.. 

23 After being purified, if something happens to him, let him o 
oblation (saying) “To SukraSvaha ”, for he then becomes Sukra and the 

sacrifice inclines to him. 

24 While beingmixed, with milk, if something happens to him, let him 
offer an oblation (saying) "To Sukra-SvahiT, for he then become, Sukra 

and the sacrifice inclines to him. 



XIV.8.133] 


TRANSLATION 


147 


25. When being mixed with barley flour, if something happens to him, 
let him offer an oblation (saying) - *To Manthin-Svdha”, for he then be¬ 
come Manthin and the sacrifice inclines to him. 

26. When collected in the Grahas, if something happens to him, let him 
offer an oblation (saying) - “To the Visvedevas-Svaha”, for he then becomes 
Visvedevas and the sacrifice inclines to him. 

27. When ready for offering, if something happens to him, let him offer 

an oblation (saying) - “To Asu-SvahaT , for he then becomes Asu and the 
sacrifice inclines to him. r 

28. While being offered, if something happens to him, let him offer an 
oblation (saying) “To RudTO-Sv&hd ?'', for he then becomes Rudra and the 
sacrifice inclines to him. 

29. When he has returned (to the Havirdhana), if something happens 
to him, let him offer an oblation (saying) - “To Vata-Svahcf , for he then 
becomes Vata and the sacrifice inclines to him. 

30. After being looked at, if something happens to him, let him offer an 
oblation (saying) “To Nrcaksas-Svaha”, for he then becomes Nrcaksas and 
the sacrifice inclines to him. 

31. While being drunk, if something happens to him, let him offer an 
oblation (saying) “To Bhakja-Svaha, for he then becomes Bhaksa (drink) 
and the sacrifice inclines to him. 

32. When kept in the Nardsaihsa cups, if something happens to him, let 
him offer an oblation (saying) - “To the Nardsamsa Pitrs-SvahaT, for he then 
becomes the Nardsamsa Pitfand the sacrifice inclines to him. 

33. When taken up for the Avdbhrta oblation, if something happens to 
him, let him offer an oblation paying) “To Sindhu-Svdha" , for he then be¬ 
comes the Sindhu and the sacrifice inclines to him. 



XIV.8.1.37] 


TRANSLATION 


149 


34. While being taken down (to the water) if something happens to him, 
let him offer an oblation (saying) - “To Samudra-Svaha. ” For he then be¬ 
comes Samudra and the sacrifice inclines to him. 

35. When immersed (in the water) if something happens to him, let 
him offer an oblation (saying) - ‘To Salila-Svaha”. For he then becomes 
saZiZa(water) and the sacrifice inclines to him. 

36. These then are the thirty-four oblations; for there are thirty-three 
gods and Prajapati is the thirty-fourth. This is how the sacrifice (Soma) is 
healed by all the gods; he joins (the parts of) the sacrifice through all the 
gods. These (offerings) should be made by Brahma, himself and not any 
one other than Brahma. For the Brahma sits to the south of the Yajamana 
and protects the sacrifice from the right side. If Brahma is not available, 
whoever is there who knows (these mantras) may offer. But he should take 
the permission of Brahma and after being authorised by Brahman. Now 
about the meaning of these mantras. Vasistha knew the Virad and Indra 
coveted it. 

37. He (Indra) Said: “O Rsi ! you know the Viraja. Teach it for me. Teach 
it for me.” He (Vasistha) replied- ‘What will be the benefit for me?” He said- 
“I will tell you the expiatory rites for the enitre sacrifice and shall reveal to 
you my form.” He (Vasistha) said “That you will tell me the expiation for 
the entire sacrifice and what will happen to one to whom you will reveal 
your form?” (Indra said) To the heaven of the living, after departing from 
this world.” Then the Rsi taught Viraja to Indra. But the Virad, they say, if 
this (earth) and that is why he who possesses most of that becomes supreme. 
Then Indra told the expiation to the Rsi; right from the Agnihotra upto the 
Mahad Uktha (all sacrifices). Formerly indeed only the Vaisthas (those of 
the Vasisthas family) knew these mantras and hence, formerly, only a per¬ 
son of the Vasistha family became Brahma (in any sacrifice). These days, 
anybody may study them and anybody may become Brahma. No doubt, he 
who also thus knows these mantras is fit to become Brahma and may re¬ 
spond when addressed as ‘Brahman’. (First Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter Eight Ends.) 


Chapter Nine 


BRAHMANAI 

1. Now they ask - “If one who has entered a long session of Satra ; i.e. who 
regularly performs Agnihotra, were to die while away from his home, are they 
to continue to perform his Agnihotra or not ?” Some are of the opinion that 
it should be continued till taken home. It should not bfe done so. Because 
that fire does not serve for that (posthumous) offering, as if it is sub jugated 
to burning (ordinary) dead-body. He (fire) longs for sacrificial oblations 
and stays by his side with impatience (eager to be used for the sacrificial 
offering of his body). 

2. Some others say ‘They (the fires) should rest in that same condition, 
kept up (with fuel) but without offering being made on them. This is also 
not to be done so. That fire does not tolerate being kindled as if to burn a 
(ordinary) dead-body. It longs for sacrificial oblations and stays by his side 
with, impatience. 

> 3. Some others transfer those fires on the Aranis , lay them down, and 
chum out (new fire) from them after bringing his body home. That is not 
to be done in that way. That fire does not tolerate being churned out as if to 
bum a (ordinary) dead-body. He (the fire) longs for sacrificial oblations 
and stays by him with impatience. 

4. It is to be done in this way- “Let him call for a cow suckling another’s 
calf, to be brought and with its milk let him make the offering. This milk of 
a cow feeding another’s calf is afflicted. This Agnihotra of one who is dead is 
also afflicted. So by curing the afflicted by means of the afflicted he be¬ 
comes more prosperous. 

5. There is a comparison for this. If two damaged carts are brought to¬ 
gether, one of them (at least) will start rolling by being repaired (with the 

parts of the other). 

6. The formality regarding that Agnihotra is as follows. He milks that cow 
with his sacred thread on the right shoulder. For gods, he does - with the 
sacred thread on the left shoulder. This is how for Pitrs. 



XIV.9.1.13] 


TRANSLATION 


153 


7. He shall not cook (that milk) on burning coals. If he were to cook on 
burning coals, it becomes an act for the gods. He should take out hot cin¬ 
ders from the Garhapatya on the right side and cook this (milk) on it. Thus 
he makes it an object for Pitrs. 

8. Having thus equipped him with the sacrificial tools (weapons), that 
Yajamana enters that region in the Heaven which has been won by him, 
even as one who would escape a situation where he may be robbed of his 
possession. Those fires which are to be enkindled, caress him affection¬ 
ately, even as the sons would lovingly greet their father when he returns 
home after staying abroad and get everything ready for him. 

9. If the Garhapatya were to greet him first, he should infer that the 
permanent fire has come to him first and he will firmly get settled (in the 
heaven) and those (progeny) who come after him will get established in 

the world. 

10. If the Ahavanlya were to come first, he should conclude that the 
highest fire has favoured him and that he-will be the foremost in conquer¬ 
ing the world (beyond) and his progeny will be the highest in this world. 


11. He does not carry it along the north side of the Garhapatya ; for if he 
Were to convey it and pass along the northern side of the Garhapatya, it will 
amount to an act for the gods. He takes it by the southern side of the 
Garhapatya and thereby makes it fit for the Pitrs. 


12. Now what sacrificial grass ( Kusas or Darbhas are usually) pointing to 
the north, they are made to point to the south. Thus he makes them fir for 
(the purposes) of the Pitrs. Now after putting a Samidha on the Ahavanlya 
and bending his left knee, only once he silently empties the sruk. Thus he 
renders it fit for the Pitrs. Neither he shakes the smk, nor wipes it nor does 
he eat (the milk left over in it), nor he throws it out. Thereby he makes it an 

act meant for Pitrs. 

13. Now they ask - “When a person who has entered a long session of 
Satra, daily performing Agnihotra, were to die out of his home, while his fires 
are at home, how will they unite him with his firesr 1 Some people, after 
cremating him, bring the bones home and make his fires smell him. It should 



XIV.9.2.2] 


TRANSLATION 


155 


not be done so. It is like, planting seed in onewomb and wishing to get it 
bom through another womb. Having brought home the bones, let him 
place them in a black antelop’s skin and arrange them in the shape of a 
man. Then cover them with wool and sprinkle with ghee and bum them by 
uniting them with his fires. Thus he makes him born out of his own 
(mother’s) womb. 

14. Some others cremate him with the ordinary fire (procured locally). 
Let him not do so; for such fire is a voracious eater who can devoure him 
along with his children and catde. 

15. Some others cremate him in the forest conflagration. This should 
not be done. For, such fire is violent and it can devour him along with his 
sons and catde. 

16. Some others bum him with a fire-brand. It should not be done so. 
Such fire belongs to Rudra and will consume him along with his sons and 
catde. 

17. Some others build up an altar in the midst of his fires and by burning 
him unite him with his (three) fires. They think “the midst of the fires is 
indeed his abode.” Let him not do so. If in that case, some one is to say “this 
fellow has created a cleavage in the middle of the village and there will be a 
cleavage for him very shordy; he will be weeping for his dearest.” Then that 
word indeed is likely to come true. (First Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAB 

1. Naka Maudgalya once said- “If one feels the Yajamana is to die soon, 
let him transfer his (Yajamana s) fires on two ATanis and go to the place 
which he (the Yajamana) has desired for his immolation and having churned 
out the fire (from out of those AxcMiis) let him stay there making offerings. 
When the Yajamana (ultimately) departs from this world. 


2. Let him build up an altar in between the fires, the fires and by burn¬ 
ing him, let him unite him with fires. It should not be done so. That fire 
does not tolerate being churned out as if to burn a (ordinary) dead-body. 



XIV.9.2.7] 


TRANSLATION 


157 


He (the Fire) longs for sacrificial oblations and stays by his side with 
impatience. 

3. He should proceed like this - “He should ask them to fetch three sthalis 
(vessels). In them he should put cow-dung or straw and place them sepa¬ 
rately on each of the three Fires and then burn him with the flames that will 
be produced from them.” This way he becomes cremated by (his) Fires even 
though not visibly. 

4. Therefore it has been said by the Rsi - “Agni was born out of Agni, 
either due to the pains of the earth or of the sky; by which Visvakarma 
produced the living beings. Him, O Agni ! may your anger spare!” As the 
mantra, so its meaning. 

5. Then after cleansing him (the body of the Yajamana) of all dirt, and 
causes that Filth to settle on this (earth). For that dirty intestinal Filth, if 
burnt (in the body), produces a jackal. (He allows it settle on the earth) so 
that a jackal is not produced. But let him not do so, because that would 
cause his family to starve. Having washed from within, anoints him with ghee 
and thus makes it pure for sacrifice. 

6. Then he places seven pieces of gold in his seven channels of breath . 
Gold is immortal light; thus he places immortal light into him. 

7. Then after building an altar in the midst of the Fires, he spreads a 
black antelop’s skin over it with its neck towards the north and with its hairy 
side upwards. He then places the body (of the Yajamana) with the face 
looking upwards. Filling the Juhu with ghee, places it on his right hand and 
Upabhrt on his left hand. He places the Dhruvd on the chest; the 
Agnihotrahavani on the face; the two Sruks on the nostrils; the Prasitraharanas 
qj] his ears; the Camasa- cup that is used to take the Pranita water on the 
head; the two windows on his sides and the Ida patn (vessel for holding the 
cutting of Ida) Filled with clotted ghee, on the belley. (He places) at the tip of 
his male organ, the Yoke-pin, the two mallets beside his testicles and behind 
them the mortar and pestle. He places the other sacrificial utensils between 

his thighs. 



XIV.9.2.14] 


TRANSLATION 


159 


8. Thus that Yajamana equipped with all the sacrificial impliments, goes 
to that heavenly world which he has won, like one who escape from an 
unpleasant situation. Those fires, which are to be enkindled, lovingly touch 
him, even as sons would caressingly touch their father, when he returns 
from abroad and attends to his comfort. 

9. If the Gdrhapatya fire is to reach him (Yajamana’s body) first, one 
should know that the well-established fire has reached him first and he will 
be well-established and well-established in this world will be those who fol¬ 
low him (progeny). 

10. If the Ahavariiya fire is to reach him first, one should consider that 
the foremost fire has reached him and he has been the foremost in 
conquerring the (heavenly) world and that those who follow him (prog¬ 
eny) will be the foremost in this world. 

11. If the Anvahdryqpacana (fire of the Daksindgagni ) were to reach him 
first, one can conclude that the fire which is the eater of food has reached 
him first and that he will be eating food (in the other world) and that those 
who come after him will eat plenty of food (prosper) in this world. 

12. If all of them were to reach to him together, one may take it that he 
has conquered, the prosperous world These are the destinctions in this context 

13. This, the offering of his own body is the last offering he makes. From 
out of that heavenly abode he has won, he emerges in the form of oblation, 
in immortal state. 

14. Whatever stone or earthem articles (of the departed Yajamana) there 
are, shall be given to a brahmin. But he who accepts them is looked down as 
a carrier of corpses. Let them throw them in the waters (instead of giving to 
a brahmin). Because water is indeed the abode of all these. So he deposits 
them in the waters. 



XIV.9.2.15] TRANSLATION 161 

15 . Now his son or brother or any other brahmin makes this offering 
(saying) “From out of him, O Agni I you are bom. From out of you let so 
and so be bom again into the heavenly world-SwuAa.” They then depart 
without turning back and touch water. (Second Brahmana Ends.) 

(Chapter Nine Ends.) 


(MADHYAM KANDA ENDS) 



ASVAMEDHA KANDA 


Chapter One 


BRAHMANA 1 


1. He (Adhvaryu) cooks the Brahmaudana (a rice prepardon for the priests 
to eat). He thereby creates seed. What ghee is left over (after preparing the 
Brahmaudana) , with that he smears the rope (made of grass to put around the 
horse’s neck) and takes it For, ghee is brilliance (vitality) and the horse be¬ 
longs to Prajapati and thus he adds vitality to Prajapati. Thus the horse which 
is (normally) impure (forsacrifice).becomespurified. 

2. The rope is made of Darbha grass, for Darbhas are purifiers. They (fur¬ 
ther) purify this already purified; and thus rendered fit for sacrifice, he immolates it. 

S. When the horse was immolated, its seed went out and it became the 
shining gold. So he who gives as gift, shining gold, he endows the horse with seed. 


4 . Prajapati created the sacrifice. His greatness departed from hun and 
■ntered thT high priests of the sacrifice (i.e. Brahma, Hota, Adhvaryu apd 
Udgata). He (Prajapati) searched for it together with the high pnests and 
discovered it with the high priests. When the high priest consume that 

Brahmaudana, the Yajamana secures for himsetf that greatness of the sac ce 

(i.e. Prajapati ). Along with the Brahmaudana, he offers shining gold. The 
odana (rice called Brahmaudana) is indeed the seed and gold is also seed. TTius 
by means of seed, he bestows seed (into that horse and the Yajamana) ft 
(gold) weighs a hundred (units of weight), for man has a lifespan of hundred 
years) and has a hundred energies. Thus he bestows life, energy and vimluy 
into his own self. In the middle of the day, he gathers four types of VasaHvan 
waters; drey are brought from the (four) quartern. Food -s in.the. qtuuten.and 
water is food. Thus by means of food, he secures food. (First Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMANA II 

1 That which is done in a sacrifice without a Yajuf formula is indeed 
fructuous. He takes the rope of the horse saying “This rope of thej^ they 
ok”, to provide a Fo/ur formula for the success of the sacnfice. It (dm rope) 
twelve cubits long; for the year has twelve months. He thus secures fhat year 

;elf, the sacrifice. 



XV. 1.2.5] 


TRANSLATION 


165 


2. Now they ask- “Should the rope be made twelve cubits (long) or thirteen 
cubits.” The year is the bull among the seasons and the thirteenth month is 
its hump and this Asvamedhais the bull (leader) of the sacrifices. Since the bull 
has a hump (projection) one can take a thirteenth cubit for this rope 
for this (Asvamedha) . Just as the hump is attached to the (back of the) bull, 

this is like that. 


3. (He puts that rope on the horse saying) — “You are the binder (or you 
the horse) is the name of this sacrifice — Asvamedha) . Therefore the one who 
performs Asvamedha conquers all the quarters. “You are the world." For, he 
thus conquers all the worlds. “You are the ruler and supporter”, for it indeed 
makes him (the Yajamana), the ruler and supporter. “You go unto Agni- 
Vaisvanara”, — for it indeed makes him go to Agni-Vaisvanara. “Go, widely 
expanding.” Thereby he expands him with offspring and cattle. “Consecrated 
by Svdha — This is the Vasatkara (utterance marking the actual offering after 
reciting the Yajya) . “Take speed unto you for the gods", for it is for the sake of 
gods he speeds him up. “For Prajapati”, because the horse belongs to Prajapati 
and thus he enriches it with its own deity. 


4. He who ties the horse without informing the Brahma and the gods is 
liable to suffer harm. (So) he ties the horse (announcing) “O Brahma, lam 
fettering the horse for the gods, for Prajapati ; may I prosper by that. Thus 
he ties it after informing Brahma and so he does not suffer from any harm. 
“Do bind for the sake of the gods and Prajapati and thereby propser says the 
Brahma in response. Thus he enriches it with its own deity then he sprinkles it 
(with water). Its significance is the same (as told earlier). 


5. He sprinkles (saying) -T sprinkle you to make you acceptable to Prajapati.” 
For, Prajapati is the most vigorous among the gods. Thus he puts might into 
him; that is why the horse is most vigorous among the animals. I sprinkle you 
to make you acceptable to India and Agni." Because India and Agm are the 
strongest among the gods. Thus he puts strength into him. Hence it is that 
the horse is the strongest among animals. “I sprinkle you so as to make you 
acceptable to Vayu”; Because Vayu is the swiftest among the gods and thereby 
he puts speed into him. Hence the horse is the swiftest among animals I 
sprinkle you so that you may be acceptable to the Visvedevas. Because the 
Visvedevas are the most-famous among the gods. Thus he bestows fame into 
him. Hence the horse is the most famous among animals. I sprinkle you so 
that you may be acceptable to all the gods. 


XV. 1.3.3] 


translation 


167 


6. Now they ask - “If the horse is of Prajapati, how come, it issprinkled for 
other gods?" Because all the gods are associated with the Aivamedha and 
saying “I sprinkle you so as to be acceptable to all the gods', he involves tl the 
gods in this. Hence in the Aivamedha, all the gods are associated. To the one 
who performs Aivamedha, his enemy wishes evil. The horse is a thimderbolt 
and die enemy is a human being. The enemy is a dog” (Pom* &«.) thus 
uttering the fourletters, he kills the four-lettered dog and make « float under¬ 
neath the feet of the horse. Thus he attacks him with the thunderbolt and 
thereby the evil-designing enemy does not get him. (Second Irahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAm 

1. lust as a part of the Havis may get spilled before being offered, a part of 
this Pirn (hone) is spilled since it islet off (for wandering) before it is immolated. 
By offereing the Stokya (drop) offerings, he makes it (the horse) a complete 
oblation without spilling that which is spilled is made (good); unspilled. 


2/Now they say “If he were to make limited offerings, he would gi n for 
himself something limited.” He offers unspecified (number of oblations) in 
order to gain the unlimited. Prajapati did say - “I establish thoAsvamedha 
upon the Stokya offerings. With that, so established, I go upward from here. 

3. (He offers the Stokya offerings saying) To Agni-SimAa” — *us (in the 
form of the drop) he offers (only the horse) to Agni. To Soma-SraAo thus 
he offers only (foe horse) to Soma. “For the joy of foe wateis-Swito thus he 
offers only (foe hone) to foe waters. To Savita .SoahiT'- thus he offers only 
(foe horse) to foe Savita. To Vayu -SvahS 1 - thus he offers (foe horse) to 
Vavu^To Visnu-SvoAd”—thus he offers only (foe horse) toVisnu. Tolndra- 
'thm he offers only (foe horse) fo Indra. To Brhaspa ffl -^ - 
thus he offers only (foe horse) to Brhaspaff To Mitra-Sua/w thus he offers 
only (foehorse) to Mitra. ToVaruna-SvaAo -thushe offersonly (the horse) 
toVaruna. This much are all foe gods and to them he thus offers. He offers to 
them thus outwards (in a forward direction); for foe heavenly world «, as it 
were, beyond, and hence (so) for gaining foe heavenly won 



XV. 1.4.1] 


TRANSLATION 


169 


4. He who offers straight away in a forward direction, may depart straight 
away. That is why he comes backward (in reverse) so that he may get estab¬ 
lished in this world. This what (Prajapati) meant as completing the sacrifice 
(making the horse complete), by making good what has been spilled. Thereby 
that part which spilled becomes (as good as) unspilled. 

5. Just as a part of the Harris may get spilled before being offered, a part of 
the Pasu (horse) is spilled since itisletoff (for wandering) before it is immolated. 
When he offers the Rupa offerings (oblations related to the forms), he offers 
that horse as one that is offered as a whole (without any part of its spilled); 
thus what is spilled is made unspilled. “To the Himkdra (sound ‘Him’) Svahd;” 
“To the Himkdra (the horse to whom Himkdra is uttered)-Svaha” These ; 
the forms of the horse which he thereby gains. 

6 . They say - “The forms do not constitute offerings and they should not 
be offered.” But again they say, “Because they offer the Rupahut%s i the 
Asvamedhagets steady and so they should be offered by all means.” If one were 
to make the offerings outside its resting place, and outside the Ahavantya fire 
in the Anvdhdiya-pacana or the foot - print of the horse as said in some other 
Kalpas he would put him (the Yajamana) out of his resting place and would 
produce an enemy for him. Before the oblation to Savita, he offers only once, 
the Rupahufisin the Ahavantya, while chanting (the formulas) quickly. He thus 
offers the oblations at his resting place and creates no enemy for him. He 
offers these oblations at the starting points of each Isti for the sake of continu¬ 
ity and uninterrupted completion of the sacrifice. 

7. In this respect they say - If he were to offer the oblations at the starting 
points of each Isti, he would be losing his cattle and become poorer. He should 
offer only once so that he may not lose his cattle nor become poorer. Forty- 
eight oblations he offers; the Jagati meter has forty-eight syllables and the 
cattle ar ejdgata (mobile). So by means of the Jagatls, he ensures (the posses¬ 
sion of) cattle. One extra offering he makes and thence among the beings 
one man becomes prosperous. (Third Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAIV 

1. Prajapati created the Mvamedha and having been created, it went away 
and entered into the quarters. Then the gods went about searching for tt. 
They chased it intensely by means of the Istis; by offerings they searched for .t 


XV.1.5.3] 


TRANSLATION 


171 


and by means of offerings (of Istis) they found it TJius when he (the Yajamana) 
performs Istis , he is thereby searching for the horse that is fit for sacrifice. 

2. Those Istis are for Savita, for Savita is this catde. If somebody hides, ot 
goes out of sight they find him only on this earth; for no creature, whether 
walkinj (on two legs) or moving horizontally (or with four or more legs 
be able to go beyond this (earth). So, they (the Istis) belong to Savita for the 

discovery of the horse. 

3 Now they say - “When the horse goes straight away, it becomes invisible, 
because it does not come back to him. The OArti offerings he makes in die 
evening and Dhrti means quiet or secured place and the night is also quiet (or 
secured).” Thus he keeps it by means of quietude, and hence men and ani¬ 
mals rest quietly in the night. When he performs the /jits in the morning he 
reaches for that (horse). Hence it is that one goes about to search for some¬ 
thing lost, during the day time. When He offers the DArtioffenngsin the evening 
and the Savitra in the morning, the Yajamana ensures welfare and security. 
Hence welfare and security is gained for the subjects when this sacrifice is 
performed. (Fourth rahmana Ends.) 

bkahmanav 


1 . Indeed prosperity and royalty go away from one who performs the 
Asvamedha sacrifice. When prosperity abandons on someone, then the lu is 
played for him. Two brahmins who can play on lute, s ing (with the playi g 
Le) for one year, lute symbolises prosperity. So they confer prispenty unto him. 

2 Now they ask - “If both Who sing were to be brahmins; royalty would 
depart from him; for brahmana belongs to the priestly cIms and royalty <j°*» 
not enjoy in priesthood.” If both the singers were to be of the pnncety da«, 
brahJinical lustre would go away from him. For the ^min.cal lustmedoe, 
not go together with the princely class. So, one (of the two) who sing, isa 
brahmin and die other is of Rajanya class and *e lUjm^m, pnncely 
order. Thus his prosperity gets quarded on either side by the priesthood and royalty. 

* Now thevsav-“lfboth were to sing in day time, his prosperity will vian- 
don him- for the day symbolises the priesthood and when the king chooses 
he can win the brahmtald thereby he will become a sinner. If both were to 



XV. 1.6.2] 


TRANSLATION 


173 


sing in the night, the brahminical lustre will abandon him; because night 
symbolises the royalty and brahminical lustre does not go together with the 
royalty. So the brahmin sings in the day time and the Rajanya sings in the 
night. Thus his prosperity gets safeguarded; on either side by the priesthood 
and the Ksatra. “He performed such sacrifice, such ( Daksind) he gave” - So 
sings the brahmin. Fulfilment of wishes is in the control of priesthood and 
thus he endows on him the (benefit of) fulfilment of wishes. “Thus he fought 
and thus he won in the battles” -the Rajanya sings. For the battle depends on 
the strength of the Rajanya and thus he endows him with strength. One (of 
the two) sings three Gathds (songs) and the other three (songs). They to¬ 
gether make six. there are six seasons for the year. Then he gets established 
in the seasons in the year. He (the Yajamana) gives three hundred (gifts) 
each; for man has a life span of hundred years; and of a hundred energies. 
Thereby he owns himself that life-span and that energy. (Fifth Brahmana 

Ends.) 

BRAHMANA VI 

1. (Thus whispers the Adhvaryu into the right ear of the horse) “Proliferat- 

ing through the mother and strong through the father.” This earth is indeed 
the mother and yonder one (the sky) its father. To these two. he presents that 
horse “You are the Asva (that traverses the path) and you are the Haya (the 
one that runs).’ He thus orders (disciplines) him and thereby he begets well- 
behaved children. “You are Atya (the one who overtakes) ; you are the Maya 
(the producer of joy).” He thus leads it forward. Hence the horse overtakes all 
other animals and hence the horse gains superiority among animals. “You are 
the Arva (destroyer of enemies ) you are a racer’- as the Yajus text. so its 
meaning “You are Vrsa (mascunile);youare Nrmana (well-desposed to man). 
Thisisforprovidingitwithamate. “Youare Vayu (of moving nature) byname; 
you are Sisu (praise-worthy or suckling) by name.” This is the favourite name 
of the horse and so he addresses it by its favourite name. That is how even two 
enemies, while meeting each other, address one another by name; they de¬ 
velop mutual liking. “You go along the route of the Adityas -thereby he makes 

it go to the Adityas. 

2 “O Gods ' who gained the quarters, protect this horse which has been 
sprinkled (ear-marked) for sacrifice to the gods." The guardians of the quar¬ 
tern are one hundred princes bom to wedded couples. To them he is entrusted. 


XV. 1.7.21 


TRANSLATION 


175 


“Here is joy; rejoice here; here is the safe place; his own safe plac e-Svahd. (So 
saying) he makes (the Dhrti) oblations for a year which come to sixteen nine- 
teens (i.e.,1440 at the rate of four per day). These are the binding (material) 
of the horse and by them he binds it. Thus the horse released (let loose) is in 
binding. These sixteen nineteens are indeed the binding (ropes) of the horse 
and by them he binds it. Hence when let loose, it is not (entirely) leaving its 

binding. 

3. Verily the Asvamedha means sovereignty. Those who guard the horse do 
guard the sovereignty. Those among them who reach the end (successfu 
guard it for one full year) . They; share the sovereignty. Those who do not 
reach the end (fail in mid-way) they forefeit sovereignty. So whoever holds 
sovereignty shall perform Asvamedha. Whosoever bereft of sovereign power, 
performs the Asvamedha, gets himself wiped out. If the enemies get hold of the 
horse, his sacrifice gets broken and he would get condemned. Hundred 
armoured guards protect it for the sake of continuity and uninterrupted 
progress of the sacrifice and he will not get condemned. If it is otherwise (he 
fails to protect the horse or loses it), he should bring another horse and sprinkle 
it. This is the atonement there. (Sixth Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAVU 

1 Prajapati wished “let me perform Asvamedha .” He toiled nd underwent 
austerities and from his body so tired and heated, the deities came out of him 
in seven forms. From that was produced the (ritual of) Dtksa (initiation). He 
discovered these oblations to Visvedevas. He offered them. By them he se¬ 
cured initiation. When the Yajamana offers the oblations to Vaisvadevas, he is 
indeed securing the Dtksa (initiation). Every day he makes these offerings; 
every day he secures Dtksa . He makes seven offerings (of Vaisvadevas) be¬ 
cause seven were the deities who came out of him. By means of those deities 
he secures Dtksa for him (the Yajamana). 

2. From those who exceed (the duration of) Dtksa, their Pranas do 
away from them. For seven days they make that offering, for there are seven 
channels of Prana in the head and the Dtksa is Pranas. Thus by me an 
channals of Pranas he secures the Dtksa; the Pranas, i >r him. Here 
offerings dividing each deity into three; for the gods are of three ^ts; these 
worlds are also three-fold. Thus he establishes himself in these worlds in pros¬ 
perity and vitality. These (offerings) come to twenty-one (7x3). There are 


XV. 1.8.2] 


TRANSLATION 


177 


months, five seasons, these three worlds and yonder Sun as the twenty-first 
That is divine royal sway, that is prosperity; that is over-lordship; and by this he 
wins that throne of the shining one (Sun) and that Svdrajya (realm of glory). 
He makes thirty Audgrabhana offerings; for the Virad has thirty syllables and 
the Virad symbolises all food. Thus he offers (thirty Audgrabhana oblations) 
for gaining all food. (Each day) he offers four Audgrabhanas and three 
Vaisvadeva offerings, which together form seven. There are verily seven chan¬ 
nels of Prana in the head and Dtksa (initiation) is the Pranas. Thus by means 
of Pran as, he secures for him Pranas, Dtksa. Lastly he offers the Purnahuti for 
the sake of rejuvenation and to achieve unity. (Seventh Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMAN A Vm 

1, Prajapati created Asuamedha, (in other words) made the essence of the 
horse flow out. When it flowed out, it suppressed the Rks and the Sdmans. The 
Vaisvadeva (offerings) sustained it {Asuamedha). Thus when he makes the 
Vaisvadeva offerings, it is to sustain the Asuamedha. 

2. (The Vaisvadeva offerings he makes saying) “To Ka- Svdha; to Kasmai - 
Svdhd, to Katamasmai-Svdha.” In this he makes the one to Prajapati, the first 
offering and thus sustains that Asuamedha by means of the deities with Prajapati, 
the foremost among them. “ Svdha - meditation unto him meditated upon; 
Svdha the mind unto Prajapati; Svdha- thought unto him, the known.” These 
have the same mystic significance as the former mantras. “To Adi ti-Svdhd; to 
Aditi, the mighty-Sva/w; to Aditi, the compassionate - Svdha.” Aditi is this earth; 
by means of her he sustains it (the Asuamedha) To Sarasvati-St,^ to Sarasvati, 
the pure -Svdha; to Sarasvati - the great- Svdha” Sarasvati is mdeed speech. He 
thus sustains it by means of speech. To Pusa -Svdha; to Pusa - the guardian on 
the road - Svdha: to Pusa the watchful-S^Afl”. Pusa is indeed cattle and by 
means of the cattle, he sustain it. To Tvasta - Svdha; to Tvaffrthe seminal- 
Svdhd” to Tvasta - the Pururupa (of multifarious forms) - Svdha. Tva$ta 
indeed the maker of the couples of animals. By means of forms, he thus sus¬ 
tains it “To Visnu-A'dAd. To Vi 51 .n 1 , the protector in many, forms - Svaha, to 
Visnu, the one pervaded by rays Svaha". Vwu is of course, sacrifice and thus 
he sustains it by means of sacrifice. (With the mantra starting with VuuoDeoasfa 
Neta etc ” - he offers lastly a Purnahuti (full oblation). The Purnahuti is this 
earth. Thereby he finally establishes himself on this earth. (Eighth Brahmana 

Ends.) 



XV. 1.9.3] 


TRANSLATION 


179 


BRAHMAN AIX 

1. “Let brahmin of Brahmavarcas (brahminical lustre) be born from 
brahmins” -by this he endows brahminical lustre unto the priesdy class. Hence 
since those days the brahmin was born with brahminical lustre. “In the princely 
class, let the Rajanya be bom, heroic, good at archery, sure of his target and 
a mighty fighter on chariot” Thereby he bestows of Rajanya (Prince) the glory 
of heroism. “Hence since those days, the prince was bom, heroic, adept in 
archery, sure of his mark (to hit) and a mighty fighter on ch riot. 

2. “Cow yielding milk.” thereby he bestows milk on the cow. Hence since 
those days, cow was bom yielding milk. “The draught ox —thereby he bestows 
strength on the ox. Hence since those days the ox was bom as a draught 
animal. “The horse swift - moving” on the horse he bestows speed. Hence 
since old days the horse was bom a racer. “The lady, a respected mistress 
thereby he bestows charm in the lady. Hence since old days a charming lady 
was beloved (to man). “The warrior victorious” - thereby he bestows the gloiy 
of victory of Rajanya. Hence since old days Rajanya was bom victorious. “The 
youth sociable.” He indeed is a sociable youth who is in his prime of life. Hence 
who is in his prime of life is liked by woman. “Let a hero be bom to this 
Yajamana.” Thus he bestows valour in the Yajamana s progeny. Hence since 
old days hero was bom to one who performed (Asvamedha) sacrifice. 

3. “May Paijanya (water - laden cloud) rain for us whenever we wish for” - 
where they perform this sacrifice, there the cloud rains whenever they want. 
“May our fruit-bearing plants ripen.” The fruit-bearing plants ripen wherever 
they perform this sacrifice. “May we be assured of acquisition and safety of 
possession.” Indeed where this sacrifice is performed there wealth and secu¬ 
rity are assured. Hence wherever they perform this sacrifice, there the people 
are sure to possess what they want and safely preserve what is theirs. (Ninth 

Brahamana Ends.) 


(Chapter One Ends.) 



Chapter Two 
brahmanai 


1. Prajapati ear-marked the sacrifices to the gods and kept Aspamedha for 
himself. Those gods told Prajapati “Let us have share in this Asvamedha sacri¬ 
fice as well.” He assigned these Annarhomas (Food- oblations) to them. So, 
when he offers the Anna-hotnas, he is only pleasing the gods. 

2 . He makes offerings with ghee, for ghee is Tefas (brilliance). So, he imparts 
brilliance by means of Tejas into him (into the Yajamana and into the horse). 
He makes offerings with ghee, for ghee is favourite resort of the gods. Thus, he 
supplies them with their favourite resort. 

3. He makes offering with saktu (flour made of fried barley). These saktus 
are a form of the gods. Thereby he pleases the gods themselves. 

4 . He makes offering with grains. These grains are a form of the days and 
nights. Thus he pleases the days and nights. 

5 . He makes offerings with parched grains. The parched grains are a form 
of the Naksatras (asterism). He thereby pleases the Naksatras. *To the Prana- 
Svdha; to the Apdna-Svdhd- thus he offers by the names. In this way he pleases 
those Prana and Apdna by reciting their names. *To number one - Svdha, to 
number two -Svdha “to number hundred - Svdha; to number hundred and 
one -Svdha.” This way he offers in the numerical order. Thus he pleases these 
gods in their order. He performs offerings successively increasing by one; for 
the heaven is single - thus he causes him (The Yajamana) go to the heaven 
single. He makes the.offering straightaway (towards the front), for the heaven 
is as it were, straight in front. That is for gaining the heavenly world. 

6 Verily he who offers the oblations straightaway, he is liable to get harmed. 
If he exceeds hundred and one, he will shorten the life of the Yajamana. So 
he offers only hundred oblations; for man has hundred years* life-span and 
his own self is the hundred and first So he gets established in his life-span, m 
his own self. “To the dzwn-Svahdr, to the heaven-SuoAd.” Thus he offers at the 
end, two oblations. The dawn represents the nights and the heaven repre¬ 
sents the day. Thus he gratifies the day and the mght. 


XV.2.2.2] 


TRANSLATION 


183 


7 They say - “If he were to make both offerings either by the day or by the 
night, he would mix-up the day and night." So he offers to the dawn when 
the sun has not risen, in order to avoid mixing up of the day and night. (Firs 

Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMAN AII 

1. This Asvamedha is verily the king of sacrifices. Indeed the Mva^dlm “ 
the Yajamana; for the sacrifice is the sacrificer. When he (The Adhvaryu) binds 
the JWfor the horse-sacrifice, he starts the sacnfice with ^sacrifice^itself. 
The horse the hornless he-goat and C,omrga (A kind of ox) - These they 
dm central Yu P a. Thereby he sharpens (makes ready) the front of h,s army 
Therefore the front of a king’s army becomes terrible. A black necked he-goa 
fm IS (is tied) to the front of die horse’s fore-head. By this he makes ,t the 
Wn£» <the original fire). By that the king's original ^e -s ass-e^He Ues 

an ewe for Sarasvad beneath the horse s jaws and by that he makes the 

women-folk (of the Yajamana) obey him. Hence women become e o ow- 
ersof man. Two he^oats with white bottom portions for the “ he ues t 
.. f * ifvrrc fnf the horse) Thereby he bestows strength to the front legs 

andSTthe navel of the horse. He thereby makes a base^Thrs eardr. s 
£££ “hereon he establishes himself. He ties a white and black he^ats 

of those two ence ties for Tvasta atthehindlegsofthe.horse.By that 

Te^wsreS m Ms thighs. That is why the king has sturdy thigh. He 
he bestowsi str g ^ (he ^ of the horse. By this he causes an 

binds a whi * f ^ , in danger, they move to an el- 

elevauon. That is wny wnen p f , m for the ^ke of associat- 

evated place. He ties a barren cow ’ , _ r Visnu* for Visnu is 

ing Indra with the sacrifice. He binds a dwarfish he^oat for Visnu, for Vis. 

sacrifice and hence he thus finally gains stability in sacnfice. 

2 These are the fifteen ParyangaPasus (animal encircling the body of the 
i. tnese are uic , /.. . i -bolt , m d thunder-bolt means vigour, 

horse) - for, fifteen-fold ,s ‘hunifrr boh ^ ^ from ^ 

With that thunder - b ° lt ’ V,g0 “ r ’**^'t of ^ other Yufas, for fifteen-fold is 
front side. Fifteen indeed are e that thunder-bolt, vigour, 

dte thunder-bolt and ihunder-bok means ng sacrifice, 

the Yajamana now drives away evil from botn tne 



XV.2.2.7] 


TRANSLATION 


18S 


3. Now they ask- “By this, does the entire evil get removed? At this moment 
Prajapati (sacrifice) is not complete; nor in this everything is obtained.” Let 
him rather bind seventeen Pasus at the central Yupa, for Prajapati is seven¬ 
teen-fold and Prajapati is Asvamedha. Thus for the obtaining of Asvamedha, he 
may bind sixteen Pasus at each of the other Yupas> for all this universe is made 
of sixteen Kalds and thereby he gains all of them. They ask- “How to appease 
all these (That is what Apri chants are to uttered over them)?” 


4 Let him appease them with the Barhadukta mantras “Enkindled, anoint¬ 
ing the lap of the faithful..... etc.,” for, Brhadukta, the son of Vamadeva or 
(and) Asva, son of Samudra, discovered these veiy chants of the horse, nfice. 
“It is by this they appease it” - so they say. Let him not do so. Let him chantdie 
Jamadagna mantrar, for Jamadagni is Prajapati and so is the 
he supplies it with its own deity. So let him appease (the Pasus) with Jamadagna 

Apri chants. 

5. Some people adopt separate invitatory and offering formulas for these 
Pnyafigas saying “We have formulas for these and so we adoptandsincewe 
doLthave separate formulas for others, we do not 'It should no.b*^done 
so. The horse is indeed royalty and the other Pams are the Ws (c«nmaoners) 
Those who do this, really treat the peasantry on a par with royalty and 

die peasantry disobey the ruling class. Thus they cause harm to the _life^an 
of the YajamLa. Therefore the horse does belong to Prajapati and the others 
belong to the other gods. He thus makes the commoners obedient to and 
subservient to the royalty. Thereby supplies longevity to the Yajamana. 

6. The soso (slotting knife) for the horse is made of gold and th ose for die 
fWttewr Pasus, are of copper. For, gold is effulgence and die 
suzereinity. Thus he bestows effulgence inn, totsuzereim^Bythe effidgence 
of the gold; the Yajamana also goes to the heavenly world. It makes it (the 
sacrificel a shining torch after him; for himto reach the heavenly world^The 
horse is Indeed a royalty and this gold is the symbol of supreme power. Thus 
he enriches royalty by means of supreme power. 

7 As to why those knives of the Pmyanga Pams are of coppef is this - the* 
PanZapXs are to die horse in that relationship whtch the mintster, 
Chlieer and headman have with the king. This is how the copper ts m rela- 
tion to gold. So he endows them with their own forms. 



TRANSLATION 187 

8. As to why there are iron, (knives) for the other Pasus - the other Pasus are 
the peasantry. This iron is the form of the peasantry. Thus he enriches the Vm 
with the peasantry itself. On a bamboo mat at the north of the horse, they cut 
the parts of the horse; for the horse is of the nature of Anu?(hubh metre and 
that northern quarter is of Anustubh. He thus places the horse in its own 
quarter. Now why on a bamboo mat - the horse is from die womb of the water 
and the bamboos are born of waters, thus he endows it with its own womb. 
(Second Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMAN A III 

l.The gods did not know the Pavamdna (the pressed Soma or the Pavamana 
stotra) at the Ahiamedha to be the heavenly world; but the horse knew it At the 
Asvamedha, when they creep (without making noice, from out of the Sodas) 
along with the horse for the Pavamana Stotra (which is called Bahts Pavamana 
since it is chanted out side the Sodas), it is to know the heavenly world. They 
hold on to the horse’s tail in order to reach the heavens. Man does not exactly 
know the heavenly world, whereas the horse does exactly know lL 


2. If the Udgata were to chant the Udgitha, it would be like one who does 
not know the locality is to be lead by another through a wrong path. If "ter 
stopping the Udgata, fie prompts the horse to perform the Udgttha, .Us hke 
some one knowing the locality and leading another on the right path. The 
horse leads the Yajamana on the right path to reach the heaverriy world It 
produces the Himkara (Sound ‘Him’) and by that ffiiitten.it actually sings> the 

Soman. It is the Udgitha Simon-They pen up the mares m ^ e ? 

noice (on seeing the horse) . This is like a sound produced while the Udgatas 
sing. For this gold is Daksina. It is to weigh hundred grams. Its i port has been 
explained. (Third Brahmana Ends.) 


brahmana IV 


1. Praiapati desired- “May I gain both these worids, the world of the gods 
and the world of the men.” He saw those animals; both wdd and tame ones. 
He seized them (for sacrifice) and with them gamed bod.these^9^™* 
the tamed ones, the yonder one. This worid is the world of htmmand the 
yonder one is of die gods. When he seized^e tamed P^he ^med dm 
world and with wild ones, that yonder worid. Were he to complete the sacrv 


XV.2.5.2] 


TRANSLATION 


189 


fice with only the tamed Pasus, people would cross the distances on even roads, 
there will be (contiguity of villages); each village connected with the limits o 
the other village. No bears, man-tigers, robbers, murderers and theives would 
inhabit the woods. By conducting the sacrifice with wild beasts, the roads will 
be uneven, each village will be far away from the limits of the other village, the 
wood will be inhabited by bears, man-tigers, robbers, murderers id heives. 

2. So they say “This wild beast is no Pasu at all and it should not be used for 

offering. If they were to be offered, it would result in the Y^amana being ju¬ 
ried dead to the forests; because the forest beasts have the forest for their 
share. If he were not to make the offerings (of wild beasts) it would be violat¬ 
ing the rules of the sacrifice." Well, they set them free after Pmyagmka^a 
(carrying the fire around them). This amounts to rendering them neither 
offered nor unoffered. Nor it causes the carrying of Yajamana dead to die 
forest; nor their is any violation of sacrificial rule. He completes the sacnfice 
irith the tamed Prrius. The father and the son will (be free to engage in drffer- 

, five apart (without the need to live together for fear of any 

danger); people cover the distances by evenly laid road; each village wi a e 
the limits P of the other village contiguously. No bears, man-ugers, ro 
murderers and theives inhabit the woods. (Fourth Irahm na Jids.) 

brahmanav 

1 Praiapati created the sap of the horse. So produced, it went-avay from 
him It became five fold (Pankti metre) and entered the year and those five 
parts became 1 the half-months. He followed it up by means of die fifteen-fold 
LToftfSL) and gained it. Having gained it, he retained it by means of dm 
fif -fold ones, bLuse those fifteen-fold sett symbolise the 

By seizing die fiAeen-fold sets of animals, the Yajamana ,s gaming die half- 

months. 

2 In this regard they say “The year is not, certainly, taken possession of by 

2 . in this regar y r ce other ,h e Caturmasya sacrifices. 

one who proceeds wi J and when he binds tire Pasus of 

The Caturmdsyas are Lj^ion of that year. Anyone who proceeds 


XV.2.6.4] 


TRANSLATION 


191 


of eleven Yupas assures progeny and cattle. So by tying the Pasus to the sets of 
eleven Yupas, he does not fail to gain the heavenly world, nor is he deprived of 
progeny.and cattle. 

3 .Prajapati created the Viraj. When created, she escaped from him and 
entered the horse which is fit for sacrifice. He followed it up with sets of ten 
Pasus. He found it and having found, he took possession of it by means of sets 
often Pasus. By tying the sets often, the Yajamana is only gaining the Vtrdj. He 
ties hundred Pasus; for man has a life-span of hundred years and he has hun¬ 
dred energies. Thus he takes unto himself longivity and vitality and power. 
He ties eleven times, sets of ten Pasus ; for the Trsthubh has eleven syllables 
and Trsthubh means energy, vitality. Thus it is for the possession of energy 
and vitality. Eleven sets of tens - he ties, because in a Pasu their are ten Pranas 
and its body is the eleventh; thus he supplies the Pasus with Pranas. They 
belong to all the gods, for the horse belongs to Visvedevas and hence (he 
does so) for completeness of the horse sacrifice. They are of many forms and 
hence the Pams are of many forms. They are of different types and hence the 
Pasus are of different types. (Fifth Brahmana Ends.) 

brahmanavi 


I “They yoke the ruddy horse moving about shining (Thus s ing he 
puts‘the horse to the chariot). The ruddy horse is of course, the sun who 
shines. Thus he is indeed yoking only the yonder sun for obtaining the heav¬ 
enly world. 


2. In this connection they say - “Surely he is losing his sa -.rifice, if the Pasu 
brought for the sacrifice goes else where than the sacrifical tiefi. Hence (he 
chants) “You who sings praise! bring that horse back to us here, by that route. 
One who sings praise is indeed Vayu. It is him (Vayu) drat he thereby places 
on the other tide and thus the horse does not step beyond th region of the Vayu). 


3. From him, who performs Asvamedha sacrifice, 1 ice, essence, cattle 
and prosperity depart. 

4. The queen anoints (The horse’s front part with saying) “Let the 
Vasus anoint you with the Gayatri metre.” Ghee indeed is brilliance and two 
kinds of brilliance, he thus bestows on him. 


XV.2.6.10] 


TRANSLATION 


193 


5. “The favourite wife of the king anoints (the middle part of the horse’s 
body, saying) * “Let they Rudras anoint you with Trsthubh metre.” Trsthubh is 
essence (energy). Thus he bestows on him both brilliance and energy. 

6 . The neglected wife of the king anoints (the back part of the horse’s 
body, saying) “Let the Adityas anoint you with the Jagati metre.” Ghee is bril¬ 
liance and the jagati metre symbolises the catde. Thus he bestows on, him 
brilliance and cattle. 

7. Thus the wives anoint him; for these wives represent the forms of 
prosperity. It is thus the .prosperity that he bestows on him. There-by bril¬ 
liance, energy, cattle and prosperity do not depart from him. 

8 . Just as the Havis while being offered, spills, similarly some part of the 
Pasu spills; because when wetted, its hair falls. When they (the wife) weave 
pearls (into the mane and tail of the horse) they collect its hairs. They hap* 
pen to be golden. Its significance has been explained. They weave into hun¬ 
dred and one, hundred and one hairs each (in their respective parts). M 
has hundred .years of life-span and his own self is the hundred and first. Thus 
he establishes himself in his lifespan, in his own self. They weave them each 
time uttering one of the three Vydkrfis belonging to Prajapati; -Bhuh, h 
and Svali For, the horse belongs to Prajapati. In this way they enrich him (the 
horse) with his own deity. He places down the remaining food (from the cart, 
which is left over after being taken for Annorhouios) before the horse (saying) 
- “These fried grains: flour of fried barley; food made of corns as food for 
cows.” He thus makes the king’s subjects eaters of food (prosperous). “You 
gods eat this food; you subjcctsest this food - thus he enriches the subjects of 
the king with plenty of food. 

9 . From one who performs AsvciviedhtL, brilliance and brahminical lustre 
depart. The Hota and the Brahma engage in metaphysical discussion 
(Brahmodya). The Hota belongs to Agni and Brahma to Brhaspati. The 
Brahma being Prajapati, he bestows brilliance and brahminical lustre simulta¬ 
neously on him. They discuss (going round) the Yujn and the Yupa symbolises 
the Yajamana. Thus they enclose the Yajamana himself on either side with 
brilliance and brahminical lustre. 

10. (They discuss metaphysical topics thus) “who is it that moves all alone? 
This yonder sun is moving all alone and he is brahminical lustre. Thus they 


XV2.7.3] 


TRANSLATION 


195 


both confer brahminical lustre on him.” “Who is it that is bom again?” Of- 
course it.is the moon that is bom again and by this they confer longivity on 
him. “What is the remedy for winter?” The remedy for winter is no doubt, fire. 
They thus confer on him that brilliance. “What is the great container ?” This 
world is of-course the great container. Thus he establishes himself on this 
earth. 

11. “What was the first thing to be conceived ?” The first conception doubt¬ 
less, was the sky-rain; he thus ensures sky-rain for himself. “Who happened to 
be the big bird?” The big bird is indeed the horse. Thus he bestows longivity. 
“What was the smooth shining one ?” The smooth shining one (here the 
word pilippila is not satisfactorily interpreted by any-body) doubtless is 
prosperity. There-byhe conferes prosperity on him. “What was the tawny one?” 
The day and night are the two tawny one, he thus establishes him in day and 
night (Sixth Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAVII 

1. When the Paitts have been bound (to the Yupas) the Adhvaryu takes tl^e 
vessel of sprinkling water in order to sprinkle the horse. While the Yajamana 
holds on (to the Adhvaryu), the latter rapidly recites the Yajus formulas of the 
Adhvara (Soma-sacrifice) and starts chanting the Yaju$ formula of the 

Asvamedha. 

2. “May Vayu protect with cooked food-varieties.” It is Vayu who cooks it 
“The dark-necked one along with he-goats” r the black-recked one is indeed 
Agni arid it is fire that cooks it (the horse) together with the he-goats. “The 
Nyagrodha with the camasas” - when the gods performed sacrifice, they turned 
upside down these camasas (cups) and they, in inverted stage, developed roots. 
That is why the Nyagrodha when upside down takes roots. “The cotton tree 
with growth” - thus he confers growth in the cotton tree. That is why the cot¬ 
ton tree grows largest among trees. 

3. “This male is fit for the chariot” - thus he provides the chariot with a 
horse. Hence the horse does not draw anything else than a chariot “He has 
come here on his four legs” - that is why the horse while standing, stands on 
three feet and when harnessed, it moves with all the four feet. “May the Brah¬ 
man, spotless, protect us” - the moon is indeed the spotless Brahma. Thereby 
he offers it to the moon. “Prostration to Agni” - he thus bows to Agtu. 


XV.2.7.8] 


TRANSLATION 


197 


4. “The chariot is got ready with the hangipgs” - thus he gets ready the 
chariot with the decorating cords. Hence the chariot when covered with hang¬ 
ings, becomes most charming. ‘The horse has been got ready with the reins” 
- he thus readies the horse with reins. So the horse when controlled by the 
reins, looks greatly attractive. ‘The water-bom has been readied with waters.” 
The horse has waters as its womb of origin. Thus he enriches it-with its own 
womb. “Brahman with Soma as its leader” - he there-by causes him to go the 
heavenly world with Soma leading him. 


5. “O Vajin (fast-moving)! choose your body” - by which he means “You 
take yourself the form which you wish.” “Make offerings, yourself’ - by this he 
confers independent right (over itself). “You enjoy yourself’ (meaning) en¬ 
joy the world yourself as far as you wish.” ‘Your greatness shall not be equalled 
by anyone else” - by this he endows greatness into the horse. “You shall not die 
nor suffer any injury” - this is by way of enthusing it. “Through easy roads you 
reach the gods” - there-by he shows to it the roads to reach the gods. Where 
those of good acts dwell; where they have gone” - he thereby makes it share 
the same world as those of good acts. “The god Savita shall indeed escort you 
there” ; It is indeed Savita, who leads it to the heaven. “I sprinkle you so as to 
be acceptable to Prajapati” (so saying) he holds the sprinkling vessel, silently 

below (the horse’s mouth). 


6. “Agni was the Pasu with which they sacrificed and gained that world 
Which is his and that world will be yours, you will conquer it; dnnk these wa¬ 
ters" - thereby he only says “what conquest Agni made, what world, what pros¬ 
perity, that much shall be your conquest, that much world and that much 

prosperity you will have.’ 


7. “Vayu was the Pain with which they sacrificed and he gained that world 
which is his and that world will be yours, you will conquer; dnnk these waters 
- thereby he only says “what conquest Vayu made, what world, what prospenty, 
that much shall be your conquest That much world and that much prospenty 

you will have.” 


8 “Surya was the Pain with which they sacrificed and he gained that world 
which is his and that world will be yours, you will conquer^dnnk these waters 
- thereby he only says “what conquest Surya made, winch world wh.ch pros¬ 
perity that much shall be your conquest that much world and that much 



XV.2.8.3] 


TRANSLATION 


199 


prosperity you will have.” After satisfying the horse and after again consecrat¬ 
ing the sprinkling water, he sprinkles th<? other Pasus. That now 
follows.(Seventh Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMAN A Vm 


|. The gods while proceeding upwards, did not know the heavenly world. 
The horse knew it. They proceeded upward with the horse in order to know 
(the way) to the heaven. They spread out for the horse, a cloth, an upper 
garment and gold. They strangle in such a way as it is done in the case of any 
other Posit. Thus they distinguished it from the other Pasus. They make offer¬ 
ings to the one which is being strangled (by saying) - “to PranaSvaha. to Apanar 
Svaha, to Vyana-SvahS'. Thereby they place the vital airs into it. This amounts 
to making the offering while its breath is not seperated(that is, while it is alive). 


2. “Amba, Ambika, Ambalika -there is none to lead me’ - with this he leads 
up the wives (of the Yajamanaffom their seats near the Garhapatya) ■ He thereby 
hL beckoned them andmade them pure for st rifice. "We beckon the tn 
-leader of the tribes’ - so saying, the wives walk round the horse and thtu 
attone for its slaughtering. Even though they so attone for it, * 

They go round fanning thrice; for there are these three worlds and with these 
worlds they fan it. Again they go round fanning (in the reveme threcnon) 
and this comes to six; for there are six seasons and with the seasons the fan 


them. 


3. The vital airs indeed, go away from those who do the fanning in the 
sacrifice. They go round nine times for there are nine Pranas and thereby 
drey put the lias into themselves, so drat die Pranas do not go away from 
therm “I prompt the one who is to impregnate; you prompt the one who is to 
inrore lat ■’ - (so says the Queen). Impregnauon means offspring and catde. 
Thus she owns in herself the off-spring and catde. “fait us both stretch our 
four feet’ - this is for effecting the union. “In the heaven you cover yourself” 
fsavs the Adhvaryu). For, that is indeed the heaven where the Pasus are 
strangled; therefore he said so. “May the rigorousmale, dielayer of reed, 
impregnate’ she says to secure union. (Eighth Brahmana End?.) 



XV2.9.4] 


TRANSLATION 


201 


BRAHMANAIX 

1. From him who performs Asvamedha, that prosperity, royal power goes 
away. “Raise her upwards" (the Udgata says referring to the king’s consort). 
The Asvamedha is indeed that prosperity, that royal power. He thus lifts up that 
prosperity and royal power for him. “Even as one carrying a weight while climb¬ 
ing a mountain.” Prosperity is the weight of the royal power. He thus attaches 
that prosperity, royal power on him and thereby endows him with prosperity 
and royal power. “May the middle partofherbody prosper”-for the middle 
part (the centre) of the royal power, is prosperity. Thus he endows prosperity 
and food in the centre of the royal power. “As one winnowing in a cool breeze” 

- the cool of the royal power is, doubdess, safety of possession. He thus en¬ 
sures security of possession for him. 

2. That litde bird” (Adhvaryu addresses an attendant made) - the little 
bird, doubdess, is the common people. “Which produce clamouring sound 
‘ Ahalak' ; for the common people go on making noice for the royal power. 
“Thrusts the ‘ Pams ’ into the cleft and the ‘ Dhdraka ’ devours it”- the cleft, 
doubdess is the people and the Pams, the royal power, the royal power presses 
hard on the people and hence the one wielding the royal power is likely to 

strike down the people. 

3 “Your mother and father” (thus the Brahma addresses the Queen). The 
mother, doubdess is this earth and the father is that yonder sky. By means of 
these two, he causes him to ascend to the heaven. “Climb to the top of the 
tree’ - prosperity is the top of the royal power. He thus causes him to reach top 
of royal power, prosperity. “Saying ‘I pass through’, your father passed his fist 
to and from in the deft” The deft is indeed the people and the fist is royal 
power. Royal power of course presses hard on the people. Hence he who 
wields royal power is likely to strike down the people. 

4. “When the deer eats the com’ (so says the chamberlain to the fourth 
consort of the king) - the com is no doubt the people and deer ts royal power. 
He thus makes the people the food for royal power. Hence the possession of 
royal power feeds on the people. “It thinks not of the fat catde - hence the 
king does not make the catde strong. “When the Sudra lady ts the Ary* s con- 
cubine, he does not seek riches” - that is why he does not coronate the son of 

a Vatiya. 


XV.2.1U] 


TRANSLATION 


203 


5. The Pranas, of course depart from one whq speaks impure speech at the 

sacrifice. “I have sung the praises of Dadhikrdvan .etc.” Thus they finally 

utter verse containing the work ‘Surabht (fragrance). Thus they purify the 
speech and so the Pranas do not depart from them. (Ninth Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAX 

1. When they prepare the path of the sword, the Yajamana builds a cause¬ 
way to cross over to the heavenly world. They prepare them by me; 
needles: the needles are no doubt, the people and the Asvamedha is the royal 
power. They thus provide him with people and royal power. The ar 
gold and the import of this has been explained. There are three kinds of 
needles; viz. copper, silver and gold. Those of copper are indeed the main 
quarters; those of silver are the intermediate quarters and those of gold are 
the upper regions. It is by mean's of these they make that path, (by placing 
them) horizontally and vertically. They are of many forms and hence the 
regions are many formed. They are of distinct forms and hence the regions 
have clistinct forms. (Tenth Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANA XI 

1. Prajapati desired - “Let me become great and multiple.” He discovered 
the two Mahima Orahas and offered them. By that he became great and more 
in number. He who offers these two Mahima Grahas at the Asvamedha, be¬ 
comes great and increases in number. He offers them on either side of the 
Vapd (i.e., before and after Vapd offerings). The Asvamedha is indeed, the 
Yajamana and that Mahima Graha is the king. Thus he envelopes him on ei¬ 
ther side with royal power. Some gods have (for their offerings) the Svahdkdra 
in the start and some* others have the Svahakdra behind. He thus gratifies 
both of them “ Svdhd - to the gods; to the %odsrSvdha - so saying he makes 
Soma offering on both sides of the Vapd. He thereby pleases those gods who 
are in this world as well as those in the other world. Thus pleased, both sets of 
gods carry him to the heaven. (Eleventh Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter Two Ends. ) 




Chapter Three 
BRAHMANAI 

1. The eyes of Prajapati swelled; that which fell out from that, came Asva 
(horse). Since it swelled ( Asvayat ) that confers Asvahood to the horse. The gods 
restored it by means of Asvamedha and he who performs Asvamedha, makes 
Prajapati complete and himself becomes complete. This is an expiation for 
everything; it is an antidote for everything. It is by means of this that the gods 
got over all evil. Even the sin of Brahmahatya (killing of a Brahmin), they got 
over by this. So he who performs Asvamedha gets rid of all sins and gets rid of 
even the sin of killing a Brahmin. 

2. It was the left eye of Prajapati which swelled; so they cut out (the flesh of) 
the left part of the horse. In the case of the other Pasus, the right side (flesh is 
cut). There is a bamboo-mat (used for cutting); for the horse was produced 
from the womb of the waters and bamboo also comes from waters. So he brings 
it into contact with its own womb. The form of chanting is Catustoma (three 
Stolras chanted in four Paryayas and called Catustoma) , for the first day. A bee 
pierced the horse’s thigh and by means of Catustoma method of chanting, the 
gods restored it. Thus the Catustoma method of chanting is for the complete¬ 
ness of the horse. The last day constitutes of an Atiratra with all the Stomas . For, 
the Atiratra with all the Stomas is everything and Asvamedha is everything. So, for 
the sake of obtaining everything and for the owning of everything (it is an 
Atiratra with all the Stomas). (First Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMAN AII 

1 Having conquered with this supreme Stoma the Catustoma the Krta among 
the dice, this one (Yajamana), establishes himself in the next day on the 
Ekavimsa (the Sun), a firm foundation. From the Ekavimsa, the firm founda¬ 
tion, on the next day, he ascends to the seasons; for the Prstha-Stotras (of the 
next day) are the seasons and seasons mean year and thus he gets established 

in the seasons, the year. 


XV.3.3.4] 


TRANSLATION 


207 


2. The verses in Sakoari form the Prstha-Stotras (of the second day). There 
is a different metre for each Stotra; because different are the Pasus, both tame 
and wild ones are immolated here on each. The Prstha in Sahvan metre are 
there for the completness of the horse. Different Pasus are immolated on dif¬ 
ferent days, because Stomas also differ in different days. 

3. They say on this - “goats, sheep and the wild beasts - all these are not 
pasus .” Only the cow and others are known as Pasus. On the last day, he immo¬ 
lates the cow and others, because they are all Pasus ; the cows etc. In this way 
he immolates all the Pasus. This is for Visvedevas; for the sake of completeness 
of the horse (sacrifice). They are of many forms. That is why Pasus are of 
many forms. They are of different forms; hence the Pasus are of different 
forms. (Second Brahmana Ends.) 

' brahmana m 

1. Since there are three chants in Anusthubh metre (for the Bahispavamana 
Stotra of the Catustoma on the last day), the horse, while standing, stands on 
three legs. Since they are made into four chants in Gayatri metre, the horse 
when on the move, runs on all the four legs. That Anusthubh is the super- 
most among the metres and the horse is the super-most among the Pasus. 
The Catustoma is the super-most among the Stomas. So, by means of the super- 
most, he causes it to become super-most. 

2. The chants in Sahvan metre form the Prstha (of the secon 1 ay). They 
are in different metres, for different Stomas are performed on each day, the 
&fo*mchants form the Prstha tor the completeness of the horse (sacrifice). 

3 The middle day is an Ekavimsa one; for the Ekavimsa is yonder sun and 
so is Asvamedha. Thus by means of its own Stoma, he makes it established in its 

own deity. 

4 The su m'- sung for the Maitravaruna is the Vdmadevya Soman. The 
Vamadevya is indeed Prajapati and the Asvamedha belongs to Prajapati. Thus 
he enriches it with its own deity. 


XV.3.4.3] 


TRANSLATION 


209 


5. Brahma Sdman is the Pdrthurasma Sdman (out of the two varieties of the 
Pdrthurasma which is to be sung on this occasion by the Brahmanacchamsin ). 
Because the horse is controlled by Rasmi (reins). If the horse is uncontrolled, 
unrestricted and unsteadied, it is likely to go far away. So adoption of 
Brahmasaman as Pdrthurasma is to steady the horse. 

6. Samkrti Sdman is the Sdman of the Acchdvaka. For, the Asvamedha is an 

unfinished sacrifice (some part of it is always likely to be missed in the 
performance). Some parts of it are done and some are not done. Making the 
Sankrti Sdman as the Sdman of the Acchdvaka, he ensures completeness of the 
horse sacrifice. Atirdtra with all the Stomas ( Sarvastoma ) happens to be the 

last day. The Sarvastoma Atirdtra means all and Asvamedha is all. So (the Atiratra 
is Sarvastoma on the last day) for obtaining everything, for owning everything. 
(Third Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMANAIV 

1. The fire-altar is twenty-one-fold (measuring twenty-one man’s length in 
each of the four sides). There are twenty-one Stomas and Yupas are also twenty- 
one. Even like the bulls and the male horses in combat, these twenty-one 
Stomas run counter to one another. If he were to bring them together, the 
Yajamana will have trouble and his sacrifice would be destroyed. There may 
be a twelve-fold altar (measuring twelve mens’ length) and eleven Yupas , Why 
the altar can be twelve-fold is because the year has twelve months and thereby 
he gains the year, the sacrifice. Why the Yupas can be eleven is because it 
corresponds to the Virad metre and the Virad is eleven-syllablled. The elev¬ 
enth syllable is its teat, by which he milks it. 

2. Now they ask- “If Agni is twelve-fold and the Yupas are eleven, it would 
be like cart driven with one bullock yoked. There are twenty-one-fold altar, 
twenty-one-fold Stoma‘ 2 Lndi twenty-one Yupas. That is like a cart driven with 
side-horses. 

3. This twenty-one-fold is the head of the sacrifice. He who knows the three 
heads in the Asvamedha, becomes the head among the kings. Twenty-one-fold 
altar, twenty-one-fold Stomas and twenty-one Yupas and these are the three 
heads of Asvamedha. He who knows them thus, becomes the head of the kings. 
He who knows the three Kakuds (humps) in the Asvamedha, becomes the high- 



XV.3.5.5] 


TRANSLATION 


211 


est among the kings. Twenty-one-fold altar, twenty-one-fold Stomas and twenty- 
one Yupas- the three Kakuds are in Asvamedha. He who knows them becomes 
the supreme among the kings.(Fourth Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANA V 

1. The horse is immolated for all the deides. Were he to make it one be¬ 
longing to Prajapati (only), he will by denying those deities who are endded, 
of their shares. He offers oblations to the deities mentioning them one by one 
by name, with portions of ghee , saying- “with the teeth, the grass; with the roots 
of the hair, the lotus.” Thereby he bestows their respective shares to the en¬ 
titled deities. After making the Aranye-Anucya offerings ( mantras to be recited 
in the forest meant for the Maruts), he offers the last offering to the heaven 
and earth. Because, all the gods are established in the heaven and the earth. 
Then he pleases them by this. Now the gods and Asuras were locked in combat. 

2. they (the gods) said- “We are the fires, Svistakrts (who make the offer¬ 
ings well-offered) of the Asvamedha and we shall take out a special share for 
ourselves and with that we shall defeat the Asuras. They took out blood for 
themselves to defeat their enemies. So, blood is offered for Svistakrts , to over¬ 
come the enemy. The hateful enemy of one who knows thus, is undone by 
himself. 

3. The first oblation he offers, the neck of the Gavaya (a particular variety 
of ox). The Gavayas are indeed Pasus and Rudra is the Svistakrt (one who 
makes the offering well-offered). He thus hides the cattle from Rudra. That is 
why Rudra does not capture the cattle in the area where this offering of the 
Asvamedha is made. 

4. The second oblation he makes with the horse’s hoof. The single-hoofed 
animals are indeed cattle. Rudra is the Svistakrt. He thus hides the cattle from 
Rudra. Hence where this offering of AsvamedhaisnitiAe, their Rudra does not 
capture the cattle. 

5. The third oblation is made with an iron bowl. The people are of iron 
and the Svistakrt is Rudra. Thus he hides the people from Rudra. Hence, 
when this Asvamedha offering is made, Rudra does not capture the people. 
(Fifth Brahmana Ends.) 



XV.3.7.2] 


TRANSLATION 


213 


BRAHMANAVI 

1. In all the worlds, Mrtyu , the causes of death are inhere. If oblations are 
not offered to them, death will catch hold of him in each of the worlds. By 
offering oblations to Mrtyu, he overcomes death in each world. 

2. They now- “If he were to offer oblations to the causes of death saying to 
this Death-SvaAa; to this Death-SvaAa —he will be in the process, making en¬ 
emies of many (causes of) deaths and would ultimately give himself over to 
death.” So he offers only one oblation to one of them- “to Miiyu-Svaha” . There 
is only one cause of death in the yonder world, namely hunger. Only that 
hunger in the yonder world, he conquers. 

3. The second oblation he offers saying “to Brahmahatya-Svaha .” For, a 
killing other than that of a brahman is not Mrtyu (a cause of death). This is 
the evident cause of death; namely, the killing of a brahmin. He thus over¬ 
comes the sure cause of death. This is what Mundibha Audarya discovered as 
an expiation for killing a brahmin. When he offers oblation to Brahmahatyd, 
he pleases the Mrtyu himself with the offering and thereby rendering himself 
absolutely worthy (fully immunised to sin), he effects a remedy for the killer of 
a brahmin. Hence at whosoever’s Asvamedha this oblation is offered, if some¬ 
one among his subjects happens to kill a brahmin subsequently, he is provid¬ 
ing such a one (killer) with a remedy. (Sixth Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMAN A VII 

1. From the horse that was slaughtered, its Medhas (life-sap) came but. It 
became the Asvastomiya oblations. When he offers the Asvastomiya oblations, 
he enriches the horse with that life-sap. 

2. He makes the Awastomiya offerings with ghee, for, ghee is the life-sap. So, 
by means of life-sap he supplies it with Medhas. He makes offering with ghee, 
for ghee is the favourite resort of the gods. So, he gratifies them with their own 
favourite resort. After offering the Asvastomiya oblations, he offers the Dvipadd 
oblations (oblations made with mantras saving two feet each). The Asvastomiya 
is indeed the horse and man is two-footed; supported on two feet as he is, he 

is supplied with his support. 



XV.3.8.1] 


TRANSLATION 


215 


3. Now they ask- “Is the Asvastomiya to be offered first on the Dvipadas ?" 
Asvastomiyas are cattle and Dvipada are men. By offering first Asvastomiya and 
then the Dvipada , man gets established over the cattle. He offers sixteen 
Asvastomiya oblations, for the cattle have sixteen Raids on parts (the head, 
neck, trunk, tail, four legs and eight claws). That is the measure of the cattle. 
Thereby he enriches the Pasus with their measure. If he offers less or more 
number of oblations, he will cause damage to the parts of the cattle. So he 
offers only sixteen, for the cattle have sixteen Raids. That is the measure of 
the cattle and thereby he enriches cattle with their measure. No other final 
oblation, he offers. If he were to offer an extra final oblation, he would fall 
from his base. Lastly he offers the Dvipada oblations. Dvipadas are the base, 
by which he gets established. (He says) “To Jambaka Svaha and makes the 
final offering at the Avabhrta (oblation). Varuna is indeed the Jambaka and 
manifestly he redeems himself from Varuna. He makes this offering on the 
head of a man with white spots, bald head, protruding teeth (or sweating), 
brown-eyed. This is the form of Varuha; by his form, he appeases Varuna with 

this offering. 

4. Emerging (from the waters), he prepares twelve meals of cooked rice 
(Brahmaudana) for the priests; or performs twelve Ms. In this connection they 
say- “these Istisare a form of sacrifice and the sacrifice will (by the Ms) become 
stale.” How can he use them so soon? For, by the completion of the sacrifice, 
the speech (Vedic mantras) has been completely gained and being so gained 
here it is completely exhausted and (by further using it) it becomes as it were 
wounded or over-strained. Speech is indeed sacrifice and so it should not be 
put to use. So, only twelve Brahmaudanas should be prepared after emerging 
from the Avabhrta . For, cooked rice is Prajapati and Prajapati is the year - 
Prajapati is sacrifice and thus it is a year, the sacrifice that he thus gains and 
the sacrifice becomes favourable disposed to him and he does not become a 
sinner. (Seventh Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAVm 

1. This sacrifice is called Prabhur (strengthful). Where they perform this 
sacrifice, there everything becomes strong. 

This sacrifice is called Vibhur (plentiful). Where they perform this sacri- 
fice, there everything is in plenty. 



XV.3.9.1] 


TRANSLATION 


217 


This sacrifice is called Vyasti (fruitful). Where they perform this sacrifice, 
there everything is fruitful. 

This sacrifice is called Vidhrti (excellence). Where they perform this sacri¬ 
fice, there everything becomes excellent. 

This sacrifice is called Vydvrtti (safeguard). Where they perform this sacri¬ 
fice, there everything becomes well - protected. 

This sacrifice is called Urjasvan (rich in energy). Where they perform this 
sacrifice, there everything becomes abounding in energy. 

This sacrifice is called Payasvan (rich in essence). Where they perform this 
sacrifice, there everything is rich in Payas or Rasa. 

This sacrifice is called Brahma Varcasi (rich in Brahminical lustre). Where 
they perform this sacrifice, there a Brahman is boro with lustre. 

This sacrifice is called Ativyadhi (excelling in hitting the target) .Where they 
perform this sacrifice, there the Ksatriya is bom good at archery. 

This sacrifice is called Dtrgha (long or wide). Where they perform this sac¬ 
rifice, there the forest area becomes wide (as protection or green cover and as 

hunting ground). 

This sacrifice is called Klrpti (fitness). Where they perform this sacrifice, 
there everything is fit and trim. 

This sacrifice is called Pratistha (foundation). Where they perform this sac¬ 
rifice, there everything is stable or established. (Eighth Brahmana Ends.) 

brahmanaix 

1. Now we take up the expiations - if the sacrificial horse is to mate with a 
mare, an additional milk oblation, he should offer to Vayy. Vayu, doubtless is 
the one who transforms the seed. Vayu is indeed Prana and Prana is the one 
that transforms the seed. By means of seed he thus puts seed into it. 


XV.3.9.6] 


TRANSLATION 


219 


2. If the horse should contact some ailment, he should in addition offer a 
cam to Pu$a. Pusa is the lord of the cattle. He thus pleases the one who is tlie 
lord of the cattle and it (horse) becomes free from the ailment. 

3. If the horse becomes sick without any visible injury, he should offer, in 
addidon, a Purodasa in tweleve potsherds with earth used as potsherds, to 
Vaisvanara. Vaisvanara is this earth and thereby he pleases her and it (horse) 
gets free from sickness. 

4. If the horse suffers from some eye-ailment, a cam to Surya should be 
prepared in addition. The Sun is indeed the eye of the living beings.When he 
rises, all these beings start moving. By means of eye, he endows it with eye in 
the fire of that cam. It is by means of the eye, this self (body) moves. 


5. If the horse were to die in water, he should offer a cam made of barley to 
Vanina, in addition. Because it is Vanina who captures that which dies in water. 
That deity which captures is thereby appeased. So pleased that deity approves 
of another horse for the purpose of immolation. Approved by that deity, he 
seizes another horse. The cam is of barley for, barley belongs to Varuna. 

6. If the horse were to get lost, let him, in addition, perform an Isti with 
three Havis. A Purodasa in one potsherd to ihe heven and earth; a milk obla¬ 
tion to Vayu ; and a cam to Sun; for, that which is lost is lost between heaven 
and earth; the wind blows upon it and the Sun shines upon it. Without (the 
involvement) of these deities (Heaven, Earth, Vayu and Sun) nothing gets 
lost. These offerings by themselves are efficacious in recovering the lost thing. 
So even if something else gets lost, let him perform this Isti and he is sure to 
find it. If his enemies were to capture the horse or if it were to die (on the 
ground) or in waters, let him procure another horse and consecrate it by 
sprinkling. This indeed is the expiation in that case. (Ninth Brahmana Ends.) 

(Chapter Three Ends.) 



Chapter Four 
BRAHMANAI 


1. Prajapati wished “let me achieve all my desires; let me attain all excel¬ 
lence." He discovered this three day’s Soma sacrifice, the Asvamedha and took 
possession of it and performed it Having performed it, he achieved all his 
desire? and attained all excellence. He who performs Asvamedha achieves all 
his desires and attains all excellence. 

2. Now they ask- “In what season it should be begun?" Some say “It should 
be started in summer for summer is the season of the Ksatriyas and this 
Asvamedha is a sacrifice of the Ksatriyas” 

• 

3. However, it should be started in the spring season. Vasant (spring) is the 
season of the brahmin. Whoever performs it, he does so after gaining brahmin 

- hood. So, it should be started in the spring. 

4. Six days or Seven days before that full moon day of the Phalguna month, 
the Rtviks assemble. They are the Adhvaryu, the Hota, the Brahma, the Udgjita 
and in these, the other priests are included. The Adhvaryu prep ares for them 
the Brahmaudana (rice preparation) sufficientforfour persons. Theimporto 
this has been explained. Four bowlfuls, four AhjaUs (both the palm held to- 

• gether as a cup and filled) and four palmfuls - thus twelve-fold it comes to. 
There are twelve months for the year and year is everything and Asvamedha is 
everything. To gain everything and to own everything (he gives thus). 


5 Those four Rtviks eat it Its significance has been explained. He gives 
them four thousand (cows as Dakfina ). Thousand means ‘all 1 and Asvamedha 
is all and it is for gaining all and for owning everything (he gives). Four gold 
plates each weighing hundred grains (he gives them). This has also been 

explained. 


6 The Adhvaryu after hanging a gold ornament (pend; round him 
(Yajamana) makes him say - “You are fire; you are light (or seed); you are 
immortality.” Because, gold indeed is fire light (seed and immortality)^ 
“Thereby he bestows upon him fiery spirit, brilliance (potency) and 
immortality." “O, bestoweroflongivity.protectmylife he thereby confers 


XV.4.1.10] 


TRANSLATION 


223 


longivity upon him. He (Adhvaryu) then tells the Yajamana -“control your 
speech”; with a view to comencing the sacrifice; for sacrifice is speech. 

7. Four wives of the Yajamana are there in attendance. (They are) the 
consecrated Queen, favourite spouse, the neglected wife and the PalagaR (the 
barren wife) — all of them adorned and wearing golden pendants, to ensure 
completeness of conjugal union. With them he (the Yajamana) enters the 
sacrificial hall; the Yajamana enters through the eastern gate and the wives 
through the southern. 

8. After offering the evening oblations, he lies down with his favourite spouse 
behind the Garhapatyc t, with his head towards the north. At the same place the 
other wives also lie down. He lies in her lap without embracing her, thinking 
“let me by this self-control, reach the end of the year (of protecting the horse) 
successfully.” 

9. After the morning oblation is offered, the Adhvaryu offers the Purnahuti, 
in order that the Yajamana may achieve everything and he may own everything. 
Because * PurncC means l all' and Asvamedha is all. At this (offering) he re¬ 
leases his speech to grant a boon and says 1 grant the boon to the- Brahma 
(priest).” This is to gain and secure everything; for a boon is everything and 
Asvamedha is everything. Then the gold pendant which is on his neck is re¬ 
moved and he gives it to the Adhvaryu. By giving it to the Adhvaryu, he gains 
for himself immortal life, for gold is immortal life. 


10. He then gets ready an Isti (called Pathikrt) to Agni for gaining the path 
and to avoid losing the mouth (starting) of this sacrifice. For, all deities have 
Agni for their mouth and Asvamedha contains all objects of desire. He (does 
so, thinking) “having pleased all the gods at the start, may I obtain all my 
desires.” For that (offering) there are fifteen Sdmidheni chants. The thunder¬ 
bolt is fifteen-fold and thunderbolt symbolises vitality. Thus with the thunder¬ 
bolt, vitality, the Yajamana drives away all evil. The two Ajayabhagas are^given 
to the killer of Vrtra. Vrtra symbolises evil and this is to destroy the evil. Agni, 
the head and the realm of space” - (the mantras starting thus) he utters in a 
whisper as the invitatory chant and offering mantra of the main oblation. The 
one contains the word ‘ Murdhan and the other contains the word Bhuvah 
(for 'sad'). This yonder one which bums (sun) is Murdha and it is doubtless 
for securing him (the sun). Why the other mantra contains the verb ‘ sad {Bhuh) 


XV.4.1.12] 


TRANSLATION 


225 


is because by that he gains the 'sad (truly existing). The Samydjas are in the 
form of two chants in the Virad metre. This metre is one that belongs to all 
the gods and all objects of desire are contained in the Asvamedha. He thinks 
“having pleased all the gods, let me achieve all my desires.” For this, gold is 
Daksina; gold weighing hundred grains. Its purposed has been explained. 

11. He then prepares a caru for Pusa; for Pusa is the over-lord of the paths; 
this is to ensure success in the journey of the horse. Now, this earth is Pusa 
and thereby he makes her its protector. He who is protected by this earth, 
neither suffers from injury nor from failure. There are seventeen Samidheni 
chants; for, Prajapati is. seventeen-fold and Prajapati is the Asvamedha and 
hence it is for gaining the Asvamedha. The Ajaybhdgas are with the chants con¬ 
taining the ‘ Vrdhari (growth), for the sake of growth of the Yajamana. “O 
Pusa, in your Vrata (austerity).... we singers of your glory path by path ? have 
reached the lord...” Thus he mutters in a low voice. The Anuvakya (invitatory 
chant) for this is the verse containing the word 1 Vrata means vitality and it is 
for obtainment of vitality and for owning vitality. As to the other (coi 

the word ‘ Pathiri , it is for securing successful joulmey for the horse. The 
Anuvakya and Ydjya for the Svistakrt offerings are in two Anusthubh metres, 
For, Anustubh is speech and speech is Prajapati; Prajapati is the Asvamedha. 
Hence it is for gaining of Asvamedha. The Daksina for this are one hundred 
garments; for garment is man’s external appearance. That is why on seeing a 
well-dressed man, people ask- “Who can he be, for he is arresting the atten¬ 
tion of others by external appearance.” There are hundred garments, for man s 
life-span is hundred years and he has hundred energy. He thus gains for him¬ 
self life-span, energy and vigour. 

12. While this offering to Pusa is being made, the horse is brought after 
being washed. That horse is decorated with all colours (or is very fast-moving), 
worth a thousand cows (as price); in its youth and it has no equal tq he yoked 
to its right side. It has all colours because appearance means everything and 
Asvamedha is everything. So, for the sake of gaining everything (it is decorated 
with all colours) and for owning everything. That it is very fast is because speed 
means vitality and it is for gaining and owning vitality. Why it should be worth 
a hundred cows is because hundred means everything and Asvamedha is every¬ 
thing so it is for the gaining of everything; for owning everything. As to its 
being in its prime of youth, it is for the sake of his obtaining unlimited vigour; 
for such a one in the prime of youth attains unlimited vigour. Why it is without 



XV.4.2.1] 


TRANSLATION 


227 


an equal to be yoked to its right side - for, that horse is indeed he that shines 
yonder and definitely nobody is there to equal him (sun); and it is for owning 
that (status of the sun). 

13. Now Bhallaveya said- “that horse should be of two colours i.e., black 
spotted (one of the colours being black).” For that horse came out of Prajapati s 
eye and the eye has two colours; white and black. Thus he endows it with its 
own form (when it is black-spotted). 

14. Then Satyayagni, however, said - “this should be of three colours. Its 
front half should be black, its hind part should be white and a mark of a cart at 
its fore-head.” The black front portion is the same as this black portion of the 
eye. The white hind portion is the same as this white part of the eye. The mark 
of a cart in front stands for the pupil of the eye. Such a one is indeed the most 
appropriate in form. Which ever of these (varieties) multi-coloured, two- 
coloured are three-coloured, it should have the mark of the cart on the fore¬ 
head for being fit for immolation and it should ofcourse be very speedy. 

15. Guards are stationed ready in front. One hundred princes wearing 
armours; a hundred warriors with swords; a hundred sons of village-headmen, 
with quivers filled with arrows; a hundred sons of revenue officers and chari¬ 
oteers, wielding lathis and a hundred horses more than twenty-four years old, 
besides the one let loose (as sacrificial horse) which is gaured. (First Brahmana 

Ends.) 


BRAHMANA II 

1. He then gets ready an Isti to Savita consisting of a Purodasa in twelve 
potsherds to Savita, the begetter (thinking) may Savita beget this my sacri¬ 
fice”; for Savita is indeed the begetter. For that there are fifteen Sdmidheni 
chants and two Ajaybhagas to the killer of Vrtra. He who calls for all these 

beings...” and “may the divine Savita come here laden with treasures ” - these 

are uttered in a low tone as the invitatory and offering chants for the main 
oblations. Those chants for the Svistakrt offering consist of two mantras in Virad 
metre. The Daksind for this is gold weighing a hundred grains. The import of 
this has been explained. 




XV.4.2.5] 


TRANSLATION 


229 


2. When the Prayajas (fore-offerings) of this Istj are being offered, a brahmin 
lute-player, striking up the Uttara Mandra tune sings on the south, three Gatfias 
(euological verses) composed by himself (to mean) “so, he performed sacri¬ 
fice; so he conquered.” Its significance has been told. 

3. He then gets ready the second offering consisting of a Purodasa in twelve 

potsherds to Savita-Asavita (thinking) “may Savita encourage this my sacri¬ 
fice.” Because, Savita is one who prompts. For that there are seventeen 
Samidheni chants and two Ajaybhdgas with mantras having the word ‘ sad”, By 
this he owns the truly existent. “O god Savita, all troubles you keep away from 
us.etc., and “may that mighty god Savita send us riches.....etc.,” These man¬ 

tras are muttered in a low voice, as Anuvakya and Ydjya formula for the main 
oblation. The mantras for the Svistakrt are two in Anusthubh metre. The Daksina 
for this is silver for the sake of variety of colours and for the forw rd n -hing 
of the horse without coming in the reverse. Its (silver’s) weight should be a 
hundred grains; for, man has hundred years life-span and hundred energies; 
thus to secure longivity and energy (it should weigh hundred gi ns). 

4. When the Prayajas are being offered in that Isti, a brahmin who sings 
playing on the lute, striking up the Uttara Mandra tune, signs on the southern 
side three Gathas (euological verses) composed by himself (to mean). “Thus 
he performed sacrifice; thus he conquered. Its import has been explained. 

5. He then prepairs the third offering consisting of a Purodasa in twelve 
potsherds to Savita - the Satyaprasava (of non-failing impulse), for, that indeed 
is non-failing which is the impulse of Savita. (He thinks) May he impulse this 
sacrifice of mine with the non-failing impulse. For this too, there are seven¬ 
teen Samidheni chants. The two Ajayabhagas contain the word 'Rayim (wealth), 
for the sake of obtaining and owning vigour; for, .wealth is vigour. “The all 
divine true lord....etc.,” and “Indestructible is that (impulsion) of the divine 
Savita....etc.,”. These are uttered in a low voice as the Anuvakyas and Yajyas of 
the main oblation. The Svistakrt is offered with the usual ones (in Trsthubh), 
thinking “I may not swerve from the path of sacrifice. Thereby hi ally 
establishes himself in the regular sacrificial pc h. Those chan t are in Tr§thubh 
for the sake of gaining and owning vitality, for Tr?thubh chants symbolise 
vitality in Indra. The Daksina for this is gold and it should weigh a hundred 
grains. Its significance has been explained. 





XV.4.2.9] 


TRANSLATION 


231 


6. When the fore-offerings of the Isti are in progress, a brahmin lute-player, 
after striking up the Uttara Mahdra tune, signs on the southern side, three 
Gdthas (euological verses) composed by himself (to mean) “so he performed 
sacrifice; so he conquered." The significance of this has been explained. 

7. After completing this Isti, the Adhvaryu and the Yajamana get up and 

whisper into the right year of the horse - “plentiful by your mother and power¬ 
ful by your father.etc." Its significance has been told. They then set it free 

towards the north-east; for that region is the region of both gods and men. 
They thus let it go to its own region, to safeguard it from any injury. For one 
who is settled in his own abode suffers no injury. 

8. He says “ O gods ! Gaurdians of the quarters! Protect this horse conse¬ 

crated for offering unto the gods.” The (four groups of) human guardians of 
the four quarters have been told and now these are the divine ones; namely 
the Apyas, the Sadhyas, the Anvadhyas <m& the Maruts. Both of these (groups), 
men and gods unitedly gaurd it for a year without (making it) turn ba k. This 
horse is none else than thisyopder one (sun) who bums. Who d tui i 

back? If they succeed in turning him (sun) back, everything here would move 
in reverse order (get upset). Therefore they gaurd it without causislg it turn 
back. 

9. He says “O Guardians of the quarters, those who will reach the comple¬ 
tion of this (Asvamedha) will happen to share royal power and become kings 
worthy of coronation. Those who do not reach the completion of this, they 
will have no share in royal power; they will not bec<>m j dngs and will end up 
as worthless Ksatriyas or ordinary peasants unworthy of coronation. So, don t 
be careless; safeguard it from waters fit for bathing and from mares. When¬ 
ever you come across a brahmin, you ask him How much you know of the 
Asvamedha ?" If he does not know, you ignore him; because this Asvamedha is 
everything and it is not within everybody’s comprehension. If being a brahmin 
he does not know Asvamedha^ he is virtually a non-brahmin and as such to be 
condemned. You shall supply it (horse) with drink and provide fodder for it. 
Whatever food is prepared or eatables are available in the country, all that 
shall be within your reach. You will halt in the house of a carpenter (engaged 
in making chariots) because that is the abode of the horse. (Second Brahmana 

Ends.) 



XV.4.3.4] TRANSLATION 233 

BRAHMANA UI 

1. After releasing the horse, he spreads a mattress of golden threads, 
south of the vedt and on that the Hota sits. To the right of the Hota, on a 
bunch of golden fibers (made into a cushion) the Yajamana gets seated. To 
the right the Yajamana, Brahma and Udgata sit on golden stools, In front of 
them, facing the west, the Adhvaryu sits on a golden stool or on a gold slab. 
When they are seated, the Adhvaryu asks the Hota - “O Hota count the beings 
and count this Yajamana above the beings.” Thus told, the Hota addresses 
the Adhvaryu, when he is about to narrate the Pdriplava legend (a narration 
so called because it is told recurrendy once in ten days during that whole year 
when the horse is let loose). “O Adhvaryu” and “here I am, Hota I” responds 
the Adhvaryu. 

2. Hota says “Manu, Vaivastvata, the king and his subjects are men and 
they are present here.” House-holders who are not srotriyas (those who'have 
not performed sacrifices) get together there. He instructs them- “this Rea is of 
Veda* - so saying, he recites a sukta from the Veda. At that time those who 
play on the lutes come together. Adhvaryu tells thoSe lute-players. “Sing the 
glory of the Yajamana along with that of righteous kings of yore.” They ac¬ 
cordingly sing on him. By this singing, they make him share the same world as 
the righteous kings of the past. 

3. Having called (the lute-players to sing) the Adhvaryu performs the 
Prakrama oblations either on the Daksindgni or on a footprint of the horse 
after drawing a line around it; whichever the tradition there (in that particular 
area). But the former (offering on the Daksindgni) is more in vogue. Before 
the first offering to Savita is made, he offers one obladon called Rupasmto the 
Ahavaniyahy quickly reciting the mantra. In the evening, when the Dhjti offer¬ 
ing are made, lute-player belonging to the princely class, after striking up the 
Uttara Mandra tune, sings on the right side, three Gdthds (eulogical verses) 
composed by himself (to mean) “so he fought; so he won this batde.” The 
significance of this has been told. 

4. Then on the following day, second day, those three Istis are offered to 
Savita in the same way; there is that same procedure. Adhvaryu! calls Hota; 
“I 1am here, Hota!” responds the Adhvaryu. “King Yama, Vaivasvata.” He (the 
Hota ) says . “His subjects are the Pitrs and they are staying here.” Old men 


XV.4.3.8] 


TRANSLATION 


235 


come together at that place and he instructs them. “The Yajus formulas are 
the Veda; this is that ”; so saying he recites an Anuvaka (chapter) of the Yajus 
The Adhvaryu calls the lute-players in the same way but does not offer Prakrama 
oblations. 

5. Then on the third day, after performing the (three ) Istis , in the same 
manner on the same procedure -Adhvaryu calls Hota; “I am here, Hota 
responds the Adhvaryu. Hota says “King Varuna, Aditya; his subjects are the 
Gandharvas and they are staying here.” Handsome young people get together 
there. He (Hota) instructs them- “the Atharvans are the Veda; this is that” - 
“so saying he recites one Parva (chapter) of the Atharva passages. The 
Adhvaryu calls (the lute-players) in the same way but does not perform 
Prakrama offerings. 

6. Then on the fourth day, after performing the three Isfis, in the same 
manner and on the same procedure - “Adhvaryu calls Hota ; I am here, Hota 
-responds the Adhvaryu . “King Soma, Vaisnava; he (the Hota) says his sub¬ 
jects were Apsards and they are staying here”, charming young ladies come 
together there. He (Hota) instructs them “Angiras are the Veda; this is that” - 
so saying he recites one of the Parva (chapter) of Angiras. Adhvaryu calls the 
lute-players in the same way but does not perform the Prakrama offerings. 

7. Then on the fifth day, after performing the three Istis in the same man¬ 
ner on that same procedure Adhvaryu calls Hota; 1 am here Hota responds 
the Adhvaryu. “King Arbuda, Kadraveya” says the Hota. His subjects are the 
serpents and they are staying here.” The snakes and sr ke-ch rmers come 
together. He (Hota) instructs them- u Sarpavidya (snake-charming) is Veda. 
This is that.” So saying he recites a chapter of the Sarpavidya. Adhvaryu calls 
the lute-players in the same way; but does not perform the Prakrama offerings. 

8. Then on the sixth day, after performing the three Istis in the same man¬ 
ner and on the same procedure Adhvaryu calls Hota; 1 am here, Horn re¬ 
sponds the Adhvaryu. “King Kubera, Vaisravana” - says the Horn. “His subjects 
are Raksasas. They are staying here.” Then criminals, ro bers and murderers 
come together. He (Hota) instructs them- “The Devajana-Vtdyd (Science of 
demonology) is Veda. This is that So saying he recites a Pairvaoi the Deoajano- 
Vtdyd. Adhvaryu calls the lute-players in the same way but does not perform 
the Prakrama offerings. 


XV.4J.13] 


TRANSLATION 


237 


9. Then on the seventh day, after performing the three Istis in the same 
manner on that same procedure Adhvaryu calls Hota; “I am here Hota” re¬ 
sponds the Adhvaryu. “King Asiva, Dhanva” - says the Hota. “His subjects are 
the Asuras and they are staying here.” The ushererscome together. He (Hota) 
instructs them- “ Maya (magic) is Veda. This is that”- so saying he performs 
some magic trick. Adhvaryu calls the lute-players in the same way but does not 
perform the Prakrama offerings. 

10. Then on the eighth day, after performing the three Istis in the same 
manner on the same procedure ‘Adhvaryu’ calls the Hota; I am here Hota 
responds the Adhvafyu. “King Matsya, Sammada” says the Hota. “His subjects 
are the acquatic animals. They are staying here”. Both fish and fisher-men 
come together there. He (Hota) instructs them- “ Itihdsa is the Veda. This is 
that” so saying he narrates some Itihdsa (historical anecdote). Adh 

the lute-players in the same way but does not perform the Prakrama c "rings. 

11. Then on the ninth day, after performing the three Istis in the same 
manner on the same procedure Adhvaryu calls the Hota; “I am here Hota” - 
responds the Adnvaryu. “King Tark$ya, Vaipasyata - says the Hota. “His sub¬ 
jects are the birds. They are staying here.” Both birds are those who know the 
science of birds come together there. He instructs them- “The Purana is i. 
This is that” - so saying he recites some Pauranic text. The Adhvaryu calls the 
lute-players in the same way but does not perform Prakrama offerings. 

12. Then on the tenth day, after performing the three Istis in the same 

manner on the same procedure, Adhvaryu calls the Ho 1 re Hota 

responds the Adhvaryu. “King Dharma, Indra says the Hota. His subjects 
are the gods. They are staying here.” Srotnyas (Brahmins who have performed 
Srauta sacrifices) and who do accept Dakstna come together there. He (the 
Hota) instructs them- “the Sdmans are Veda.” This is that- so saying he recites 
ten Sdmans . Adhvaryu calls the lute-players in the same manner but does not 
perform the Prakrama offerings. 

13. This (series) is the Pdriplava (the revolving or repeating) ritual in which 
he refers to all royalties, all regions, all Vedas, all gods and all beings. To whom¬ 
soever the Hota, knowing this, tells this Pdriplnva, or whosoever even knows 
this, attains identity with and shares the world of those royalties; gains the 
regal authority and lordship over all people; gains all the Vedas, and by gratify- 



XV.4.4.4J 


TRANSLATION 


239 


ing the gods, finally establishes himself in all beings. This very same ritual 
revolves again and again and hence it is called Pdriplava. For thirty-six times at 
the rate, of once in every ten days, he recites this. The Brhatl metre consists of 
thirty-six syllables and cattle are of the Brhatl metre. By means of Brhatl, he 
gains catde for him. (Third Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMANAIV 

1. When the year has passed (after releasing the horse), Dtksa takes place. 
After the Pasu (he-goat) for Prajapati is slaughtered, the Istis (the three Istis to 
S a vita offered daily throughout that year) come to close. “Let him (continue) 
offering them in the fires of the Purohita (family priest) ” say some. »ut why 
should be, the one who has entered Dtksa, offer? There are twelve Dtksa days, 
twelve Upasad days and three Sutyas (Soma days) totalling to three nine-fold 
(Trinavati Stomas) and three nine-fold (twenty-seven-fold) is a thunder-bolt. 
The horse is the Ksatra and the princely class also is Ksatra. The royal power is 
gained by the thunder-bolt Thus he gains royal power by means of the thun¬ 
der-bolt. 

2. When the Diksaniya offering is made and speech released in the evening, 
the lute-players assemble there. Adhvaryu calls them - O players on lute yo*u 
sing on this Yajamana along with the gods.” They accordingly sing on him. 
Everyday, after releasing of speech and completion of the Agntsomtya sa 
fice, and the Vasativan waters are carried round, he makes them sing on him 
along with the gods and thereby make him (the Yajamana) gain co-existence 
with gods in their world. 

3. On the Sutya days also, they sing on him along with Prajapati every day 
when the Vasativari waters have been carried round and the Udavasaniya of¬ 
fering has been completed. Why thus they sing on him along with Prajapati is 
that they thereby make him share the same world with Prajapati. 

4. There are twenty-one Yupas, all-of them twenty-one cubits high, the 
central one (nearest to the altar) is of Rajjuddla wood. On either side are 
those of the Pitadru (tree); six oiBilva wood; three this side and three on that 
side - six of Khadira wood; three on this side and three on that - six, of Palasa 
wood. Now why the Yupas are of these .discretions? When the vital airs of 



XV.4.4.9) 


TRANSLATION 


241 


Prajapad had escaped, his body began to bloat. What phlegm was there, it 
flowed out all at once and burst out from inside through the nostril. That 
became this tree, Rajjudala. Hence it is phlegmadc. It indeed came into being 
from the phlegm and so he endows it with that form. That (Rajjudala) Yupa is 
nearest to the fire because that is the central one and nose is the central one 
among the channels of Prana. He thus puts it in its own place. 

5. What brilliance in the form of water, what fragrance there was (in 
Prajapad), that flowded out in one lot and burst forth from inside through the 
eye. It became there tree, Pitadru. Hence that wood is sweet-smelling, since it 
originated from fragrance. It is inflamable because it came out of brilliance .With 
that quality, he endows it with. Because these two ( Yupas of Pitadru) are on 
the two sides; these two eyes are on the two sides of the nose. Thus he puts 
them in their own place. 

6. What spinal liquid, what marrow there was (in Prajapati’s body), that 
flowed-out in one lot and burst forth through his ear and became that Bilva 
tree. Everything inside the fruit of that tree is eatable. It is yellowish in colour 
because the marrow is yellow and with that form, he endows it. The Yupas 
made of Pitadru are inside (nearer the centre) and those of Bilva wood are at 
the out-side; because the eyes are inside and the ears are outside. Thushe 
places them in the proper position. 

7. The Khadira tree emerged from his (Prajapati’s) bones. Hence it is hard 
and very strong, since bones are very hard and strong. Thereby he endows it 
with its own form. The Yupas of Bilva are inside and those of Khadira are out¬ 
side; because the marrow is inside and the bones are outside. Thus he places 
them in the proper position. 

8. From the flesh (of Prajapad) emerged the Palasa tree. Hence it is very 
juicy and has a red exudation. The flesh is bloody as it were (in appearance), 
and so he endows it with its own form. The Yupas of Khadira are inside and 
those of the Palasa are outside, because the bones are inside and the flesh is 
outside. Thus he places them in the proper position. 

9. Now, why there are twenty-one (each twenty-one cubits high) is because 
the one that that shines yonder (sun) is twenty-one-fold. There are twelve 
months, Five seasons, these three worlds and yonder sun is the twenty-first 


XV.4.4.9] 


TRANSLATION 


243 


and he is the Asvamedha and thus the Prajapati. Having thus completely re¬ 
stored this Prajapati (the Asvamedha sacrifice), he immolates in it twenty-one 
Pasus for AgnT-Soma; for these there is one common set of procedures. This is 
the ritual of the day proceeding (the first Sutya ). (Fourth Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter Four Ends.) 


Chapter Five 
BRAHMAN AI 


1. Then at the next morning, there is the chanting of the Stoma of Gotama 
in which each Stoma successively increases by four verses. The Bahis-Pavamana 
on four, Ajya Stotra on eight, the Madhyandina Pavamdna on the twelve, the 
Prstha Stotra on the sixteen, the Arbhave Pavamana on the twenty nd the 
Agnistoma Sdman on twenty-four verses. 


2. In that, some make the Agnistoma^Sdman, a Sdman Of four verses, saying, 
“It is neither an Agnistoma nor an Ukthya In that case let him (the Hota) 
after reciting the Stotriya Pragatha together, recite the Anurupa Pragatha together; 
the Rathantara Prstha, the Sastra of the Rdthantara of Agnistoma sacrifice. By 
this he gains this world. 


3; There are twenty-one Savantya Pasus (on the Sutya days); but he should 
immolate two sets of eleven Pasus to obtain whatever-desired object t .re 
be belonging to the set of eleven. When the Agnistoma is completed and 
Vasativari waters are carried round, ‘the Adhvaryu offers the Anna Homos (ob¬ 
lations of food). Their significance has been already explained. Accompanied 
by the chants of twelve Anuvakas, he offers - “To Prdna-Svdha; To Apdna-Svdha 
etc., For, the year has twelve months and year is everything and the Asvamedha 
is everything. (So he offers) for the gaining of everything and for owning 
everything.” 


4. The central day happens to be an Ekavirhsa day (where all Stofras are of 
twenty-one verses each). This yonder sun is twenty-one fold, he is the 
Asvamedha. By his own Stoma, in his own deity, he establishes. Hence it is an 

Ekavimsa day. 

5. And why it is an Ekavirhsa day is because man is twentyone-fold; for he 
has ten fingers, ten toes and the body as the twenty-first Thus with his twenty¬ 
one-fold self, he gets established in this twentyone-fold day. Therefore it is an 

Ekavimsa day! 

6. Again why it is an Ekavimsa day? Ekavimsais the base of the Stomas. Mani¬ 
fold is thatever-varying performance which takes place on this day. Since he 


XV.5.1.9] 


TRANSLATION 


247 


wishes that the manifold and ever-varying performance which has to take place 
on this day, shall take place, so that he could get established on the. Ekavipisa 
base, (he makes) it an Ekavimsa day. 

7. Now the Prdtah-savana of this day - the Hota having chanted the Ajya- 
Stotra in the Pankti metre (saying) “I consider Agni who is good...etc.,” follows 
it up with the chant of a one-day Somaydga. Then he recites together in a 
triplets both Bdrhata Prauga (the Prauga Sastra in Brhati) and Madhucchandasa. 
This is to obtain what desire is there in the Bdrhata Prauga and in the 
Madhucchandasa. This much constitutes the morning savana. 

* 

8. Now the mid-day savana - the opening chant of the Marutvatiya Sastra 
and Aticchandas (which reads) “In the three troughs, the buffalo drank the 
barley - draught.” This Aticchandas is indeed outstanding among the metres 
and the Asvamedhais outstanding among the sacrifice. This one being repeated 
thrice, becomes a Trca and hence he obtains that desire which is contained in 
7rca. “Here, O good one, is the pressed plant” is the Anucara and this same 
Trca refrain which is the link of the one-day’s Somaydga. Hav recited both 
in Pankti “here in the Soma drought alone (the Brahman) gave you str* iig h , 
and the six-footed ones “the patron you are of the one who offers Soma. He 
inserts that Nivid in the hymn of the one-day s sacrifice. This much for the 

/ V- 

Marutvatiya Sastra. 

9. Then (we deal with) the Niskevalya Sastra. The Mahanamni chants are 

the Prstha Stotras which he recites along with the Anurupas and Pragdthas, for 
obtaining all the objects of desire. Because in the Mahdndmnis and in the 
Asvamedha are contained all objects of desire. Having recited the Pankti chants 
“Indra has grown in revelry”; “This sacred work did you protect in fights with 
Vrtra ,” he inserts the Nivid in the hymn of the one-day s sacrifice. This much is 
the mid-day savana. The chant in Aticchandas metre - “unto that god Savita 
within the two bowls do I sing praises” is the opening chant of the Vaisvadeva 
Sastra. Its significance is the same as the former Aticchandas. The Anucara - 
“To meet, O lord Savita, the ever helpful, we come for our share - contains the 
work 'Abhi which symbolises Abhihuti (Victoiy). Having recited die Sdvitra 
chants - “up rose this good Savita, the friend of the house.dtc., he intro¬ 

duces the Nivid (just before the last Sdvitra chant) in the hymn of one-day s 
sacrifice. Having recited the four chants to heaven and earth - the mighty 
heaven and earth, the most glorious.etc.”, “he introudces? the Nivid in the 




TRANSLATION 


249 


/ XV.5.1.12] 

hymn of the one-day’s sacrifice. Having recited the Arbhava—Rbhu, Vibhvan, 
Indra; Vaja, come to this our sacrifice..,, etc.,” he introduces the Nivid of the 
one day sacrifice “Who is there righteous to join, Mitra and Varuna.... etc.,” he 
introduces the Nivid of the one-day’s sacrifice. This much for the Vaisvadeva 
Sastra 

10. Then about the evening savana- the starting hymn of the Vaisvadeva is 

in Atichandas - “ Abhi Tyam Devarn Savitdramopyoh ....” (to that God Savita en¬ 
closed within the two cups.etc.).” The import of this is the same as before. 

The Anucara hymn for this is “Abhi TvaDeva Savitah... etc.” (To you the Lord 
Savita.....etc.); this again contains the word ‘Abhi suggesting victory. Then by 

chanting the hymn “Rupamudusya Devah Savita Damuna .” (This god Savita 

emerges as family friend.etc.), for the Sastra to Savita. He inserts the Nividin 

the mantra for the one-day’s sacrifice. Having recited the four Sastras in praise 
of heaven and earth starting with “Dyavaprthivi IhaJyaha... etc.” (Heaven and 
Earth, the most shining here), he inserts the Nivid in the mantra for the one- 
day’s sacrifice. Then he recites the Arbhaya Sastra “Ribkur Vibhvd Vaja Indra No 
Acchd.:..etc. n (Ribhu, Vibhvan, Vaja, Indra - all of you come to our sacrifice....). 
Then he inserts the Nividin the mantra for one-day’s sacrifice. Then he recites 
the Sastra for Visvedevas starting with u Ko Nu Vdm Mitra Varundvrtayan” (O 
Mitra and Varuna, he who is of sincere thought to you.... etc.) Then he inserts 
the Nivid. This constitutes the Vaisvadeva Sastra. 

11. Then about the Agni-Maruta Sastra - After chanting the Vaisvdnara 

hymn “The hope of the sky and the disposer of the earth.etc.,” he intro¬ 

duces the Nivid in the hynin of one-day sacrifice. Why/the hymn of the one- 
day’s sacrifice are used to introduce the Nivid is to see that the Yajamana does 
not fall from his firm foundation; for, the Jyotistoma is the foundation. 

12. For the {Ekavimsa day) these are the Pasus - a horse, a hornless he- 
goat, a Gomrga, fifteen Paryangyas. The import of these has been explained. 
Besides are these wild Pasus - for the spring, he immolates three Kapinjalas 
(wild fowls); for the summer, sparrows and for the rainy season, the Tittiris. 
The significance ojf these has been told. Then the Pasus for the twentyone 
Yupas. He immolates twenty-one Pasus for each of the eleven deities of the 
Cdturmasya performances, for the number of deities for Cdturmdsya cover all 
the gods. All wishes are in the Asvamedha; so he thinks “by pleasing all the 
deities, I shall gain all my wishes. ” But let him not do so. Only seventeen Pasus 






XV. 5.2.4] 


TRANSLATION 


251 


are to be tied to the central Yupa, so that he may gain and own everything. 
Because Prajapati is seventeen-fold and seventeen is everything; Asvamedha is 
everything. Sixteen, each of the other Yupasiox the sake of gaining everything; 
for everything here consists of sixteen parts and Asvamedha is everything. For 
each intermediate quarter, he ties thirteen wild Pasus, in order that he may 
gain and own everything; for the year consists of thirteen months and year is 
everything; Asvamedha is everything. (First Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAII 

1. Before the Bahispavamdna (chanting), they bring forth the horse after 
cleansing it. They crawl along with it for the Pavamana. Its significance has 
been explained. When the Pavamana has been recited, they make the horse 
thread on the spot where from the Pavamana was chanted. If the horse sniffs 
or turns, he may conclude - “My sacrifice is a success.” Having made it thread, 
the Adhvaryu says - “Hota 1 Praise.” The Hota praises it (the horse) with eleven 
verses. 

2. “You did neigh when you were first bom.etc” Thrice he praises with 

the first-wwmfraand thrice with the last. These amount to fifteen (First one 
three timesthen next nine once each and the eleventh one thrice) and fif¬ 
teen-fold is thunderbolt. Thunderbolt is vigour. It is by means of this thunder¬ 
bolt, i.e. vigour, the Yajamana dispels the evil at the start That thunderbolt is 
given to the Yajamana to Strike at whoever is to be struck down. — The fast 
runner has advanced for the kill........”. ‘The runner has advanced to the highest 

place......”, 

3. Removing these two chants, he introduces the hymn — “Never (fail us) 
‘O’ Mitra Varuna,.Aryama and Ayu.....” in Adhrigu. Some others introduce 
before the Vanknna hymns, the one starting with “Thirty-four ribs of the horse 
akin to the gods....”. This they do with the idea of placing the Praruwa (OM) in 
an unusual place or to make a singular usage have the sense of plural. This is 
not how he should do. Let him introduce the whole hymn Upa Pragaccasaman 

etc. meaning the fast horse has gone forward for the kill.the horse has 

advanced to the highest place.” 

4. Having uttered these two hymns, he chants the remaining part of the 
Adhrigu. A garment, an upper ( garment and gold - these are spread out for the 







XV.5J.10] 


TRANSLATION 


253 


horse. On that they quieten (slaughter) it When the Pasus have been strangled, 
the wives (of the king) come with water for washing the feet - four wives (ac¬ 
companied) by one young lass as the fifth and with four hundred female 
attendants. When the water for the feet is ready, they cause the Mahisi (queen 
consort) to lie down near the (strangled) horse. They cover her with the up¬ 
per garment (saying) “You cover yourself in heaven” - for, that indeed is the 
heaven where they immolate the Pasus. The male organ of the horse is kept at 
the lap of the queen. *fday the vigorous male, the layer of seed, impregnate" - 
- she says for the completeness of union. While they are lying there. 

5. The Adhvaryu addresses the horse - “ Utsakthya Ava Gudam Dhehi* , for 
which no one responds lest there should be some one to rival the Yajamana. 

6. The Adhvaryu then addresses the young lass - “Hello, Hello, Maiden, 
that litde she-bird”- “the young lass responds.” “Adhvaryu, that litde he-bird...”. 

7. Then Brahma addresses the queen, “Hello, Hello-Mahisi, your mother 
and your father climb to the top of the tree...” She has a hundred princesses as 
attendants and they respond to Brahma. “Hello, Hello, Brahma, your mother 
and your father play on the top of the tree....”. 

8. Then the Udgata addresses the favourite wife (of the king)- “VavatA, 
Hello, Hello Vavata; turn her upwards”. She has a hundred noble women as 
attendants and they respond - “Udgata, Hello, Hello, Udgata, turn him up¬ 
wards.” 

9. Then the Hota tells the neglected wife (of the king)-Parivrkta, Hello, 
Hello,Parivrkta, when large meets small in this Amhabhedi.... . She has a hun¬ 
dred daughters of heralds and village heads attending on her. They reply to 
the Hota.- “Hota, Hello, Hello, Hota, when the gods favoured the Laldmagu * 

10. Now, the Chamberlain addresses the Palagali (wife)-“Palagali, Hello, 

Hello, Palagali, when the deer eats the com, one thinks not of the fat ttle.... 
She has a hundred daughters of Chamberlain and charioteers as. attendants. 
These respond to the Chamberlain - “Chamberlain Hello, Hello, Chamber- 
lain, when the deer eats the com, no one thinks of the fat one. 



XV.5.2.18] 


TRANSLATION 


255 


11. Those words in the form of Abhimsthitas (deriswe statements) repre¬ 
sent every kind of attainment and in the Asvamedha all objects of desire are 
contained. “By every kind of speech, may we obtain all objects we desire for" - 
thus they think. They make the Mahisi to get up. Those women then return 
the same way they had come. Other finally utter the mantra containing the 

word Surabkk (fragrance) “To Dadhikravan, have sung praises etc.” For, from 

those who utter impure speech in the sacrifice, life and deities depart. So,this 
purifies the speech for the sake of the worship of the gods; for preventing the 
departure of the deities. Then they place the Vapa of the Gomrga and of the 
hornless he-goat on the horse and then take it (to the Ahavaniya) laying ,“The 
horse has no Vapa. n It should not be done so. He should take out the actual 
fat of the horse. The fat of other ( Pasus ) is ordinary. After the Vapas are 
made, they return at the rear of the .Scutes and hold a metaphysi* 1 discussion. 
Entering through the eastern door, they sit before their respective Dhisnyas. 

12. Now the Hota asks the Adhvaryu- “Who is it that moves singly?” He 
replies - “The Sun travels alone.” 

13. The Adhvaryu asks the Hota- “Which is equal to Sun in effulgence?” 
He is answered “The Brahman is equal to the Sun in effulgence. 

14. The Brahma (priest) asks to Udgata -“I Ask you for my knowledge, O 
friends of Gods... etc.” (Udgata) replies. “I am too at those three places.— etc.” 

15. The Udgata asks Brahma- “Into what, the Purusa has entered.... etc.” 

and he replies “The Purusa (spirit) has entered into five things.etc. ” When 

this (Brahmodya) has been uttered they get up and leaving the Sodas, proceed 
eastwards to the side of the Yajamana. Having approached him who is sitting 
in front of the Havirdhdna (enclosure), they sit down in their respective places. 

16. That Hota asks, the Adhvaryu- “What was the first conception?” He 
answered “The sky was the first conception. 

17. Now the Adhvaryu asks the Hota — Please tt , who is the Pi ngu 
(tawny one).... etc”. He replies “The unborn (or Maya or night) is the 

/^angite....etc.” 

18. Then Brahma asks the Udgata- “How many kinds are there of this 
(sacrifice) - how many syllables....”. He replies There are six kinds of this (sac- 
rifice) and a hundred syllables ”... 





XV.5.3.4] 


TRANSLATION 


257 


19. Now the Udgata questions the Brahma- “Who knows the navel of this 

Universe.He replies- “I know the navel of the Universe. 

20. Then the Yajamana asks the Adhvaryu-“I ask you which is the farthest 

end of the earth....”. He replies, “This vedi (altar-site) is the farthest end of the 
earth.”. 

21. The Brahmodya (metaphysical discussion) marks the complete attain¬ 
ment of speech. Asvamedha contains all desires and so (they think) “Let us 
attain all desires by means of all speech.” When the Brahmodya is over, the 
Adhvaryu enters (the Havirdhana enclosure) and in a golden vessel draws the 
Soma-Graha for Prajapati called Mahima-Graha • The Puroruk (Yajus formula pre¬ 
liminary to drawing a Soma-Graha ) is—“The Hir any a garb ha was first 
produced....etc.”. Its Puronuvakya is “well born, self-born at first etc. The praise 

chant for this ( Mahima-Graha ) is “May the Hota offer to Prajapati.etc.” The 

Hota utters (the offering formula) “O Prajapati, None other than you....etc.” 
and as the Vasatkara is pronounced (the Adhvaryu) offers (the Mahima-Graha) 
saying “What Mahima or greatness of yours there has been in the day and the 
year.” He does not utter Anuvasatkdra (repeating Vausat), for he offers the 
contents of the Graha all in one stretch. (Second Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMAN A III 

1. Now about the offering of Vapds- “Upto the offering of the Vapd for 
Visvedevas, separate oblations are to be offered. After the offering of the Vapd 
for Visvedevas, following that the others are to be offered —This is what 
SatyakamaJabala said. Because Visvedeva means all the deities and these dei¬ 
ties, he gratifies, one by one. 

2. The two Saumapa Manutantavya said - “Soon after the Vapd offering is 
made to Indra-Agni, the offerings to the other deities should be given.” For, 
Indra-Agni cover all the deities and these deities he places one by one. 

3. Sailali opined - “When the Vapd for ‘ Kd has been offered, then other 
offerings should follow.” For ‘Kd is Prajapati and all other gods follow Prajapati 
and these deities he gratifies one by one. 

4. Bhallaveya said, “After offering oblations to the twenty-one deities of the 
Cdturmdsya, they should proceed after making twenty-one parts of the Vapd .” 







TRANSLATION 


259 


XV.5.3.7] 

Those gods in Cdturmdsya account for all the deities. Thus he pleases these 
deities otie by one. Indrota Saunaka opined - “Separate offerings are to be 
made.” Why should one hurry up? Thus he gratifies the deities one by one. 
These are their opinions, but in practice it is different 

5. Now Yagriavalkya said - “The offerings of the Vapds of the Pasus for 
Prajapati are to be made simultaneously; and those meant for single gods. 
Only then he gratifies all the gods immediately and easily reaches the comple¬ 
tion of the sacrifice and does not faulter. After the Vapds are offered, the 
Adhvaryu enters (the Havirdhana enclosure) and collects the second Mahima- 
Graha for Prajapati in a silver vessel. The Puroruk chants for it is “He who by 

his greatness has become the one king of the breathing and winking world.. 

etc.” The Anuvdkya chant and the offering ( Yajus) mantra are interchanged 
to avoid their becoming stale. The Praisa utterance (to the Hota) is the same 
(as for the first Mdhima-Graha). As the Vasatkara is uttered, he offers saying 
“What greatness of yours there has been in the night, the year.” There is no 
repeating of the Vasatkara and its import has been explained. They do not 
make sacrificial portions of the blood of the other Pasus; that of the horse, 
they do make portions. On the right side, they make portions of the other 
Pasus (of Prajapati excepting the horse) and of the horse on the left side (of 
the altar). He makes portions (of the blood) of the Pasus of Prajapati, other 
than the horse, on the branches of Plaksa and that of the horse on bamhoo 
branches. 

6. But Satyayagni said - “They may do it either way. Only the (right) track 
should not be missed.” But what is said above is the prevalent practice. The 
sacrifice (on the second day) is an Ukthya. By that he enriches the aerial region. 
The last day is the Sarvastoma Atiratra {Atiratra with all the Stomas) Sarvastoma 
is everything (Atiratra with all the Stomas) Sarvastoma is everything, Atirata is 
everything and Asvamedha is everything (So that last day’s Sarvastoma Atiratra) 
is for gaining everything and for owning everything. 

7. Its Bahispavamdnais in the Trivrt (Stoma of nine - verses). The Ajya Stotras 
are in the Pancadasa (15)S tamo. The mid day Pavamdna Stotrais in the Saptqdasa 
(17) Stoma. The Prstha Stotras are in the Ekavimsa (21) Stomas. The third 
Pavamdna is the Trinava (3x9 = 27) Stoma, the Agnistoma Sdman in the 
Trayastrimsa (33), the Ukthas in the Ekavimsa (21); the Sodasin in the Ekavimsa 
(21); the Ratri Sdmans in the Pancadasa (15); The Sandhi chants in Trivrt (9). 
Whatever Sastra is recited for the second day of the Prsthya Sadaha, the same is 
employed in the Atiratra By this he enriches the yonder world (heaven). 



XV.5.4.6] 


TRANSLATION 


261 


8. “The Savaniya Pasus are twenty-one—all meant for Agni and they have 
the same formalities” -So say some people. But let him immolate those twenty- 
four Pasus of cow’s species for the twelve deities. For, a year has twelve months; 
the year is everything and Asvamedha is everything. So, for the sake of gaining 
everything and owning everything(let him immolate twenty-four Gavya Pasus). 
(Third Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANA IV 

1. Once, Indrota, Daivapa Saunaka causedJanamejaya, the son of Pariksit 
to perform this ( Asvamedha ) sacrifice. By this sacrifice, he (Janamejaya) put an 
end to all evil actions, all killing of brahmins. So, he who performs Asvamedha 
puts an end to all evil acts and all Brahmahatya. 

2. It is on this, indeed, there is a Gatha (euology) sung- “At Asandivati 
(city of throne), Janamejaya tied (to the Yupa), a black-spotted, grain-eating 
horse, for the gods, which had golden ornaments and yellow-garlands.” The 
same for the first two days and- 

3. (caused to perform) Jyoti - Atiratra by Bhlmasena. Those same first two 
days and a Go-Atiratra they performed for king Ugrasena. The same for the 
first two days and a Ayuratiratra they performed for king Srutasena. Those are 
the descendants of Pariksit about whom the Gatha sings — “These Yajamanas 
of the Pariksit’s family, one after the other, performed Asvamedha sacrifices 
and righteous as they are with their meritorious deeds, got rid of sinful acts. 
The same for the first two days and - 

4. An Abhijit-Atiratra, they performed for Para-Ahnar, the king of Kosala 
and this Gatha has been sung on that - “Para Ahnar’s son, the Kausalya Para, 
Hairanya-garbha caused a horse fit for sacrifice to be tied (to the Yupa ) and 
gave away the entire regions (to Rtxnks as Daksina) .” The same for the first two 
days, and- 

5. With Visvajit-Atiratra, they performed Daurgraha {Awamedha tor Purakutsa 
- Aiksvaka. That is why it is said by the Rsi (in the Rgveda) “These, the seven 
Rsis t were there our fathers, when Daurgraha (horse) was tied — The same for 
the first two days and- 

6. A Mahavrata-Atiratra, they got performed by Marutta-Aviksita, the Ayogava 
king, in which the Maruts became his body-guards, Agni his Chamberlain and 


XV.5.4.12] 


TRANSLATION 


263 


the Visvadevas were his assemble members. On this the Gatha is sung— The 
Maruts stayed in the house of Marutta; the Chamberlain of Aviksata was Agni 
and the Visvedevas were the assembly members for him who performs 
Asvamedha .” The same for the first two days and— 

7. An Aptoryama-Atiratra, they got performed by Kraivya the Pancala king. 
In those days the Pancalas used to be called Knvayas. That has been sung by 
this Gatha- “At Pauvakra , the Pancala overlord of the Krivas tied (to the Yupa ), 
a horse fit for sacrifice with a hundred thousand (cows) as Daksind. 

8. By a second Gatha (it is said) “A crore of Pasus there were which the 
brahmins of Pancala from every directions, divided among them. 

9. The Agnistoma in Trivrt (nine) Stoma, the Ukthya in the Pancadasa Stoma, 
and for the third day, the Uktha Stotras in Saptadasa, the Sodasin Stotra in the 
Eka Vimsa, the Rdtri Stotras in the Pancadasa and the Sandhi Stotra in Trivrt. 

10. Thus the Anusthubh gets completed. With this Dhvasa - Dvaitavana, 
the king of the Matsyas performed the sacrifice and it is on this, the Gatha is 
sung - “ Dvaitavana , victorious in battle, tied (to the Yupa) fourteen horses for 
Indra, the killer of Vrtra and from that, the lake Dvaitavana (got its name).” 

11. The Pavamdnas in Caturvimsa Stoma, those repeatedly performed 
(Abhyavarta) in Trmt Stoma, the Pavamdnas in Catuscatvdrimsa Stoma, and those 
repeatedly performed in the Ekaviihsa, the Pavamdnas in Astacatvarimsa Stoma 
and those repeatedly performed in Trayastrimsa. Upto the Agnistoma Sdmans, 
the Uktha Stotras in the Dvatnmsa, the Sodasin in the Ekavimsa, the Rdtri Stotras 
in the Pancadasa and the Sandhi in Trvrt . 

12. This constitutes the striding of Visnu. With this Bharata, the son of 
Dusyanta, performed the sacrifice and after,performing that, he won that wide 
authority which belongs to Bharatas to this day. It is on this the Gatha is sung 
- “Bharata, the son of Dusyanta tied (to the Yupa) seventy-eight horses for the 
killer of Vrtra on the banks of the Yamuna and fifty-five on the banks of the 
Gaiiga.” 



XV.5.421] 


TRANSLATION 


265 


13. By a second Gatha, it is said “Having tie/i a hundred and thirty-three 
horses, fit for sacrifice, King Saudyumni, the deceitful overcame his enemies, 
not so clever.” 

14. By a third ( Gatha, which says)- At Nddapit (the location of Kanva’s her¬ 
mitage), Sakuntala conceived Bharata, who after conquerring the whole earth, 
collected for Indra more than a thousand horses, fit for sacrifice. 

15. By a fourth {Gatha it is said)- “The greatness attained by Bharata was 
not attained by the kings who preceded him or those who succeeded him, 
nor even the five descendants of Manu.” 

16. With the Ekavimsa Stoma (throughout the three days) Rsabha-Yagiiatura, 
the king of the Svikas, performed (this sacrifice), on which this Gatha is sung- 
“When Rsabha-Yagnatura was performing sacrifice, the brahmins receiving 
wealth as Daksind were sharing it (among themselves).” 

17. With the Trayastnmsa Stoma (throughout the three days) Sona-Satrasaha, 
the Pdncdla king performed this sacrifice and it is praised by this Gdthd which is 
sung — “When Satrasaha performed the Asvamodha, the thirty-three Stomas 
emerged in the form of Taurvasa (horses) along with six thousand warriors 
with armours.” 

18. By a second Gatha (It is said) - “ At the sacrifice of your father, the lord 
of the earth, (or) O Ko Ka at your father’s sacrifice, the Trayastnmsa Stomas 
appear each as six times six thousand horses and six-thousand warriors with 
armours.” 

19. By a third Gatha (it is said) - “When Pdncdla king Satrasaha, well-gar- 
landed, was performing the {Asvamedha) sacrifice, Indra enjoyed with Soma 
and the brahmins with Daksind. 

20. Satanlka-Satrajita performed the Govinata (form of Asvamedha) after 
capturing the horse of the Kasya king. From that times the Kasins do n 
maintain the sacrificial fires saying “Our Scwno drink has been taken atoay from us. 

21. Its procedure (of Govinata-Asvamedha) -The Pavamdna Stotras in Caturvimsa 
Stoma, those repeatedly perfomred are in Trivrt Stomas, the Pavamanas' in the 


XV.5.4.27] 


TRANSLATION 


267 


Catuscatvarimsa, the Ajya Stotras in the Ekavimsa# the Ukthas in Trinava, the 
Prsthas in the Ekavimsa, the Pavamanas in Sattrimsa Stomas and those repeat¬ 
edly performed in Trayastvimsa upto the Agnistoma Saman, the Ukthas in the 
Ekavimsa, the Sodasins in the Ekavimsa and the Ratri Stotras in the Pahcadasa 
and the Sandhi Stotra in the Trivrt. 

22. That has been sung in the form of this Gatha-“Satanika Satrajita tied a 
horse (to the Yupa) in the neighbourhood in the sacrifice of the Kasina, just 
as Bharata tied that of the Satvatas” 

23. By a second Gatha, (It is sung)- ‘The valorous Satanika captured in the 
neighbourhood the white sacrificial horse of Dhrtarastra, which was wander¬ 
ing about at its pleasure, in the tenth month and performed the Govinata 
sacrifice.” 

24. By the fourth (Gatha) it is said- ‘There was none before or after as 
great as the Bharatas; not even in all the seven (generations) of men. Even as 
an ordinary man cannot touch the sky with his hands. 

25. Now about the Daksinas- Whatever there is in the middle of the king¬ 
dom, barring the lands, men and wealth of the brahmins, of that, the eastern 
region goes to the Hota; the southern regions to the Brahma, the western 
region to the Adhvaryu and the northern region to the Udgata. The other 
Rtviks share these along with them. 

26. When the Udayaniya (completing offering) is made, he immolates 
twenty-one barron cows to Mitra-Varuna, the Visvedevas and Brhaspati,in or¬ 
der to gain those deities. And why those to Brhaspati come last,' is because 
Brhaspati is Brahman 'and he thus establishes himself finally in Brahman. 
And as to why it is twenty-one is because this yonder one who bums (Sun) is 
twenty-one-fold there are twelve months, five seasons, these three worlds and 
the yonder sun is twenty-first. This he thereby obtains. 

27. When the Udayaniya (completing offering) is made, they offer as 
Daksina, four women with a maiden as the fifth, and four-hundred female 
attendants as per agreement. During the following year he succeeds (to per¬ 
form sacrifice) with seasonal Pasus (being offered). Six to Agni in the spring, 
six to Indra in the summer, six to Paijanya or the Maruts in the rainy season, 



XV.5.4.27] 


TRANSLATION 


269 


six to Mitra-Varunas in the autumn, six to Indra and Visnu in the winter and 
six to Indra arid Brhaspati in the dewy season. Six are the seasons for a year. 
He thus gets established in the seasons, in the year. These amount to thirty- 
six Pasus. The Brhatl metre has thirty-six syllables and heavenly world is estab¬ 
lished on the Brhati. Thus he finally gets established by means of the Brhatl 
metre, in the heavenly world. (Fourth Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter Five Ends.) 


Chapter Six 
BRAHMANAI 

1. Purusa Narayana desired- “let me become above all beings. Let me be¬ 
come all these.” He discovered this Purusamedha sacrifice of five nights. He 
planned it and performed it. Having performed it, he became above every 
other being and became all these. He who knows thus and performs the 
Purusamedha becomes above all beings and become all these. 

2. For that, there are twenty-three Dtksas or initiation ceremonies; twelve 
Upasadsr, five Sutyas (Soma sacrifices). Thus with LHksds and Upas ads, it becomes 
a forty days performance and Viraj metre (in four Pddas) has forty syllables. 
Thus he gains the Viraj. From that came the Viraj and from the Viraj, the 
Yagha-Purusa is produced. 

3. These forty days split into four tens and these four tens are for the at¬ 
tainment of the worlds and the quarters. From the first set of ten days, he 
attained this terrestrial world; from the second, the aerial region; from the 
third, the heavenly world; from the fourth quarters. In die same manner, djiis 
Yajamana gains this terrestrial world from the first set of ten, the aerial region 
from the second, the heavenly world from the third and the quarters from 
the fourth. This universe is that much as these three worlds and the quarters. 
Purusamedha is everything and it is for attainment of and owning of everythii ,. 

4. On the Upavasatha day, there are eleven Pasus for Agni-Soma and the 
procedure of these is the same. There are elevan Yupas. The Tysthubh metre 
consist of eleven syllables and Trsthubh, is a thunder-bolt, vitality. By means 
of Trsthubh, the thunder-bolt, vitality, the Yajamana dispels all evil at the 
start. There are eleven Pasus in the Sutyas. Trsthubh has eleven syllables and 
Trsthubh is a thunder-bolt and it is vitality. By means of Trsthubh, the thun¬ 
der-bolt, vitality, the Yajamana dispels all evil at the start. 

5. Why there are eleven Yupas is because a set of eleven Yupas is everything 
and it is for securing and owning everything. Prajapati is everything and the 
Purusamedhais everything. 


XV.6.1.9] 


TRANSLATION 


273 


6. Now this Purusamedha is a Yajha-Kratu lasting for five days. The sacrifice 
is five-fold and the Pasu is five-fold and a year has five seasons. Whatever there 
is five-fold concerning the deity or the body, he obtains thereby. 

7. The first day (of the five) happens to be the Agnistoma, then an Ukthya, 
then an Atiratra, then an Ukthya and then an Agnistoma. This sacrifice has got 
both ends Jyoti (the two Agnistomas at the first and last days are Jyotistoma vari¬ 
ety of Agnistoma ) and Ukthyas on both sides (with Atiratra in the middle, i.e., 
the third day). It is a Pahcardtra (five day’s sacrifice) like the middle of a com 
(the largest performance, i.e., Atiratra being in the middle). For, this Purusamedha 
is these worlds. These worlds have Jyoti (effulgence) on both sides. This world 
has Agni (as Jyoti) and the yonder world has Sun(as Jyoti ). The two Ukthyas are 
food which are on either sides of the Atiratra and hence this self is covered by 
food. The Atiratra which is the largest of them is in the middle of the five days 
and hence it is like the middle part of a com and (gives a shape of Yava to this 
sacrifice). Whosoever knows this, repels (You) his hateful enemy. They say of 
him - “he alone is alive and not his hateful enemy.’* 

8. For that {Purusamedha ), the first day is his terrestrial world and the spring 

season also is this terrestrial world. The second day is what is above this terres¬ 
trial world and below the aerial region/ It is his summer season. The aerial 
region is the middle (third) day. That is his rainy and autumnal seasons. That 
which is above the aerial region and below the sky is the fourth day. It is its 
winter season. Its fifth day is the sky and it is his dewy seasons. This is the 
divine aspect of it. - 

9. Now about the physical aspect- the first day is its feet and its feet are the 
spring season. That which is above the feet and below the middle is the sec¬ 
ond day and it is its summer season. The middle part of (its body) is the middle 
day and the middle of it is the rainy and autumnal seasons. That which is 
above the middle and below the head is the fourth day and that is his winter. 
His head itself is the fifth day and his head is the dewy season. Thus these 
worlds, the year and the body converge in the Purusamedha. These wofrlds are 
everything; the year is everything and the self is everything ^nd the Purusamedha 
is everything. Thus (one performs Purusamedha for the attainment of all for 
owning everything. (First Brahmana Ends.) 


XV.6.2.6] 


TRANSLATION 


275 


BRAHMANAH 

1. Now, why it is called Purusamedha - these worlds are doubtless, the for¬ 
tress and this one who blows (Vayu) is the Purusa. He is lying (Sx) in this fort 
(Put); hence he is the Purusa. Whatever food there is in these worlds that is 
his Medhaox food. Therefore it is named Purusamedha. Moreover in this, sacri- 
ficially pure Purusas are (symbolically) immolated and hence too it is 
Purusamedha. 

2. He immolates them on the middle day. The middle day is indeed the 
aerial region and the aerial region is the abode of all beings. Indeed these 
Pasus are also food and the middle day is the belly and thereby he puts food 
into the belly. 

3. He immolates them in sets of ten-ten; for the Virad metre has ten syl¬ 
lables and Virad means all food and hence for owning all food (he immolates 
in groups of ten). Eleven rounds in tens he immolates; for the Tr&hubh has 
eleven syllables. Trsthubh is the thunder-bolt, and his vitality. By means of the 
Trsthubh, the thunderbolt, vitality the Yajamana removes evil from the middle. 
He ties forty-eight to the middle Yupa, for the Jagati metre consists of forty- 
eight syllables and the Pasus are Jdgata (of moving nature). By means of the 
Jagati, he thus secures cattle for him (Yajamana). To the other Yiipas, he ties 
sets of eleven-eleven Pasus. The Trsthubh metre has eleven syllables. The 
Trsthubh is the thunder-bolt, and vitality. By means of Trsthubh, the thun¬ 
derbolt, the vitality, the Yajamana dispels evil from all around. Lastly he ties 
(to the Yupa) eight Pasus and the Gayatri has eight syllables. Gayatri is the 
Brahman. He thus makes the Brahman the greatest (ultimate) principle of 
this universe. So they say that the Brahman is the super-most in universe. 

4. Those Pasus are for Prajapati; for Prajapati is Brahman and Prajapati is 
of the nature of the Brahman. Therefore they belong to Prajapati. 

5. While about to lead the Pams, he offers those three oblations to Savita 

(starting) “O god Savita; impel.... etc.,” and “ Tatsavitur\ etc.,” and u Visvdni 

deua.....etc. ri and he (Savita) thus pleased, hastens those men. He ties those 
thus prompted by him. 

6. For the priestly class, he binds a Brahmin; for. Brahmin is indeed the 
priesthood. So he enriches the priestly dass by mean of a Brahmin. For the 



XV.6.2.10] 


TRANSLATION 


277 


Ksatra class, he ties a Rajanya (prince); for, Rajanya indeed is of the Ksatra 
class. Thus by means of a Ksatra he enriches the Ksatra class. He binds a Vaisya 
(merchant) for the Maruts, because Maruts are the Vis. Thus he enriches the 
merchant class by means of a Vis. He binds a Sudra for the Tapas (religious 
austerity); for, the Sudra is toil. He thus joins toil'with physical efforts. Accord¬ 
ing to the particular forms of these divinities, he provides the Pasus. Thus 
provided, they supply him with all his objects of desire. 

7. He offering with ghee, for Ajyais effulgence. Thus by means of effulgence, 
he endows effulgence unto him. Moreover he makes offerings with ghee be¬ 
cause ghee is the favourites abode of the gods. So he enriches them with their 
own favourite abode. They thus gratified, bless him with all his desired objects. 

8. Brahma from the right side, praises the men so bound (to the Yupas) by 
means of the Purusa Narayana hymns (starting.with) “Purusa the thousand- 

headed.etc.” This set of hymns has sixteen verses. He does so for the ob- 

tainment and the owning of everything, for everything has sixteen Kolas (parts) 
and the Purusamedha is everything. By praising “You are so and so; you are so 
and so”, he indeed honours him (magnifies lum). At the same time he speaks 
of him as he is. Now the fire is carried round the Pasus but they are not slaugh¬ 
tered (as in the case of other Paws) . Then a (super-natural) voice told him- 
“You, Purusa, you shall not kill these men. If you do so, men will eat men. 
Therefore, after the fire is taken found them, they (the human Pasus) were let 
off and ghee oblations were offered to the same divinities. Thus he gratifies 
those divinities and they so pleased, grant him all objects of desjre. 

9. He makes offering with ghee and ghee is effulgence. By means of the 
effulgent, he puts effulgence into it. He concludes with those of the eleven 
Yupas. The Trsthubh has eleven syllables and the Trsthubh is a thunder-bolt 
and vitality. With Trsthubh, the thunder-bolt, vitality, the Yajamana wards off 
evil from the middle part. 

10. After the Udayamya (concluding oblations) are offered, he seizes eleven 
barren cows for Mitra-Varuna, Visvedevas and Brhaspati, for the obtamment 
of these deities. Those of Brhaspati are the last; for Brhaspati is Brahman and 
thus he finally gets established in Brahman. Now, why there are eleven barren 
cows is because the Trsthubh is eleven-syllabled and Trsthubh is the thunder¬ 
bolt and vitality. So by means of the thunder-bolt, vitality, the Yajamana dis¬ 
pels evil from the middle. The last offering is Traidhavad and its signify 

the same as before. 



XV.62.13] 


TRANSLATION 


279 


11. Now about the Daksinas - the middle of the country barring the land 
and wealth of brahmins, including the men, the eastern portion the roof is 
the Daksina for the Hota. The southern portion is to the Brahma; the western 
part to the Adhvaryu and the northern portion to the Udgata. The other 
. Rtviks share the same with them. 

12. If a Brahmin performs this sacrifice, he should give (as Bafcsriw) his 
property; for Brahmin is everything and all property is everything, Purusamedha 
is also everything and so for attaining everything and owning everything (jhe 
should give away all his property). 

13. He should transfer the two fires into himself and stand in prayer of the 
Sun while chanting Uttara Ndrayana hymns and proceed to the forest without 
looking back. That place happens to be away from the human beings. If he 
wishes to live in a village, let him transfer the two fires on to the two Aranis and 
after standing in prayer of the Sun while chanting the Uttara Ndrayana, he may 
stay at his home. Let him continue performing such sacrifices as he can afford. 
The technique of this sacrifice should not be imparted to everyone, lest it 
should amount to a free for all. Because die Purusamedha is everything and it 
can be imparted only to a known person like one well-versed in Vedic lore are 
one very dear to oneself but not to anybody and everybody. (Second Brahmana 
Ends.) 


(Chapter Six Ends.) 


Chapter Seven 
BRAHMANAI 

1. Brahman, the self-bom, underwent Tapas (austerities). He discovered 
“There is no etemality in Tapas. So 1 will offer mine own self in the beings and 
the beings into myself;” Then by offering his own self into all beings and all 
the beings in his self, he attained supermacy, the sovereignity, and overlordship 
over all creatures. In the same way this Yajamana, by offering all essence in 
the Sarvamedha sacrifice, attains supremacy, sovereignity and overlordship 
over all beings. 

2. This Sarvamedha is a sacrificial performance extending over ten days. 
The Virad metre has ten syllables and Virad is all food and so it is for owning 
all food (he performs it). He builds up the largest altar in that (sacrifice) . This 
Sarvamedha is the super-most among the Yajha-kratus (sacrificial performances). 
Thus he attains supermacy by means of the super-most. 

3. For that, the first day is of Agnistut-Agnistoma and Agnistut-Agnistoma is 
indeed fire (itself) . All gods have fire as their mouth and so, for gaining all the 
gods (he performs the Agnistut); for that the Soma-Grahas are for Agni; the 
Puroruk chant are related to Agni, because he thinks, Let all about it be re¬ 
lated to Agni.” 

4. The second day is of Indrastut-Ukthya. Indra is indeed all the gods and 
for the gaining of all the gods (he performs the Indrastut ). For that the Soma- 
Grahas are of Indra, the Puroruk chants are aiso on Indra, so that all about it is 
connected with Indra. 

5. The third-day is of Siiryastut-lJkthya, because the Sun is indeed all the 
gods and it is for gaining all the gods. For it, the Soma-Grahas are of Surya; the 
Puroruk chants are on Surya; so that all about it is connected to Surya. 

6. The fourth day is a Vaisv^deva; for Visvedevas mean all the gods and for 
the gaining of all the gods (it is performed). For that the Soma-Grahas are of 
Visvedevas and the Puroruk chants are on Visvedevas; so that all about it is 
connected to Visvedevas. 


XV.7.1.14] 


TRANSLATION 


283 


7. The fifth day is a central Asvamedhika ( Ukthya) sacrifice. At this, a horse 
fit for sacrifice is immolated, to gain the (fruit of) Asvamedha. 

8. The sixth day is a central Purusamedha (an Atirdtra sacrifice). For that, 
men fit for sacrifice are tied (to the Yupa ) to obtain (the fruit of Purusamedha ). 

9. The seventh day is an Aptorydnur, for the sake of his gaining all kinds of 
Soma sacrifices and for that all Pasus, fit for sacrifice are immolated, both ani¬ 
mate and inanimate. He offers the Vapd of those having Vapd and of those 
without Vapd, they throw pieces cut out of the skin; of the herbs and trees, 
they throw after cutting. He offers every-kind of food of both dry and wet, in 
order to gain every kind of food. He offers everything, offers to every one, in 
order to gain and own everything. Just as the offering of the Vapds is made in 
the morning savana, in the same way, the oblations are offered in the third savana. 

10. The ei gh th day is TniuwaSUmia&ssf, for the TrinavaSUmaisa thunderbolt and 
by means erf the thunderbolt, indeed, Ksatra (royal authority) is gained Thus by means 
of thunderbolt he gains royal authority. 

11. The ninth day is a Trayastrimsa-Stoma day, for the sake of gaining a 
foothold; for the Trayastrimsa-Stoma is a foothold. 

12. The tenth day is a VisvajitrAtirdtra day with all the Prsthas; for the sake of 
g ainin g an d o wning everything. Because, the VisvajitrAtirdtra with all the Prsthas 
is everything and the Sarvamedha is everything. 

13. Now about the Daksinds - whatever there is on the middle of the king¬ 
dom other than the property of the brahmins, but including land and men, of 
that, those in the eastern region are to the Hota; those in the southern side go 
to the Brahma; the western to the Adhvaryu; and the northern to the Udgata 
and the other Rtviks share these along with them. 

14. Visvakarma-Bhauvana, once performed this (Sarvamedha) sacrifice and 
hawing performed it, he surpassed all beings and became everything here. He 
who knows thus and performs the Sarvamedha or he who even knows this, 
surpasses all beings and becomes everything here. 


XV.7.1.15J 


TRANSLATION 


285 


15. It was Kasyapa who officiated for him. In that the earth sung the sloka 
(euology). “No mortal shall give me away; you were foolish, O Visvakarma- 
Bhauvana. This I (the earth) will sink into the midst of water and your prom¬ 
ise (to give) to Kasyapa is going to be a false.” (First Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter Seven Ends.) 


Chapter Eight 
BRAHMAN AI 

* 

1. They now prepare a Smasana (an eternal resting place for the body of 
the Yajamana), either as house or as a memo. Whoever dies he is a corpse 
(Sava) and what Anna (food) is prepared for that is Savanna. Savanna (food 
for the corpse) is what is indirecdy called Smasana. Smasdh are those who eat 
among the Pitrs (deceased ancestors). They destroy in the yonder world, the 
good deeds of the one for whom Smasana is not made. It is for them that he 
prepares food i.e. Smasdnnam. Smasdnnam itself is what is indirectly Smasdnam. 

2. Let him not prepare it too soon (after the death of the Yajamana); lest 
his sin should become renewed. Let him do it after some delay; thereby he 
obscures his sin. (It may be prepared) at a time when people have forgotten 
him for years and his sins are heard no more (talked about). If they do re¬ 
member— 

3. Let him make it in even year (two, four, six etc.) for uneven (years) are 
of the Pitrs. (It should be made) under a single Naksatra (a lunar house with 
single star like €itrd, Afdrd etc. and not Krttikd, Punarvasu etc.) for the single 
Naksatras belong to th|e Pitrs. In Amdvasya (new-moon), for Amdvdsya is a single 
Naksatra, since in that all the beings live together for that night. The sacrificer 
is single person. Thereby he obtains that desire which is contained in all the 
Naksatras. 

* 

4. (It should be made) in the autumn season, because (Sarad) autumn is 
Svadhd and Svadhd is the food of the Pitra. Thus he unites him (the departed 
one) along with his food, Svadhd, or (he makes) in the month of Magha, think¬ 
ing, “Let me have not (Ma)(Sin) (Agha), or in summer ( Niddgha) thinking let 
ourslh (Agha) be removed (Nidha). n 

5. Four-cornered (conduction should be that monument). The gods and 
the Asuras, both of them bom of Prajapati, quarralled in the (four) quarters. 
Those gods drove away their enemies, the Asuras, from quarters. They (Annas) 
got defeated and were deprived of quarters. That is why people who are of 
godly nature, prepare their Smasanas, four cornered and those of Asuric na¬ 
ture, the easterners and others, make theirs circular (dome-shaped); for the 


XV.8.1.10] 


TRANSLATION 


289 


gods drove them out of the quarters. He contructs it between the two direc¬ 
tions; the .eastern and southern directions. It is in this direction that the door 
to the Pitr loka, the world of the Pitrs, is (situated). He thus enables him to 
enter the world of the Pitrs through its entrance. He (the deceased) gets estab¬ 
lished in the quarters by means of the four comers and.by his other body (i.e. 
the monument) he gets established in the intermediate quarters. Thus he 
gets established in all the quarters. 

6. Now about choosing the ground. He makes it on a ground sloping to¬ 
wards the north; because north is the direction of men. He thus make him 
(the deceased) share the human world. The Pitrs get attached to the human 
world since here they have their progeny (living). By this his progeny prosper weD. 

7. Some say it should slope towards the south, since in the southern direc¬ 
tion is the world of the Pitrs . By this he (deceased) is made to share the world 
of the Pitrs. It should not be done so. Because it (the southern direction) keeps 
the mouth of the Smasana open and (if done so) very soon another member 
of his family will follow him (to death). 

8. Some others say, “Let the ground be inclined towards the south but an 
elevation be made on the south, so that the evil effect (of an open Smasana) 
gets removed.” It should not be so. Because only if it is inclined to the north it 
will be one capable of negating the evil effect. 

9. Any levelled ground where waters flowing from a south-easterly direc¬ 
tion will cease flowing on reaching the north-western side of the plot and with¬ 
out further gushing forth, naturally, mix with the waters already collected there, 
that will suite for the monument. In that case, water is food and he thereby 
supplies him (the deceased) with food from the front towards the back. Water 
is nectar. That region between the spot where the seven Rsis rise (the Saptarsi 
constellation of stars appear) and the spot where the Sun sets is the quarter of 
the living beings. Thereby he bestows nectar on the living beings. This consti¬ 
tutes a closed Smasana, for the good of living beings. What is good for living 
beings is good for the Pitrs. 

10. Let him make it on a comfortable spot so that it provides comfort to 
him. Let it be a peaceful spot so that it may give peace to him. Let him not 
construct it on a thoroughfare or in an open space, lest he should make his 


XV.8.2.2] 


TRANSLATION 


291 


(the deceased’s) sin get revealed. It can be an enclosed space where the Sun’s 
rays at noon directly fall. If it is enclosed, it conceals his (deceased’s) sin. By 
choosing the enclosed space, the Sun’s rays from above remove the evil from 
him since the Sun is a destroyer of evil. He is endowed with the effulgence of 
the Sun. Let him not make that monument in sucht a way that it is invisible 
from here (from the village), because it is like requesting or calling (some one 
else) and (if done so) some one else (of his family) will soon follow suit. Let 
that (monument have a picturesque background, for picturesque objects mean 
offspring and thereby he gets beautiful offspring. Let there be water either 
behind or to the north of it. Because water adds to beauty and he begets beau¬ 
tiful offspring. 

11. He constructs it on barren soil, for, barren soil is vitality. Thus he par¬ 
takes in the productivity of that vitality, so that he gets progeny. His children 
become prosperous. Let it be on (a ground) with roots (underneath). Be¬ 
cause, the grounds with roots belong to the Pitrs. Those roots should be of 
Vtrina or other grasses, so that the share of the Pitrs in this (earth) does not 
exceed and by this he also keeps the sins of the deceased under control. 

12. He should not contruct it near these trees or plants - Bhiimpasa, Sam, 
Asvagandhd., Adhyanda, Prsniparni, Asvattha, Bibhitaka, Tilvaka, Sphurjaka, 
Haridru, Nyagrodha, or any other trees with an inauspicious name; so that 
these inauspicious names are avoided and asupiciousness occurs to him. (First 
Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMANAn 

1. Now about the procedures for an Agnicit (who has built a fire-altar for 
performing sacrifice). One makes a monument in the shape of a fire alter; for, 
when a Yajamana builds up a fire-altar, he actually builds up for himself by 
sacrifice, a new (body) for the world beyond. But that sacrificial performance 
is rtot complete till a Smasana is constructed for him. So, when one builds a 
monument for the (deceased) Agnicit in the shape of an altar, he thereby 
completes that Agnicityd of the Yajamana (who is no more alive). 

2. It (the monument) should not be very large, lest he should magnify the 
sin (of the deceased). “Let him make it as long as the first citi without its wings 
and tail” - so say some; because this body of his is as big as the fire-altar. Let 


XV.8.2.6] 


TRANSLATION 


293 


him make it as much as the size of a man, with broader back^ for what is left 
behind is his progeny and thereby he makes the Yay am ana’s progeny more 
expansive. It should be broader on the left side, for that which comes later (to 
him) are his offspring. Thus he makes his offspring more excellent After 
doing this, he binds it around with string untwisted and stretched in the re¬ 
verse way (turning to the left), for the sacrificial rituals connected*with Pilrsare 
done in Apasalava or reverse way. 

3. He now causes that ground to be dug. Let him make it as high as it can 
be. But it would be proper if it is ofman’s length and does not leave any space 
for another. On the one hand the Hftsare the world of plants and among the 
roots of plants, they hide. On the other hand he (the deceased) should not 
be separated from this (earth). 

4. Some build up the mound after covering the ground. The gods and 
AsuraSy both Prajapati’s progeny, once contended for this (terrestrial world). 
The gods drove away the Asuras, their hateful enemies, from this world. So, if 
persons (deceased) are godly, they construct them Smasana in such a way as 
not be separated from this (terrestrial) world. If they are of Asunc nature, the 
easterners and the like, they construct their monument in such a way as to be 
separated from the earth, on a basin or some such thing. 

5. Now he encloses it with enclosing stones. These enclosing stones are 
just like the Parisruts of a sacrificial vedl With a Yaju$ formula, silently he places 
those (enclosing stones). He thus differentiates what is in respect of the Pitrs 
from what is in respect of the gods. He does not keep a count of the stones 
(used for enclosing) because the yonder world is unlimited. 

6. He then sweeps (the mound-site) with a bunch of Palasa, it has the same 
significance as on the earlier occasion- (saying) “Let that Pam, the tormenter 
of gods and inflicter of sorrow and the Asura get away from here.” Thus he 
wards off the Panls tormenting the gods and inflicting sorrow, as well as the 
Asura Raksasas from this world. “This is the place of this offerer of Soma” “For 
he who has performed a SomarYdga is the offerer of Soma. By lights, days and 
nights it is revealed.” Thus he makes it (the place) share the same worlds as 
the seasons, days and nights. “Let Yama give place for him” for, Yama has the 
right over the space in this (earth). So, for the sake of space for this deceased 
one, he begs of him (Yama). One of the sticks from the Palasa bunch, he 


XV.8.3.1] 


TRANSLATION 


295 


throws to the south and another to the north. Thus he differentiates between 
the godly act and the act concerning Pitrs. 

7. Then he yokes the plough (with oxen) on the south side. Some say it 
should be on the north. Let him do as he likes. After ordering ‘yoke it’ he 
chants this mantra- “Let Savita seek for your body-parts, a space in this earth*; 
because it is indeed Savita who asks for a space in the earth for those body- 
parts of his (deceased). “Therefore let the oxen be yoked”— for it is indeed for 
this purpose, the oxen are yoked. 

8 . There are six oxen, for there are six season in a year. He thus estab¬ 
lishes him on the foundation of the year, the season. He plough the first fur¬ 
row in the direction (against the course of the sun) from the right turning to 
the left (saying) “Let Vayu purify; (saying) Let Savita purify”; he ploughs from 
the west to the south. “With the effulgence ofAgm so saying, from the south to the east 
By the brilliance of the sun” (so saying) towards the front, eastwards, 

9: Thus he makes four furrows with the Yajus formulas.Thereby he estab¬ 
lished him in that food which is in the four quarters. Why with the Yajus for¬ 
mulas? Yajus is assured and assured are these quarters. He then ploughs the 
body (middle of the mound site). Therewith, he establishes him in whatever 
food is there in the year. He ploughs silently and for unlimited times, because 
the yonder world is unlimited. 

10. After finishing that work for which they (oxen) were yoked, he unites 
them (saying) “Let the oxen be unyoked” for, it is for their work, the oxen 
were yoked. He unyokes them towards the southern direction. On other occa¬ 
sion they are let off to the north. Thus he differentiates between the -acts of 
gods and those Pitrs. (Second Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAm 

1. He then sows (seeds) of all herbs. What was the impart of all seeds on 
the earlier occasion, same is (valid) here. He sowed with many mantras then, 
but now with only one. Thus he differentiates the divine from that connected 
with Pitrs. (The mantra starts)-“On the Asvattha tree is your residence and a 
seat is made for you on Parna...etc ”. Thereby he only prays for long life for 
those (of the sacrificer’s family). Hence each one of them passes away only by 
old age. 


XV.8.3.5] 


TRANSLATION 


297 


2. Then he pours out that (jarful of the bones of the deceased). For, this 
earth is the foundation and he establishes him thus on this foundation, the 
earth. He does it before the sunrise, for the Pitts are concealed as it were and 
night provides concealment and so he does it secredy. While doing it, the Sun 
rises and thus he establishes him on both day and night (He does so saying) 
“Let Savita deposit your body parts in the lap of the mother - because it is 
Savita who deposits these body parts of his in this earth, the lap of the mother. 

3. “O Earth, be of comfort for him” - he says, so that this earth may pro¬ 

vide comfort for him. “I deposit you in the world adjacent to v ers, in the 
god, Prajapati and mentions his (deceased s) name. This terres 1 ! 

indeed adjacent to water. He thus deposits him in the deity, Prajapati, in the 
world adjacent to water. He then says to someone “You proceed in this (south¬ 
ern) direction without taking breath and having thrown the jar (in which the 
bones were kept), return without turning back. At that he chants — O Death, 
you go by that your path, which is different from the path o the gods, 
telling you who has eyes and who has ears - don t hurt our progeny, nor our 
heroes.” He thereby prays for long-life for them. Hence e on E 11 - 
passes away at old age. 

4. He then arranges (the bones of the deceased so as to make a human 
figure), limb by limb (saying) -“Let the wind be of comfort to you, let the heat 
of the Sun be of comfort to you; let the bricks be of comfort to you; let the fires 
be favourable to you and let not the things of the earth bum you. Let the 
quarter be well-disposed to you, and let the waters b c most considerate to you, 
the rivers too. Let the air be kind to you; may all the regions be beneficial to 
you.” Thus he makes everything favourable to him and be of comfort for him. 

5. Then thirteen bricks without any marking and measuring one foot 
square, are made. They are just like those bricks in the fire-altar. In the fire- 
altar, he placed them with (Yajus) formulas, whereas here he places them 
silently. Thus he differentiates what is for the gods and what is for Pitts. They 
are thirteen, because a year has thirteen months; on the season, on the year, 
he thus establishes him as on a firm foundation. The re m< oring one 
foot-square; for foot is the base and thus he provides a base for him. They 
(the bricks) gave no marking, for the Piths are concealed, as it were. That which 
is unmarked is concealed as it were and the Pttrsare concealed. So he provides 
secrecy thereby. 


XV.8.4.1] 


TRANSLATION 


299 


6. One of them he places in the middle pointing to the east. This is the 
body (trunk). Three bricks he places in the front to mark the head and that is 
the head. Three on the south and that is the right wing; three on the north 
and that is the left wing and three at the hind part (west) and that is the tail. 
Thus, his body, provided with wings and tail is just like the Agnir altar. 

7. He calls for loose soil from a clift in the ground, so that the share of Pitf 
(deceased hither) in this (earth) is not in excess and moreover, by doing so, 
he limits (the dead man’s) sin. Some get it dug and from that south-eastern 
quarter and bring; yet other dig it out from the south-west and bring it north¬ 
ward from there. Yet others dig it out from the south-west and bring it north¬ 
wards from there. He may do as he likes. 

8. Let him not make it (the mound so made by keeping the loose soil so 
brought) too large; lest he magnifies the (deceased s) sin. For Ksatriya, it (the 
mound) may be as high as a man with up-stretched arms. For a brahmin, it 
may be upto the height of the mouth and for women up to the hips. For a 
Vaisya, it may be upto the thighs and for a Sudra upto the knee; thus according 
to their respective vigour. By making it upto the bottom of the knee, he does 
not leave room for another. When that Smasdna is being made, they hold a 
bundle of grass to the left side of it; ( uttoxah ). That symbolises his (deceased s) 
progeny. They thus hold up the deceased’s progeny. He should not thiow 
away that grass bundle after holding it up or after bringing it home. Let him 
install it at home (tied to a bamboo stump). He thus sets up his progeny at 
home. Having made that mound, he sows barley seeds, thinking May they 
ward off sin from me.” He covers it with Avaka plants thinking, Let me have 
joy” over that he covers with Davbha grass for the sake of softness. (Third 
Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMAN AIV 

1. Now he enclosed it (the mound) by fixing pegs. The Palasa one (stump) 
in front; for Palasa represents the brahmin. Thus he makes him (the de¬ 
ceased) go to the heavenly world with brahmin to lead him. He fixes a Sami 
pole to the north thinking “let him have tranquility. He fixes a stick of Varana 
to the west thinking “let his sin be removed.” A peg of Vrtra he fixes to the 
south so that the sin does not cross it. 


XV.8.4.8] 


TRANSLATION 


301 


2. On the right side, they then dig two pits of curved shape and fill them 
with milk and water. They follow him to the world beyond as inexhaustible 
reservoirs. Seven pits they dig on the left side and fill them with water. For, sin 
cannot pass beyond seven streams and thus his sin is not to pass beyond. 

3. They then throw (into the northern pits) three stones in each and pass 
over them (saying) “Here flows the stony one, hold onto each odier, rise and 
cross over; you friends. Here we will leave behind what inauspiciousness is in 
us and will cross over to auspicious prosperity.” As the text, so its meaning. 

4. They clean themselves with Apdmdrga plants and thereby they wash away 
{Apa-mrj) the sin (saying) “O Apamdrga, you drive away sin from us, away piilt, 
away witchery, away infinity, away evil dreams. As the text, so the meaning. 

5. They bathe at a place where there is water (on their way)- “may the 
waters and plants have good friendship towards us.” So saying he takes water 
in his joined palms; for water is thunderbolt and with the thunderbolt he thus 
makes friendship. “Let them be unfriendly to him who we hate”- so saying 
throws the water towards that direction where he who hates him may be (living). 
Thereby he puts him down. 

6. If these waters are still (notflowing) they stop his evil and if it is flowing, 
it carries away his evil. After bathing, they put an unwashed (new) garments 
and return (home) holding on to the tail of the ox. For, ox is indeed the fires 
and so keeping Agni in the fore-front, they return to the human world from 
the world of the Pitfs. Of course Agni is he who leads one on the paths and it is 

he who leads them. 

7. They proceed chanting this ftk mantra - “From out of the darkness, we 
have emerged.” From that darkness, the world of the Pitn, they now indeed 
go to light, the Sun. On their return, they are given collunun for the eyes and 
ointment for the feet. These are the objects of make-up for humans and by 
means of them they keep off death from themselves. 

8. Then at home, after enkindling the (Grtya) fire and having laid the 

enclosing sticks of Varana wound round it, he offers to Agni the with 

asm* made of the Varana wood. For, Agni is Ayusman, whojrules over 
longivity. Thereby he seeks longivity to these (members of the Ya » t »nis 
fa lily) . “You Agni, cause Ayns to flow....”.this verse is the Annvakya (for that 

offering). 


XV.8.4.11] 


TRANSLATION 


303 


9. He then offers (saying) “O Agni, live long growing by offering, ghee¬ 
mouthed, gheehom. Drinking the sweet, pleasing cow's ghee, you protect these, 
as a father does his son - Svaha.” He says thus so that he (Agni) may protect 

these. 

10. For this the Daksina is an old ox, old barley, an old stool with a head¬ 
rest (pillow). This is the prescribed Daksina, but he is free to give more accord¬ 
ing to his wish. This much is (the performance) in respect of an Agnidt (i.e. if 
the deceased is one who has built a fire-altar). For one who is not, the process 
of selecting the site is the same and the ritual is also same. Only there is no 
altar (in his case). Some are of the view that in that case of an Akitagnt, one 
should use pebbles in the place of bricks. This is the same as in the Adhdna 
ritual. Some others say, it should not be done so, because, he who is not an 
Agnidt, for him it will be too much (unbearable). But he may do as he wishes. 

11. A clod brought from the boundary, he places in between the Smasana 
and the village (saying) “This I put up as a boundaiy for the living, lest an¬ 
other of them should pass to that region. May they live for hundred nch har¬ 
vest (seasons) and keep off death from themselves, by a mountain.” Thus he 
makes it a boundary between the Pitfs and the living, so as not to cause them 
to mix up. That is why the living ones and the Pitrs are not seen together 

here. (Fourth Brahman a Ends.) 

(Chapter Eight Ends.) 

( ASVAMEDHA KANDA ENDS) 


PRAVARGYA KANDA 


Chapter One 
BRAHMAN AI 

1. All the gods except the two, namely, the Asvins, like Agni, Indra, Soma, 
Makha, Visnu and Visvedevas, underwent a session of sacrifice, Kuruksetra was 
the place of sacrifice chosen by them. As these gods made Ku vuksBtTa as their 
place of sacrifice, people used to call this place ‘ Devayajana . Whosoever hap¬ 
pens to get settled there, he thinks “this place is meant for divine worship.” 

2. Sitting in the sacrificial session, they thought- “May we attain wealth; 
may we become glorious and may we become eaters of food.” In the same 
manner, these people who sit in this session think May we become wealthy, 
glorious and eaters of plenty of food.” 

3. They said - “Whoever amongst us, through Tapas, fervour, faith, sacri¬ 
fice and oblations, completes a Yajna, he will be considered as excellent 
amongst us and yet he will be common to all of us. Othei s sai< S l 
First, Visnu saw the completion of the sacrifice and became most excellent 
among the gods and that is why people say now - He who is this Visnu is 
sacrifice; he who is the sacrifice is the same Aditya. As V isnu could not con¬ 
trol his love for glory, none of us can control our attachment to our own glory. 

4. Taking his bow, along with three arrows, he started. He stood resting his 
head at the end of his bow. All the gods, not daring to attack, sat around him. 
Then the ants said “of these, whosoever would gnaw the bow-string, what would 
you give him?” The ants are called Upadikas (which can gnaw). The gods re¬ 
plied “We would give hipt food and enable him to find water even in the desert 
and provide him with all types of food.” The ants said S< be it. The ants 
went near Visnu and gnawed his bowstring and when the string was eaten, it 
got separated from the ends of the bow and fell down, cutting off Visnu s head. 

5. It (Visnu’s head) fell with the sound ‘ GhnfC and while falling, it became 
the yonder Sun. When that head became the Sun, the rest of the body lay 
stretched out towards the east. As the falling head produced the sound ‘ Ghrin , 
it became Gharma and on account of lying stretched (Ptainj), the name 

Pravargya is assigned to it. 


XVI.1.1.12] 


TRANSLATION 


307 


6. Now the gods said- “Our great hero lies fallen. In other words he has 
become aha Vtra, a sacrificial vessel.” The sap that flowed from him, they 
wiped up with their hands. Since they wiped him up with their hands, it used 
to be called Samrdt ( Sam-Marj ). 

7. Gods rushed forward to him even as one will after wealth of them, Indra 
reached him first. He absorbed him limb by limb and then encompassed him 
and in that process, he attained his glory. Now whosoever knows this, he at¬ 
tains the glory as Indra did attain. 

8. Now Makha (i.e., sacrifice) is the same as Visnu. Hence Indra became 
possessed by Visnu -Makhavat. Makhavat has changed to Maghavat mystically; 
for gods way is to be mystic. And now gods gave those ants food and all food¬ 
stuff indeed includes water; because only by moistening the food with water 
one eats anything he eats. 

9. Then the gods divided this Visnu, the sacrifice, amongst themselves into 
three parts - Prdtas Savana, Mddhyandina Savana and Trtiya Savana. Vasus got 
the Prdtas Savana i.e., morning pressing, Rudras, the Mddhyandina Savana (the 
mid day pressing) and Adityas, the Trtiya Savana. In the same manner, Agni 
got the Prdtas Savana Indra, the Madhyandsna Savana and Visvedevas receive 
the third Savana. And among chandas, the Gayatri received the Prdtas Savana^ 
Trsthubh the Mddhyandina Savana and the Jagatl, Trtiya Savana. With that 
headless sacrifice, the gods continued their worship. 

10. Dadhyang Atharvana knew the essence of this sacrifice of Pravargya - 
the doctrine of Pravarygya - namely that without the head, the essential aspect 
of this sacrifce will not get completed and will become complete only if the 
head is attached to it. At this juncture, Indra told him “If you reveal this to 
anybody, I will cut off your head.” Inspite of that, the essence was known even 
tp Asvins. 

11. And this threat was heard by Asvins “Indeed E xjhyang Atharvana 
knows the pure essence of this sacrifice i.e., how this head of the sacrifice is to 
be put on again; how this sacrifice becomes complete. 

12. He told, “I have been told by Indra that if you reveal this essence to 
anybody, I will cut off your head.” That is why I am afraid lest he cut off my 


XVLI.Ltig 


TRANSLATION 


309 


head. I cannot take you as my pupils. They said, we shall protect you from 
India. He replied “how will you protect me”; they said when you receive Us as 
pupils, we shall cut off your head and put it aside elsewhere, and we will fetch 
the head of a horse and put it on you. With that you will teach us. Meanwhile 
we would have received the teaching, when Indra cuts your head and we will 
put on your (original) head again. He replied “so be it. He then received 
them as pupils and when he had received them, they cut off his head and put 
it aside elsewhere and fetched the head of a horse and with th it e taught 
them. Indra cut his head off and Asvins fetched his own head. They put it on 
him again. 

13. “Dadhyahg Atharvana with horse’s head, explained this sweet doc¬ 
trine unrestrained, unto you” - from this Vedic quotation we have to infer tl 
the essence of this sacrifice was revealed unrestrained. He also revealed unto 
them with a horse’s head. 

1.4. As it will be sinful to teach this secret thing to each and every one 
indiscriminately, this should be taught to such a pereon who is adept in Vedic 
lore; and such person should be dear to the teacher. 

15. Such a teacher should teach a person who is residing with him for one 
full year and year means that which shines yonder and Pravargya also is that 
which shines yonder. Therefore one full year, should a pupil be taught 

16. He observes the rule of abstinence for three nights; because there are 
three seasons in a year. And year is he who shines yonder and Pravargya a 
the same. Thereby one gratifies him and hence the abstinence should be for 

three nights. 

17. He sips hot water, (thinking) “I will teach as one practising austerities; 

abstaining from flesh-food, he teaches (thinking) I will teach it as one practis¬ 
ing austerities.” He does not dnnk from earthen vessels, b whatev 

untruth a man speaks is considered to have emanated on account of his asso¬ 
ciation with earth; therefore while drinking water, he should shun earthen 
vesseles. He should also avoid association with Sudras and remains of food. 
He is Ghanna who shines yonder and he is excellence, truth and light. All 
these are untruth - Sudra, the dog, black bird (crow). The observer of austeri¬ 
ties should not look at them lest he should mingle excellence and sin, light 
and darkness; truth and untruth. 


XVI. 1.2.4] 


TRANSLATION 


311 


18. He that shines yonder is indeed glory and glory is that sacrifice; that 
again is the sacrifice and that glory it is, the officiating priests. That glory is 
again the Daksind. Therefore if they bring up to him any Daksind, he should 
not on the same day, make over these to any one else because it accrues to 
him in the shape of glory. If making over becomes unavoidable, he may do so 
on the tomorrow or the day after. Thus in the process, he makes the glory his 
own and such 3. Daksind may be in the shape of gold, cow, a garment or ahorse. 

19. He who partakes of this (Pravargya) , en ters that life and that light The 
rule pertaining to the observance are thus - when the sun shines, he should 
not cover himself with a garment; for, doing so he would be concealed. Simi¬ 
larly he should not spit when sun shines lest he should spit on him. An when 
the sun shines, let him not discharge urine lest he discharges on sun himself, 
and the sun, while shining, is indeed great and should so act as not to injure 
him. Let him take food after kindling a light and that light will be considered 
to be replica of the sun. But Asuri put stress on one point and that is that the 
sacrificer should attach all importance to truth. Therefore he should speak 
nothing but truth. (First Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANAH 

1. He equips the Mate Vira with its accessories. He equips it from here and 
there and that is the nature of preparation. Wherever there is anything of the 
sacrifice involved, with that he equips it. 

2. He gets ready a black antelope-skin; for the black antelope - skin is 
indeed the sacrifice; it is at the sacrifice he prepares the pot, with its (the 
antelope-skin’s) hairy side upwards. Because the hairs are the meters. He 
spreads it on the northern side, for, the north is quarter of humans; he spreads 
it so as its neck points to the east, because the east is of gods. 

3. He digs out the day with a spade; for, the spade is a thunderbolt and 
thunderbolt stands for vigour. Thus, with vigour supplied, he completes it 
(the Pravargya ). 

4. The spade is made of Udumbara wood; for the Udumbara stands for 
strength (essence). Thus, with essence, strength supplied, he completes it. 


XVI. 1.2.9] 


TRANSLATION 


313 


5. Alternatively, it can be made of Vikankata, t because when Prajapati per¬ 
formed his first offering and washed his hands after the offering, a Vikankata 
tree grew from there. An offering is a sacrifice and hence the Vikankata is the 
sacrifice. Therefore with the sacrifice he thus equips and completes it. 

6. The spade is to be cubit long, for a cubit is the fore-arm and the arm is 
used to exert strength. Thus, the spade is composed of strength and with 
strength he thus equips and completes it. 

7. He takes it (the spade) up with the chanting - “I take you at the impulse 
of God Savita with the arms of Asvins and with the hands of Pusa; you are a 
woman.” The meaning of this is the same. He keeps that spade in his left 
hand and touching it with the right, he says “They unite the mind; they unite 
the thoughts; the priests of the priest of the great wise one, the knower of the 
rites alone has assigned the priesdy duties. Great is the fame of the God Savita” 
The meaning of this is the same as before. 

8. He takes the lump of clay with the right hand and spade on the right 
side and with the left hand alone on the northern side, he says “Oh divine 
Heaven and Earth.” When the sacrifice (Prajapati) had its head cut off, the 
vital essence flowed out of it and entered these heaven and earth. What clay 
(the solidified essence) that flowed is this earth and what watery matter oozed 
out of it became that yonder sky. Hence it is with clay and water that the Maha 
Vtra vessels are made. Thus he equips and completes it with that essence. 
That is why he says “Oh Divine Heaven and Earth.” “I, this day utilise you for 
the head of the sacrifice.” “On the earth’s place of divine worship.” This he 
says since he utilises it on a place meant for divine worship of the earth. “You 
for Makha ; you for the head of Makha" Makha being the sacrifice, he virtually 
says “I consecrate you for the sacrifice; 1 consecrate you for the head of the 
sacrifice.” It has the same meaning. 

9. Then he takes an ant-hill saying “Oh divine ants.” Because they are 
indeed responsible for producing this. Just as that head of the sacrifice was 
cut off by them, the same way he completes them with those ants saying “You 
are the first-born among the beings.” Thus by those veiy ants, he completes 
it. He says “I now complete the head of the sacrifice on the divine place of 
worship of the earth for sacrifice; you for the head of the sacrifice.” It has the 
same meaning. 


XVL1.2.14] 


TRANSLATION 


315 


10. He takes up earth dug out by a boar saying “She was in the beginning 
shining so much” - for this earth was only so large as the lump of clay dug out 
by a boar (which refers to the Adivardha lifting up the earth from the bottom 
of the ocean by its tusk). A boar called Emusa, raised her up and he was her 
husband, Prajapati. Thus he now completes him (the Pravargya) with these 
same mates and with that same abode. He completes it saying “tbday I com¬ 
plete the head of the sacrifice at a divine place of worship on earth for sacri¬ 
fice; for the head of the sacrifice.” It has the same meaning. 

11 . He then takes up the Adam plants saying “you are the might of Indra” 
-for when Indra absorbed (got united) with Visnu, the essence of Visnu who 
was so absorbed, flowed out and it lay there stinking. He said Surely after 
bursting open {A-dar) this essence has uttered praises”; from there the Adam 
plants grew. Because he lay there strinking ( Puy ) they are also called Putikd 
and hence when they are placed on the fire as an offering, they blaze; for the 
same reason they also give out a sweet smell. This is because they originated 
from die essence of the sacrifice. In so far as Indra absorbed him with his 
might, he says “You are the might of Indra; I now complete the head the 
sacrifice with you at a place of divine worship' on the earth for the sacrifice; for 
the head of the sacrifice.” It has the same meaning. 

12. Now he takes up the milk of a goat. When the sacrifice had its head cut 
off, its suk (warmth) came out and from there the goats were produced. Now 
he completes it with that same warmth saying “For the sacrifice; for the head 
of the sacrifice.” It has the same meaning. 

13. Thus there are five equipments which he collects for the Pravargya. 
Because, the sacrifice is five fold; the Pasus are five fold and there are five 
seasons for a year. This'yonder one who shines is the year. And this Pravargya 
is same as the yonder sun. Thus with that same (sun) he pleases it. He touches 
those materials, so collected, saying “for the sacrifice; for the head of the 
sacrifice; I fashion you.” It has the same meaning. 

14. There is an enclosure in the northern side towards which they pro¬ 
ceed, while chanting; “May Bramanaspati move forward. May the Goddess 
Sunrta move forward.” This Bramanaspati is no doubt, the one who shines 
yonder and he is this Pravargya. It is him that he thus pleases.That is why he 
says “May Bramanaspati move forward. This Sunrta (the pleasing speech) is 


XVL1.2.18] 


TRANSLATION 


317 


indeed the goddess favourable to men, the giver of fivefold offerings unto the 
Vtra. So saying he praises the Maha, Vtra and thus glorifies it. “May the God lead 
us to the sacrifice.” Thus, he makes all the Gods, the guide of the sacrifice. 

15. It is an enclosure (to which he proceeds). At that time the Gods en¬ 
closed it safely fearing that those deadly Raksasas may break it (the Maha Vtra 
pot) here (if not put In an enclosure). In the same manner, this Yajamana 
encloses it in a safe place. 

16. He then spreads (The equipments) on the mound saying “For die 
sacrifice, for the head of the sacrifice” and its import is the same as before. He 
then collects some mud saying “for the sacrifice, for the head of the sacrifice” 
and its significance is the same. He then takes a lump of clay and shapes the 
Maha Vtra pot saying “for the sacrifice, for the head of the sacrifice.” Its import 
is the same. He makes a head (or mouth for the pot) at a distance of one span 
from the top; because the head is as it were of one span length and in the 
middle it is contracted. For, the head is as it were contracted in the middle. 
Above that, he elongates a face to a length of the width of three thumbs. 
Thus, he provides that pot with a nostril. He then touches it saying “You are 
the head of the sacrifice.” Because this is indeed the head of the Soma sacrifice. 
In the same way, he makes the other two (Maha Vtra pots),-two milking bovyls 
and two Rauhina plates, all silently. 

17. Verily the sacrifice is Prajapati and this Prajapati is of both forms-(i.e.,) 
•defined and undefined; limited and unlimited. When one shapes it with Yajus 
mantra, he creates that form of him which is defined and limited. When one 
shapes it silendy, he fashions that form of him which is undefined and unlim¬ 
ited. Thus, whoever knowing this, fashions him in both these forms, he fash¬ 
ions the entire Prajapati. He keeps apart a lump of clay (unused) for the pur¬ 
pose of expiation. 

18. He then polishes it {Maha Vtra) with Gavedhuka grass. When the head 
of the sacrifice was cut off, its essence flowed away and from that, those 
Gavedhuka plants originated. That essence, he thus restores and completes it. 
He says (while polishing) “You for the sacrifice; you for the head of the sacri¬ 
fice.” The meaning of this is the same as before. Similarly, he does with the 
other two Maha Vtra pots, the two milking bowls and the two Rauhina plates. 


XVI. 1.2.23] 


TRANSLATION 


319 


19. He then applies smoke to them saying “with the dung of the horse the 

impregnator, 1 fumigate you.” The horse is indeed the impregnator and im- 
pregnator means virility. He thus imparts virility and completes it. “On this 
spot of the earth meant for divine worship; You for the sacrifice; for the head 
of the sacrifice.” It has the same import as before. Similarly he does silently in 
respect of the other two pots, die two milking bowls and the two plates. 

< 

20. He then bakes them; for, what is baked belongs to Gods. He bakes 
them with bricks; because it was with bricks that (Gods) at that time did, when 
the head of the sacrifice was cut off. With the same, he thus fashions it and 
completes it. However he may bake them with whatever material available, so 
that they are well-baked. Having got ready the baking material, he places the 
Maha Vira in that saying “you for the sacrifice; you for the head of the sacri¬ 
fice.” The import of this is the same as before. Same way, he does silently in 
respect of the other two pots, the two milking bowls and the two Rauhina plates. 
He should place them in the kiln (for baking) by day time and should remove 
them in the day time itself; for the day belongs to Gods. 

21. He takes it out of the baking kiln saying “I take you for the righteous 
one.” The righteous one is of course the world beyond; for the righteous one 
means truth and the yonder one who shines is truth. He (the sun) is the 
foremost Pravargya and it is him he thus gratifies and. hence he says I take 
you for the righteous one.” 

22. “You for the efficient one” (so saying he takes out the second pot). 
The efficient one ( Sadhu) is no doubt the one who blows; for he blows through 
these worlds as a Siddha (permanent entity). The second Pravargya is that 
God Vayu. It is him that he thus gratifies. Hence he says “You for the efficient 
one.” 

23. “You for a good abode” (So saying he takes out the third Maha Vtra 
pot). This terrestrial world is indeed the good abode; for it is in this world 
that all creatures exist and the good abode is also Agni. Because it is the fire 
that enables all creatures to exist in this world and that Agni is the third 
Pravargya. It is him, he thus gratifies. So he says “You for a good abode.” He 
pulls out (from the kiln) the two milking bowls and the two Rauhina plates 
silently. 


XVI. 1.3.3] 


TRANSLATION 


321 


24. He then pours goat’s milk upon them saying “You for sacrifice, you for 
the head of the sacrifice.” The meaning of this is the same. In the same way, 
he pours silendy on the two milking bowls and the two Rauhina plates . Who¬ 
soever, either teaches this (method of preparing the Pravargya) or partakes of 
the contents of the Pravargya, reaches that life-span and enters into that 
effulgence. The observance of the procedure for that is the same as the cre¬ 
ation. (Meaning- the preparation of the Pravargya is on the same principles as 
the creations of the three worlds). (Second Brahmana Ends.) 


BRAHMAN Am 

1. He who intends to perform the Pravargya and then the Upasad, even 
while going about with the Atithya (hospitality to Soma as a part of the previ¬ 
ous night’s ritual), spreads Kusa grass in front of the Garhapatya fire with the 
tips of the grass pointing to the east and places the appliances and vessels in 
pairs: The Upayamant tray and the Maha Vvra pot as one pair; the two lifting 
fo.receps as another; the two milking bowls as the third; the two Rauhina plates 
as the fourth and the two sruks as the fifth and whatever other appliances 
there may be - all in pairs. These account for total of ten and the Viraj meter 
has ten syllables and Viraj is the sacrifice. Thus, he makes it correspond to the 
Viraj, the sacrifice. As to why they should be in pairs is because, a pair stands 
for strength; for when two persons hold to each other, they produce vigour 
and a pair means re-productive union. Thus he supplies it with a productive 
union and completes it. 

2. Then the Adhvaryu takes the sprinkling water and moving forward says 
- “Brahman, we shall proceed; Hota, recite the praises.” For, the Brahman sits 
on the right side as the guardian of the sacrifice and it is him, he addresses 
thus. “Be watchful; we are going to restore the head of the sacrifice.” Why he 
says “Hota, recite the praises” is because the Hota is the sacrifice. Thus, he tells 
him - “restore the head of the sacrifice.” Accordingly the Hota recites. 

3. “The first bom in front is the Brahman.etc.” For, the Brahman is 

indeed the yonder Sun and he is bom in front (in the East) day by day and 
this Pravargya also is that Sun. Thus he propitiates him by saying “the first 

bom in front is the Brahman.etc.” He then sprinkles (the vessels) and its 

significance is the same as before. 





XVI. 1.3.11] 


TRANSLATION 


323 


4. He sprinkles saying ‘You for Yama.” Yama is indeed the one who shines 
yonder, since it is he who controls ( Yam) everything here. By him all these are 
controlled and this Pravargyais also that Sun. It is him he thus propitiates and 
hence he says “you for Yama (I sprinkle).” 

5. ‘You for Makha” - Makha no doubt is the one who shines yonder and 
this Pravargya is the same as that Sun. Thus he propitiates him and hence he 
says, ‘You for Makha (I sprinkle).” 

6. You for the Tapas of Surya (I sprinkle).” Surya is indeed the one who 
shines yonder, and this Pravargya is of course that Surya. It is him he thus 
propitiates and hence he says, ‘You are for the Tapas of the Surya.” 

7. Having taken out a pole by the eastern entrance (of the hall), he fixes it 
into the ground on the southern side in such a way that it is visible to the Hota 
while reciting the praises. For, the Hota is the sacrifice and he thereby restores 
the sacrifice to this earth and she (earth) causes the Gharma milk to rise. Turning 
the throne seat of the emperor ( Pravargya ) in front of the Ahavaniya, he places 
it on the right side, facing east, towards the north of the throne seat of Soma, 
the King. 

8. It is made of Udumbara wood; for the Udumbara means vigour. Thus 
with vigour, with essence, he thus enriches and completes it (Pravargya ). 

9. It is at the height corresponding to the shoulder, because it is on the 
shoulders that head is situated. Therefore here he fixes the head on the 
shoulders. 

10. It (the Pravargya) is wound round by the strings of Balvaja grass. When 
the sacrifice had its head cut off, its essence flowed and from that these plants 
(Balvaja grass) grew. Therefore it is that he enriches it with this essence and 
completes it. 

11. As to why he places it to the north of the Soma’s seat- Soma is the 
sacrifice and the Pravargya is its head. The head is always at the top (of the 
body) and hence he places it to the north of the Soma seat. Moreover the 
Soma is king whereas the Pravargya is emperor. The imperial authority is al¬ 
ways higher than kingship and therefore he places it to the north of the Soma seat 


XVI. 1.3.16] 


TRANSLATION 


325 


12. When the Hota recites- “whom the priests anoint, as if expanding 

him.”, he anoints with gheexhax. Maha Vtra which is to be used. He does 

so saying “May the*God Savita anoint you with honey.” Savita is the impeller, 
of Gods and honey stands for everything which is available here. Thus, he 
anoints him with everything that is available here and Savita the impeller 
prompts it for him. That is why he says “May the God Savita anoint you with 
honey.” 

13. Now sand is strewn on the northern side of it. Below that he had 
placed a plate of silver saying, “protect it from the touch of the earth.” For 
once upon a time the gods were apprehending injury from below to the 
Pravargya from the fearfull Raksasas. Gold (here silver referred to as white gold) 
being the seed of Agni, repells the terrible Raksasas. Indeed, the earth was 
also scared that this Pravargya when heated and glowing, might injure her 
(the earth). So he keeps it separated from the earth. The metal is white be¬ 
cause this earth is white as it where. 

14. When the Hota recites - “You sit down: You are great.”, sheaths of 

red grass are kindled on both sides. Throwing them on the mound, he places 
the Maha Vtra pot on them. When the head of the sacrifice was cut off, its 
essence flowed out and from that these plants grew. With that same essence 
he now enriches it and completes it. As to why they (grass) are kindled on 
both sides is because it would drive away the terrible Raksasas from all sides. 
When this pot is being heated, the wife of the Yajamana covers her head think¬ 
ing ,“This one, when heated and glowing might affect my eye-sight.” 

15. He places it on (the burning grass) saying, “You are the flame; you are 
the effulgence; you are the Tapas .” The Gharma is the one who shines yonder 
and he (Sun) is indeed all that. He thus pleases him by saying, “You are the 
flame; you are the effulgence; and you are Tapas” He then seeks blessings on 
this earth. For, the sacrifice is this earth and on this he seeks the blessings and 
she (the earth) fulfills all those desires. 

16. “Un-challenged you are, in the east” - because, this earth in front is free 
from the onslaught of the Raksasas. ‘The overlordship of Agni” which means 
he makes Agni himself the overlord for destroying the terrible Raksasas. “Grant 
me full life-span” and thus he gains the full life-span. 




XVI.1.3.23] 


TRANSLATION 


327 


17. “Possessed of children towards the South” - in this there is nothing 
unintelligible. “The overlordship of Indra” - by which he makes Indra himself 
the overlord to destroy the terrible Raksasas. “Bestow children unto me - Thus. 
he secures children and cattle for himself and as a result becomes possessed 
of children and cattle. 

18. “Well-habitable, on the Western side.” There is nothing hidden in this. 
‘The overlordship of God Savita”-Thereby he makes the God Savita the over- 
lord to destroy the terrible Raksasas. “Confer on me eye-sight thus he secures 
eye-sight for himself and thereby becomes possessed of sight. 

19. “Sphere of hearing, towards the North” by which he means Asravana 
or the calls during the offerings are audible in the North.” The overlordship 
of the creator”- thereby he makes the creator the overlord to destroy the ter¬ 
rible Raksasas. “Bestow growing wealth unto me - thereby he secures for him¬ 
self prosperity and hence becomes wealthy and prosperous. 

20. “ Vidhrti (disposition), in the upper region” which amounts to saying 
disposing off upwards. The overlordship of Brhaspati ; by which he makes 
Brhaspati himself the overlord in destroying the terrible Raksasas. “Grant me 
vigour” - by which he gains to himself vigour and as a result/becomes ener¬ 
getic and strong. 


21. The Yajamana then lays down his hand on the earth with the palm 
turned upwards on the right side of the Maha Vira, saying “protect me from 
all evil spirits.” By this he means “protect me from all worries.” When the head 
of the sacrifice was cut ofiF, its essence flowed out and it reached the Pitrs. The 
Pitrs are three in number (Vasu for the father, Rudra for the grandfather and 
Aditya for the great grandfather) and by them he now enriches it and com¬ 
pletes it ( Pravargya ). 

22. While touching her (earth) he mutters “you are the Mare of Manu.” 
Because, having become a Mare, she (the earth) carried Manu and he is her 
master, Prajapati. He thus enriches him and completes him with that pair 
consisting of Manu and the Mare. 

23. He places twigs of Vtkankataviood around the Maha Vtra. Two pieces he 
lays to the east saying “ Svaha , be encircled by the Maruts. Here he makes 


XVI. 1.3.26] 


TRANSLATION 


329 


the Svahakara first and then names the deity. Because the Svahakara is he 
who shines yonder and this Pravargya is also that one (Sun). Thus, it is him he 
gratifies and hence he utters the Svahakara first and the deity last. “Be en¬ 
circled by Marut”- (meaning) the Maruts are the common people and he thus 
encircles the princely class by the people and that is why here the Ksatra is 
surrounded on either sides by the people. Then he silently places (the Vikahkata 
twigs) two in number pointing to the North, silently again two of them point¬ 
ing to the East, silently two pointing to the North and another two.facing the 
East. Thus they account for thirteen. 

24. Then he places a gold plate on the top of the Maha Vtra , saying - “Pro¬ 
tect it from contact with the sky.” Once at that time the Gods were affraid that 
the terrible Raksasas might smash the Pravargya of theirs from above. That 
gold being the seed of Agni, it would repel the terrible Raksasas. Indeed, the 
sky was also afraid of being injured by the heated and glowing Pravargya. That 
is why he keeps it separated from the sky (by the Gold Plates). It is yellow in 
colour; for, yellow is the colour of the sky. 

25. He then fans it will a feathery fans three times, saying “ Madhu , Madhu, 
Madhu." Honey means life-breaths. Three are the life breaths; namely the 
Prana, the Uddna and the Vyana. He endows it with those three. They then fan 
it three times in the opposite direction (from the West to the East). The sac¬ 
rifice had its head cut off and went to the Pitrs. The Pitrs are three in number 
and it is by means of them that he now fans it. The Pranas actually abandon 
those who do the fanning in a sacrifice. They fan again three times from East 
to West. This makes six and six are the number of the vital airs in the head 
and it is these he thus lays into it. They cook the two Rauhina cakes. When a 
flame blazes out, he takes out the Gold Plate. 

26. While the Hota recites “Successful, Asvins, make you our voice”, the 
Adhvaryu steps up saying “The Gharma is red-hot.” If it be red-hot, he may 
take it that the Yajamana will become more prosperous (shine). If it is not red 
hot, he may infer that he will become poorer. If it be neither very red hot nor 
its reverse, he may conclude that the Yajamana will be neither very rich nor 
very poor. But, however one should fan the pot until it is red hot. Whoever, 
either teaches this (method of the Pravargya ) or partakes of its contents, he 
enters that life span and that effulgence. The observance thereof is the same 
as at the process of creation. (Third Brahmana Ends.) 



XVI. 1.4.7] 


TRANSLATION 


331 


BRAHMANA IV 

1. Now when the Adhvaryu gets up and declares “the Gharma is red hot, 
they proceed towards it and worship it with the Avakdsa verses.” The Avakdsas 
are the Pranas and thereby he puts the vital airs into it. Six of them (the 
Yajamana and the Rtviks excluding the Prastota) proceed towards it because 
these vital airs are six in number in the head. It is these that he puts into it. 

2. He says “You are the child of the gods” which means the child of the 
gods is really the one that shines. Because he holds ( Garbh ) everything here 
and by him everything is held (and hence he is Grbha ). The Pravargya is also 
that sun and it is him he thus pleases and that is why he says ‘You are the child 
of the gods.” 

3. ‘You the father of thoughts” - Because the sun is indeed the originator 
of thoughts. “You the lord of the creatures” for, the sun is-indeed the lord of 
all creatures. “The god has united with the God Savita” - Because the god 
meaning the Maha Vira has indeed united with Savita; the sun. “He shines 
with Surya” - because he indeed shines with the sun. • 

4. “Agni has united with Agni” - for the fire has indeed united with Agni 
(the sun) with the divine Savita - for, he has indeed united with the divine 
Savita. “He has shone with Surya” - indeed he has been shinning along with 
the sun. 

5. “Agni has united with his Tapas, Svdha ” for, Agni, has come together 
with his heat. The Svahakara he utters first and then the name of the deity. 
The significance of this is the same “with the divine Savita; with Surya; he has 
spread light” for he has indeed united with divine Savita and spread the light 
along with Surya. 

6. These are the three Avakdsa verses, for, there are three vital airs namely, 
the Prana, the Udana and the Vydna\ these he lays into it. 

7. “The supporter of the sky and the supporter of heat on the earth is 
shining” - Indeed that sun and the Maha Vtra are shining forth as the support¬ 
ers of the sky and the suppliers of heat on this earth. “The one who sustains 
the gods, the immortal product of heat” - for he is indeed the divine sustainer 


XVI. 1.4.10] 


TRANSLATION 


333 


of the gods and the immortal one bom out of heat. “You may grant speech to 
us who arc devoted to the gods.” Speech is no doubt a form of worship and 
thereby he requests “confer upon us that speech of worship with which we 
shall please the gods.” 

8. “I see the protector, the one who never rests.” He who shines yonder 
(the sun) is indeed the protector who guards everything here and he never 
goes to rest. That is why he says “I see the protector, the never resting.” “Wan¬ 
dering by the roads here and there” - because he is indeed wandering here 
and there on the divine paths. “He is clad in the converging and the radiat¬ 
ing” - for he indeed converges himself in the gathering and radiating rays, 
“He moves to and fro within the spheres”, because he repeatedly wanders 
within the hemispheres, “You the lord of all the worlds; you the lord of all 
thoughts; you the lord of all speech and you the lord of everyone’s speech” - It 
only means “You are the lord of all this universe” “Oh god Gharma, you are 
heard by the gods and you being a god, guard the deities” - in this there is 
nothing hidden (to be explained). 

9. “For the divine feast of you two, you grant your approval” this he says 
with regard to the twin gods, Asvins; because it was the Asvins who at that 
time, restored the head of the sacrifice. It is them he thus pleases by saying 
“give your approval henceforth for the divine feast of you two.” “Honey to the 
two who are fond of honey; honey to the two who are eager to have honey”- 
because, it was Dadhyang Atharvana who recited the Bhrahmana passage 
called Madhu (honey). This is their favourite abode and it is with that he now 
approaches them (Asvins). Hence he says “Honey to the two who are fond of 
honey; honey to the two who are eager to have honey.” “I entreat you to the 
hearts, you to the mind, you to the sky, you to the sun; while going upwards 
you lead this sacrifice to the gods in heaven.” There is nothing hidden (un¬ 
clear) in this. 

10. “You are our father; agreed to be our father” - for he who shines yon¬ 
der is indeed the father and this Pravargya is that sun, whom he thus pleases 
when he says, “You are our father; agreed to be our father. ’ “My salutations to 
you; do not harm me” - thereby he only seeks a boon. After that he removes 
the mantle from the head of the Yajamana’s wife and makes her say while 
looking at the Maha Vtra - “we will serve you along with Tvasta....etc” The 
Pravargya is masculine and the Yajamana’s wife is a female. Thus he enriches 



XVI. 1.4.10] 


TRANSLATION 


335 


it with a productive pair. And thus makes it complete. This indeed is the life¬ 
span and is indeed the effulgence. He who recites this or partakes of this 
Pravargya, verily enters that observance which belongs to creation. (Fourth 
Brahmana Ends.) 


(Chapter One Ends.) 



Chapter Two 
BRAHMANAI 

1. Then he offers the two RauhinaPurodasas saying “Let the day be pleased 
with its brightness; the well-lighted one with its effulgence - Svdhd. With this 
text both the Puroddsas are offered in the morning. “May the night be happy 
with its brightness; the well-lighted with its effulgence - Svdhd ” so saying in the 
evening, he offers. 

2. As to why he offers the two Rauhinas is because the Rauhinas are Agni 
and Sun. With these two deities the Yajamana ascends ( Ruh) to the heavens. 

3. Moreover these two worlds are Rauhinas and the sun is the Pravargya. 
Thereby he encompasses the sun by these two. And in this way, this one is 
encompassed by the two worlds. 

4. The Rauhinas are the day and night and the Pravargya is the sun. Thus 
this sun is enclosed by the day and night and it thus get covered by day and 
night. 


5. The Rauhinas are the two eyes and the Pravargya is the head. Thereby 
he provides the head with a pair of eyes. 

6. He now takes up a rope saying “At the impulse of the divine Savita, I take 
you, with arms of the Asvins, with the hands of Pusa; you are the girdle of 
Aditi.” The mystic meaning of this is the same as before. 

7. He then summons the cow while stepping behind the Gdrhapatya say¬ 
ing, “Ida ! come here; Aditi, come here; Sarasvatl, come here.” Because, the 
cow is Ida, the cow is Aditi and the cow is Sarasvatl. 

8. He also calls her by its name saying “You... so and so... come here...”. 
Thus he calls here thrice. When she has come, he puts the rope round her 
horns saying, “You are the Aditi’s girdle and you are the head-ban of IndranI; 
you are of all colours” by this he makes it so. 


XV1.2.1.15] 


TRANSLATION 


339 


9. He then lets the calf to suck it saying, “You are Pusa” for Pusa is indeed 
the one who blows here (the Vayu); for that one supports or encourages 
(Pusa) all this universe. This Prauargya also is the same as that Vayu He thereby pleases 
him by doing so and he is the one who leads all these, so he says You are the PQsa. 

10. He then leads the calf away (from the udder of the cow) saying, “pro¬ 
vide (milk) for the Gharma” The Gharma doubdess is that essence which this 
cow secrets and thereby he means to say, “Allow a share for her. 

11. He then lets the milk flow into the milking bowl saying, “flow down for 
the Asvins.” This he says with regard to the Asvins, because the Asvins re¬ 
stored the head of the sacrifice and they are the ones he pleases now. Hence 
he says, “Flow down for the Asvins.” 

12. “Flow down for Sarasvati.” Sarasvati is indeed speech and it is by means 
of speech that the Asvins restored the head of the sacrifice. Now he only pleases 
those (Asvins and Sarasvati) when he says, “Flow down for Sarasvati. 

13. “Flow down for Indra.” Indra is the deity of the sacrifice and it is with 
the help of the deity of the sacrifice that two Asvins restored the head of the 
sacrifice. Thus he pleases those two (Asvins and Indra) when he says, “Flow 
down for Indra.” 

* 

14. He then chants the consecrating mantras for the split drops (of milk 
towards the close of the milking), u Svaha to the one possessed of Indra; Svaha 
to the one possessed of Indra.” Indra is indeed the lord of the sa crifice and he 
th us pleases him who is the lord of the sacrifice. Hence he says, Svaha Indravat, 
Svaha Indravat .” He repeats this three times for the sacrifice is three fold. The 
Svahdkdra he utters first and then, the deity for whom it is meant. The 
signifcance of this is the same as before. 

15. He then touches her (cow’s) udder saying, “you ever-flowing and lib¬ 
eral udder” that is to say “this udder of yours which is concealed as it were is 
a giver of wealth and a treasure of riches and never exhausting. By this he 
means “It is a giver of treasures, bestower of wealth and precious.” “You en¬ 
hance the availability of all desired things(which means to say) ” “You support 
all the gods and all creatures.” He then says, “Oh Sarasvati, move that (udder) 
to us for sucking.” Sarasvati is indeed speech and this cow which yields the 
milk for Gharma is also speech. Sacrifice is speech and so it amounts to “Grant 



XVU.1.19] 


TRANSLATION 


341 


us the sacrifice with which we may please the Gods.” He then walks to the side 
of the Gdrhapatya saying, “I move along the wide aerial region”; the mystic 
significance of this is the same as before. 

16. He takes up the two Saphas (the lifting foreceps) saying, “You are the 
Gayatri metre; you are the Trsthubh metre.” He thus takes them with both 
the Gayatri and the Trsthubh metre. “I handle you by means of the Heaven 
and Earth” for, the two foreceps are indeed the Heaven and Earth and the 
Pravargya is the sun. Thus he encompasses this sun by means of the Heaven 
and the Earth. After that, he wipes the pot with a bunch of Munja grass and 
its significance is the same. 

17. He then places it (the Pravargya) on the Upayamant (a tripot with a 
cavity on the top to hold the vessel of Pravargya) . He says, “by the aerial region 
I hold you”; because the Upayamant is the aerial region, since everything-here 
is supported by the ether. The Upayamant is also the belly, since all these food 
etc., are held by the belly. So he says, “I hold you by the aerial region. 

18. He then pours the goat’s milk; for that Mahd Vtra when heated be¬ 
comes red hot. He soothes it and when it is cooled he pours the cow s milk 
into it. While pouring the cow’s milk he says, “Oh Indra and Asvins” for Indra 
is the lord of the sacrifice and thus he pleases him, the lord of the sacrifice. He 
says, “You Asvins” because the Alvins at that time, restored the head of the 
sacrifice and it is them he how pleases. So he says, “Oh Indra and you Alvins. 
“Honey of bees; you the Gharma drink” this is indeed honey which is the Es¬ 
sence and is offered to the Gharma. “You Vasus” for these are indeed Vasus 
that contain all this Universe. “Worship you, VatT thus this comes to b^ as if it 
were offered with a Vasatkara (normally the Vasatkara is only for deities and 
that too when the offering is made into the fire. In the case of the offering 
into the Mahd Vira pot, it is used as an exceptional case). 

19. u Svdhd to the ray of Surya, the rain - producer” for one of the sun’s 
rays is called Vrstwani (producer of rain) by which he supports all these creatures. 
That one (ray) he now pleases. Hence he says “Svahd to the ray of the sun, the 
rain producer”. Here too he utters the Svdhakara first and then the deity and 
its significance is the same. Whoever either recites (teaches) or consumes this 
PravargyOy enters that Vayu; that effulgence and the observance thereof is the 
same in the creation! (First Brahmana Ends.) 


XVI.2.2.7] 


TRANSLATION 


343 


BRAHMANAn 

1. When the Hota, recites, “Let Brahmanaspati go to the front, let the 
oddess sunrta come forward” the Adhvaryu makes the offering by chanting 

the names of Vayu. For, on this occassion the gods fear that the terrible Raksasas 
might injure the Pravargya in the middle of the sacrifice and so they offered it 
with Svahakdra in the beginning before it is taken to the Ahavaniya, by offering 
like this and then they offered it again into the fire. In the same way this 
Yajamana offers it with Svahakdra in the beginning when it is taken to Ahavaniya 
and then offers it in the fire. 

2. “To the ocean, you the wind - Svdha”. This ocean is indeed the one that 
blows here and hence all these gods and all these ere tures emerge ( Samudrd ) 
from the ocean and it is to him (Vayu) he thus offers it and says, “to the ocean 
you the wind- Svdha”. 

3. “To the flood, you the wind - Svdha”. This one that blow is indeed the 
flood and it is from this flood that all the gods and all creatures emanate ( Sam- 
irate) ; it is to him he thus offers and says, To the flood you the wind- Svdha” 

4. To the unshakable you the wind - Svdha. ” This one who blows is indeed 
unshakable and therefore to him he thus offers by saying, To the unshak¬ 
able you wind- Svdha .” 

5. To the irresistable, you the wind - Svdha”. This one who blows indeed 
the Avasyu (irresistable) and hence to him he offers thus by sayii g, to the 
irresistable, you the wind- Svdha” 

6. To Indra the Lord of Vasus and Rudras - Svdha” This one who blows 
is indeed Indra and to him this offering is made by saying, To Indra the lord 
of Vasus and Rudras.” This certainly reaches Indra himself along with Vasus 
and the Rudras. This much is for morning Savana and now for the midday 

Savana. 

7. To Indra, the Lord of Adityas - Svdha.” This one which blows is indeed 
Indra and to him this offering is made by saying. To Indra.” He says. To the 
Lord of Adityas” and thereby he makes it reach Indra along with the Adityas. 
This way he makes it in the form of the thin Savana. 


XVI.22.15] 


TRANSLATION 


345 


8 . T 0 Indra, the slayer of evil-doers - Svdha” This one who blows is indeed 
Indra and hence it is offered to him by saying. To Indra.” By saying, “the 
slayer of evil-doers” he means the enemies as evil doers and in effect he s 
The killer of enemies.” This is India’s special share because as the Lord of 
the Gods, he has a special share as different from those two others. 

9. To Savita, you the lord of the Rbhus, the Lord of Vibhus and the pos¬ 
sessor of the vajas (prowess)- Svdha. ” This one who blows is indeed Savita and 
to him it is offered and so he says. To you the Savita. By saying, “Lord of 
Rbhus, Lord of Vibhus and possessor of Vaja, he involves all the gods.” 

10. To Brhaspati, accompanied by the Visvedevas - Svdha. This one who 
blows is indeed Brhaspati and to him it is offered so he says, To you Brhaspati. 
By saying accompanied by Visvedevas,. he includes all the gods in this. 

11. To Yama, leader of the Angiras and of the Pitrs- Svdha” This one who 
blows is indeed Yama and so he says, To Yama. When he says the leader of 
Angiras and of the Pitts he means that when head of the $ 'rifice was 

and the fluid oozed out, it reached the Pitrs and they are three in number 
and they are three Pitrs included in this. 

12. Thus there are twelve names (of Vayu) and there are twelve months 
for ayear. This one who burns (Surya) is indeed the year and he is die Pravargya 
and he thus pleases him by these offerings. That is why there are 
offerings. 

13. Now by means of the Upayamani, he brings the Mahd Vtra saying Svdha 
to the Gharma.” This one who bums is indeed Gharma and he is the Pravargya. 
Him he thus pleases when he says, u Svdha to Gharma.” Here too he utters 
Svdhdkdra and then names the diety and its significance is the same. 


14. When it has been poured into it, he says “ Svahd-Gharma to the Pitrs. 
When head of the sacrifice was cut off, its fluid oozed out and if reached the 
Pitrs. The Pitrs are of three types and they are thus satisfied. The Svdhdkdra is 
done first and then the deity is named. Its significance is the same. 

15. He does not recite any invitatory formula, because the Pitrs have once 


XVI.2.2.18] 


TRANSLATION 


347 


called for the Srausat, he (Adhvaryu) asks the Hota to utter the Yajya in re¬ 
spect of the Gharma. On the pronouncement of vasatkdra, he offers Saying, 
“All the regions he has worshipped by sitting on the south.” He only means 
thereby that by sitting on the south, he has (covered) all the quarters. “All the 
gods, he has worshipped here” thereby he means that he has made offerings 
to all the gods. “Oh Asvins, you drink the honey-like Gharma purified by the 
Svdhdkdra.” This he says with regard to the Asvins; for, it is they who restored 
the head of the sacrifice and them he pleases. He utters the Svdhdkdra first 
and then the name of the diety. Its import is the same. 


16. After making the offering, he shakes the Maha Vvra vessel thrice up¬ 
wards saying, “You reach this sacrifice in the heaven; take it to the heaven.” 
The Gharma, the sacrifice in yonder sun and he indeed is placed in the heaven 
or gets established in the heaven. Thus he pleases him by saying, “You reach 
this sacrifice in the heaven; take it to the heaven.” This offering he makes on 
the repetition of the vasatkdra saying, u Svaha to Agni, worthy of sacrifice and 
this is in the place of the svistakrt offering; for Agni is indeed the svistakrt (the 
one who renders the offering well offered). 

17. Then the Brahma announces the consecration formula. Because the 
Brahma is the supreme physician among the Rtviks. Thus this sacrifice is be¬ 
ing healed by means of the one who is the supreme physician among the 
Rtviks. “Oh Asvins, you drink the Gharma .” Thus he addresses the Asvins for 
they are the ones who restored the head of the sacrifice and by this he pleases 
them. “You the one dear to the heart, with favours day by day*” This state¬ 
ment is indistinct for, Prajapati is indeed undefinable an4 Prajapati is sacrifice. 
Thus he heals Prajapati, the sacrifice. “To the weaver” - the weaver doubtless, 
is the one that bums yonder, because he moves along these world (inheres) 
everything like a connecting thread. He is indeed the Pravargya and him he 
thereby pleases. Hence he says, “To the weaver.” “I prostrate to the Heaven 
and the Earth.” Thus he propitiates heaven and earth within which every¬ 
thing is contained. 

18. Then the Yajamana chants. The Yajamana being the sacrifice, it 
amounts to his healing the sacrifice by means of the sacrifice/ “The Asvins 
have consumed the Gharma' ” - he says this in respect of the Asvins; for, it is 
they who restored the head of the sacrifice and thus he pleases them. Heaven 
and Earth have approved of it” He says this with regard to Heaven and Earth 


XVI.Z2.23] 


TRANSLATION 


349 


and Earth have approved of it.” He says this with regard to Heaven and Earth 
which comprise of everything. “May wealth accrue here”- by which he only 
says “Let iis have riches here.” 

19. He then consecrates the rising milk (whatever milk has been spilled in 
bubbling over due to heating) “You swell for the sake of quick moment.” By 
this he means to say, “For rain”, Hence he says rise up for quick moment. 
Then he says, “rise up for energy.” By this he means the energy which is the 
essence of rain. He then says, “Rise up for Brahman”; thereby he means the 
priest-hood. “For the Ksatra, you swell.” He thereby means the princely class. 
“For Heaven and Earth, you swell.” He thereby means these two within which 
everything here is contained. 

20. When it swells upwards, it rises for the sake of the Yajamana; when it 
swells eastwards, it is for the gods; southwards, it is for the Pitrs, westwards, for 
the cattle and when northwards it swells, it does so for the progeny of the 
Yajamana. In any case, there is no sin incurred by the Yajamana, for it always 
swells upwards and in whatever direction it swells it is for the good of that 
direction. When the spilling drops cease. 

21. He gets out towards the north-east direction saying, “You are a support 
who sustains well.” The one who bums yonder is indeed a support, for he 
sustains everything here and everything here is supported by him. The 
Pravargya is also that sun; thus it is him he thereby pleases. Hence he says, 
“you are a support well-sustaining.” 

22* He then places the Maha Vtra on the eastern mound ( Khara) saying 
you the harmless one, preserve our strength; without getting angry, preserve 
our wealth - by this he means to say protect the priesthood, protect the princely 
class and protect the people - protect all that is what he thereby means. 

23. He then makes offering with the cut pieces of wood (V ikankata ) whose 
logs are placed around the Ghartna ; for the pieces of wood are indeed Pranas 
and thereby he puts Ptdnas into it. u Svdhd to Pusa, to the cream. Pusa is in¬ 
deed the one blows(Vayu), for the Vayu supports everything here, Prana is 
also Vayu and thus he bestows Prana upon him, when he says Svaha to Pusa, 
to the cream.” Here he utters the svahakara first and then names the diety; the 
significance of this is the same as before. Having offered (by means of the first 
piece of wood), he keeps it slanting against the central. Paridhi (the enclosing 

stick). 


XVI.2.2.301 


TRANSLATION 


351 


24. “ Svaha to the grinding stones” - the grinding stones are the Pranas and 
thus he puts Pranas into it. Having offered, he keeps it slanting on the central 
Paridhi (enclosing stick). 

25. “ Svaha to the one with sounding holes.” The sounding holes are in¬ 
deed the Pranas and everything here is pleased with the Pranas. Thus he be¬ 
stows upon him the Pranas. Having offered, he keeps it slanting on the central 
Paridhi (the enclosing stick). 

26. “ Svaha to the Pitrs who are seated on the Barkis (grass seats) drinking 
the Gharma.” Without offering, he looks to the north and hides it underneath 
the Barhi grass on the right side. When the head of the sacrifice was cut off, 
the essence oozed out and it reached the Pitrs. There are three types of Pitrs 
and they are pleased thereby. Why he does not look at it is because the Pitrs 
have departed one for all. 

27. “ Svaha, to the Heaven and the Earth”- The Heaven and Earth are in¬ 
deed the Prana and the Udana; thereby he puts the Prana and Uddna into it 
Having offered, he places it slanting on the central Paridhi. 

28. “ Svaha to Visvedevas”- for the Visvedevas are indeed the Pranas and 
thereby he puts Pranas into it. After offering, he places it slanting on the 
central Paridhi. 

29. “Svaha to Rudra, praised by the chanters with the chants of Rudra” - 
This without offering, he turns to the south and gives it to the Pratiprasthdtd 
and the latter throws it away towards the north. The north of the Sadas is the 
region of that God and he thus pleases him in his own region. He does not 
look at it because he thinks “Let not Rudra injure me.” These are the seven 
offerings corresponding to the seven passages of Prana in the head. It is 
them that he puts there. 

30. He then pours the remain ing milk and ghee from the Mahd Vmrinto the 
Upayamani, saying “Svaha - effiugence united with effulgence.” Because the 
milk is indeed effulgence and was in one vessel and light is in the other 
(Gharma ). These two luminous things thus unite with each other. Here too he 
makes the Svahakara first and then the name of the diety; the significance of 
this is the same as before. 


XVI.2.2.36] 


TRANSLATION 


353 


31. He then offers the two Rauhina Purodasas saying “May the day be pleased 
with its brightness; the well-lit with its effulgence - Svahd” The mystic import 
of this is the same as before. “May the night be pleased with its brightness, the 
well-lit with its effulgence - Svahd.” The mystic import of this is the same as before. 

32. He then offers to the Yajamana the left over Gharma. He, having wangled 
an invitation for the drink, consumes it saying, ‘The honey is offered unto 
Agni, the greatest of Indras.” The honey is offered unto Agni, the most pow¬ 
erful is what he means by that.” Let us eat you, god Gharma,, we bow to you; do 
not injure us- “thereby he seeks a blessing. 

33. Then on the southside, sand has been strewn. There they wash 
themselves. This has the same significance as in the MarjdBya. He throws into 
the fire the pieces of wood and proceeds with the Upasad . Thus, the head of 
the sacrifice has been fashioned in the very same manner as the Asvins did it. 

34. The one who perform the first Soma Yaga must not perform the 
Pravargya, since that will involve sin and it will cause Indra to cut off his head. 
But at the second or third Soma Yaga he can. This is because the gods also 
went on performing austerities and toiled during the sacrifice. Therefore only 
at the second or third one should do it. The one who performs at the first 
finds it burning and causing pain and in that condition it can bum the prog¬ 
eny and the cattle of the Yajamana and also cost his life and the Yajamana is 
likely to perish. Therefore let him do it at the second or third Soma Yaga. 

35. Let him not perform the Pravargya indiscriminately for anybody; for 
that would amount to doing everything for every body and the Pravargya is 
everything. He may perform it for one whom he knows or one who is dear to 
him or who has studied the Vedas. One can gain it only by the study of Vedas. 

36. One can perform it where the Daksind consists of a thousand cattle; 
for thousand means everything and this Pravargya is everything. One can per¬ 
form it for a Yajamana who gives away his everything (all property) ; for that 
means, he gives everything and this Pravargya is indeed (worth) everything. 
One may perform Pravargya is indeed (worth) everything. One may perform 
Pravargya at the Visvajit Yaga involving all the prsthasr, for the Visvajit with all 
the prsthas is everything and this Pravargya is also everything. One can per¬ 
form it at the Vdjapeya and Rdjasuya; for it is everything and a Satra sacrifice 
is also everything. Thus all, these are in its perview and not elsewhere. 


XVI.2.2.42] 


TRANSLATION 


355 


37. Now they ask “If the Pravargya is headless, how would their Agnihotra 
become possessed of a head?” Let him say, that it will be by the Ahaviniya. 
“How about the new moon and full moon sacrifices? Let him say, by the ghee 
and the Pumddsa (it will be one possessed of head)“What about the Cdturmasya 
performances?” Let him say, by the offering of Payasya (a curd preparation). 
“What about the Pasubandha ?” (Let him say) by the Pasu and the Puroddsa (it 
will be one possessed of head). “How about the Soma sacrifice?” Let him say, 
by the Havirdhdna (the cart on which Soma plants and other offering material 
is placed as well as the shed where the cart is placed) * Again they say that when 
the sacrifice had its head cut off, the gods restored it then as a presentation 
(to King Soma). Therefore he who know this not to make any offering with a 
headless sacrifice. 

38. Now they ask - “Usually they lead forward the pranita waters at the 
sacrifice and why do they not do so on this occassion (of Pravargya )?” The 
pranita water being the head of the sacrifice and the Pravargya also being the 
head, he does so (by not carrying the pranita), thinking “Let me not put one 
head over another.” 

39. Again they ask - “Elsewhere they offer the foreoffering and afteroffer¬ 
ing and why is it that they are not done here ?” The Praydjas and the Anuydjm 
are indeed the vital airs; vital airs are the Avakdsas and pieces of wood. He 
does not perform them, least Pranas do not climb over the Pranas. 

A 

40. Again they ask - “In other occassion they offer the two Ajyabhdgas and 
why they do not offer them here?” The two Ajyahhagas being the eyes of the 
sacrifice and the two Rauhina Purodasas being offered here as the eyes, there 
is no need to put a pair of eyes over another. 

41. They ask - “On other occassions they make offerings to gods by means 
of wooden vessels and here why do they offer this Gharma in earthen vessel ?” 
When the head of the sacrifice was cut off, its essence flowed away and en¬ 
tered the Heaven and Earth. Now this earth is clay and yonder sky is water, the 
Mahd Vtra vessels are made of clay and water. Thus he provides and com¬ 
pletes the Pravargya with that life-sap. 

42. If it had been of wooden vessel, it would be burnt; if it were of gold, it 
would get dissolved; if it were of copper it would melt away; and if it were of 
iron, it would bum away the holding sticks. That is why that Gharma itself is 


XVU.3.4J 


TRANSLATION 


357 


collected *in earthen vessel and whosoever either teaches or partakes of this 
Pravargya, reaches the ripe old age and enters that luminous region. The ob¬ 
servance thereof is the same as creation. (Second Brahmana Ends.) 

BRAHMANA m 

1. Now on the third or sixth or twelfth day, he combines the Pravargya and 
Upasad performances and conducts the Utsadana of Pravargya ( Utsadana means 
arranging the utensils used for the Pravargya ceremony so as to form a hu¬ 
man Figure). Indeed the head of the sacrifice is, as it were, seperated (from 
the trunk). Now, having collected all that, he collects and reaches the vediby 
front door. The Agntdh brings three bundles of wood to the Akavaniya. 

2. He kindles one of them and holding it at the level of his mouth makes 
the offering of it. When the head of the sacrifice got cut off, its heat went out 
of it and entered all these worlds. It is with that heat (sorrow) he thus sup¬ 
plies' and completes it. Why he holds it at the level of his mouth is because 
that level of the mouth as it were the upper region and the yonder world 
(heaven) is also up above. That heat which entered the yonder world, with 
that he now supplies and completes the Pravargya. While offering he says ,“What 
divine heat of your is there, Oh Gharma ” which means the fire which is heavenly. 
“What is in the Gayatri and the Havirdhana shed”-Just that heat which is in 
the Gayatri metre and in the Havirdhana shed. “May that heat of yours - 
Svaha.” There is nothing unintelligible in this. 

3. Then he kindles the second bundle of wooden sticks. And ign ites them 
and holds them at the level of his naval and offers. The level of the navel is in 
the middle as it were and it is the aerial region which is in the middle. Thus 
he supplies and completes it with that heat which had entered the aerial re¬ 
gion (when the head was cut off). While offering he says, “That fire of yours 
which is in the aerial region” (meaning) the fire which is in the air. “That fire 
in the Trsthubh metre and in the Agnidhra altar”, meaning that which is in the 
Trsthubh metre and in the shed where the Daksinagni is situated. “May that 
fire of yours increase and get settled firmly; to that fire of yours- Svdhd There 
is nothing to be explained in this. 

4. Then he takes the third bundle and while sitting, he offers it One who 
holds a tiling while sitting, holds it as it were below and below is this terrestrial 


XVI.2.3.8] 


TRANSLATION 


359 


world. Thus, he supplies and completes it with that heat which had entered 
this terrestrial world (when the head w&s cut off). While offering he says, "That 
fire of your which is in the earth” - meaning that fire which has entered the 
earth. “That fire which is in the Jagati metre and in the Sodas” meaning just 
that fire which is in the Jagati and in the Sodas. “May that fire of yours incre ase 
and get firmly setded; to that fire of yours - Svdhd” Nothing ishere to be explained 

5. He (the Adhvaryu) comes out Saying, "we will followyou for the safety of 
the Ksatra” For, he who shines yonder is the divine Ksatra. “For the protection 
of this human Ksatra” by this he means to say, “Protect the Brahman’s body. 
“We follow you for the sustainance of the vis ” The vis (thp commoners) are 
indeed the sacrifice and he means “for the safety of the sacrifice.” “We will 
follow you to new riches”- he says this for the safety and stability of sacrifice. 

6. He then says to the Prastota - “Sing the Sdman” or he may say “recite the 
Sdman” Neverthless, let him only say, “Sing the Sdman” because the Sdmans 
are only sung. The Sdmans are sung in order that the terrible Raksasas do not 
injure the body of the sacrifice from outside. Because the Sdmans are dispellers 
of the terrible Raksasas. He sings the Sdman related to Agni, for Agni is the 
destroyer of the Raksasas . He sings it in the Atichandas metre for the Atichandas 
means all metres and therefore he sings it in Atichandas metre. 

7. He sings “Agni who bums and attacks with his flames; Ahavo- Ahavo” It 
is thus he dispels the terrible Raksasas from here. They then walk out north¬ 
wards (carrying the Pravargya vessels and implements) along the back of the 
Cdtvdla pit and the front of the Agnidkra. This is the gate of the sacrifice and 
from there, they proceed to any direction where water will be available: 

8. Let him arrange (the implements of) the Pravargya on an island. Be¬ 
cause when heated, it becomes red hot and were he to set it out on this earth, 
its heat would enter this earth and were he to set it out on water, its heat would 
enter the water. By placing on an island, it does not injure either the water or 
the earth. In so far as he does not throw it into the water, it does no I urn 
the water and in so far as the water flows all around it (when it is on the island) 
water being a soothing agent, it does not injure this earth. So, let him set it out 
on an island. Or let him arrange it on the high alter itself; for the high alter is 
the sacrifice and the Pravargya is its head. Thus he restores to the sacrifice its 
own head. The first Pravargya pot he places so as to be close to the front side of 


XV1.3.11] 


TRANSLATION 


361 


the naval of the high altar. For, the northern part (the navel of the alter) is 
the mouth (organ of speech) and the Pravargya is the head. -Thus he places 
the organ of speech in the head. 

9. “The four-cornered” - Indeed the one who shines yonder is four r 
cornered. Because the four quarters are his four sides and therefore he is 
called four-cornered. “The famous navel of the divine order” - the divine or¬ 
der is the truth and he only says, “the well-known navel of the truth.” “That 
mighty one be for our full life” - meaning let him be unto us the be stower f 
full life. “Away from hatred and away from cunning.” Nothing unintelligible in 
this.“Let us free ourselves of other austerity.” In this way the other two pots 
are placed to the east of it Thus it becomes threefold for the head is threefold. 

10. In the front he places the residual lump of clay and thereby he puts 
flesh upon the Pravargya. He places, the two tongs (lifting sticks) on the two 
sides and thus provides two arms to the Pravargya. Further away he places the 
two ladles used for the Rauhina offerings and thus furnishes it with two hands. 
On the north side, he places the spade for there kits-resting place; on the 
right side the regal throne, for their is its place for resting. To the north, he 
places the black antelop skin; for there is its resting place. On all sides, he 
places the fans, for the fans represent t&e Pranas and thus bestows Pranas on 
it They are three fens, because there are three Pranas ; the Prdria the Udana 
and the Vyana; thus he places the three Pranas. 

11. He then places the ropes and the halter on the Upayamani and places 
the latter behind the navel with its tip pointing to the east. By this he provides 
a belly to it. On either sides he places the two milking bowls and thereby 
provides with two testicles, for it is by means of these testicles the masculine 
energy overflows. Behind them, he places the post and the peg and thus pro¬ 
vides the two thighs to it. By placing the two Rauhina plates, he provides the 
two knees to it and they being single plates, they correspond to these knees 
having single bones. Behind them he places the two Dhrstis (the two sticks 
used to poke the embers). Then he provides the two feet to it, for it is with the 
feet, one strikes at something forcefully. On the left side, the two mounds (the 
sand mounds used to place the pots near the alter are also brought over here) 
used in the performance are placed and thus they form the places of rest; on 
the right side, the MdrjaUya which is its resting place, is also there. 


XVL2.2.t7] 


TRANSLATION 


363 


12. Then he pours milk into the main vessel saying, “Oh Gharma, this is 
what is contained in your stomach.” That which is in the stomach being food, 
he thus puts food into it. “You grow with that and get filled.” There is nothing 
hidden in this. “And may we also grow and get filled” by this he seeks a boon. 

13. Let him not pour into it all the milk, lest the food should turn away 
from the Yajamana. He allows the residual of more than half of it or even 
more. On that same afternoon, he pours it into the Vrata milk and gives it to 
the Yajamana. Thereby he bestows food upon the Yajamana and this ensures 
that the food does not turn away from the Yajamana. 

14. He then sprinkles the Pravargya material with water. Water being an 
agent of soothening, he then appeases it He sprinkles it all over and thus 
soothes it all over; three times he sprinkles because the sacrifice is threefold. 

15. He then asks, (the Prastota), “Sing the Saman called Varsahara” The 
Vrsa (the bull) is doubdess, the one who shines yonder and the Pravargya is 
also the sun. Thus he thereby pleases him (the sun) and therefore he says, 
“Singthe VarsaharaSaman” 

16. He then cleans himself at the catvala pit saying, “may the waters and 
plants be our good friends.” As long as he was proceeding with that (Pravargya), 
the waters as well as the plants were keeping aloof from him. Now he befriends 
them. “Let him have bad friends” the one who hates us and the one whom we 
hate - so saying, he throws the water towards the direction where his enemies 
are situated and thus dispels them away. 

17. The Yajamana goes towards the north-east saying, “we have emerged 
from the gloom.” Gloom is indeed evil and it is that evil he thus drives away. 
“Looking the high light” - This terrestial world is at a higher level than the 
water and it is on this world he thus establishes himself. “Oh lord Surya, the 
highest light, with the gods.” The Sun, the most brilliant light, is the heavenly 
world and it is in the heavenly world that he finally setdes himself. He walks 
along without turning back and places a Samidha on the AJuwaruya saying, 
“you are a kindler: please kindly the fire in me” by this he only kindles the fire 
and those Samidhas kindle the effulgence in him. 


XVI.2.3.23] 


TRANSLATION 


365 


18. During a continued pressing of Soma, they also perforin, the Dadhigharma 
(the Gharma of curds and whey). Because the Soma is the sacrifice and the 
Pravargya is its head . Thus he restores the head to the sacrifice at the mid-day 
Savana. This (midday Savana ) is the special Soma pressing for Indra. Thus he 
pleases him with his own share, when the Pavamdna due for the midday Savana 
has been recited. Because the midday Pavamdna is the vital air and it is the 
vital air he thus puts into it. He puts it with Agnihotra ladle, because the Agnihotra 
is the mouth of the sacrifice and thus provides a mouth in the head. 


19. While being brought, he says, “Hota! say what you have to say” because 
the Hota speaks on this occassion. Then stepping forward he says, “The Havis 
has been cooked” , because the Havis has indeed been made ready. Having 
crossed over, he says “Make the offering of Dadhigharma ” and when the Vasatkdra 
is uttered, he offers it He brings that residue and offers to the Yajmana for eating. 

20. He, after seeking the approval, drinks it saying, “May that great energy 
be in me.” The great energy is indeed the one who shines yonder. “May the 
stamina be in me; and may that intelligence be in me.” Thus he secures for 
himself stamina and intelligence. “The Gharma of the triple fires shines” for 
this Gharma of triple fires is indeed shining. ‘Together with the effulgent light” 
- meaning “Let it shine together with the Sun who is the light.” “May it shine 
together with the fire, the Brahman, it indeed is “The seed of the milk has 
been brought” - ofcourse it is the seed of the milk that has been brought. “May 
we obtain the milk therefrom during the coming years.” He thereby seeks a 
boon. They then clean themselves at the catvala pit and the significance of 
this is the same as before. 

21. Now about the Daksinas- He gives a plate of gold to the Brahman weigh¬ 
ing hundred grains. Brahman is indeed seated and the gold is where glory is 
seated; therefore he gives a plate of gold weighing hundred grains to the Brahman. 

22. Now that cow which was milked for the Gharma, he gives to the Adhvaryu. 
The Gharma is scorched as it were and the Adhvaryu emerging from the fire 
alter, looks scorched; therefore he gives it to the Adhvaryu. 

23. That cow which was milked to prepare the Vrata milk for Yajamana, he 
offers to the Hota. The Hota is the sacrifice and the Yajamana is also sacrifice; 
therefore he gives it to the Hota . 



XVI.2.4.8] 


TRANSLATION 


367 


24. Then that cow which was milked for Vrata milk of the wife of the 
Yajamana, he gives as Daksind to the Udgatas. Because it is the Udgatas. Be¬ 
cause it is the Udgatas who do the wife’s work on this occassion; therefore he 
gives it to the Udgatas. Verily whosoever teaches or partakes of this Pravargya, 
enters that life-span and that effulgence. The observance thereof is the same 
as creation. (Third Brahmana Ends.) 

i 

BRAHMANA IV 

1. This sacrifice is the soul of all these and of all Gods. When the sacrifice is 
successfully completed, the Yajamana gets enriched with offspring and cattle. 
But in the case of one whose Gharma pot gets broken, he does not prosper 
with his offspring and cattle. In his case there is an expiation. 

2. He makes a full oblation ( Purnahuti ) because the full means everything 
and with everything he heals whatever has gone wrong in the sacrifice. 

3. u Svdha to the Pranas with their overlords” - The mind is the overlord of 
the Pranas since it is in the mind all the Pranas are settled. Thus by means of 
the mind he thereby heals whatever has gone wrong with the sacrifice. 

4. “To the Earth - Svahd” The earth is indeed the abode of all Gods and 
thereby he heals whatever has gone wrong in the sacrifice by means of all the 
Gods. 

5. “To Agni - Svahd” Agni is indeed the self of all the Gods and thereby he 
heals the sacrifice of whatever, has gone wrong with it by means of all the 
Gods. 

6. “To the Aerial region - Svaha”. The aerial region is the seat of all the 
Gods and thereby he heals the sacrifice of whatever has gone wrong with it by 
means of all the Gods. 

7. “To Vayu- SvahcT.The Vayu is indeed the self of all the Gods and thereby 
he heals the sacrifice of whatever has gone wrong with it by means of all the Gods. 

8. “To the Sky - Svahd”. The sky is indeed the abode of all the Gods and 
thereby he heals the sacrifice of whatever has gone wrong with it by means of 
all the Gods. 


XVl.2.4.17] 


TRANSLATION 


369 


9. ‘To the Sun - Svaha” The sun is indeed the soul of all the Gods and 
thereby he heals the sacrifice of whatever has gone wrong with it by means of 
all the Gods. 

10. ‘To the Quarters - Svaha. ” The quarters are indeed the abode of all the 

Gods and thereby he heals the sacrifice of whatever has gone wrong with it by 
means of all the Gods . 7 

11. ‘To the Moon - Svaha" The moon is indeed the soul of all the Gods 
and thereby he heals the sacrifice of whatever has gone wrong with it by means 
of all the Gods. 

12. To the Naksatras - Svaha." The naksatras are indeed the soul of all the 

Gods and thereby he heals the sacrifice of whatever has gone wrong with it by 
means of all the Gods. 7 

13. To the Waters - Svaha” The waters are indeed the abode of all the 

Gods and thereby he heals the sacrifice of whatever has gone wrong with it by 
means of all the Gods. 7 

14. ‘To Varuna - Svaha. ” The Varuna is the soul of all the Gods and thereby 
he heals the sacrifice of whatever has gone wrong with it by means of all the Gods. 

15. “To the Navel - Svaha ; to the Purified Svaha” This is undefined, be¬ 
cause Prajapati is undefined and Prajapati is the sacrifice. Thereby he heals 
Prajapati himself, the sacrifice. Thus there are thirteen offerings which he 
makes because there are thirteen months in a year and the year is Prajapati 
and Prajapati is the sacrifice. Thereby he heals Prajapati himself, the sacrifice. 

16. ‘To Vak - Svaha”; by this he gives a mouth to it. “To the Prana - Svaha” 

- by this he provides two nostrils to it. ‘To the Eye - Svaha - by this he gives a 
pair of eyes to it. “To the Ear - Svaha” by this he gives it a pair of ears. These are 
thus seven offerings and seven are the Pranas in the head and those seven 
Pranas, he gives to it. He offers the Purndhuti at the end; Purna means every¬ 
thing and thus he heals the sacrifice of all its ailments by means of everything 

17. “The free will of mind” - It is indeed by the mind that everything is 
gained here. Thus he heals the sacrifice of whatever has gone wrong with it by 
means of the mind. “The truth of speech shall be within my reach” - Indeed it 


XVI.2.4.22] 


TRANSLATION 


371 


is by speech everything is obtained and thus he cures the sacrifice of whatever 
has gone wrong with it by means of speech. “May the forms of cattle, essence 
of food, fame and prosperity abide in me - Svaha" - Thus he seeks a boon. 
Thereupon he founds that Upasaya (the residue of clay) and mixes it with 
powdered earth and shapes it into a pot and bakes it in proper form for the 
sake of Utsadana Let him proceed with whichever of the two residue pots may be firm. 

18. The Pravargya is the year and the year means everything and so Pravargya 
is everything. When it is placed on the fire, it is the spring season; when it 
becomes red-hot, it is summer; when it over-flows it is the rainy season. Thus, 
all these three are depended upon by all gods and all beings; and verily the 
rains pour down in abundance to the one who knows this. 

19. The Pravargya is indeed all these worlds and all these worlds means 
everything and hence Pravargyais everything when it is placed on the fire, it is 
thus terrestrial world, when it is red-hot, it is the aerial region and when it 
overflows it is yonder world. But indeed when the yonder world (heaven) 
overflows, all the gods and all beings depend upon it and surely the heaven 
overflows for him who know this. 

20. The Pravargya is these Gods; namely Agni, Vayu, and Aditya. These 
Gods are everything and hence Pravargya is everything. When it is set on the 
fire it is Agni; when it is red-hot it is Vayu and when it overflows it is Aditya. But 
indeed all the gods and all beings subsist upon that overflowing Aditya, the 
yonder sun. Verily the yonder sun overflows for him who knows this. 

21. The Pravargya is of course the Yajamana, his self, his offspring and 
cattle. The Yajamana is everything and hence Pravargya is everything. When it 
is set on fire, it is the self of Yajamana; when it is red-hot it is his offspring and 
when it overflows it is his cattle. When the cattle overflow (with milk) all the 
gods and all beings subsist thereon. Verily, the cows overflow with milk for him 
who know this. 

22. The Pravargya is Agnihotra and Agnihotra is everything and hence 
Pravargya is everything. When it ( Gharma :) is set on fire it is placing* the Agnihotra 
milk on the fire; when it is red-hot, it is the sterring of the Agnihotra milk and 
when it over flows it is the offering of Agnihotra milk. All the gods and all beings 
subsist on the overflowing of Agnihotra milk. Verily the Agnihotra overflows for 
the one who knows this. 



XVI.2.4.26] 


TRANSLATION 


373 


23. The Pravargya is the twin sacrifice of Darsa and Purnamasa. The Darsa 
and Purnmasa are everything and hence Pravargya is everything. The placing 
of Pravargya on the fire is the placing of Havis on the fire; when it is red-hot, 
the Havis is standing ready and when the Pravargya overflows it is offering of 
the Havis. All the gods and all beings subsist on the overflow of Darsa and 
Purnamasa sacrifices. Verily the Darsa and Purnamasa sacrifices ‘overflow for 
him who knows this. 

24. The Pravargya is indeed the Caturmasya (seasonal sacrifices) Caturmasyas 
are everything and hence Pravargya is everything. The placing of Pravargya 
on the fire is to put the Havis on fire; the red-hot Pravargya is the Havis ready 
for the offering and the overflowing Gharrna is the actual offering of Havis ; 
when the seasonal sacrifices overflow then all the gods and all beings subsist 
thereon. Verily the Caturmasyas overflow for the one who knows this. 

25. The Pravargya is indeed Pasubandha (animal sacrifice) and Pasubandha 
is everything and hence Pravargya is everything. Placing of Pravargya on the 
fire is to put the Havis on fire; the red-hot Pravargya is the Havis ready for 
offering and the overflowing Gharrna is the actual offering of Havis . When the 
Pasubandha sacrifice overflows then all the gods and all beings subsist thereon. 
Verily the Pasubandha overflows for the one who knows this. 

26. The Pravargya is indeed the Soma Yaga. Soma is everything and hence 
Pravargya is everything. Placing of Pravargya on the fire is to put the Havis on 
fire; the red-hot Pravargya is the Havis ready for offering and the overflowing 
Gharrna is the actual offering of Havis ; when the Soma sacrifice overflows then 
all the gods and all beings subsist thereon. Verily the Soma Yaga overflows for 
the one who know this. 

No Sacrifice becomes performed whatsoever without this Pravargya in the 
case of a person who knows this. He who either teaches or partakes of this 
Pravargya , enters long life and that (supreme) effulgence. The observance of 
the rule thereof is the same as at the creation. (Fourth Brahmana Ends.) 

(Chapter Two Ends.) 


(PRAVARGYA KANDA ENDS) 



‘B;?/HADARAiVYAKA- 

UPANISHAD. 


FIRST ADHYAYA'. 

First Brahmazva. 

i. Verily 1 2 the dawn is the head of the horse which 
is fit for sacrifice, the sun its eye, the wind its breath, 
the mouth the VaL?v£nara 3 fire, the year the body 
of the sacrificial horse. Heaven is the back, the sky 
the belly, the earth the chest 4 , the quarters the two 
sides, the intermediate quarters the ribs, the members 
the seasons, the joints the months and half-months, 
the feet days and nights, the bones the stars, the 

1 It is the third Adhyaya of the Arazzyaka, but the first of the 
Upanishad. 

2 This Brdhma^a is found in the Madhyandina text of the 5 ata- 
patha, ed. Weber, X, 6, 4. Its object is there explained by the 
commentary to be the meditative worship of Vira^-, as represented 
metaphorically in the members of the horse. SSya/za dispenses with 
its explanation, because, as part of the BrzhadSra/zyaka-upanishad, 
according to the Kd«va-jSkha, it had been enlarged on by the 
V&rttikak&ra and explained. 

3 Agni or fire, as pervading everything, as universally present 
in nature. 

4 PS^asya is doubtful. The commentator suggests p&d-asya, the 
place of the feet, i. e. the hoof The Greek Pegasos, or Zmrot mj^oi 9 
throws no light on the word.. The meaning of hoof would hardly 
be appropriate here, and I prefer chest on account of uras in 

2, 3. Deussen (Ved&nta, p. 8) translates, die Erde seiner Fiisse 
Schemel; but we want some part of the horse. 



74 RRJHADA r anyak a-u p anis had. 

flesh the clouds. The half-digested food is the sand, 
the rivers the bowels 1 , the liver and the lungs 2 the 
mountains, the hairs the herbs and trees. As the 
sun rises, it is the forepart, as it sets, the hindpart of 
the horse. When the horse shakes itself 3 , then it 
lightens; when it kicks, it thunders; when it makes 
water, it rains; voice* is its voice. 

2. Verily Day arose after the horse as the (golden) 
vessel 8 , called Mahiman (greatness), which (at the 
sacrifice) is placed before the horse. Its place is in 
the Eastern sea. The Night arose after the horse 
as the (silver) vessel, called Mahiman, which (at the' 
sacrifice) is placed behind the horse. Its place is in 
the Western sea. Verily, these two vessels (or great¬ 
nesses) arose to be on each side of the horse. 

As a racer he carried the Devas, as a stallion the 
Gandharvas, as a runner the Asuras, as a horse men. 
The sea is its kin, the sea is its birthplace. 

Second BrAhmana®. 

i. In the beginning there was nothing (to be per- 


1 Guda, being in the plural, is explained by n&/i, channel, and 
sir& 4 ; for we ought to read sir& or hir&graha«e for jirS, p. 22,1.16. 

8 Klomdna^ is explained as a plurale tantum (nityam bahuva- 
£anam ekasmin), and being described as a lump below the heart, 
on the opposite side of the liver, it is supposed to be the lungs. 

3 ‘ When it yawns/ Anandagiri. 

4 Voice is sometimes used as a personified power of thunder 
and other aerial sounds, and this is identified with the voice of the 
horse. 

5 Two vessels, to hold the sacrificial libations, are placed at the 
Ajvamedha before and behind the horse, the former made of gold, 
the latter made of silver. They are called Mahiman in the technical 
language of the ceremonial. The place in which these vessels are 
set, is called their yoni. Cf. V&^as. Saz«hit& XXIII, 2. 

• Called the Agni-brdhma«a, and intended to teach the origin of 



I ADIIyAyA, 2 BRAHMAJVA, 3. 7g 

ceived) here whatsoever. By Death indeed all this 
was concealed,—by hunger; for death is hunger. 
Death (the first being) thought, ‘Let me have a 
body/ Then he moved about, worshipping. From 
him thus worshipping water was produced. And he 
said: ‘ Verily, there appeared to me, while I wor¬ 
shipped (an£ate), water (ka)/ This is why water is 
called ar-ka 1 . Surely there is water (or pleasure) 
for him who thus knows the reason why water is 
called arka. 

2. Verily water is arka. And what was there as 
the froth of the water, that was hardened, and became 
the earth. On that earth he (Death) rested, and from 
him, thus resting and heated, Agni (Vir&g') proceeded, 
full of light. 

3. That being divided itself threefold, Aditya (the 
sun) as the third, and V&yu (the air) as the third 2 . 
That spirit (pr£«a) 3 became threefold. The head was 
the Eastern quarter, and the arms this and that quarter 


Agni, the fire, which is here used for the Horse-sacrifice. It is 
found in the *Satapatha-br&hma«a, Madhyandina-^dkha X, 6, 5, and 
there explained as a description of Hirawyagarbha, 

1 We ought to read arkasyarkatvam, as in Polcy’s edition, or 
ark-kasyarkkatvam, to make the etymology still clearer. The com¬ 
mentator takes arka in the sense of fire, more especially the sacri¬ 
ficial fire employed at the Horse-sacrifice. It may be so, but the 
more natural interpretation seems to me to take arka here as water, 
from which indirectly fire is produced. From water springs the 
earth; on that earth he (Mr/tyu or Pra^apati) rested, and from 
him, while resting there, fire (VirSg) was produced. That fire 
assumed three forms, fire, sun, and air, and in that threefold form 
it is called prS«a, spirit. 

2 As Agni, Vayu, and Aditya, 

8 Here Agni (Vir%) is taken as representing the fire of the altar 
at the Horse-sacrifice, which is called Arka. The object of the 
whole Brahmazia was to show the origip and true character of that 
fire (arka). 



76 BK7HADARA2VYAKA-UPANISHAD. 

(i.e. the N. E*. and S. E., on the left and right sides). 
Then the tail was the Western quarter, and the two 
legs this and that quarter (i.e. the N.W. and S.W.) 
The sides were the Southern and Northern quarters, 
the back heaven, the belly the sky, the dust * e 
earth. Thus he (Mr/tyu, as arka) stands firm in 
the water, and he who knows this stands firm wher¬ 
ever he goes. 

4. He desired 1 , ‘ Let a second body be born of 
me/ and he (Death or Hunger) embraced Speech 
in his mind. Then the seed became the year. 
Before that time there was no year. Speech 2 bore 
him so long as a year, and after that time sent 
him forth. Then when he was born, he (Death) 
opened his mouth, as if to swallow him. He cried 
Bh£«! and that became speech 3 . 

5. He thought, ‘If I kill him, I shall have but little 
food.’ He therefore brought forth by that speech 
and by that body (the year) all whatsoever exists, 
the Rik, the Ya^us, the S&man, the metres, the 
sacrifices, men, and animals. 

And whatever he (Death) brought forth, that 
he resolved to eat (ad). Verily because he eats 
everything, therefore is Aditi (Death) called Aditi. 
He who thus knows why Aditi is called Aditi, 
becomes an eater of everything, and everything 
becomes his food 4 . 

1 H.e is the same as what was before called mrrtyu, death, who, 
after becoming self-conscious, produced water, earth, fire, &c. He 
now wishes for a second body, which is the year, or the annual 
sacrifice, the year being dependent on the sun (Aditya). 

2 The commentator understands thfi father, instead of Speech, the 
mother. 

3 The interjectional theory. 

1 All these are merely fanciful etymologies of arvamedha and arka. 



i adhyAya, 2 brAhmawa, 7 . 77 

6. He desired to sacrifice again with a greater 
sacrifice. He toiled and performed penance. And 
while he toiled and performed penance, glorious 
power 1 went out of him. Verily glorious power 
means the senses (pr 4 «a). Then when the senses 
had gone out, the body took to swelling (rva-yitum), 
and mind was in the body. 

7. He desired that this body should be fit for sacri¬ 
fice (medhya), and that he should be embodied by it. 
Then he became a horse (arva), because it swelled 
(arvat), and was fit for sacrifice (medhya); and this 
is why the horse-sacrifice is called Arva-medha. 

Verily he who knows him thus, knows the Asva.- 
medha. Then, letting the horse free, he thought 2 , 
and at the end of a year he offered it up for himself, 
while he gave up the (other) animals to the deities. 
Therefore the sacrificers offered up the purified 
horse belonging to Pra^Apati, (as dedicated) to all 
the deities. 

Verily the shining sun is the Arvamedha-sacri- 
fice, and his body is the year; Agni is the sacrificial 
fire (arka), and these worlds are his bodies. These 
two are the sacrificial fire and the Arvamedha-sacri- 
fice, and they are again one deity, viz. Death. He 
(who knows this) overcomes another death, death 
does not reach him, death is his Self, he becomes 
one of those deities. 


1 Or glory (senses) and power. Comm. 

* He considered himself as the horse. Roer. 



78 br/hadAraivyaka-upanishad. 


Third BrAhmaiva 1 . 

1. There were two kinds of descendants of Pra^A.- 
pati, the Devas and the Asuras 2 . Now the Devas 
were indeed the younger, the Asuras the elder ones®. 
The Devas, who were struggling in these worlds, 
said: ‘Well, let us overcome the Asuras at the sacri¬ 
fices (the Gyotish/oma) by means of the udgttha.’ 

2. They said to speech (V&6): ‘Do thou sing out 
for us (the udgltha).’ ‘ Yes/ said speech, and sang 
(the udgitha). Whatever delight there is in speech, 
that she obtained for the Devas by singing (the three 
pavamAnas); but that she pronounced well (in the 
other nine pavamAnas), that was for herself. The 
Asuras knew: ‘Verily, through this singer they will 
overcome us.’ They therefore rushed at the singer 
and pierced her with evil. That evil which consists 
in saying what is bad, that is that evil. 

3. Then they (the Devas) said to breath (scent): 

‘ Do thou sing out for us.’ ‘Yes/ said breath, and 
sang. Whatever delight there is in breath (smell), 
that he obtained for the Devas by singing; but that 
he smelled well, that was for himself. The Asuras 
knew: ‘Verily, through this singer they will over¬ 
come us.’ They therefore rushed at the singer, and 

1 Called the Udgftha-briihmawa. In the Mddhyandina-jdkhA, 
the Upanishad, which consists of six adhySyas, begins with this 
Br&hma»a (cf. Weber's edition, p. 1047; Commentary, p. 1109). 

2 The Devas and Asuras are explained by the commentator 
as the senses, inclining either to sacred or to worldly objects, to 
good or evil. 

* According to the commentator, the Devas were the less 
numerous and less strong, the Asuras the more numerous and 
more powerful. * 




i adhyAya, 3 brAhmajva, 7. 7# 

pierced him with evil. That evil which consists in 
smelling what is bad, that is that evil. 

4. Then they said to the eye : ‘ Do thou sing out 
for us.’ ‘ Yes,’ said the eye, and sang. Whatever 
delight there is in the eye, that he obtained for the 
Devas by singing; but that he saw well, that was 
for himself. The Asuras knew: ‘ Verily, through this 
singer they will overcome us.’ They therefore rushed 
at the singer, and pierced him with evil. That evil 
which consists in seeing what is bad, that is that evil. 

5. Then they said to the ear: ‘ Do thou sing out 
for us.’ ‘Yes,’ said the ear, and sang. Whatever 
delight there is in the ear, that he obtained for the 
Devas by singing; but that he heard well, that was 
for himself. The AsuraS knew: ‘Verily, through this 
singer they will overcome us.’ They therefore rushed 
at the singer, and pierced him with evil. That evil 
which consists in hearing what is bad, that is that evil. 

6. Then they said to the mind: ‘Do thou sing out 
for us.’ ‘Yes,’ said the mind, and sang. Whatever 
delight there is in the mind, that he obtained for the 
Devas by singing; but that he thought well, that 
was for himself. The Asuras knew: ‘Verily, through 
this singer they will overcome us.’ They therefore 
rushed at the singer, and pierced him with evil. That 
evil which consists in thinking what is bad, that is 
that evil. 

Thus they overwhelmed these deities with evils, 
thus they pierced them with evil. 

7. Then they said to the breath in the mouth 1 : 
‘Do thou sing for us.’ ‘Yes,’ said the breath, and 
sang. The Asuras knew: ‘Verily, through this singer 


1 This is the chief or vital breath, sometimes called mukhya. 




80 BWHADARAiVYAKA-UPANISHAD. 

they will overcome us.’ They therefore rushed at 
him and pierced him with evil. Now as a ball of 
earth will be scattered when hitting a stone, thus 
they perished, scattered in all directions. Hence 
the Devas rose, the Asuras fell. He who knows 
this, rises by his self, and the enemy who hates 
him falls. 

8. Then they (the Devas) said: ‘ Where was he 
then who thus stuck to us 1 ?’ It was (the breath) 
within-the mouth (dsye ’ntar 2 ), and therefore called 
Ay£sya; he was the. sap (rasa) of the limbs (ariga), 
and therefore called Arigirasa. 

9. That deity was called Dftr, because Death was 

far (duran) from it. From him who knows this, 
Death is far off. „ 

10. That deity, after having taken away the evil 
of those deities, viz. death, sent it to where the 
end of the quarters of the earth is. There he 
deposited their sins. Therefore let no one go to 
a man, let no one go to the end (of the quarters 
of the earth 3 ), that he may not meet there with 
evil, with death. 

n. That deity, after having taken away the evil of 
those deities, viz. death, carried them beyond death. 

12. He carried speech across first. When speech 
had become freed from death, it became (what it 
had been before) Agni (fire). That Agni, after 
having stepped beyond death, shines. 

13. Then he carried breath (scent) across. When 
breath had become freed from death, it became 

1 Asakta from sa%, to embrace ; cf. Rig-veda I, 33, 3. Here 
it corresponds to the German anhan'glich. 

* See Deussen, Vedanta, p. 359. 

* To distant people. 1 





i adhyAya, 3 bhAhmaata, 18. 8i 

Vdyu (air). That V&yu, after having stepped beyond 
death, blows. 

14. Then he carried the eye across. When the 
eye had become freed from death, it became Aditya 
(the sun). That Aditya, after having stepped beyond 
death, burns. 

15. Then he carried the ear across. When the 
ear had become freed from death, it became the 
quarters (space). These are our quarters (space), 
which have stepped beyond death. 

16. Then he carried the mind across. When the 
mind had become freed from death, it became the 
moon (A'andramas). That moon, after having stepped 
beyond death, shines. Thus does that deity carry 
him, who knows this, across death. 

17. Then breath (vital), by singing, obtained for 
himself eatable food. For whatever food is eaten, 
is eaten by breath alone, and in it breath rests 1 . 

The Devas said: ‘ Verily, thus far, whatever food 
there is, thou hast by singing acquired it for thyself. 
Now therefore give us a share in that food.’ He 
said: * You there, enter into me.' They said Yes, and 
entered all into him. Therefore whatever food is 
eaten by breath, by it the other senses are satisfied. 

18. If a man knows this, then his own relations 
come to him in the same manner; he becomes their 
supporter, their chief leader, their strong ruler 2 . And 
if ever anyone tries to oppose 3 one who is possessed 
of such knowledge among his own relatives, then he 


1 This is done by the last nine Pavamanas, while the first three 
were used for obtaining the reward common to all the prfiwas. 

9 Here annada is well explained by anamayavin, and vyadhirahita, 
free from sickness, strong. 

3 Read pratiprati^; see Poley, and Weber, p. 1180. 

[15] G. 




82 


BR/HADARA 2 VYAKA-UPANISHAD. 


will not be able to support his own belongings. But 
he who follows the man who is possessed of such 
knowledge, and who with his permission wishes to 
support those whom he has to support, he indeed 
will be able to support his own belongings. 

19. He was called Aydsya Aiigirasa, for he is the 
sap (rasa) of the limbs (ahga). Verily, breath is 
the sap of the limbs. Yes, breath is the sap of the 
limbs. Therefore from whatever limb breath goes 
away, that limb withers, for breath verily is the sap 
of the limbs. 

20. He (breath) is also Bnhaspati, for speech is 
BWhatl (Rig-veda), and he is her lord; therefore he 
is Brz’haspati. 

21. He (breath) is also Brahmawaspati, for speech 
is Brahman (Yafur-veda), and he is her lord; there¬ 
fore he is Brahmawaspati. 

He (breath) is also Saman (the Udgltha), for 
speech is Saman (Sdma-veda), and that is both 
speech (sa) and breath (ama) 1 . This is why Sdman 
is called Sdman. 

22. Or because he is equal (sama) to a grub, equal 
to a gnat, equal to an elephant, equal to these three 
worlds, nay, equal to this universe, therefore he is 
S&man. He who thus knows this Sdman, obtains 
union and oneness with Saman. 

23. He (breath) is Udgltha 2 . Breath verily is Ut, 
for by breath this universe is upheld (uttabdha); and 
speech is Glthd, song. And because he is ut and 
glthd, therefore he (breath) is Udgltha. 


1 Cf. KMnd. Up. V, 2, 6. 

9 Not used here in the sense of song or hymn, but as an act of 
worship connected with the S&man. Comm. 



I ADHYAYA, 3 BRAHMAVA, 2 7. 


83 


24. And thus Brahmadatta Afaikitineya (the 
grandson of ATikit&na), while taking Soma (r&^an), 
said: ‘ May this Soma strike my head off, if Ayisya 
Angirasa sang another Udgttha than this. He sang 
it indeed as speech and breath/ 

25. He who knows what is the property of this 
Siman, obtains property. Now verily its property 
is tone only. Therefore let a priest, who is going to 
perform the sacrificial work of a Sima-singer, desire 
that his voice may have a good tone, and let him 
perform the sacrifice with a voice that is in good 
tone. Therefore people (who want a priest) for a 
sacrifice, look out for one who possesses a good 
voice, as for one who possesses property. He who 
thus knows what is the property of that Selman, 
obtains property. 

26. He who knows what is the gold of that 
Sdman, obtains gold. Now verily its gold is tone 
only. He who thus knows what is the gold of that 
S&man, obtains gold. 

27. He who knows what is the support of that 
Siman, he is supported. Now verily its support 
is speech only. For, as supported in speech, that 
breath is sung as that Sdman. Some say the 
support is in food. 

Next follows the Abhy&roha 1 (the ascension) of 
the Pavam&na verses. Verily the Prastot^f begins 
to sing the S&man, and when he begins, then let him 
(the sacrificer) recite these (three Ya^us-verses): 

* Lead me from the unreal to the real! Lead me 

1 The ascension is a ceremony by which the performer reaches 
the gods, or becomes a god. ft consists in the recitation of three 
Ya^us, and is here enjoined to take place when the Prastotr* priest 
begins to sing his hymn. 

G 2 . 





8 4 


B-R/HADARAATYAKA-UPANISHAD. 


from darkness to light! Lead me from death to 
immortality!’ 

Now when he says, ‘ Lead me from the unreal to 
the real,’ the unreal is verily death, the real immor¬ 
tality. He therefore says, ‘Lead me from death to 
immortality, make me immortal.’ 

When he says, ‘ Lead me from darkness to light,’ 
darkness is verily death, light immortality. He 
therefore says, ‘Lead me from death to immortality, 
make me immortal.’ 

When he says, ‘ Lead me from death to immor¬ 
tality/ there is nothing there, as it were, hidden 
(obscure, requiring explanation) 

2 8. Next come the other Stotras with which the 
priest may obtain food for himself by singing them. 
Therefore let the sacrificer, while these Stotras are 
being sung, ask for a boon, whatever desire he may 
desire. Ar. Udgatrz priest who knows this obtains 
by his singing whatever desire he may desire either 
for himself or for the sacrificer. This (knowledge) in¬ 
deed is called the conqueror of the worlds. He who 
thus knows this Siman 2 , for him there is no fear of 
his not being admitted to the worlds 3 . 


1 See Deussen, Vedanta, p. 86. 

2 He knows that he is the Prawa, which Pra//a is the Saman. 
That Pra«a cannot be defeated by the Asuras, i. e. by the senses 
which are addicted to evil; it is pure, and the five senses finding 
refuge in him, recover there their original nature, fire, &c. The 
Prawa is the Self of all things, also of speech (i?/g-ya^u^-sSmodgltha), 
and of the Saman that has to be sung and well sung. The Pra#a 
pervades all creatures, and he who identifies himself with that 
Pra#a, obtains the rewards mentioned in the Brahma^a. Comm. 

3 In connection with loka^it, lokyata is here explained, and 
may probably have been intended, as worthiness to be admitted to 
the highest world. Originally lokyatS and alokyatS meant right 
and wrong. See also 1 !, 5, 17. 



I ADHYAYA, 4 BRAHMAVA, 3. 


85 


Fourth Brahmaaa ’. 

1. In the beginning this was Self alone, in the shape 
of a person (purusha). He looking round saw nothing 
but his Self. He first said, ‘This is I;’ therefore 
he became I by name. Therefore even now, if a 
man is asked, he first says, ‘This is I,’ and then 
pronounces the other name which he may have. And 
because before (ptirva) all this, he (the Self) burnt 
down (ush) all evils, therefore he was a person 
(pur-usha). Verily he who knows this, burns down 
every one who tries to be before him. 

2. He feared, and therefore any one who is lonely 
fears. He thought, ‘As there is nothing but myself, 
why should I fear?’ Thence his fear passed away. 
For what should he have feared ? Verily fear arises 
from a second only. 

3. But he felt no delight. Therefore a man who 
is lonely feels no delight. He wished for a second. 
He was so large as man and wife together. He then 
made this his Self to fall in two (pat), and thence 
arose husband (pati) and wife (patnl). Therefore 
Y a^wavalkya said : ‘We two 1 2 are thus (each of us) 
like half a shell 3 .’ Therefore the void which was 

1 CallecT f’urushavidliabrahmawa (Madhyandina-^akha, p. 1050). 
See Muir, Original Sanskrit Texts, vol. i, p. 24. 

4 The Comm, explains svaA by StmanaA, of himself. But see 
Boehtlingk, Sanskrit Chrestomathie, p. 337. 

3 Roer translates: ‘Therefore was this only one half of himself, as 
a split pea is of a whole.’ Brfgala is a half of anything. Muir 
(Orig. Sansk. Texts, vol. i, p. 25) translates : ‘ Yajfnavalkya has said 
that this one’s self is like the half of a split pea.’ I have translated 
the sentence according to Professor Boehtlingk’s conjecture (Chres¬ 
tomathie, 2nd ed. p. 357), though the singular after the dual (sva 5 ) 
is irregular. 




86 


BWHADARAiVYAKA-UPANISIIAD. 


there, i$ filled by the wife. He embraced her, and 
men were born. 

4. She thought, * How can he embrace me, after 
having produced me from himself? I shall hide 
myself.’ 

She then became a cow, the other became a 
bull and embraced her, and hence cows were born. 
The one became a mare, the other a stallion; the 
one a male ass, the other a female ass. He em¬ 
braced her, and hence one-hoofed animals were born. 
The one became a she-goat, the other a he-goat; 
the one became a ewe 1 2 , the other a ram. He em¬ 
braced her, and hence goats and sheep were born. 
And thus he created everything that exists in pairs, 
down to the ants. 

5. He knew, ‘ I indeed am this creation, for I 
created all this.’ Hence he became the creation, 
and he who knows this lives in this his creation. 

6. Next he thus produced fire by rubbing. From 
the mouth, as from the fire-hole, and from the hands 
he created fire a . Therefore both the mouth and the 
hands are inside without hair, for the fire-hole is 
inside without hair. 

And when they say, * Sacrifice to this or sacrifice to 
that god,’ each god is but his manifestation, for he 
is all gods. 

Now, whatever there is moist, that he created 
from seed; this is Soma. So far verily is this uni¬ 
verse either food or eater. Soma indeed is food, 
Agni eater. This is the highest creation of Brah- 

1 The reading avir itaro, i. e. itarS u, is not found in the K&nva 
text. See Boehtlingk, Chrestomathie, p. 357. 

2 He blew with the moilth while he rubbed with the hands. 




I ADHYAYA, 4 BRAIIMAtfA, 7 . 


87 


man, when he created the gods from his better part 1 , 
and when he, who was (then) mortal 2 , created the im¬ 
mortals. Therefore it was the highest creation. And 
he who knows this, lives in this his highest creation. 

7. Now all this was then undeveloped. It became 
developed by form and name, so that one could say, 
‘ He, called so and so, is such a one 3 .’ Therefore at 
present also all this is developed by name and form, so 
that one can say,‘He, called so and so, is such a one.’ 

He (Brahman or the Self) entered thither, to the 
very tips of the finger-nails, as a razor might be 
fitted in a razor-case, or as fire in a fire-place 4 * . 

He cannot be seen, for, in part only, when breath¬ 
ing, he is breath by name; when speaking, speech 
by name; when seeing, eye by name; when hearing, 
ear by name; when thinking, mind by name. All 
these are but the names of his acts. And he who 
worships (regards) him as the one or the other, does 
not know him, for he is apart from this (when quali¬ 
fied) by the one or the other (predicate). Let men 
worship him as Self, for in the Self all these are one. 
This Self is the footstep of everything, for through 
it one knows everything 6 . And as one can find 
again by footsteps what was lost, thus he who knows 
this finds glory and praise. 


1 Or, when he created the best gods. 

* As man and sacrifices Comm. 

s The Comm, takes asau-nfimfi as a compound, instead of idam- 
nSma. I read asau nfima, he is this by name, viz. Devadatta, &c. 
Dr. Boehtlingk, who in his Chrestomathie (2nd ed. p. 31) had 
accepted the views of the Commentator, informs me that he has 
changed his view, and thinks that we should read asau nama. 

4 Cf. Kaush. Br. Up. VI, 19/ 

8 ‘As one finds lost cattle again by following their footsteps, thus 

one finds everything, if one has found out'the Self.’ Comm. 





88 


b/uiiadArajvyaka-upanishad. 


1 8. This, which is. nearer to us than anything, this 

Self, is dearer than a son, dearer than wealth, dearer 
than all else. 

And if one were to say to one who declares an¬ 
other than the Self dear, that he will lose what is dear 
to him, very likely it would be so. Let him worship 
the Self alone as dear. He who worships the Self 
alone as dear, the object of his love will never perish 1 . 

9. Here they say: ‘If men think that by know¬ 
ledge of Brahman they will become everything, what 
then did that Brahman know, from whence all this 
sprang ? ’ 

10. Verily in the beginning this was Brahman, that 
Brahman knew (its) Self only, saying, ‘ I am Brah¬ 
man.’ From it all this sprang. Thus, whatever 
Deva was awakened (so as to know Brahman), he 
indeed became that (Brahman); and the same with 
/foshis and men. The 7 ?zshi V&madeva saw and 
understood it, singing, * I was Manu (moon), I was the 
sun.’ Therefore now also he who thus knows that 
he is Brahman, becomes all this, and even the Devas 
cannot prevent it, for he himself is their Self. 

Now if a man worships another deity, thinking 
the deity is one and he another, he does not know. 
He is like a beast for the Devas. For verily, as 
many beasts nourish a man, thus does every man 
nourish the Devas. If only one beast is taken 
away, it is not pleasant; how much more when many 
are taken! Therefore it is not pleasant to the 
Devas that men should know this. 

11. Verily in the beginning this was Brahman, one 

1 On rudh, to lose, see Taitt, Sawh. II, 6, 8, 5, pp. 765, 771, as 
pointed out by Dr. Boehjlingk. On irvaro (yat) tathaiva sy&t, see 
Boehtlingk, s.v. , 



I adhyAya, 4 brAhmajva, 14. 


89 


only. That being one, was not strong enough. It 
created still further the most excellent Kshatra 
(power), viz. those Kshatras (powers) among the 
Devas,— Indra, Varuwa, Soma, Rudra, Par^anya, 
Yama, MWtyu, IsAna. Therefore there is nothing 
beyond the Kshatra, and therefore at the RA^astiya 
sacrifice the Brahmawa sits down belowthe Kshatriya. 
H e confers that glory on the Kshatra alone. But Brah¬ 
man is (nevertheless) the birth-place of the Kshatra. 
Therefore though a king is exalted, he sits down at 
the end (of the sacrifice) below the Brahman, as his 
birth-place. He who injures him, injures his own 
birth-place. He becomes worse, because he has 
injured one better than himself. 

12. He 1 was not strong enough. He created the 
Vis (people), the classes of Devas which in their 
different orders are called Vasus, Rudras, Adityas, 
Vijve Devas, Maruts. 

13. He was not strong enough. He created the 
.Sildra colour (caste), as Pfishan (as nourisher). This 
earth verily is Pfishan (the nourisher); for the earth 
nourishes all this whatsoever. 

14. He was not strong enough. He created still 
further the most excellent Law (dharma). Law is 
the Kshatra (power) of the Kshatra 2 , therefore there 
is nothing higher than the Law. Thenceforth even 
a weak man rules a stronger with the help of the 
Law, as with the help of a king. Thus the Law is 
what is called the true. And if a man declares what 
is true, they say he declares the Law; and if he 
declares the Law, they say he declares what is true. 
Thus both are the same. 

1 Observe the change from tad, it, to £a, he. 

8 More powerful than the Kshatra or warrior caste. Comm. 





90 


b-r/hadArajvyaka-upanishad. 


15; There are then this Brahman, Kshatra, VLy, 
and .Sftdra. Among the Devas that Brahman existed 
as Agni (fire) only, among men as Br&hmawa, as 
Kshatriya through the (divine) Kshatriya, as Vai-sya 
through the (divine) Vaisya, as .Sfidra through the 
(divine) »Slftdra. Therefore people wish for their 
future state among the Devas through Agni (the 
sacrificial fire) only; and among men through the 
Brahmawa, for in these two forms did Brahman 
exist. 

Now if a man departs this life without having 
seen his true future life (in the Self), then that 
Self, not being known, does not receive and bless 
him, as if the Veda had not been read, or as if a 
good work had not been done. Nay, even if one 
who does not know that (Self), should perform here 
on earth some great holy work, it will perish for 
him in the end. Let a man worship the Self only 
as his true state. If a man worships the Self only as 
his true state, his work does not perish, for whatever 
he desires that he gets from that Self. 

16. Now verily this Self (of the ignorant man) is 
the world 1 of all creatures. In so far as man sacri¬ 
fices and pours out libations, he is the world of the 
Devas; in so far as he repeats the hymns, &c., he is 
the world of the ifo'shis ; in so far as he offers cakes 
to the Fathers and tries to obtain offspring, he is the 
world of the Fathers; in so far as he gives shelter and 
food to men, he is the world of men; in so far as he 
finds fodder and water for the animals, he is the world 
of the animals; in so far as quadrupeds, birds, and 
even ants live in his houses, he is their world. And 
as every one wishes his own world not to be injured, 


1 Is enjoyed by them all. Comm. 





I ADHYAYA, 5 BRAHMA 2 VA, I. 


91 


thus all beings wish that he who knows this should 
not be injured. Verily this is known and has been 
well reasoned. 

17. In the beginning this was Self alone, one only. 
He desired, ‘ Let there be a wife for me that I may 
have offspring, and let there be wealth for me that I 
may offer sacrifices.’ Verily this is the whole desire, 
and, even if wishing for more, he would not find it. 
Therefore now also a lonely person desires, ‘Let 
there be a wife for me that I may have offspring, and 
let there be wealth for me that I may offer sacrifices.’ 
And so long as he does not obtain either of these 
things, he thinks he is incomplete. Now his com¬ 
pleteness (is made up as follows): mind is his self 
(husband); speech the wife ; breath the child; the 
eye all worldly wealth, for he finds it with the eye; 
the ear his divine wealth, for he hears it with the 
ear. The body (Atman) is his work, for with the 
body he works. This is the fivefold 1 sacrifice, for 
fivefold is the animal, fivefold man, fivefold all this 
whatsoever. He who knows this, obtains all this. 

Fifth BrAiimawa 2 . 

1.“‘When the father (of creation) had produced by 
knowledge and penance (work) the seven kinds of 
food, one of his (foods) was common to all beings, 
two he assigned to the Devas, (i) 

* Three he made for himself, one he gave to the 
animals. In it all rests, whatsoever breathes and 
breathes not. (2) 

* 

1 Fivefold, as consisting of mind, speech, breath, eye, and ear. 
See Taitt. Up. I, 7,1. 

* M&dhyandina text, p. 1054. 




92 


bjuhadArajvvaka-upanishad. 


‘ Why then do these not perish, though they are 
always eaten ? He who knows this imperishable 
one, he eats food with his face. (3) 

* He goes even to the Devas, he lives on 
strength.’ (4) 

2. When it is said, that ‘ the father produced by 
knowledge and penance the seven kinds of food,’ it 
is clear that (it was he who) did so. When it is 
said, that ‘ one of his (foods) was common,’ then that 
is that common food of his which is eaten. He who 
worships (eats) that (common food), is not removed 
from evil, for verily that food is mixed (property) 1 . 
When it is said, that ‘two he assigned to the Devas,’ 
that is the huta, which is sacrificed in fire, and the 
prahuta, which is given away at a sacrifice. But 
they also say, the new-moon and full-moon sacrifices 
are here intended, and therefore one should not offer 
them as an ish/i or with a wish. 

When it is said, that ‘one he gave to animals,’ 
that is milk. For in the beginning (in their infancy) 
both men and animals live on milk. And therefore 
they either make a new-born child lick ghrfta 
(butter), or they make it take the breast. And 
they call a new-born creature ‘atrzw&da,’ i. e..not 
eating herbs. When it is said, that ‘in it all rests, 
whatsoever breathes and breathes not,’ we see that 
all this, whatsoever breathes and breathes not, rests 
and depends on milk. 

And when it is said (in another Br&hmawa), that 
a man who sacrifices with milk a whole year 2 , over¬ 
comes death again, let him not think so. No, on 

1 It belongs to all beings. 

* This would imply 3 60. sacrificial days, each with two oblations, 
i. e. 720 oblations. 



I ADIIYAyA, 5 BRAHMAAA, 3. 


93 


the very day on which he sacrifices, on that day he 
overcomes death again; for he who knows this, 
offers to the gods the entire food (viz. milk). 

When it is said, * Why do these not perish, though 
they are always eaten,’ we answer, Verily, the Person 
is the imperishable, and he produces that food again 
and again 1 . 

When it is said, ‘He who knows this imperishable 
one,’ then, verily, the Person is the imperishable 
one, for he produces this food by repeated thought, 
and whatever he does not work by his works, that 
perishes. 

When it is said, that ‘ he eats food with his face,' 
then face means the mouth, he eats it with his 
mouth. 

When it is said, that ‘he goes even to the Devas, 
he lives on strength,’ that is meant as praise. 

3. When it is said, that ‘he made three for him¬ 
self,’ that means that he made mind, speech, and 
breath for himself. As people say, ‘My mind was 
elsewhere, I did not see; my mind was elsewhere, 
I did not hear,' it is clear that a man sees with his 
mind and hears with his mind 2 . Desire, representa¬ 
tion, doubt, faith, want of faith, memory 3 , forgetful¬ 
ness, shame, reflexion, fear, all this is mind. There¬ 
fore even if a man is touched on the back, he knows 
it through the mind. 

Whatever sound there is, that is speech. Speech 
indeed is intended for an end or object, it is nothing 
by itself. 


1 Those who enjoy the food, become themselves creators. Comm. 

8 See Deussen, Ved&nta, p. 358. 

3 Firmness, strength. Comm. 



94 


br/hadAra-wyaka-upanishad. 


The up-breathing, the 'down-breathing, the back- 
breathing, the out-breathing, the on-breathing, all 
that is breathing is breath (pra#a) only. Verily 
that Self consists of it; that Self consists of speech, 
mind, and breath. 

4. These are the three worlds: earth is speech, 
sky mind, heaven breath. 

5. These are the three Vedas: the Rig-veda is 
speech, the Ya^ur-veda mind, the Sama-veda breath. 

6. These are the Devas, Fathers, and men: the 
Devas are speech, the Fathers mind, men breath. 

7. These are father, mother, and child: the father 
is mind, the mother speech, the child breath. 

8. These are what is known, what is to be known, 
and what is unknown. 

What is known, has the form of speech, for speech 
is known. Speech, having become this, protects 
man 1 . 

9. What is to be known, has the form of mind, 
for mind is what is to be known. Mind, having 
become this, protects man. 

10. What is unknown, has the form of breath, for 
breath is unknown. Breath, having become this, 
protects man 2 . 

11. Of that speech (which is the food of Pra^A- 
pati) earth is the body, light the form, viz. this fire. 
And so far as speech extends, so far extends the 
earth, so far extends fire. 

12. Next, of this mind heaven is the body, light 
the form, viz. this sun. And so far as this mind 

1 ‘ The food (speech), having become known, can be consumed.’ 
Comm. 

* This was adhibhautika, with reference to bhfitas, beings. Next 
follows the adhidaivika, with reference to the devas, gods. Comm. 





I ADHYAYA, 5 BRAlIMAiVA, 1 6 . 


95 


extends, so far extends heaven, so far extends the 
sun. If they (fire and sun) embrace each other, then 
wind is born, and that is Indra, and he is without a 
rival. Verily a second is a rival, and he who knows 
this, has no rival. 

13. Next, of this breath water is the body, light 
the form, viz. this moon. And so far as this breath 
extends, so far extends water, so far extends the 
moon. 

These are all alike, all endless. And he who wor¬ 
ships them as finite, obtains a finite world, but he who 
worships them as infinite, obtains an infinite world. 

14. That Prafdpati is the year, and he consists of 
sixteen digits. The nights 1 indeed are his fifteen 
digits, the fixed point 2 his sixteenth digit. He is 
increased and decreased by the nights. Having on 
the new-moon night entered with the sixteenth part 
into everything that has life, he is thence born again 
in the morning. Therefore let no one cut off the life 
of any living thing on that night, not even of a lizard, 
in honour (pfi^rtham) of that deity. 

15. Now verily that Pra^dpati, consisting of six¬ 
teen digits, who is the year, is the same as a man 
who knows this. His wealth constitutes the fifteen 
digits, his Self the sixteenth digit. He is increased 
and decreased by that wealth. His Self is the nave, 
his wealth the felly. Therefore even if he loses 
everything, if he lives but with his Self, people say, 
he lost the felly (which can be restored again). 

16. Next there are verily three worlds, the world 
of men, the world of the Fathers, the world of the 
Devas. The world of . men can be gained by a son 

1 Meant for nychthemera. 
a When he is just invisible at the new moon. 





96 


BA/HADARAJVYAKA-UPANISHAD. 


only, not by any other work. By sacrifice the world 
of the Fathers, by knowledge the world of the Devas 
is gained. The world of the Devas is the best of 
worlds, therefore they praise knowledge. 

17. Next follows the handing over. When a man 
thinks he is going to depart, he says to his son: 
‘ Thou art Brahman (the Veda, so far as acquired by 
the father); thou art the sacrifice (so far as performed 
by the father); thou art the world.’ The son answers: 
* I am Brahman, I am the sacrifice, I am the world.’ 
Whatever has been learnt (by the father) that, taken 
as one, is Brahman. Whatever sacrifices there are, 
they, taken as one, are the sacrifice. Whatever 
worlds there are, they, taken as one, are the world. 
Verily here ends this (what has to be done by a 
father, viz. study, sacrifice, &c.) ‘ He (the son), being 
all this, preserved me from this world 1 ,’ thus he 
thinks. Therefore they call a son who is instructed 
(to do all this), a world-son (lokya), and therefore 
they instruct him. 

When a father who knows this, departs this world, 
then he enters into his son together with his own 
.spirits (with speech, mind, and breath). If there is 
anything done amiss by the father, of all that the son 
delivers him, and therefore he is called Putra, son 2 . 
By help of his son the father stands firm in this 
world 3 . Then these divine immortal spirits (speech, 
mind, and breath) enter into him. 

1 Roer seems to have read sawnaya, * all this multitude.* I read, 
etan m& sarva m sann ayam ito ’bhuna^ad iti. 

2 The Comm, derives putra from pu (pfir), to fill, and tra (trd), to 
deliver, a deliverer who fills the holes left by the father, a stop¬ 
gap. Others derive it from put, a hell, and trS, to protect; cf. 
Manu IX, 138. 

8 * The manushya-loka, not the pitrf-loka and deva-loka.* Comm. 




I ADHYAYA, 5 BRAHMAN A, 21. 


97 


18. From the earth and from fire, divine speech 
enters into him. And verily that is divine speech 
whereby, whatever he says, comes to be. 

19. From heaven and the sun, divine mind enters 
into him. And verily that is divine mind whereby 
he becomes joyful, and grieves no more. 

20. From water and the moon, divine breath 
(spirit) enters into him. And verily that is divine 
breath which, whether moving or not moving, does 
not tire, and therefore does not perish. He who 
knows this, becomes the Self of all beings. As that 
deity (Hirawyagarbha) is, so does he become. And 
as all beings honour that deity (with sacrifice, &c.), 
so do all beings honour him who knows this. 

Whatever grief these creatures suffer, that is 
all one 1 (and therefore disappears). Only what is 
good approaches him; verily, evil does not approach 
the Devas. 

21. Next follows the consideration of the observ¬ 
ances 2 (acts). PrafApati created the actions (active 
senses). When they had been created, they strove 
among themselves. Voice held, I shall speak; the 
eye held, I shall see; the ear held, I shall hear; 
and thus the other actions too, each according to its 
own act. Death, having become weariness, took 
them and seized them. Having seized them, death 
held them back (from their work). Therefore 
speech grows weary, the eye grows weary, the ear 
grows weary. But death did not seize the central 
breath. Then the others tried to know him, and 

1 ‘ Individuals suffer, because one causes grief to another. But 
in the universal soul, where all 'individuals are one, their sufferings 
are neutralised.’ Comm. 

* The upfisana or meditative worship. * 

[15] e 




9 8 


brthadArajvyaka-upanishad. 


said: ‘ Verily, he is the best of us, he who, whether 
moving or not, does not tire and does not perish. 
Well, let all of us assume his form.’ Thereupon 
they all assumed his form, and therefore they are 
called after him ‘ breaths ’ (spirits). 

In whatever family there is a man who knows 
this, they call that family after his name. And he 
who strives with one who knows this, withers away 
and finally dies. So far with regard to the body. 

22. Now with regard to the deities. 

Agni (fire) held, I shall burn; Aditya (the sun) 
held, I shall warm; A^andramas (the moon) held, 
I shall shine; and thus also the other deities, each 
according to the deity. And as it was with the 
central breath among the breaths, so it was with 
V&yu, the wind among those deities. The other 
deities fade, not Vayu. V&yu is the deity that 
never sets. 

23. And here there is this .Sloka: 

‘ He from whom the sun rises, and into whom it 
sets’ (he verily rises from the breath, and sets in 
the breath) 

‘ Him the Devas made the law, he only is to-day, 
and he to-morrow also’ (whatever these Devas de¬ 
termined then, that they perform to-day also 1 ). 

Therefore let a man perform one observance only, 
let him breathe up and let him breathe down, that 
the evil death may not reach him. And when he 
performs it, let him try to finish it. Then he ob¬ 
tains through it union and oneness with that deity 
(with prdwa). 


1 The pr&wa-yrata and v&yu-vrata. Comm. 





i adhyAya, 6 brAhmana, 3 . 


99 


Sixth Brahman a \ 

1. Verily this is a triad, name, form, and work. 
Of these names, that which is called Speech is the 
Uktha (hymn, supposed to mean also origin),.for 
from it all names arise. It is their S&man (song, 
supposed to mean also sameness), for it is the same 
as all names. It is their Brahman (prayer, supposed 
to mean also support), for it supports all names. 

2. Next, of the forms, that which is called Eye is 
the Uktha (hymn), for from it all forms arise. It is 
their S&man (song), for it is the same as all forms. It 
is their Brahman (prayer), for it supports all forms. 

3. Next, of the works, that which is called Body is 
the Uktha (hymn), for from it all works arise. It is 
their Saman (song), for it is the same as all works. It 
is their Brahman (prayer), for it supports all works. 

That being a triad is one, viz. this Self; and the 
Self, being one, is that triad. This is the immortal, 
covered by the true. Verily breath is the immortal, 
name and form are the true, and by them the im¬ 
mortal is covered. 


1 JNIadhyandina text, p. 1058. 


2 



I oo bwhadAraatyaka-upanishad. 


SECOND ADHYAYA 1 . 

First Brahmaiva 2 . 

1. There 3 was formerly the proud G&rgya B&l&ki 4 , 
a nian of great reading. He said to A^ta-satru of 
Kiri, ‘Shall I tell you Brahman ?’ A^dtamtru said: 
‘We give a thousand (cows) for that speech (of 
yours), for verily all people run away, saying, 6anaka 
(the king of Mithila) is our father (patron) 6 .’ 

2. Girgya said: * The person that is in the sun 6 , 
that I adore as Brahman.’ A^dtavatru said to him: 

‘ No, no! Do not speak to me on this. I adore him 

1 Madhyandina text, p. 1058. 

2 Whatever has been taught to the end of the third (according 
to the counting of the Upanishad, the first) Adhyaya, refers to 
avidya, ignorance. Now, however, vidya, the highest knowledge, 
is to be taught, and this is done, first of all, by a dialogue between 

,'GSrgya Dnptabalaki and king A^teuatru, the former, though a 
Brahmawa, representing the imperfect, the latter, though a Kshatriya, 
the perfect knowledge of Brahman. While Gargya worships the 
Brahman as the sun, the moon, &c., as limited, as active and passive, 
A^atajatru knows the Brahman as the Self. 

3 Compare with this the fourth Adhyaya of the Kaushitaki- 
upanishad, Sacred Books of the East, vdl. i, p. 300; Gough, 
Philosophy of the Upanishads, p. 144. 

4 Son of Balaka, of the race of the Gargyas. 

6 (Tanaka, known as a wise and liberal king. There is a play 
on his name, which means father, and is understood in the sense 
of patron, or of teacher of wisdom. The meaning is obscure; and 
in the Kaush. Up. IV. 1, the construction is still more difficult. 
What is intended seems to be that A^atai-atru is willing to offer 
any reward to a really wise man, because all the wise men are 
running after (Tanaka and settling at his court. 

8 The commentator expatiates on all these answers and brings 
them more into harmony with Ved&nta doctrines. Thus he adds 
that the person in the sun is at the same time the person in the eye, 
who is both active and passive in the heart, &c. 




ii adhyAya, i brAhma^a, 6. ioi 


verily as the supreme, the head of all beings, the 
king. Whoso adores him thus, becomes supreme, 
the head of all beings, a king.’ 

3. Gdrgya said: ‘ The person that is in the moon 
(and in the mind), that I adore as Brahman.’ A^A- 
tasatru said to him: ‘ No, no! Do not speak to me 
on this. I adore him verily as the great, clad in 
whit© raiment, as Soma, the king.’ Whoso adores 
him thus, Soma is poured out and poured forth for 
him day by day, and his food does not fail *. 

4. Gdrgya said: ‘ The person that is in the light¬ 
ning (and in the heart), that I adore as Brahman.’ 
A^dtasatru said to him: ‘ No, no! Do not speak to 
me on this. I adore him verily as the luminous/ 
Whoso adores him thus, becomes luminous, and his 
offspring becomes luminous. 

5. Gdrgya said: ‘The person that is in the ether 
(and in the ether of the heart), that I adore as Brah¬ 
man.’ A^tasatru said to him: ‘No, no! Do not 
speak to me on this. I adore him as what is full, 
and quiescent.’ Whoso adores him thus, becomes 
filled with offspring and cattle, and his offspring does 
not cease from this world. 

6. Gdrgya said : ‘ The person that is in the wind 
(and in the breath), that I adore as Brahman.’ A^d- 
tasatru said to him : ‘ No, no! Do not speak to me 
on this. I adore him as Indra Vaiku«//fca, as the 
unconquerable army (of the Maruts).’ Whoso adores 
him thus, becomes victorious, unconquerable, con¬ 
quering his enemies. 

1 We miss the annasyatma, the Self of food, mentioned in the 
Kaush. Up., and evidently referred to in the last sentence of our 
paragraph. Suta and prasuta, poured put and poured forth, are 
explained as referring to the principal and the secondary sacrifices. 




102 


BJtfHADARAiVYAKA-UPANISHAD. 


7. G&rgya said: ‘ The person that is in the fire (and 
in the heart), that I adore as Brahman/ A^&tasatru 
said to him: ‘No, no! Do not speak to me on this. I 
adore him as powerful/ Whoso adores him thus, be¬ 
comes powerful, and his offspring becomes powerful. 

8. Gdrgya said: ‘ The person that is in the water 
(in seed, and in the heart), that I adore as Brahman/ 
A^tasatru said to him: ‘No, no! Do not speak 
to me on this. I adore him as likeness.’ Whoso 
adores him thus, to him comes what is likely (or 
proper), not what is improper; what is born from 
him, is like unto him 1 . 

9. G&rgya said: ‘ The person that is in the 
mirror, that I adore as Brahman/ A^dta^atru said 
to him: ‘No, no! Do not speak to me on this. 
I adore him verily as the brilliant.’ Whoso adores 
him thus, he becomes brilliant, his offspring becomes 
brilliant, and with whomsoever he comes together, 
he outshines them. 

10. Gargya said : ‘ The sound that follows a man 
while he moves, that I adore as Brahman.’ Af&ta- 
jatru said to him : ‘ No, no! Do not speak to me 
on this. I adore him verily as life/ Whoso adores 
him, thus, he reaches his full age in this world, breath 
does not leave him before the time. 

11. Gdrgya said: ‘The person that is in space, 
that I adore as Brahman/ A^ita-ratru said to him : 
‘No, no! Do not speak to me on this. I adore 
him verily as the second who never leaves us/ 

1 Here the Kaush. Up. has the Self of the name, instead of 
pratirdpa, likeness. The commentator thinks that they both mean 
the same thing, because a name is the likeness of a thing. Another 
text of the Kaush. Up. gives here the Self of light. Pratirflpa in 
the sense of likeness comes in later in the Kaush. Up., §11. 




II ADIIyAyA, I BRAHMAAA., 15. 103 

Whoso adores him thus, becomes possessed of a 
second, his party is not cut off from him. 

12. G&rgya said: ‘The person that consists of the 
shadow, that I adore as Brahman.’ A^&taratru said 
to him: ‘No, no! Do not speak to me on this. 
I adore him verily as death.’ Whoso adores him 
thus, he reaches his whole age in this world, death 
does not approach him before the time. 

13. G£rgya said: ‘The person that is in the body 1 , 
that I adore as Brahman.’ A^ata.?atru said to him : 
‘No, no! Do not speak to me on this. I adore him 
verily as embodied.’ Whoso adores him thus,becomes 
embodied, and his offspring becomes embodied 2 . 

Then G&rgya became silent. 

14. A^tasatru said : ‘Thus far only?’ ‘Thusfar 
only,’ he replied. A^ata^atru said : ‘ This does not 
suffice to know it (the true Brahman).’ G&rgya 
replied : ‘ Then let me come to you, as a pupil.’ 

15. A^dtasatru said: ‘Verily, it is unnatural that 
a Br&hmawa should come to a Kshatriya, hoping 
that he should tell him the Brahman. However, I 
shall make you know him clearly,’ thus saying he 
took him by the hand and rose. 

And the two together came to a person who was 
asleep. He called him by these names, ‘Thou, 
great one, clad in white raiment. Soma, King 3 .’ He 

1 1 In the Atman, in Pra^apati, in the Buddhi, and in the heart.’ 
Comm. 

2 It is difficult to know what is meant here by Stman and atman- 
vin. In the Kaush. Up. A^itasatru refers to Pra^apati, and the 
commentator here does the same, adding, however, buddhi and 
hn'd. Gough translates atmanvin by ‘having peace of mind.’ 
Deussen, p. 195, passes it over! 

* These names are given here as they occur in the Kaushitaki- 
upanishad, not as in the Brfhad&rawyaka-upanishad, where the 



104 BRrHADARAAYAKA-UPANISHAD. 

did not rise. Then rubbing him witli his hand, he 
woke him, and he arose. 

16. A^&tajatru said: ‘When this man was thus 
asleep, where was then the person (purusha), the in¬ 
telligent ? and from whence did he thus come back?’ 
G&rgya did not know this ? 

17. A^ltaxatru said: ‘When this man was thus 
asleep, then the intelligent person (purusha), having 
through the intelligence of the senses (prftwas) ab¬ 
sorbed within himself all intelligence, lies in the 
ether, which is in the heart l . When he takes in 
these different kinds of intelligence, then it is said 
that the man sleeps (svapiti) 2 . Then the breath 
is kept in, speech is kept in, the ear is kept in, the 
eye is kept in, the mind is kept in. 

18. But when he moves about in sleep (and 
dream), then these are his worlds. Me is, as it were, 
a great king; he is, as it were, a great Br&hmazza; he 
rises, as it were, and he falls. And as a great king 
might keep in his own subjects, and move about, 
according to his pleasure, within his own domain, 
thus does that person (who is endowed with intel¬ 
ligence) keep in the various senses (pr£L»as) and move 
about, according to his pleasure, within his own body 
(while dreaming). 

19. Next, when he is in profound sleep, and knows 

first name was atisli tMA sarvesMm bhftt&nam mfirdhS, ra gL This 
•throws an important light on the composition of the Upanishads. 

1 The ether in the heart is meant for the real Self. He has 
come to himself, to his Self, i.e. to the true Brahman. 

* 2 Svapiti, he sleeps, is explained as sva, his own Self, and 
apiti for apyeti, he goes towards, so that 'he sleeps' must be 
interpreted as meaning ‘ he comes to his Self.’ In another passage 
it is explained by svam apito bhavati. See Sankara's Commentary 
on the B/vh. Ar. Up. vol. i, p. 372. 



II ADHYAYA, 2 BRAHMANA, 2 . 105 

nothing, there are the seventy-two thousand arteries 
called Hita, which from the heart spread through 
the body 1 . Through them he moves forth and rests 
in the surrounding body. And as a young man, or a 
great king, or a great Brahma^a, having reached the 
summit of happiness, might rest, so does he then rest. 

20. As the spider comes out with its thread, or as 
small sparks come forth from fire, thus do all senses, 
all worlds, all Devas, all beings come forth from that 
Self. The Upanishad (the true name and doctrine) 
of that Self is ‘the True of the True.’ Verily the 
senses are the true, and he is the true of the true. 

Second BrAhmawa 2 . 

1. Verily he who knows the babe 3 with his place 4 , 
his chamber n , his post 6 , and his rope 7 , he keeps off 
the seven relatives 8 who hate him. Verily by the 
young is meant the inner life, by his place this 
(body) 9 , by his chamber this (head), by his post the 
vital breath, by his rope the food. 

2. Then the seven imperishable ones 10 approach 
him. There are the red lines in the eye, and by 
them Rudra clings to him. There is the water 

1 ' Not the pericardium only, but the whole body.’ Comm. 

2 Madhyandina text, p. 1061. 

* The lingatman, or subtle body which has entered this body in 
five ways. Comm. 

4 The body. D The head. 6 The vital breath. 

7 Food, which binds the subtle to the coarse body. 

8 ' The seven organs of the head through which man perceives 
and becomes attached to the world. 

9 The commentator remarks that while saying this, the body 
and the head are pointed out by touching them with the harfd 
(p&mpeshapratibodhanena). . 

10 See before, I, 5, 1, 2. They are called imperishable, because 
they produce imperishableness by supplying food for the pr&na, 
here called the babe. 





106 BR/HADARAiVYAKA-UPANISIIAD. 


in the eye, and by it Par^anya clings to him. There 
is the pupil, and by it Aditya (sun) clings to him. 
There is the dark iris, and by it Agni clings to him. 
There is the white eye-ball, and by it Indra clings to 
him. With the lower eye-lash the earth, with the 
upper eye-lash the heaven clings to him. He who 
knows this, his food does never perish. 

3. On this there is this Gloka: 

‘ There 1 is a cup having its mouth below and its 
bottom above. Manifold glory has been placed into 
it. On its lip sit the seven i?/shis, the tongue as 
the eighth communicates with Brahman.’ What is 
called the cup having its mouth below and its bottom 
above is this head, for its mouth (the mouth) is 
below, its bottom (the skull) is above. When it is 
said that manifold glory has been placed into it, 
the senses verily are manifold glory, and he there¬ 
fore means the senses. When he says that the 
seven /?/shis sit on its lip, the AVshis are verily the 
(active) senses, and he means the senses. And 
when he says that the tongue as the eighth com¬ 
municates with Brahman, it is because the tongue, 
as the eighth, does communicate with Brahman. 

4. These two (the two ears) are the /v’eshis Gau¬ 
tama and Bharadva^a; the right Gautama, the left 
BharadvAfa. These two (the eyes) are the /?/shis 
VLyvamitra and Gamadagni; the right Vi^vamitra, 
the left Gamadagni. These two (the nostrils) are 
the Alfshis Vasish/Aa and Kasyapa; the right Va- 
sish/^a, the left Kasyapa. The tongue is Atri, for 
with the tongue food is eaten, and Atri is meant for 
Atti, eating. He who knows this, becomes an eater 
of everything, and everything becomes his food. 


1 Cf. Atharva-veda-sawh. X, 8, 9. 



II ADIIYAYA, 3 BRAhMAJVA, 6. 107 


Third Braiimaa-a 1 . 

1. There are two forms of Brahman, the material 
and the immaterial, the mortal and the immortal, the 
solid and the fluid, sat (being) and tya (that), (i.e. 
sat-tya, true) 2 . 

2. Everything except air and sky is material, is 
mortal, is solid, is definite. The essence of that 
which is material, which is mortal, which is solid, 
which is definite is the sun that shines, for he is the 
essence of sat (the definite). 

3. But air and sky are immaterial, are immortal, 
are fluid, are indefinite. The essence of that which 
is immaterial, which is immortal, which is fluid, which 
is indefinite is the person in the disk of the sun, for 
he is the essence of tyad (the indefinite). So far with 
regard to the Devas. 

4. Now with regard to the body. Everything 
except the breath and the ether within the body is 
material, is mortal, is solid, is definite. The essence 
of that which is material, which is mortal, which is 
solid, which is definite is the Eye, for it is the essence 
of sat (the definite). 

5. But breath and the ether within the body are 
immaterial, are immortal, are fluid, are indefinite. 
The essence of that which is immaterial, which is 
immortal, which is fluid, which is indefinite is the 
person in the right eye, for he is the essence of tyad 
(the indefinite). 

6. And what is the appearance of that person ? 
Like a saffron-coloured raiment, like white wool, 

1 Madhyandina text, p. 1062. 

a Sat is explained by definite, tya or tyad by indefinite. 



io8 


BiHHADARAAYAKA-UPANISHAD. 


like cochineal, like the flame of fire, like' the white 
lotus, like sudden lightning. He who knows this, 
his glory is like unto sudden lightning. 

Next follows the teaching (of Brahman) by No, 
no 1 ! for there is nothing else higher than this (if 
one says): ‘It is not so.' Then comes the naime 
‘the True of the True,’ the senses being the True, 
and he (the Brahman) the True of them. 

Fourth Braiimawa 2 . 

1. Now when Yd^avalkya was going to enter 
upon another state, he said: ‘ Maitreyi 3 , verily I am 
going away from this my house (into the forest 4 5 ). 
Forsooth, let me make a settlement between thee 
and that K&ty&yani (my other wife).’ 

2. Maitreyi said: ‘ My Lord, if this whole earth, 
full of wealth, belonged to me, tell me, should I be 
immortal by it s ?’ 

1 See III, 9, 26; IV, 2, 4; IV, 4, 22 ; IV, 5,15. 

2 Madhyandina text, p. 1062, To the end of the third Brahma^a 
of the second Adhyaya, all that has been taught does not yet impart 
the highest knowledge, the identity of :he personal and the true Self, 
the Brahman. In the fourth Br&hmawa, in which the knowledge 
of the true Brahman is to be set forth, the SazwnySsa, the retiring 
from the world, is enjoined, when all desires cease, and no duties 
are to be performed (Sawnyasa, parivrfl^ya). The story is told again 
with slight variations in the Brfhadarawyaka-upanishad IV, 5. The 
more important variations, occurring in IV, 5, are added here, marked 
with B. There are besides the various readings of the Madhyandiiia- 
j&khd of the Satapatha-brahmaaa. See also Deussen,Vedanta,p.185. 

8 In Br/h. Up. IV, 5, the story begins: Ya^i/avalkya had two wives, 
Maitreyi and Katyayani. Of these Maitreyi was conversant with 
Brahman, but Katyayani possessed such knowledge only as women 
possess. 

4 Instead of udySsyan, B. gives pravra^ishyan, the more 
technical term. 

5 Should I be immortal by it, or no ? B. 




ii adhyAya, 4 brAhma^a, 5. 109 

■ • _ - * --- 

Y%%avalkya; ‘like the life of rich 
people ~wil!h be thy* life. But there is no hope of 
immortality by wealth.’ ■ 

3. And Maifreyt said: ‘What should I do with 
that by which I do not become immortal ? What my 
Lord knoweth (of immortality), tell that to me 1 .’ 

4] Yd^wavalkya replied: ‘ Thou who art truly dear 
to me, thou speakest dear words 2 . Come, sit down, 
I will explain it to thee, and mark well what I say.’ 

5. And he said :‘Verily, a husband is not dear, that 
you may love the husband; but that you may love 
the Self, therefore a husband is dear. 

‘Verily, a wife is not dear, that you may love the 
wife; but that you may love the Self, therefore a 
wife is dear. 

‘ Verily, sons are not dear, that you may love 
the sons; but that you may love the Self, therefore 
sons are dear. 

‘Verily, wealth is not dear, that you may love 
wealth; but that you may love the Self, therefore 
wealth is dear 3 . 

‘ Verily, the Brahman-class is not dear, that you 
may love the Brahman-class; but that you may love 
the Self, therefore the Brahman-class is dear. 

‘Verily, the Kshatra-class is not dear, that you 
■may love the Kshatra-class; but that you may love 
the Self, therefore the Kshatra-class is dear. 

* Verily, the worlds are not dear, that you may 
love the worlds; but that you may love the Self, 
therefore the worlds are dear. 

1 Tell that clearly to me. B. 

4 Thou wfco art dear to me, thou hast increased what is dear (to 
me in this). B. 

* B. adds, Verily, cattle are not dear, &c. 



i io ba/hadArajvyaka-vpanishad. 

‘ Verily, the Devas are not dear, that you may 
love the Devas; but that you may love the Self, 
therefore the Devas are dear 1 . 

‘Verily, creatures are not dear, that you may love 
the creatures; but that you may love the Self, there¬ 
fore are creatures dear. 

‘ Verily, everything is not dear that you may love 
everything; but that you may love the Self, there¬ 
fore everything is dear. 

‘Verily, the Self is to be seen, to be heard, to 
be perceived, to be marked, O Maitreyt! When 
we see, hear, perceive, and know the Self 2 , then 
all this is known. 

6. ‘Whosoever looks for the Brahman-class else¬ 
where than in the Self, was 3 abandoned by the 
Brahman-class. Whosoever looks for the Kshatra- 
class elsewhere than in the Self, was abandoned by 
the Kshatra-class. Whosoever looks for the worlds 
elsewhere than in the Self, was abandoned by the 
worlds. Whosoever looks for the Devas elsewhere 
than in the Self, was abandoned by the Devas 4 . 
Whosoever looks for creatures elsewhere than in the 
Self, was abandoned by the creatures. Whosoever 
looks for anything elsewhere than in the Self, was 
abandoned by everything. This Brahman-class, this 
Kshatra-class, these worlds, these Devas 5 , these® 
creatures, this everything, all is that Self. 

7. ‘ Now as 7 the sounds of a drum, when beaten, 


1 B. inserts, Verily, the Vedas are not dear, &c. 

8 When the Self has been seen, heard, perceived, and known. B. 

* The commentator translates, ‘ should be abandoned.' 

* B. inserts, Whosoever looks for the Vedas, &c. * 

6 B. adds, these Vedas. # B. has, all these creatures. 

7 I construe sa yatha with evam vai in §12, looking upon 





ii adhyAya, 4 brAhmaiva, 12. 


hi 


cannot be seized externally (by themselves), but the 
sound is seized, when the drum is seized or the beater 
of the drum ; 

8. ‘And as the sounds of a conch-shell, when 
blown, cannot be seized externally (by themselves), 
but the sound is seized, when the shell is seized or 
the blower of the shell ; 

9. ‘ And as the sounds of a lute, when played, 
cannot be seized externally (by themselves), but the 
sound is seized, when the lute is seized or the 
player of the lute; 

10. ‘As clouds of smoke proceed by themselves 
out of a lighted fire kindled with damp fuel, thus, 
verily, O Maitreyl, has been breathed forth from 
this great Being what we have as 7 ??g-veda, Ya^ur- 
veda, Sama-veda, Atharvdngirasas, Itihdsa (legends), 
Purina (cosmogonies), Vidyd (knowledge), the Upa- 
nishads, .Slokas (verses), Sfitras (prose rules), Anu- 
vydkhyanas (glosses), Vyakhyanas (commentaries) 1 . 
From him alone all these were breathed forth. 

11. ‘As all waters find their centre in the sea, 
all touches in the skin, all tastes in the tongue, all 
smells in the nose, all colours in the eye, all sounds 
in the ear, all percepts in the mind, all knowledge in 
the heart, all actions in the hands, all movements in 
the feet, and all the Vedas in speech,— 

. 12. ‘ As a l^mp of salt 2 , when thrown into water, 
becomes dissolved into water, and could not be taken 


§ 11 as probably a later insertion. The sa is not the pronoun, but 
a particle, as in sa yadi, sa £et, &c. 

1 B. adds, what is sacrificed, what is poured out, food, drink, this 
world and the other world, and all creatures. 

2 See Au$and.Up.VI, 13. 




112 


bkjhadArawyaka-upanishad. 


out again, but wherever we taste (the water) it is 
salt,—thus verily, O Maitreyi, does this great Being, 
endless, unlimited, consisting of nothing but know¬ 
ledge 1 , rise from out these elements, and vanish again 
in them. When he has departed, there is no more 
knowledge (name), I say, O Maitreyi.’ Thus spoke 
Y&£%avalkya. 

13. Then Maitreyi said: ‘ Here thou hast be¬ 
wildered me, Sir, when thou sayest that having 
departed, there is no more knowledge 2 .’ 

But Y a^wavalkya replied: ‘O Maitreyi, I say nothing 
that is bewildering. This is enough, O beloved, for 
wisdom 3 . 

‘ For when there is as it were duality, then one 
sees‘the other, one smells the other, one hears the 
other 4 , one salutes the other 5 , one perceives the 
other 6 , one knows the other; but when the Self only 
is all this, how should he smell another 7 , how should 
he see 8 another®, how should he heajf 10 another, how 
should he salute 11 another, how should he perceive 
another 12 , how should he know another ? How 
should he know Him by whom he knows all this ? 


1 As a mass of salt has neither inside nor outside, but is altogether 
a mass of taste, thus indeed has that Self neither inside nor outside, 
but is altogether a mass of knowledge. B. 

2 ‘ Here, Sir, thou hast landed me in utter bewilderment. Indeed, 

I do not understand him.' B. * 

* Verily, beloved, that Self is imperi§hable, and of an inde¬ 
structible nature. B. 

* B. inserts, one tastes the other. 

8 B. inserts, one hears the other. 

6 B. inserts, one touches the other. 7 See, B. 

8 Smell, B. • 9 B. inserts taste. 

10 Salute, B. 11 Hear, B. 

18 B. inserts, how should he touch another ? 



ii adhyAya, 5 brAhma^a, 2. 11; 

How, O beloved, should he know (himself), the 
Knower 1 ?’ 

Fifth Brahma^a 2 . 

1. This earth is the honey 3 (madhu, the effect) of 
all beings, and all beings are the honey (madhu, the 
effect) of this earth. Likewise this bright, immortal 
person in this earth, and that bright immortal person 
incorporated in the body (both are madhu). He 
indeed is the same as that Self, that Immortal, that 
Brahman, that All. 

2. This water is the honey of all beings, and all 
beings are the honey of this water. Likewise this 
bright, immortal person in this water, and that 
bright, immortal person, existing as seed in the body 
(both are madhu). He indeed is the same as that 
Self, that Immortal, that Brahman, that All. 

1 Instead of the last line, B. adds (IV, 5, 15): * That Self is to 
be described by No, no! He is incomprehensible, for he cannot 
be comprehended; he is imperishable, for he cannot perish; he is 
unattached, for he does not attach himself; unfettered, he does 
not suffer, he does not fail. How, O beloved, should he know the 
Knower? Thus, O Maitreyi, thou hast been instructed. Thus 
far goes immortality/ Having said so, Ya^Tavalkya went away 
(into the forest). 15. See also A 7 *Snd. Up. VII, 24,1. 

2 Madhyandina text, p. 1064. 

8 Madhu, honey, seems to be taken here as an instance of some¬ 
thing which is both cause and effect, or rather of things which are 
mutually dependent on each other, or cannot exist without one 
other. As the bees make the honey, and the honey makes or 
supports the bees, bees and honey are both cause and effect, 
or at all events are mutually dependent on one other. In the same 
way the earth and all living beings are looked upon as mutually 
dependent, living beings presupposing the earth, and the earth 
presupposing living beings. This at all events seems to be the 
general idea of what is called the MadhuvidyS, the science of honey, 
which Dadhya£ communicated to the Alvins. 

[' 5 ] 1 



BWHADARAWTAKA-UPANISHAD. 


3. This fire is the honey of all beings, and all 
beings are the honey of this fire. Likewise this 
bright, immortal person in this fire, and that bright, 
immortal person, existing as speech in the body (both 
are madhu). He indeed is the same as that Self, 
that Immortal, that Brahman, that All. 

4. This air is the honey of all beings, and all 
beings are the honey of this air. Likewise this 
bright, immortal person in this air, and that bright, 
immortal person existing as breath in the body (both 
are madhu). He indeed is the same as that Self, 
that Immortal, that Brahman, that All. 

5. This sun is the honey of all beings, and all 
beings are the honey of this sun. Likewise this 
bright, immortal person in this sun, and that bright, 
immortal person existing as the eye in the body 
(both are madhu). He indeed is the same as that 
Self, that Immortal, that Brahman, that All. 

6. This space (disa/i, the quarters) is the honey of 
all beings, and all beings are the honey of this 
space. Likewise this bright, immortal person in this 
space, and that bright, immortal person existing as 
the ear in the body (both are madhu). He indeed 
is the same as that Self, that Immortal, that Brah¬ 
man, that All. 

7. This moon is the honey of all beings, and all 
beings are the honey of this moon. Likewise this 
bright, immortal person in this, moon, and that bright, 
immortal person existing as mind in the body (both 
are madhu). He indeed is the same as that Self, 
that Immortal, that Brahman, that All. 

8. This lightning is the honey of all beings, and 
all beings are the honey of this lightning. Likewise 
this bright, immortal person in this lightning, and 



II ADHYAYA, 5 BRAHMA#A, 13. II5 


that bright, immortal person existing as light in the 
body (both are madhu). He indeed is the same as 
that Self, that Immortal, that Brahman, that All. 

9. This thunder 1 is the honey of all beings, and all 
beings are the honey of this thunder. Likewise this 
bright, immortal person in this thunder, and that 
bright, immortal person existing as sound and voice 
in the body (both are madhu). He indeed is the 
same as that Self, that Immortal, that Brahman, 
that All. 

10. This ether is the honey of all beings, and all 
beings are the honey of this ether. Likewise this 
bright, immortal person in this ether, and that bright, 
immortal person existing as heart-ether in the body 
(both are madhu). He indeed is the same as that 
Self, that Immortal, that Brahman, that All. 

11. This law (dharma^) is the honey of all beings, 
and all beings are the honey of this law. Likewise 
this bright, jmmortal person in this law, and that 
bright, immortal person existing as law in the body 
(both are madhu). He indeed is the same as that 
Self, that Immortal, that Brahman, that All. 

12. This true 2 (satyam) is the honey of all beings, 
and all beings are the honey of this true. Likewise 
this bright, immortal person in what is true, and that 
bright, immortal person existing as the true in the 
body (both are madhu). He indeed is the same as 
that Self, that Immortal, that Brahman, that All. 

13. This mankind is the honey of all beings, and 
all beings are the honey of this mankind. Likewise 

1 Stanayitnu, thunder, is explained by the commentator as 
Paiganya. 

* Satyam, the true, the real, not, as it is generally translated, the 
truth. 


I 2- 





br/iiadAra^yaka-upanishad. 


116 


this bright, immortal person in mankind, and that 
bright, immortal person existing as man in the body 
(both are madhu). He indeed is the same as that 
Self, that Immortal, that Brahman, that All. 

14. This Self is the honey of all beings, and all 
beings are the honey of this Self. Likewise this 
bright, immortal person in this Self, and that bright, 
immortal person, the Self (both are madhu). He 
indeed is the same as that Self, that Immortal, that 
Brahman, that All. 

15. And verily this Self is the lord of all beings, 
the king of all beings. And as all spokes are con¬ 
tained in the axle and in the felly of a wheel, all 
beings, and all those seifs (of the earth, water, &c.) 
are contained in that Self. 

16. Verily Dadhya^ Atharvawa proclaimed this 
honey (the madhu-vidyA) to the two Alvins, and a 
i?fshi, seeing this, said (Rv. 1 ,116,12): 

* O ye two heroes (Alvins), I make manifest that 
fearful deed of yours (which you performed) for the 
sake of gain 1 , like as thunder 2 makes manifest the 
rain. The honey (madhu-vidyA) which Dadhya^ 
Atharvawa proclaimed to you through the head of 
a horse/ . . , 

17. Verily DadhyaA’ Atharva«a 3 proclaimed this 
honey to the two Alvins, and a J&shi, seeing this, 
said (Rv. 1 ,117, 22): 

‘O Alvins, you fixed a horse’s head on Atharva#a 
Dadhya^, and he, wishing to be true (to his promise), 


1 The translation here follows the commentary. 

* Tanyatu, here explained as Par^anya. 
s .Sankara distinguishes here between Atharva«a and Atharvasa, 
if the text is correct 




II ADHyAyA, 5 BRAHMAiVA, 10 . 117 

proclaimed to you the honey, both that of Tvash/rz' 1 
and that which is to be your secret, O ye strong 
ones.’ 

18. Verily Dadhya£ Atharvawa proclaimed this 
honey to the two Alvins, and a AYshi, seeing this, 
said: 

‘ He (the Lord) made bodies with two feet, he 
made bodies with four feet. Having first become 
a bird, he entered the bodies as purusha (as the 
person).’ This very purusha is in all bodies the puri- 
•saya, i.e. he who lies in the body (and is therefore 
called purusha). There is nothing that is not 
covered by him, nothing that is not filled by him. 

19. Verily Dadhya^ Atharvazm proclaimed this 
honey to the two A-svins, and a AYshi, seeing this, 
said (Rv. VI, 47,18): 

‘ He (the Lord) became like unto every form 2 , and 
this is meant to reveal the (true) form of him (the 
Atman). Indra (the Lord) appears multiform through 
the Mcly&s (appearances), for his horses (senses) are 
yoked, hundreds and ten.’ 

This (Atman) is the horses, this (Atman) is the 
ten, and the thousands, many and endless. This is 
the Brahman, without cause and without effect, with¬ 
out anything inside or outside ; this Self is Brahman, 
omnipresent and omniscient. This is the teaching 
(of the Upanishads). 


1 .Sankara explains Tvash/>Yas the sun, and the sun as the head 
of the sacrifice which, having been cut off, was to be replaced by 
the pravargya rite. The knowledge of this rite forms the honey 
of Tvash/rf. The other honey which is to be kept secret is the 
knowledge of the Self, as taught before in the Madhu-brahmawa. 

* He assumed all forms, and such forms, as two-footed or four- 
footed animals, remained permanent. Comm. 




ii8 


BR/IIADARAJVYAKA-UPANISHAD. 


Sixth BrAhmaata. 

. Now follows the stem 1 : 

1. PautimAshya from Gaupavana, 

2. Gaupavana from PautimAshya, 

3. PautimAshya from Gaupavana, 

4. Gaupavana from Kaudka, 

5. Kaudka from Kau^tdnya, 

6. KauWinya from -SAflafilya, 

7. S&ndMya. from Kaudka and Gautama, 

8. Gautama 

. from Agnivesya, 

9. Agnivesya from S&nd \lya and AnabhimlAta, 

10. Sa.nd\\ya. and AnabhimlAta from AnabhimlAta, 

11. AnabhimlAta from AnabhimlAta, 

12. AnabhimlAta from Gautama, 

13. Gautama from Saitava and Praiinayogya, 

14. Saitava and PrAiinayogya from PArasarya, 

15. Paranarya from BhAradvA^a, 

16. BhAradvA^a from BhAradvA^a and Gautama, 

17. Gautama from BhAradvA^a, 

1 The line of teachers and pupils by whom the Madhuka«<fa 
(the fourth Brahmawa) was handed down. The Madhyandina-rakha 
begins with ourselves, then 1. -S’aurpa«ayya, 2. Gautama, 3. Vatsya, 
4. Vatsya and Paribarya, 5. SAnkn'tya and Bharadva^a, 6. Auda- 
vahi and AA«(/ilya, 7. Vai^avapa and Gautama, 8. VaigavapAyana 
and Vaish/apureya, 9. -SawAlya and RauhiwAyana, 10. .Saunaka, 
Atreya, and Raibhya, 11. PautimAshyAyawa and Kauwr/inyAyana, 
12. Kauw/inya, 13. Kauwrfinya, 14. KauWinya and Agnivefya, 
15. Saitava, 16. PArAjarya, 17. GAtukarwya, 18. Bharadvaga, 19. BhA- 
radvaga, AsurAyawa, and Gautama, 20. Bharadvaga, 21. Vaigavapa- 
yana. Then the same as the Ka«vas to Catukar«ya, who learns 
from BhAradvaga, who learns from Bharadvaga, Asurayawa, and 
Yaska. Then Traivawi &c. as in the KA«va-vaw.ra. 



II ADHYAYA, 6 BRAHMANA, 3. II9 

18. Bhdradvd^a from Pdrd.yarya, 

19. P&r&rarya from Vai^a vdpdyana, 

20. Vai^avdpdyana from Kausikdyani, 

21 1 . Kau.rikdyani 

3. from Ghrftakau^ika, 

22. Ghmakaarika from Pdrdjarydyawa, 

23. Pardsarydyawa from Pdrd.yarya, 

24. Pdrdsarya from Cdttikaraya 2 , 

25. Cdttikarwya from Asurayawa and Ydska 3 , 

26. Asurdyawa and Ydska from Traivam, 

27. Traivawi from Aupa^andhani, 

28. Aupa^andhani from Asuri, 

29. Asuri from Bharadvd^a, 

30. Bharadva^a from Atreya, 

31. Atreya from Md^/i, 

32. Md«/i from Gautama, 

33. Gautama from Gautama, 

34. Gautama from Vdtsya, 

35. Vdtsya from SixndWya., 

36. .Sdwr/ilya from Kaijorya Kdpya, 

37. KaBorya Kdpya from Kumaraharita, 

38. Kumdraharita from Galava, 

39. Gdlava from Vidarbhi-kau«</inya, 

40. Vidarbhl - kau/wftnya from Vatsanapdt Ba- 

bhrava, 

41. Vatsanapdt Babhrava from Pathi Saubhara, 

42. Pathi Saubhara from Aydsya Angirasa, 

43. Aydsya Angirasa from Abhdti Tvdsh/ra, 

44. Abhtiti Tvdsh/ra from Vuvarfipa T vdsh/ra, 

45. ‘ VBvardpa Tvdsh/ra from A^vinau, 

1 From here the Vamsa. agrees with the Vamsa at the end of 

IV, 6 . 

3 Bharadv^a, in Madhyandina text. 

3 EMradva^a, Asuraya«a, and Yaska, in Madhyandina text. 




120 


BR/IIADARAiVYAKA-UPANISIIAD. 


46. A^vinau from Dadhya/6 Atharvawa, 

47. Dadhya^ Atharvawa from Atharvan Daiva, 

48. Atharvan Daiva from MWtyu Pradhvaiwsana, 

49. Mr/tyu PrSdhva»zsana from Pradhvawsana, 

50. Pradhvawsana from Ekarshi, 

51. Ekarshi from Vipra/’itti 

52. VipraX’itti from Vyash/i, 

53. Vyash/i from SanS.ru, 

54. Sanaru from Sanatana, 

55. Sanatana from Sanaga, 

56. Sanaga from ParameshMin, 

57. Paramesh//dn from Brahman, 

58. Brahman is Svayambhu, self-existent. 
Adoration to Brahman 2 . 


1 Vipra^itti, in Madhyandina text. 

3 Similar genealogies are found B/Vh. Ar. Up. IV, 6, and VI, 5. 



hi adhyAya, i brAhmawa, 2 . 


121 


THIRD ADHYAYA. 

First BrAiimaaa. 1 . 

Adoration to the Highest Self (Paramatman )1 

1. Canaka Vaideha (the king of the Videhas) sacri¬ 
ficed with a sacrifice at which many presents were 
offered to the priests of (the A j'vamedha). Brahmawas 
of the Kurus and the Pa«/£alas had come thither, 
and kanaka Vaidcha wished to know, which of those 
Brahmawas was the best read. So he enclosed a 
thousand cows, and ten pddas (of gold ) 2 * were fastened 
to each pair of horns. 

2. And kanaka spoke to them : ‘Ye venerable 
Brahmawas, he who among you is the wisest, let 
him drive away these cows.’ 

Then those Brahmawas durst not, but Y&jvEavalkya 
said to his pupil: ‘ Drive them away, my dear.’ 

He replied : ‘ O glory of the Saman V and drove 
them away. 

The Brahma^as became angry and said : 4 How 
could he call himself the wisest among us ?’ 

Now there was A^vala, the Hot ri priest of kanaka 
Vaideha. He asked him: ‘Are you indeed the 


1 Mddhyandina text, p. 1067. 

* Pala&iturbhaga^ pada/i suvar«asya. Comm. 

* One expects iti after udaga, but Sdmarravas is applied to 
Ylgnavalkya, and not to the pupil. Y%»avalkya, as the com¬ 
mentator observes, was properly a teacher of the Ya^ur-veda, but 
as the pupil calls him Sdmarravas, he shows that Ya^?'<avalkya 
knew all the four Vedas, because the Samans are taken .from the 
Rig-veda, and the Atharva-veda is contained in the other three 
Vedas. * Regnaud, however, refers it to the pupil, and translates, 

4 6 toi qui apprends le S&ma-veda.’ 


122 


B/ 2 /HADARAjYYAKA-UPANISHAD. 


wisest among us, O Yd^wavalkya ?’ He replied: * I 
bow before the wisest (the best knower of Brahman), 
but I wish indeed to have these cows.’ 

Then Axvala, the Hot ri priest, undertook to 
question him. 

3. ‘ Y^lavalkya,’ he said, ‘ everything here (con¬ 
nected with the sacrifice) is reached by death, every¬ 
thing is overcome by death. By what means then 
is the sacrificer freed beyond the reach of death ?’ 

Y^wavalkya said: ‘ By the Hot ri priest, who is 
Agni (fire), who is speech. For speech is the Hot ri 
of the sacrifice (or the sacrificer), and speech is 
Agni, and he is the Hotri. This constitutes free¬ 
dom, and perfect freedom (from death).' 

4. ‘ Ya^wavalkya,’ he said, ‘everything here is 
reached by day and night, everything is overcome by 
day and night. By what means then is the sacrificer 
freed beyond the reach of day and night ? ’ 

Yd^vZavalkya said: ‘ By the Adhvaryu priest, who 
is the eye, who is Aditya (the sun) 1 . For the eye is 
the Adhvaryu of the sacrifice, and the eye is the sun, 
and he is the Adhvaryu. This constitutes freedom, 
and perfect freedom.’ 

5. ‘Y&^wavalkya,’ he said, ‘everything here is 
reached by the waxing and waning of the moon, 
everything is overcome by the waxing and waning 
of the moon. By what means then is the sacrificer 
freed beyond the reach of the waxing and waning 
of the moon?’ 

Y&^avalkya said: ‘By the Udgat ri priest, who 
is Vayu (the wind), who is the breath. For the 


1 One expects adityena &ikshusha, instead of takshushildityena, 
but see § 6 . 





Ill ADFIYAyA, I BRAIIMAiVA, 8. 


123 


breath is the Udg&tW of the sacrifice, and the breath 
is the wind, and he is the UdgAtW. This constitutes 
freedom, and perfect freedom.’ 

6. ‘ YAf»avalkya,’ he said, ‘ this sky is, as it were, 
without an ascent (staircase.) By what approach 
does the sacrificer approach the Svarga world ? ’ 

Y&^wavalkya said: ‘ By the Brahman priest, who 
is the mind (manas), who is the moon. For the 
mind is the Brahman of the sacrifice, and the mind 
is the moon, and he is the Brahman. This consti¬ 
tutes freedom, and perfect freedom. These are the 
complete deliverances (from death).’ 

Next follow the achievements. 

7. ‘ YA^»avalkya,’ he said, ‘how many Rik verses 
will the Hotri priest employ to-day at this sacrifice?’ 

‘ Three,’ replied YA^wavalkya. 

‘ And what are these three?’ 

‘ Those which are called PuronuvfikyA, Y&fyA, and, 
thirdly, Yasyd V 

‘ What does he gain by them ?’ 

‘ All whatsoever has breath.’ 

8. ‘ Yd£? 2 avalkya,’ he said, ‘ how many oblations 
(ahuti) will the Adhvaryu priest employ to-day at 
this sacrifice?’ 

‘ Three,’ replied Ya^waval'kya. 

‘ And what are these three ? ’ 

‘Those which,when offered, flame up; those which, 
when offered, make an excessive noise; and those 
which, when offered, sink down V 

1 The Puronuvakyas are hymns employed before the actual 
sacrifice, the Y&gy&s accompany the sacrifice, the Sasyas are used 
for the .Slastra. AH three are called Stotriyas. 

4 These oblations are explained as consisting of wood and oil, 
of flesh, and of milk and Soma. The first, when thrown on the 




124 br/iiadArajvyaka-upanishad. 


"‘ What does he gain by them?’ 

* By those which, when offered, flame up, he gains 
the Deva (god) world, for the Deva world flames 
up, as it were. By those which, when offered, make 
an excessive noise, he gains the Pit ri (father) world, 
for the ¥\tri world is excessively (noisy) \ By those 
which, when offered, sink down, he gains the Manu- 
shya (man) world, for the Manushya world is, as it 
were, down below/ 

9. ‘ Y&fwavalkya/ he said, ‘with how many deities 
does the Brahman priest on the right protect to-day 
this sacrifice ? ’ 

‘ By one,’ replied Ya^vlavalkya. 

‘And which is it?’ 

‘ The mind alone; for the mind is endless, and the 
VLsvedevas are endless, and he thereby gains the 
endless world/ 

10. ‘YA<f«avalkya,’ he said, ‘how many Stotriya 
hymns will the Udg'Atr/ priest employ to-day at this 
sacrifice ? ’ 

‘Three/ replied Ya^wavalkya. 

‘ And what are these three ?’ 

‘ Those which are called PuronuvAkyA, Ya^ya, and, 
thirdly, Yasya/ 

‘ And what are these with regard to the body 
(adhyAtmam) ?’ 

‘ The Puronuvakya is Pra«a (up-breathing), the 
Y&gyk the ApAna (down-breathing), the YasyA the 
VyAna (back-breathing)/ 


fire, flame up. The second, when thrown on the fire, make a 
loud hissing noise. The third, consisting of milk, Soma, &c., sink 
down into the earth, 

1 On account of the cries of those who wish to be delivered out 
of it. Comm. 





Ill ADHYAYA, 2 BRAHMANA, 7. 


125 


‘What does he gain by them?’ 

‘ He gains the earth by the Puronuvdkyd, the sky 
by the Yd^ya, heaven by the .Sasyd.’ 

After that Ai'vala held his peace. 


Second BrAhmana 1 . 

1. Then Gdratkdrava Artabhdga 2 asked. ‘ Ydf«a- 
valkya,’ he said, ‘how many Grahas are there, and 
how many Atigrahas 3 ? ’ 

‘ Eight Grahas,’ he replied, ‘ and eight Atigrahas.’ 

‘And what are these eight Grahas and eight 
Atigrahas ? ’ 

2. ‘ Prd«a (breath) is one Graha, and that is seized 
by Apdna (down-breathing) as die Atigrdha 4 , for one 
smells with the Apdna.’ 

3. ‘ Speech (va^) is one Graha, and that is seized 
by name (ndman) as the Atigrdha, for with speech 
one pronounces names.’ 

4. ‘ The tongue is one Graha, and that is seized 
by taste as the Atigrdha, for with the tongue one 
perceives tastes.’ 

5. ‘The eye is one Graha, and that is seized by form 
as the Atigrdha, for with the eye one sees forms.’ 

6. ‘The ear is one Graha,and that is seized by sound 
as the Atigrdha, for with the ear one hears sounds.’ 

7. ‘ The mind is one Graha, and that is seized by 


1 Madhyandina text, p. 1069. 

1 A descendant of Afdabhaga of the family of Garatkaru. 

* Graha is probably meant originally in its usual sacrificial sense, 
as a vessel for offering oblations. But its secondary meaning, 
in which it is here taken, is a taker, a grasper, i. e. an organ of 
sense, while atigraha is intended for that which is grasped, i. e. an 
object of sense. 

4 Here the d is long, /Wandasatvdt. 





126 


BimiADARAtfYAKA-UPANISHAD. 


desire as the Atigr&ha, for with the mind one desires 
desires.’ 

8. ‘ The arms are one Graha, and these are seized 
by work as the Atigraha, for with the arms one 
works work.’ 

9. ‘ The skin is one Graha, and that is seized by 
touch as the Atigrdlia, for with the skin one per¬ 
ceives touch. These are the eight Grahas and the 
eight Atigrahas.’ 

10. ‘ Y&gvlavalkya,' he said, ‘ everything is the food 
of death. What then is the deity to whom death is 
food?’ 

‘ Fire (agni) is death, and that is the food of water. 
Death is conquered again.’ 

11. ‘ Ydfwavalkya,’ he said,‘when such a person 
(a sage) dies, do the vital breaths (pranas) move out 
of him or no?’ 

‘ No,’ replied Ya^vlavalkya; * they are gathered up 
in him, he swells, he is inflated, and thus inflated the 
dead lies at rest.’ 

12. ‘Yfi^vlavalkya,’ he said, ‘when such a man 
dies, what does not leave him ?’ 

‘ The name,’ he replied ; ‘ for the name is endless, 
the Visvedevas are endless, and by it he gains the 
endless world.’ 

13. ‘ Yd/wavalkya,’ he said,‘when the speech of 
this dead person enters into the fire 1 , breath into the 
air, the eye into the sun, the mind into the moon, 
the hearing into space, into the earth the body, into 
the ether the self, into the shrubs the hairs of the 

body, into the trees the hairs of the head, when the 

- r . - -- - 

1 The commentator explains purusha here by asamyagdarrin, 
one who does not know the whole truth. See also Deussen, 

. Veddnta, p. 405, and p. 399, note. 




Ill ADHYAYA, 3 BRAHMAIVA, 2. 


2 


blood and the seed are deposited in the water, where 
is then that person ?’ 

YA^wavalkya said: ‘Take my hand, my friend. 
We two alone shall know of this; let this question 
yof ours not be (discussed) in public.’ Then these 
two went out and argued, and what they said was 
karman (work), what they praised was karman 1 , 
viz. that a man becomes good by good work, and 
bad by bad work. After that GAratkArava Arta- 
bhAga held his peace. 

Third BrAhmaya 2 . 

1. Then Bhu^yu LAhyAyani asked. ‘ YA^zavalkya,’ 
he said, ‘we wandered about as students 3 , and came to 
the house of Pataw^ala KApya. He had a daughter 
who was possessed by a Gandharva. We asked 
him,'Who art thou?’ and he (the Gandharva) replied: 

‘ I am Sudhanvan, the Angirasa.’ And when we 
asked him about the ends of the world, we said to 
him, ‘ Where were the PArikshitas 4 ? Where then 
were the PArikshitas, I ask thee, YA^wavalkya, where 

r were the PArikshitas ?’ 

2. YA^wavalkya said: ‘ He said to thee, I suppose, 
that they went where those go who have performed 
a horse-sacrifice.’ 

He said: ‘And where do they go who have per¬ 
formed a horse-sacrifice ?’ 

1 What is intended is that the sawsara continues by means of 
karman, while karman by itself never leads to moksha. 

2 Madhyandina text, p. 1070. 

3 The commentator explains iaraka// as adhyayanarthaw vrata- 
karamik Baraka/;, adhvaryavo va.* See Professor R. G. Bhandarkar, 
in Indian Antiquary, 1883, p. 143. 

4 An old royal race, supposed to have vanished from the earth. 




128 


br/hadAraatyaka-upanishad. 


YA^wavalkya replied : ‘ Thirty-two journeys of the 
car of the sun is this world. The earth surrounds 
it on every side, twice as large, and the ocean 
surrounds this earth on every side, twice as large. 
Now there is between 1 them a space as large as the 
edge of a razor or the wing of a mosquito. Indra, 
having become a bird, handed them (through the 
space) to Vdyu (the air), and Vayu (the air), holding 
them within himself, conveyed them to where they 
dwell who have performed a horse-sacrifice. Some¬ 
what in this way did he praise VAyu indeed. There¬ 
fore VAyu (air) is everything by itself, and VAyu is 
all things together. He who knows this, conquers 
death.’ After that Bhu^yu LAhyayani held his 
peace. 


Fourth BrAiimana 2 . 

i. Then Ushasta A'Akrdyawa asked. * Ya^v/aval- 
kya,’ he said, ‘ tell me the Brahman which is visible, 
not invisible 3 , the Self (Atman), who is within all.’ 

YAfwavalkya replied: ‘This, thy Self, who is 
within all.’ 

‘Which Self, O Y A^wavalkya, is within all ?’ 

Yafwavalkya. replied: * He who breathes in the 
up-breathing, he is thy Self, and within all. He who 
breathes in the down-breathing, he is thy Self, and 
within all. He who breathes in the on-breathing, 
he is thy Self, and within all. He who breathes in 

1 The commentator explains that this small space or hole is 
between the two halves of the mundane egg. 

4 Madhyandina text, p. 1071. It follows after what is here 
the fifth Brahmawa, treating of Kaho</a Kaushitakeya. 

8 Deussen, Vedanta, p. 163, translates, ‘ das immanente, nicht 
transcendente Brahman,’ which is right, but too modem. 



129 


hi adiiyAya, 5 brAhmarta, I.* 

the out-breathing, he is thy Self, and within all. 
This is thy Self, who is within all.’ 

2. Ushasta AakrAyawa said: ‘As one might say, 
this is a cow, this is a horse, thus has this been 
explained by thee. Tell me the Brahman which is 
visible, not invisible, the Self, who is within all.’ 

Ya^avalkya replied: ‘This, thy Self, who is 
within all.’ 

‘Which Self, O YAfwavalkya, is within all ?’ 

YA^ttavalkya replied: ‘ Thou couldst not see the 
(true) seer of sight, thou couldst not hear the (true) 
hearer of hearing, nor perceive the perceiver of per¬ 
ception, nor know the knower of knowledge. This 
is thy Self, who is within all. Everything also is of/ 
evil.’ After that Ushasta AAkrAyawa held his peace. 

Fifth BrAhmava 1 . 

i. Then Kahola Kaushitakeya asked. ‘ Y Hpia,- 
valkya,’ he said, ‘tell me the Brahman which is visible, 
not invisible, the Self (Atman), who is within all.’ 

Yd^wavalkya replied: ‘This, thy Self, who is 
within all.’ 

‘Which Self, O YA^wavalkya, is within all ?’ 

YA^wavalkya replied: ‘ He who overcomes hunger 
,and thirst, sorrow, passion, old age, and death. 
When Br&hmawas know that Self, and have risen 
above the desire for sons 2 , wealth, and (new) worlds 3 , 
they wander about as mendicants. For a desire for 
sons is desire for wealth, a desire for wealth is desire 
for worlds. Both these are indeed desires. There¬ 
fore let a Brihma»a, after he has done with learning, 

1 M&dhyandina text,p. 1071, standing before the fourth Brahma«a. 

* See B rib. Ar. Up. IV, 4, 22. 

* Life in the world of the Fathers, or in the world of the Gods. 

[15] K. 





130 bh/hadAraayaka-upanishad. 

wish to stand by real strength 1 ; after he has done 
with that strength and learning, he becomes a Muni 
(a Yogin); and after he has done with what is not 
the knowledge of a Muni, and with what is the 
knowledge of a Muni, he is a Brfihmawa. By what¬ 
ever means he has become a Brfihma«a, he is such 
indeed 2 . Everything else is of evil/ After that 
Kahola Kaushltakeya held his peace. 

Sixth Braiimawa 3 . 

1. Then G&rgl Va/’aknavl asked. ‘ Ya^wavalkya,’ 
she said, ‘everything here is woven, like warp and 
woof, in water. What then is that in which water is 
woven, like warp and woof?’ 

‘ In air, O Gdrgi,’ he replied. 

4 In what then is air woven,like warp and woof?' 

4 In the worlds of the sky, O G&rgi,’ he replied. 

4 In what then are the worlds of the sky woven, 
like warp and woof?’ 

4 In the worlds of the Gandharvas, O G&rgi,’ he 
replied. 

1 Knowledge of the Self, which enables us to dispense with all 
other knowledge. 

a Mr. Gough proposes as an alternative rendering: ‘Let a 
Br&hma»a renounce learning and become as a child; and after 
renouncing learning and a childlike mind, let him become a 
quietist; and when he has made an end of quietism and non¬ 
quietism, he shall become a Br&hmawa, a Brahmazza indeed/ 
Deussen takes a similar view, but I doubt whether ‘the knowledge 
of babes' is not a Christian rather than an Indian idea, in spite of 
•Sankara's remarks on Ved. Sfitra, III, 4, 50. which are strangely at 
variance with his commentary here. Possibly the text may be cor¬ 
rupt, for tish/Aaset too is a very peculiar form. We might conjecture 
balyena, as we have abalyam, in IV, 4,1. In Kaush. Up. Ill, 3, 
SbSlyam stands for Sbalyam, possibly for &biilyam. The construc¬ 
tion of kena syad yena sySt tenedma eva, however, is well known. 

3 Mddhyandina text, p. 1072. 




Ill ADHYAYA, 6 BRAHMAiVA, I. 131 

‘In what then are the worlds of the Gandharvas 
woven, like warp and woof?’ 

‘ In the worlds of Aditya (sun), O GArgl,’ he replied. 

‘ In what then are the worlds of Aditya (sun) 
woven, like warp and woof?’ 

‘ In the worlds of Aandra (moon), O GArgi,’ he 
replied. 

‘ In what then are the worlds of Sandra (moon) 
woven, like warp and woof ? ’ 

‘ In the worlds of the Nakshatras (stars), O Gargl,’ 
he replied. 

' In what then are the worlds of the Nakshatras 
(stars) woven, like warp and woof?’ 

‘ In the worlds of the Devas (gods), O Gargl,’ he 
replied. 

* In what then are the worlds of the Devas (gods) 
woven, like warp and woof ? ’ 

‘ In the worlds of Indra, O Gargl,’ he replied. 

‘ In what then are the worlds of Indra woven, like 
warp and woof?’ 

‘ In the worlds of Pra^apati, O Girgl,’ he replied. 

‘ In what then are the worlds of Prag&pati woven, 
like warp and woof?’ 

‘ In the worlds of Brahman, O Gargl,’ he replied. 

‘ In what then are the worlds of Brahman woven, 
like warp and woof?’ 

Ya^wavalkya said: * O G&rgi, Do not ask too 
*much, lest thy head should fall off. Thou askest 
too much about a deity about which we are not to 
ask too much \ Do not ask too much, O Gargl.’ 
After that GArgl Va/’aknavl held her peace. 

1 According to the commentator questions about Brahman are 
to be answered from the Scriptures only, and not to be settled by 
argument. 

K .2 




132 BUniADARAjVVAKA-UPANISHAD. 


Seventh Brahmana 1 . 

i. Then Uddalaka Aru#i a asked. ‘ Yitfwavalkya/ 
he said, ‘ we dwelt among the Madras in the houses 
of Pata»/£ala Kdpya, studying the sacrifice. His 
wife was possessed of a Gandharva, and we asked 
him : “ Who art thou ?” He answered : “ I am 
Kabandha Atharvawa.” And he said to Pataw^ala 
K&pya and to (us) students: “Dost thou know, K&pya, 
that thread by which this world and the other world, 
and all beings are strung together?" And Patawiala 
KcLpya replied: “Ido not know it, Sir.” He said 
again to Pata;X£ala Kdpya and to (us) students: 
“ Dost thou know, Kfipya, that puller (ruler) within 
(antary&min), who within pulls (rules) this world and 
the other world and all beings?” And Pataw^ala 
K&pya replied: “ I do not know it, Sir.” He said 
again to Pata«/£ala K&pya and to (us) students: 
“ He, O Kdpya, who knows that thread and him who 
pulls (it) within, he knows Brahman, he knows the 
worlds, he knows the Devas, he knows the Vedas, 
he knows the Bhfitas (creatures), he knows the Self, 
he knows everything.” Thus did he (the Gandharva) 
say to them, and I know it. If thou, O Ya^avalkya, 
without knowing that string and the puller within, 
drivest away those Brahma-cows (the cows offeree^ 
as a prize to him who best knows Brahman), thy 
head will fall off.’ 

Y&£?2avalkya said: ‘ O Gautama, I believe I know 
that thread and the puller within/ 

1 Madhyandlna text, p. 1072. 

* Afterwards addressed as Gautama; see before, p. 1,note.. 




Ill ADHyAyA, 7 BRAIIMAJVA, 7. 


133 


The other said: * Anybody may say, I know, I 
know. Tell what thou knowest.’ 

2. Yfffwavalkya said: ‘ V&yu (air) is that thread, 
O Gautama. By air, as by a thread, O Gautama, 
this world and the other world, and all creatures are 
strung together. Therefore, O Gautama, people say 
of a dead person that his limbs have become unstrung; 
for by air, as by a thread, O Gautama, they were 
strung together.’ 

The other said: ‘So it is, O YA^wavalkya. Tell 
now (who is) the puller within.’ 

3. YA^vlavalkya said : ‘ He who dwells in the earth, 
and within the earth 1 , whom the earth does not 
know, whose body the earth is, and who pulls (rules) 
the earth within, he is thy Self, the puller (ruler) 
within, the immortal.’ 

4. ‘ He who dwells in the water, and within the 
water, whom the water does not know, whose body 
the water is, and who pulls (rules) the water within, 
he is thy Self, the puller (ruler) within, the immortal.’ 

5. ‘He who dwells in the fire, and within the fire, 
whom the fire does not know, whose body the fire 
is, and who pulls (rules) the fire within, he is thy 
Self, the puller (ruler) within, the immortal.’ 

6. ‘He who dwells in the sky, and within the 
sky, whom the sky does not know, whose body the 
sky is, and who pulls (rules) the sky within, he is thy 
Self, the puller (ruler) within, the immortal.’ 

7. ‘He who dwells in the air (v&yu), and within the 
air, whom the air does not know, whose body the 

1 I translate.antara by ‘within/ according to the commentator, 
who explains it by abhyantara, but I must confess that I should 
prefer to translate it by ‘ different from/ as Deussen does, 1. c. p. 160, 
particularly as it governs an ablative. 



134 bjwhadArawyaka-upanishad. 

air is, and who pulls (rules) the air within, he is thy 
Self, the puller (ruler) within, the immortal.’ 

8. ‘He who dwells in the heaven (dyu), and within 
the heaven, whom the heaven does not know, whose 
body the heaven is, and who pulls (rules) the heaven 
within, he is thy Self, the puller (ruler) within, the 
immortal.’ 

9. ‘ He who dwells in the sun (aditya), and within 
the sun, whom the sun does not know, whose body 
the sun is, and who pulls (rules) the sun within, he 
is thy Self, the puller (ruler) within, the immortal.’ 

10. ‘He who dwells in the space (disaJi), and 
within the space, whom the space does not know, 
whose body the space is, and who pulls (rules) the 
space within, he is thy Self, the puller (ruler) within, 
the immortal.’ 

11. ‘He who dwells in the moon and stars (£an- 
dra-tdrakam), and within the moon and stars, whom 
the moon and stars do not know, whose body the 
moon and stars are, and w r ho pulls (rules) the moon 
and stars within, he is thy Self, the puller (ruler) 
within, the immortal.’ 

12. ‘He who dwells in the ether ( 4 kd^a), and 
within the ether, whom the ether does not know, 
whose body the ether is, and who pulls (rules) the 
ether within, he is thy Self, the puller (ruler) within, 
the immortal.’ 

13. ‘He who dwells in the darkness (tamas), and 
within the darkness, whom the darkness does not 
know, whose body the darkness is, and who pulls 
(rules) the darkness within, he is thy Self, the puller 
(ruler) within, the immortal/* 

14. ‘He who dwells in the light (te^as), and within 
the light, whom the light does not know, whose 



Ill ADHY&YA, 7 BRAHMA&A, 21 . 135 

body the light is, and who pulls (rules) the light 
within, he is thy Self, the puller (ruler) within, the 
immortal.’ 

So far with respect to the gods (adhidaivatam); 
now with respect to beings (adhibhfltam). 

15. Ya^wavalkya said: ‘He who dwells in all 
beings, and within all beings, whom all beings do 
not know, whose body all beings are, and who pulls 
(rules) all beings within, he is thy Self, the puller 
(ruler) within, the immortal.’ 

16. ‘He who dwells in the breath (pr&«a), and 
within the breath, whom the breath does not know, 
whose body the breath is, and who pulls (rules) the 
breath within, he is thy Self, the puller (ruler) within, 
the immortal.’ 

17. ‘He who dwells in the tongue (vd£), and 
within the tongue, whom the tongue does not know, 
whose body the tongue is, and who pulls (rules) the 
tongue within, he is thy Self, the puller (ruler) within, 
the immortal.’ 

18. ‘He who dwells in the eye, and within the 
eye, whom the eye does not know, whose body the 
eye is, and who pulls (rules) the eye within, he is thy 
Self, the puller (ruler) within, the immortal.’ 

19. ‘ He who dwells in the ear, and within the 
ear, whom the ear does not know, whose body the 
ear is, and who pulls (rules) the ear within, he is thy 
Self, the puller (ruler) within, the immortal.’ 

20. ‘ He who dwells in the mind, and within the 
mind, whom the mind does not know, whose body 
the mind is, and who pulls (rules) the mind within, 
he is thy Self, the puller {ruler) within, the immortal.’ 

21. ‘ He who dwells in the skin, and within the 
skin, whom the skin does not know, whose body the 



136 bjwhadAraatyaka-upanIshad. 

skin is, and who pulls (rules) the skin within, he is 
thy Self, the puller (ruler) within, the immortal.’ 

22. ‘He who dwells in knowledge\ and within 
knowledge, whom knowledge does not know, whose 
body knowledge is, and who pulls (rules) knowledge 
within, he is thy Self, the puller (ruler) within, the 
immortal.' 

23. ‘ He who dwells in the seed, and within 
the seed, whom the seed does not know, whose 
body the seed is, and who pulls (rules) the seed 
within, he is thy Self, the puller (ruler) within, 
the immortal; unseen, but seeing; unheard, but 
hearing; unperceived, but perceiving; unknown, but 
knowing. There is no other seer but he, there 
is no other hearer but he, there is no other per- 
ceiver but he, there is no other knower but he. 
This is thy Self, the ruler within, the immortal. 
Everything else is of evil.’ After that Udd&laka 
Arutti held his peace. 

Eighth Brahman a 2 . 

1. Then Va>£aknavt 3 said: ‘Venerable Brahmawas, 
I shall ask him two questions. If he will answer 
them, none of you, I think, will defeat him in any 
argument concerning Brahman.’ 

Y&^wavalkya said : ‘ Ask, O G&rgi.’ 

2. She said: ‘ O Yd^wavalkya, as the son of a 
, warrior from the K&rfs or Videhas might string his 

loosened bow, take two pointed foe-piercing arrows 
in his hand and rise to do battle, I have risen to 

1 Self, i.e. the individual Self, according to the Madhyandina 
school; see Deussen, p. 161. 

* Madhyandina text, p. 1075. 

* Gargt, not the wife of Ya^fiavalkya. 


hi adhyAya, 8 brAhmajva, 8. 


137 


fight thee with two questions. Answer me these 
questions.’ 

YA^wavalkya said : ‘Ask, O GArgi.’ 

3. She said : ‘ O Yd^wavalkya, that of which they 
say that it is above the heavens, beneath the earth, 
embracing heaven and earth 1 , past, present, and future, 
tell me in what is it woven, like warp and woof ? ’ 

4. YAjf^avalkya said: ‘That of which they say 
that it is above the heavens, beneath the earth, 
embracing heaven and earth, past, present, and 
future, that is woven, like warp and woof, in the 
ether (ak&fa).’ 

5. She said: ‘ I bow to thee, O Y 4 ^«avalkya, who 
hast solved me that question. Get thee ready for 
the second.’ 

YA^Iavalkya said 2 : ‘ Ask, O G&rgl.’ 

6. She said : ‘ O YA^wavalkya, that of which they 
say that it is above the heavens, beneath the earth, 
embracing heaven and earth, past, present, and future, 
tell me in what is it woven, like warp and woof?’ 

7. Ydf«avalkya said: ‘That of which they say 
that it is above the heavens, beneath the earth, 
embracing heaven and earth, past, present, and future, 
that is woven, like warp and woof, in the ether.’ 

Gargi said : ‘ In what then is the ether woven, like 
warp and woof?’ 

8. He said: ‘ O Gdrgi, the Brahmawas call this 
the Akshara (the imperishable).' It is neither coarse 
nor fine, neither short nor long, neither red (like fire) 
nor fluid (like water); it is without shadow, with¬ 
out darkness, without air, without ether, without 


1 Deussen, p. 143, translates, ‘between heaven and earth,’ but 
that would be the antariksha. 

* This repetition does not occur in the Madhyandina text. 




138 


BJi/HADARAiWAKA-UPANISHAD. 


attachment 1 , without taste, without smell, without 
eyes, without ears, without speech, without mind, 
without light (vigour), without breath, without a 
mouth (or door), without measure, having no within 
and no without, it devours nothing, and no one 
devours it.’ 

9. ‘ By the command of that Akshara (the im¬ 
perishable),. O G&rgi, sun and moon stand apart 2 . 
By the command of that Akshara, O G&rgi, 
heaven and earth stand apart. By the command of 
that Akshara, O Gargi, what are called moments 
(nimesha), hours (muhfirta), days and nights, half¬ 
months, months, seasons, years, all stand apart. 
f By the command of that Akshara, O Gargi, some 
rivers flow to the East from the white mountains, 
others to the West, or to any other quarter. By 
the command of that Akshara, O G&rgi, men praise 
those who give, the gods follow the sacrificer, the 
fathers the Darvl-offering.’ 

1 o. ‘ Whosoever, O Gargi, without knowing that 
Akshara (the imperishable), offers oblations in this 
world, sacrifices, and performs penance for a thou¬ 
sand years, his work will have an end. Whosoever, 
O Gcirgi, without knowing this Akshara, departs this 
world, he is miserable (like a slave) 3 . But he, O 
G&rgi, who departs this world, knowing this Akshara, 
he is a Brdhma«a.’ 

11. ‘That Brahman/ O Gargi, ‘is unseen, but 
seeing; unheard, but hearing; unperceived, but per¬ 
ceiving ; unknown, but knowing. There is nothing 

1 Not adhering to anything, like lac or gum. 

* Each follows its own course. 

8 ‘ He stores up the effects from work, like a miser his riches,’ 
Roer. ‘ He is helpless/ Gough. 




hi adhyAya, 9 brAiimaya, i. 139 

that sees but it, nothing that hears but it, nothing 
that perceives but it, nothing that knows but it. In 
that Akshara then, O GArgi, the ether is woven, 
like warp and woof.’ 

12. Then said GArgl: ‘Venerable BrAhmans, you 
may consider it a great thing, if you get off by bowing 
before him. No one, I believe, will defeat him in 
any argument concerning Brahman.’ After that 
Va^aknavl held her peace. 

Ninth BrAiimaya 1 . 

1. ThenVidagdha .Sakalya asked him 2 : ‘ How many 
gods are there, O Yfi^wavalkya?’ He replied with 
this very Nivid 3 : ‘As many as are mentioned in the 
Nivid of the hymn of praise addressed to the Vu- 
vedevas, viz. three and three hundred, three and 
three thousand 4 .’ 

‘ Yes,’ he said, and asked again: ‘ How many gods 
are there really, O Yfif/Zavalkya ?’ 

‘ Thirty-three/ he said. 

1 Madhyandina text, p. 1076. 

8 This disputation between Ya^iiavalkya and Vidagdha -Sakalya 
occurs in a simpler form in the -Satapatha-brahmawa, XI, p. 873. 
He is here represented as the first who defies Ya-yftavalkya, and 
whom Ya^fiavalkya asks at once, whether the other BrShmans 
had made him the ulmukavakshayawa, the cat's paw, literally one 
who has to take a burning piece of wood out of the fire (ardha- 
dagdhakash//;ain ulmukam; tasya vahirnirasanam avakshayawaw 
vinSjaA). The end, however, is different, for on asking the nature 
of the one god, the Prawa, he is told by Ya^fiavalkya that he has 
asked for what he ought not to ask, and that therefore he will die 
and thieves will carry away his bones. 

s Nivid, old and short invocations of the gods; devatasankhyd- 
va/iakSni mantrapadani kfini£id vawvadeve jaslre fasyante. Sankara 
and Dvivedaganga. 

* This would make 3306 devatSs. 



140 


BR/HADArANYAKA-UPANISHAD. 


‘ Yes,’ he said, and asked again : ‘ How many gods 
are there really, O Y^wavalkya?’ 

‘ Six,’ he said. 

‘Yes,’ he said, and asked again : ‘ How many gods 
are there really, O Y&^avalkya?’ 

‘ Three,’ he said. 

‘ Yes,’ he said, and asked again: ‘ How many gods 
are there really, O Ya^viavalkya?’ 

‘ Two,’ he said. 

‘Yes,’ he said, and asked again : ‘ How many gods 
are there really, O Ya^wavalkya ? ’ 

‘ One and a half (adhyardha),’ he said. 

‘Yes,’ he said, and asked again: ‘How many gods 
are there really, O Ydgwavalkya?’ 

‘ One,’ he said. 

‘Yes,’ he said, and asked: ‘Who are these three 
and three hundred, three and three thousand?’ 

2. Ya^?2avalkya replied: ‘They are only the 
various powers of them, in reality there are only 
thirty-three gods V 

He asked: ‘ Who are those thirty-three?’ 

Ya^wavalkya replied : ‘The eight Vasus,the eleven 
Rudras, the twelve Adityas. They make thirty-one, 
and Indra and Pra^pati make the thirty-three 2 .’ 

3. He asked : ‘ Who are the Vasus.’ 

Y 4 ^/ 2 avalkya replied:. ‘Agni (fire), Prfthivl 
(earth), V&yu (air), Antariksha (sky), Aditya (sun), 
Dyu (heaven), Afandramas (moon), the Nakshatras 
(stars), these are the Vasus, for in them all that 
dwells (this world) 3 rests; and therefore they are 
called Vasus.’ 


1 ‘ The glories of these are three and thirty.’ Gough, p. 172. 

* Trayastrimau, i. e. trayastriwwataA pftrawau. 

* The etymological explanation of Vasu is not quite clear, and 




hi adhyAya, 9 brAhmaa'A, 8, 141 


4. He asked: ‘Who are the Rudras ?’ 

YA^wavalkya replied: ‘These ten vital breaths 
(prA#as, the senses, i. e. the five ^Anendriyas, and 
the five karmendriyas), and Atman 1 , as the eleventh. 
When they depart from this mortal body, they make 
us cry (rodayanti), and because they make us cry, 
they are called Rudras.’ 

5. He asked: ‘ Who are the Adityas?' 

YA^lavalkya replied: ‘ The twelve months of the 
year, and they are Adityas, because they move along 
(yanti), taking up everything 2 (AdadAnAA). Because 
they move along, taking up everything, therefore 
they are called Adityas.’ 

6. He asked: ‘And who is Indra, and who is 
PrafApati ?’ 

YA^wavalkya replied: ‘ Indra is thunder, Pra^Apati 
is the sacrifice.’ 

He asked: ‘And what is the thunder?’ 

YAfwavalkya replied: ‘The thunderbolt.’ 

He asked : ‘And what is the sacrifice?’ 

YA^wavalkya replied: ‘ The (sacrificial) animals.’ 

7. He asked : ‘Who are the six ?’ 

YA^wavalkya replied : ‘ Agni (fire), PWthivl (earth), 

VAyu (air), Antariksha (sky), Aditya (sun), Dyu 
(heaven), they are the six, for they are all 8 this, 
the six.’ 

8. He asked: ‘Who are the three gods?’ 

the commentator hardly explains our text. Perhaps vasu is meant 
for the world or the dwellers therein. The more usual explanation 
occurs in the -Satap. Brah. p. 1077, ete hidaw sarvaw vasayante 
tadyad idam sarva m vasayante tasmSd vasava iti; or on p.874, 
where we read te yad idaztf sarvam &c. 

1 Atman is hpre explained a*s manas, the common sensory. 

a The life of men, and the fruits of their work. 

8 They are the thirty-three gods. 





142 


B/^/HADARAiVYAKA-UPANISHAD. 


. Y&^vzavalkya replied: ‘These three worlds, for in 
them all these gods exist/ 

He asked: ‘Who are the two gods?* 

YA^Iavalkya replied : ‘Food and breath/ 

He asked: ‘Who is the one god and a half?' 

Y^fwavalkya replied : ‘ He that blows/ 

9. Here they say: ‘How is it that he who blows 
like one only, should be called one and a half (adhyar- 
dha)?’ And the answer is: ‘Because, when the wind 
was blowing, everything grew (adhyardhnot)/ 

He asked: ‘Who is the one god ?' 

YA^Iavalkya replied: ‘Breath (pra;za), and he is 
Brahman (the SfttrAtman), and they call him That 
(tyad)/ 

10. .Sakalya said 1 : ‘Whosoever knows that person 
(or god) whose dwelling (body) is the earth, whose 
sight (world) is fire 2 , whose mind is light,—the prin- 

1 I prefer to attribute this to Sakalya, who is still the questioner, 
and not Ya^wavalkya; but I am not quite satisfied that I am right 
in this, or in the subsequent distribution of the parts, assigned to 
each speaker. If S&kalya is the questioner, then the sentence, veda 
vS. ahaw tam purushaw sarvasyatmanaA parSyawaw yam Sttha, must 
belong to Ya^fiavalkya, because he refers to the words of another 
speaker. Lastly, the sentence vadaiva has to be taken as addressed 
to -Sakalya. The commentator remarks that, he being the ques¬ 
tioner, one expects ^rikkhz. instead of vada. But Ya^wavalkya 
may also be supposed to turn round on -Sakalya and ask him a 
question in turn, more difficult than the question addressed by 
Sakalya to Ya^ilavalkya, and in that case the last sentence must 
be taken as an answer, though an imperfect one, of Sakalya's. 
The commentator seems to think that after Y%7iavalkya told 
Sakalya to ask this question, SSkalya was frightened and asked 
it, and that then YS^wavalkya answered in turn. 

2 The MSdhyandina text varies considerably. It has the first 
time, iashur lokaA for agnir loka^. I keep to the same construc¬ 
tion throughout, taking mano ^yotiA, not as a compound, but like 
agnir loko yasya, as a sentence, i. e. mano ^yotir yasya. 



Ill ADHYAYA, 9 BRAHMAiVA, 1 3 . 


143 


ciple of every (living) self, he indeed is a teacher, 
O Y&^/avalkya.’ 

Y&^wavalkya said: ‘ I know that person, the prin¬ 
ciple of every self, of whom thou speakest. This 
corporeal (material, earthy) person, “ he is he.” But 
tell me 1 , Yikalya, who is his devatd 2 (deity)?’ 

Yakalya replied : ‘ The Immortal 3 .’ 

11. Y&kalya said : ‘Whosoever knows that person 
whose dwelling is love (a body capable of sensual 
love), whose sight is the heart, whose mind is light,— 
the principle of every self, he indeed is a teacher, 
O Y&0%avalkya/ 

Yd^wavalkya replied : ‘ I know that person, the 
principle of every self, of whom thou speakest. This 
love-made (loving) person, “ he is he.” But tell me, 
Y&kalya, who is his devatd ?’ 

Ydkalya replied: * The women V 

12. Y&kalya said : ‘ Whosoever knows that person 
whose dwelling are the colours, whose sight is the 
eye, whose mind is light,—the principle of every self, 
he indeed is a teacher, O Ya^vzavalkya.’ 

Y^fwavalkya replied: ‘ I know that person, the 
principle of every self, of whom thou speakest. That 
person in the sun, “ he is he.” But tell me, Yikalya, 
who is his devata ?' 

Y&kalya replied : * The True 5 .’ 

13. .SHkalya said: ‘ Whosoever knows that person 

1 Ask me. Comm. 

9 That from which he is produced, that is his devata. Comm. 

8 According to the commentator, the essence of food, which 
produces blood, from which the germ receives life and becomes an 
embryo and a living being. 

4 Because they excite the fire of love. Comm. 

5 The commentator explains satya, the true, by the eye, because 
the sun owes its origin to the eye. 





144 br/hadAra^yaka-upanishad. 


whose dwelling is ether, whose sight is the ear, whose 
mind is light,—the principle of every self, he indeed 
is a teacher, O YA^/lavalkya.’ 

YA^wavalkya replied: ‘ I know that person, the 
principle of every self, of whom thou speakest. The 
person who hears 1 and answers, “ he is he.” But 
tell me, .SAkalya, who is his devatA ? ’ 

.SAkalya replied: ‘Space.’ 

14. .SAkalya said: ‘ Whosoever knows that person 
whose dwelling is darkness, whose sight is the heart, 
whose mind is light,—the principle of every self, he 
indeed is a teacher, O YA^vlavalkya/ 

YA^avalkya replied: ‘ I know that person, the 
principle of every self, of whom thou speakest. The 
shadowy 2 person, “ he is he.” But tell me, .SAkalya, 
who is his devatA ? ’ 

.Sakaiya replied: ‘ Death/ 

15. SAkalya said: ‘ Whosoever knows that person 
whose dwelling are (bright) colours, whose sight is 
the eye, whose mind is light,—the principle of every 
self, he indeed is a teacher, O YA^wavalkya.’ 

YA^wavalkya replied: ‘ I know that person, the 
principle of every self, of whom thou speakest. The 
person in the looking-glass, “he is he.” But tell 
me, SAkalya, who is his devatA ? ’ 

SAkalya replied: ‘Vital breath’ (asu). 

16. SAkalya said: ‘Whosoever knows that person 
whose dwelling is water, whose sight is the heart, 
whose mind is light,—the principle of every self, he 
indeed is a teacher, O YA^wavalkya/ 

1 Read jrautra instead of jrotra; see Brth. Ar. Up. II, 5, 6. 

8 Shadow, AMyci, is explained here by a^nana, ignorance, not 
by ^nina, knowledge. 




hi adhyAya, 9 brAhmaiva, 19. 145 

YAfwavalkya replied: ‘ I know that person, the 
principle of every self, of whom thou speakest. The 
person in the water, “ he is he.” But tell me, .Sakalya, 
who is his devatA?’ 

•Sakalya replied: ‘ Varima.’ 

17. -Sakalya said : ‘Whosoever knows that person 
whose dwelling is seed, whose sight is the heart, 
whose mind is light,—the principle of every self, he 
indeed is a teacher, O YA^wavalkya.* 

YA^wavalkya replied: ‘ I know that person, the 
principle of every self, of whom thou speakest. The 
filial person, “ he is he.” But tell me, .Sakalya, who 
is his devata ? ’ 

•S&kalya replied: * Prafdpati.’ 

18. YS-^wavalkya said: ‘ .Sakalya, did those Br&h- 
mawas (who themselves shrank from the contest) 
make thee the victim 1 ?’ 

■S&kalya said: ‘Yd^avalkya, because thou hast 
decried the Brahmawas of the Kuru-Pa/S^’&las, what 2 * * * * * * 9 
Brahman dost thou know?’ 

19. Y&^avalkya said: ‘ I know the quarters with 
their deities and their abodes.’ 


1 Angaravakshaja«a is explained as a vessel in which coals are 

extinguished, and Anandagiri adds that Ya^ftavalkya, in saying that 

.Sakalya was made an angaravakshayawa by his fellow Brahmans, 

meant that he was given up by them as a victim, in fact that 

he was being burnt or consumed by YagTlavalkya. I should prefer 

to take angar&vakshayawa in the sense of ulmukdvakshayawa, an 
instrument with which one takes burning coals from the fire to 
extinguish them, a pair of tongs. Read sandazrc.ra instead of sandesa. 

Kshi with ava means to remove, to take away. We should call 

an angSrSvakshayaz/a a cat's paw. The Brahma«as used .Sakalya 
as a cat's paw. 

9 It seems better to take kim as the interrogative pronoun than 
as an interrogative particle. 

E*.*) l ' 



146 


br/hadAraatyaka-upanishad. 


Sakalya said: ‘ If thou knowest the quarters with 
their deities and their abodes, 

20. ‘Which is thy deity in the Eastern quarter?’ 

YAjfwavalkya said: ‘ Aditya (the sun).’ 

S&kalya said: ‘ In what does that Aditya abide ?’ 

Yd^y/avalkya said: ‘In the eye.’ 

Sakalya said: ‘ In what does the eye abide?’ 

Ya^vZav'alkya said: ‘In the colours,for with the 
eye he sees the colours.’ 

Sakalya said: ‘ And in what then do the colours 
abide?’ 

YA^avalkya said: ‘In the heart 1 , for we know 
colours by the heart, for colours abide in the heart 2 .’ 

.Sakalya said: ‘ So it is indeed, O Yd^wavalkya.’ 

21. .Sakalya said: ‘Which is thy deity in the 
Southern quarter ?’ 

YA^wavalkya said: ‘Yama.’ 

Sftkalya said: ‘ In what does that Yama abide?’ 

Ydf«avalkya said: ‘In the sacrifice.’ 

Sdkalya said: ‘ In what does the sacrifice abide?’ 

YA^wavalkya said: ‘In the DakshiwA (the gifts to 
be given to the priests).’ 

Sakalya said: ‘ In what does the Dakshiwa abide?’ 

Y&^wavalkya said: ‘In Sraddhft (faith), for if a 
man believes, then he gives Dakshiwa, and Dakshma 
truly abides in faith.’ 

Sakalya said : ‘And in what then does faith abide?’ 

Yft^wavalkya said: ‘In the heart, for by the heart 
faith knows, and therefore faith abides in the heart.’ 

Sakalya said : ‘So it is indeed, O Yaf«avalkya.’ 


1 Heart stands here for buddhi and manas together. Comm. 

2 In the text, published by Dr. Roer in the Bibliotheca Indica, a 
sentence is left out, viz. hrz’daya ity uva^a, hridayena hi rftp&m 
^anati, hrzdaye hy eva rfipawi pratish/Zzitani bhavantity. 




hi adhyAya, 9 brAhmawa, 24. 147 

22. JTAkalya said: ‘Which is thy deity in the 
Western quarter ?’ 

Y&^avalkya said : ‘ Varuwa.’ 

.Sakalya said: ‘ In what does that Varu#a abide ?’ 

YAf/lavalkya said: ‘ In the water.’ 

..S&kalya said : * In what does the water abide.?’ 

Ya^wavalkya said : ‘In the seed.’ 

•Sakalya said: ‘And in what does the seed abide?’ 

Ya^«avalkya said: ‘ In the heart. And therefore 
also they say of a son who is like his father, that he 
seems as if slipt from his heart, or made from his 
heart; for the seed abides in the heart.’ 

.Sakalya said: ‘ So it is indeed, O Y&^vlavalkya.’ 

23. .S&kalya said: ‘Which is thy deity in the 
Northern quarter?’ 

Ya^«avalkya said: ‘ Soma.’ 

Y&kalya said: * In what does that Soma abide?’ 

Ya^wavalkya said: ‘ In the Dlksha V 

.Sakalya said: ‘In what does the Dlkshd abide?’ 

Ya^wavalkya said: ‘In the True; and therefore 
they say to one who has performed the Diksh 4 , 
Speak what is true, for in the True indeed the 
Dlksha abides.’ 

.Sakalya said: ‘And in what does the True abide?’ 

YAfwavalkya said : ‘In the heart,for with the heart 
do we know what is true, and in the heart indeed 
the True abides.’ 

•Sikalya said: ‘So it is indeed, O Ya^vlavalkya.’ 

24. .Sttkalya said: ‘Which is thy deity in the 
zenith?’ 


1 Dlksha is the initiatory ri{e for the Soma sacrifice. Having 
sacrificed with Soma which has to be bought, the sacrificer becomes 
endowed with wisdom, and wanders to the North, which is the 
quarter of Soma. 


L ..2 




148 BA/HADXRAiVYAKA-UPANISHAD. 


YA^wavalkya said: 'Agni.’ 

■ »Sakalya said : ‘In what does that Agni abide.’ 

Ycifwavalkya said: ‘In speech.’ 

.Scikalya said: ‘And in what does speech abide ?’ 

YAfwavalkya said: ‘In the heart.’ 

.Scikalya said: ‘And in what does the heart abide?’ 

25. YA^wavalkya said: ‘O Ahallika 1 , when you 
think the heart could be anywhere else away from 
us, if it were away from us, the dogs might eat it, 
or the birds tear it.’ 

26. Sakalya said: ‘And in what dost thou (thy 
body) and the Self (thy heart) abide?’ 

Yd^wavalkya said: ‘In the Pra^a (breath).’ 

•S&kalya said: ‘In what does the Pra«a abide ?’ 

Yif»avalkya said: ‘In the Apana (down¬ 
breathing) 2 .’ 

•Sakalya said: ‘In what does the Ap&na abide?’ 

Y dfwavalkya said: ‘ In theV yAna (back-breathing) 3 .’ 

S’dkalya said: ‘ In what does the Vyana abide ?' 

YA^wavalkya said: ‘ In the Ud 4 na (the out-breath¬ 
ing) 4 5 .’ 

/ Sakalya said: ‘In what does the UdAna abide ?’ 

Yaf«avalkya said: ‘In the Sam&na®. That Self 


1 A term of reproach, it may be a ghost or preta, because ahani 
liyate, it disappears by day. 

2 Because the pra»a would run away, if it were not held back by 
the apana. 

8 Because the apana would run down, and the pra«a up, if they 
were not held back by the vydna. 

4 Because all three, the pra#a, ap&na, and vyana, would run 
away in all directions, if they were not fastened to the udana. 

5 The Samana can hardly be meant here for one of the five 
pr&#as, generally mentioned before the uddna, but, as explained by 
Dvivedaganga, stands for the Sfitratman. This SQtratman abides 
in the Antaryamin, and this in the Brahman (Kfl/astha), which is 



149 


hi adhyAya, 9 brAhmaata, 28. 

(Atman) is to be described by No, no 1 ! He is in¬ 
comprehensible, for he cannot be (is not) compre¬ 
hended ; he is imperishable, for he cannot perish; he 
is unattached, for he does not attach himself; unfet¬ 
tered, he does not suffer, he does not fail/ 

‘ These are the eight abodes (the earth, &c.), the 
eight worlds (fire, &c.), the eight gods (the immortal 
food, &c.), the eight persons (the corporeal, &c.) 
He who after dividing and uniting these persons 2 , 
went beyond (the SamAna), that person, taught in 
the Upanishads, I now ask thee (to teach me). 
If thou shalt not explain him to me, thy head 
will fall/ 

►SAkalya did not know him, and his head fell, nay, 
thieves took away his bones, mistaking them for 
something else. 

27. Then YA^wavalkya said: ‘Reverend BrAh- 
ma#as, whosoever among you desires to do so, may 
now question me. Or question me, all of you. Or 
whosoever among you desires it, I shall question 
him, or I shall question all of you. 

But those BrAhmawas durst not (say anything). 

28. Then YA^vzavalkya questioned them with 
these Ylokas: 

1. ‘As a mighty tree in the forest, so in truth is 
man, his hairs are the leaves, his outer skin is 
the bark. 

2. ‘ From his skin flows forth blood, sap from 
the skin (of the tree); and thus from the wounded 

therefore described next. Could Samana be here the same as in 

IV, 3 , 7? 

1 See before, II, 3, 6; also IV, 2, 4; IV, 4, 22; IV, 5,15. 

* Dividing them according to the different abodes, worlds, and 
persons, and uniting them at last in the heart. 



150 B-R/HADARAATAKA-UPANISHAD. 

man 1 comes forth blood, as from a tree that is 
struck. 

3. * The lumps of his flesh are (in the tree) the 
layers of wood, the fibre is strong like the ten¬ 
dons 2 * . The bones are the (hard) wood within, the 
marrow is made like the marrow of the tree. 

4. ‘ But, while the tree, when felled, grows up 
again more- young from the root, from what root, 
tell me, does a mortal grow up, after he has been 
felled by death ? 

5. * Do not say, “from seed,” for seed is produced 
from the living a ; but a tree, springing from a grain, 
clearly 4 * rises again after death 6 . 

6. ‘If a tree is pulled up with the root, it will not 
grow again; from what root then, tell me, does a 
mortal grow up, after he has been felled by death ? 

7. ‘ Once born, he is not born (again); for who 
should create him again 6 ?’ 


1 In the Mddhyandina-r&kM, p. 1080, tasmat tadatunnat, instead 
of tasmat tadatr;'«wat. 

2 .Sankara seems to have read snavavat, instead of snava tat 
sthiram, as we read in both .Sakhas. 

2 Here the Madhyandinas (p. 1080) add, <g 4 ta eva na ^ayatc, ko 
nv enam ^anayet puna^, which the Kd»vas place later. 

4 Instead of afigasil, the Madhyandinas have anyataA. 

* The Madhyandinas have dhanaruha u vai, which is better than 
iva vai, the iva being, according to .Sankara's own confession, use¬ 
less. The thread of the argument does not seem to have been 
clearly perceived by the commentators. What the poet wants to 
say is, that a man, struck down by death, does not come to life 
again from seed, because human seed comes from the living only, 
while trees, springing from grain, are seen to come to life after the 
tree (which yielded the grain or the seed) is dead. Prctya-sam- 
bhava, like pretya-bh&va, means life after death, and pretyasam- 
bhava, as an adjective, means coming to life after death. 

* This line too is taken in a different sense by the commentator. 
According to him, it would mean: ‘ If you say, He has been born 





Ill ADHyAyA, g BRAHMAJVA, 28. 151 

‘Brahman, who is knowledge and bliss, he is the 
principle, both to him who gives gifts 1 , and also to 
him who stands firm, and knows.’ 


(and there is an end of all questioning), I say, No; he is bom 
again, and the question is, How ?* This is much too artificial. The 
order of the verses in the Mddhyandina-jdkhd is better on the 
whole, leading up more naturally to the question, ‘ From what root 
then does a mortal grow up, after he has been felled by death ?’ 
When the Brdhmans cannot answer, Yag^iavalkya answers, or the 
-Sruti declares, that the root from whence a mortal springs again, 
after death, is Brahman. 

1 .Sankara explains ratir ddtu£ as rdter ddtu£, a reading adopted 
by the Madhyandinas. He then arrives at the statement that 
Brahman is the principle or the last source, also the root of a new 
life, both for those who practise works and for those who, having 
relinquished works, stand firm in knowledge. Regnaud (II, p. 138) 
translates: ‘C'est Brahma (qui est) Intelligence, le bonheur, la 
richesse, le but supreme de celui qui offre (des sacrifices), et de 
celui qui reside (en lui), de celui qui connait/ 





152 br/hadArawyaka-upanishad. 


FOURTH ADHYAYA. 

First Brahma^a. 

1. When, Ganaka Vaideha was sitting (to give 
audience), Y&^/lavalkya approached, and kanaka 
Vaideha said: ‘ YAf#avalkya, for what object did 
;you come, wishing for cattle, or for subtle ques¬ 
tions. 1 ?’ 

Y&fVaiavalkya replied: ‘ For both, Your Majesty; 

2 . ‘Let us hear what anybody may have told you.’ 

Ganaka Vaideha replied: ‘ Gitvan Gailini told me 

that speech (vs \k) is Brahman.’ 

Y^«avalkya said : ‘As one who had (the benefit 
of a good) father, mother, and teacher might tell, so 
did .Sailini 2 tell you, that speech is Brahman; for 
what is the use of a dumb person ? But did he tell 
you the body (ayatana) and the resting-place (pra- 
tish^A) of that Brahman V 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘He did not tell me.’ 

Yifwavalkya said: ‘ Your Majesty, this (Brahman) 
stands on one leg only 3 .’ 

GanakaVaideha said: ‘Then tell me, Y&^wavalkya/ 


1 A»v-anta, formed like Sfitranta, Siddhdnta, and probably Ve- 
ddnta, means subtle questions. 

* Roer and Poley give here •Sailina; Weber also (pp. 1080 and 
1081) has twice •Sailina (■Silinasyapatyam). 

8 This seems to mean that Galvan's explanation of Brahman is 
lame or imperfect, because there are four padas of that Brahman, 
and he taught one only. The other three are its body, its place, 
and its form of worship (pra^vletiyam upanishad brahmaa&r £atur- 
thaA pada^). See also Maitr. Up.VII, p. 221. 



iv adiiyAya, i brAhma^a, 3. 153 

Y£f»avalkya said: * The tongue is its body, ether 
its place, and one should worship it as knowledge/ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘ What is the nature of that 
knowledge ? ’ 

Ya^/lavalkya replied: ‘Your Majesty, speech itself 
(is knowledge). For through speech, Your Majesty, 
a friend is known (to be a friend), and likewise the 
/?fg-veda, Ya^ur-veda, S&ma-veda, the Atharv&ngi- 
rasas, the Itih&sa (tradition), Purina-vidy& (know¬ 
ledge of the past), the Upanishads, Glokas (verses), 
Sfttras (rules), Anuvy&khy&nas and Vyakhyanas 
(commentaries 1 , &c.); what is sacrificed, what is 
poured out, what is (to be) eaten and drunk, this 
world and the other world, and all creatures. By 
speech alone, Your Majesty, Brahman is known, speech 
indeed, O King, is the Highest Brahman. Speech 
does not desert him who worships that (Brahman) 
with such knowledge, all creatures approach him, 
and having become a god, he goes to the gods/ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘I shall give you (for 
this) a thousand cows with a bull as big as an 
elephant/ 

Y&^v/avalkya said: ‘My father was of opinion that 
one should not accept a reward without having fully 
instructed a pupil/ 

3. Ycu?7lavalkya said: ‘ Let us hear what anybody 
may have told you/ 

Ganaka Vaideha replied: ‘ Udanka Gaulb&yana 
told me.that life (prftwa) 2 is Brahman.' 

Ya^wavalkya said: ‘As one who had (the benefit of 
a good) father, mother, and teacher might tell, so did 


1 See before, II, 4,10; and afterwards, IV, 5,11. 
* See Taitt. Up. Ill, 3. 


154 


br/hadAraotaka-upanishad. 


Udanka .Saulb&yana tell you that life is Brahman; 
for what is the use of a person without life ? But 
did he tell you the body and the resting-place of 
that Brahman?’ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘ He did not tell me.’ 

Y&^wavalkya said: ‘ Your Majesty, this (Brahman) 
stands on one leg only.’ 

kanaka Vaideha said: ‘Then tell me, Ya^«a- 
valkya.’ 

YA^wavalkya said: ‘ Breath is its body, ether its 
place, and one should worship it as what is dear.’ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘What is the nature of that 
which is dear ? ’ 

YAfwavalkya replied: ‘Your Majesty, life itself 
(is that which is dear);’ because for the sake of life, 
Your Majesty, a man sacrifices even for him who is 
unworthy of sacrifice, he accepts presents from him 
who is not worthy to bestow presents, nay, he goes 
to a country, even when there is fear of being hurt \ 
for the sake of life. Life, 0 King, is the Highest 
Brahman. Life does not desert him who worships 
that (Brahman) with such knowledge, all creatures 
approach him, and having become a god, he goes to 
the gods.’ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘I shall give you (for this) 
a thousand cows with a bull as big as an elephant.' 

YA^avalkya said: ‘My father was of opinion that 
one should not accept a reward without having fully 
instructed a pupil.’ 

4. YAfwavalkya said: ‘ Let us hear what anybody 
may have told you.’ 


1 Or it may mean, he is afraid of being hurt, to whatever country 
he goes, for the sake of a livelihood. 



iv adiiyAya, i brAhmaa^a, 5. 155 

Ganaka Vaideha replied: ‘Barku Varshwa told me 
that sight (iakshus) is Brahman.’ 

Yd^avalkya said: ‘ As one who had (the benefit 
of a good) father, mother, and teacher might tell, so 
did Barku V&rshwa tell you that sight is Brahman; 
for what is the use of a person who cannot see ? 
But did he tell you the body and the resting-place 
of that Brahman ? ’ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘ He did not tell me.’ 

Y 4 ,f«avalkya said: ‘ Your Majesty, this (Brahman) 
stands on one leg only.’ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘Then tell me, Y kgna.- 
valkya.’ 

Y&^wavalkya said: ‘ The eye is its body, ether its 
place, and one should worship it as what is true.’ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘What is the nature of that 
which is true ? ’ 

Y&^wavalkya replied: ‘Your Majesty, sight itself 
(is that which is true) ; for if they say to a man who 
sees with his eye, “ Didst thou see ?” and he says, “ I 
saw,” then it is true. Sight, O King, is the Highest 
Brahman. Sight does not desert him who worships 
that (Brahman) with such knowledge, all creatures 
approach him, and having become a god, he goes to 
the gods.’ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘ I shall give you (for this) 
a thousand cows with a bull as big as an elephant.’ 

Yd^wavalkya said: ‘My father was of opinion that 
one should not accept a reward without having fully 
instructed a pupil.’ 

5. Y&^wavalkya said: ‘ Let us hear what anybody 
may have told you.’ 

Ganaka. Vaideha replied: ‘ Gardabhlvibhita Bh&- 
radvet^a told me that hearing (^rotra) is Brahman.’ 




I56 BR/HADARAiVYAKA-UPANISHAD. 

. Y^"«avalkya said: ‘ As one who had (the benefit 
of a good) father, mother, and teacher might tell, so 
did Gardabhlvibhita Bh&radv&^a tell you that hear¬ 
ing is Brahman; for what is the use of a person who 
cannot hear ? But did he tell you the body and the 
resting-place of that Brahman?’ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘He did not tell me.’ 

YcL^wavalkya said : ‘Your Majesty, this (Brahman) 
stands on one leg only.’ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘Then tell me, Yd^a- 
valkya.’ 

Ydf^avalkya said: ‘The ear is its body, ether its 
place, and we should worship it as what is endless.’ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘What is the nature of that 
which is.endless ?’ 

Yd^wavalkya replied: ‘Your Majesty, space 
(dii'a/5) itself (is that which is endless), and therefore 
to whatever space (quarter) he goes, he never comes 
to the end of it. For space is endless. Space indeed, 
O King, is hearing l , and hearing indeed, O King, is 
the Highest Brahman. Hearing does not desert 
him who worships that (Brahman) with such know¬ 
ledge, all creatures approach him, and having become 
a god, he goes to the gods.’ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘I shall give you (for this) 
a thousand cows with a bull as big as an elephant.’ 

Ya^wavalkya said: ‘My father was of opinion that 
one should not accept a reward without having fully 
instructed a pupil.’ 

6 . Yf^wavalkya said: ‘ Let us hear what anybody 
may have told you.’ 


1 Dvivedaganga states, digbhago hi pdrthivadhish/Mnava/M/zin- 
na h nrotram ity ufyate, atas tayor ekatvam. 




IV ADHyAyA, I BRAHMAYA, 7. 157 

kanaka Vaideha replied: ‘Satyak&ma G&b&la told 
me that mind 1 (manas) is Brahman.’ 

Y&^wavalkya said: ‘ As one who had (the benefit 
of a good) father, mother, and teacher might tell, so 
did Satyakima G&Mla tell you that mind is Brah-, 
man ; for what is the use of a person without mind ? 
But did he tell you the body and the resting-place of 
that Brahman ?’ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: 1 He did not tell me/ 
Y 4 ^«avalkya said: ‘Your Majesty, this (Brahman) 
stands on one leg only/ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘Then tell me, Ya^wavalkya/ 
Y&^avalkya said: ‘ Mind itself is its body, ether 
its place, and we should worship it as bliss/ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘ What is the nature of bliss ? ’ 
YAj^avalkya replied: ‘ Your Majesty, mind itself; 
for with the mind does a man desire a woman, and 
a like son is born of her, and he is bliss. Mind 
indeed, O King, is the Highest Brahman. Mind 
does not desert him who worships that (Brahman) 
with such knowledge, all creatures approach him, and 
having become a god, he goes to the gods/ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘ I shall give you (for this) 
a thousand cows with a bull as big as an elephant/ 
YA^wavalkya said: ‘My father was of opinion that 
one should not accept a reward without having fully 
instructed a pupil/ 

7. Y^wavalkya said: ‘ Let us hear what anybody 
may have told you/ 

Ganaka Vaideha replied: ‘Vidagdha GAkalya told 
me that the heart (hmlaya) is Brahman/ 

Ycijfwavalkya said: ‘ As one who had (the benefit 


1 See also Taitt. Up. Ill, 4. 




158 b/j/hadArajvyaka-upanishad. 

of a good) father, mother, and teacher might tell, so 
did Vidagdha .S&kalya tell you that the heart is 
Brahman; for what is the use of a person without a 
heart ? But did he tell you the body and the resting- 
place of that Brahman ?’ 

(kanaka Vaideha said : ‘ He did not tell me/ 
Ya^wavalkya said: ‘ Your Majesty, this (Brahman) 
stands on-one leg only/ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘Then tell me, Yd^wavalkya/ 
Yd^v/avalkya said: ‘ The heart itself is its body, 
ether its place, and we should worship it as certainty 
(sthiti)/ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘ What is the nature of 
certainty ? ’ 

Yd^Afavalkya replied: ‘Your Majesty, the heart 
itself; for the heart indeed, O King, is the body of 
all things, the heart is the resting-place of all things, 
for in the heart, O King, all things rest. The heart 
indeed, O King, is the Highest Brahman. The 
heart does not desert him who worships that (Brah¬ 
man) with such knowledge, all creatures approach 
him, and having become a god, he goes to the gods/ 
Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘I shall give you (for this) 
a thousand cows with a bull as big as an elephant/ 
Ya^wavalkya said: ‘ My father was of opinion 
that one should not accept a reward without having 
fully instructed a pupil/ 

Second BrAhmana. 

i. Ganaka Vaideha, descending from his throne, 
said: ‘ I bow to you, O YA^wavalkya, teach me/ 
YtL^wavalkya said: ‘ Your Majesty, as a man who 
wishes to make a long journey, would furnish him¬ 
self with a chariot or a ship, thus is your mind well 



rv adhyAya, 2 brAhmaa'a, 3. 159 

furnished by these Upanishads 1 . You are honour¬ 
able, and wealthy, you have learnt the Vedas and 
been told the Upanishads. Whither then will you 
go when departing hence?’ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘Sir, I do not know whither 
I shall go/ 

YA^wavalkya said: ‘Then I shall tell you this, 
whither you will go/ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘Tell it. Sir/ 

2. YA^Vzavalkya said: ‘ That person who is in the 
right eye 2 , he is called Indha, and him who is Indha 
they call indeed 3 Indra mysteriously, for the gods love 
what is mysterious, and dislike what is evident. 

3. ‘ Now that which in the shape of a person is in 
the right eye, is his wife, Vir&f 4 * . Their meeting- 
place 0 is the ether within the heart, and their food 
the red lump within the heart. Again, their 
covering 6 is that which is like net-work within the 
heart, and the road on which they move (from sleep 
to waking) is the artery that rises upwards from the 
heart. Like a hair divided into a thousand parts, so 
are the veins of it, which are called Hita 7 , placed 

1 This refers to the preceding doctrines which had been commu¬ 
nicated to Cranaka by other teachers, and particularly to the up&sanas 
of Brahman as knowledge, dear, true, endless, bliss, and certainty. 

2 See also Maitr. Up. VII, p. 216. 

3 The Madhyandinas read paroksheweva, but the commentator 
explains iva by eva. See also Ait. Up. I, 3,14. 

4 Indra is called by the commentator VaLrv&nara, and his wife 
Vira^. This couple, in a waking state, is Vwva; in sleep, Tai^asa. 

8 Sawstava, lit. the place where they sing praises together, that 
is, where they meet. 

6 Prdvarawa may also mean hiding-place, retreat. 

7 Hita, a name frequently gi^en to these na^fis; see IV, 3, 20; 
iWand. Up. VI, 5, 3, comm.; Kaush. Up, IV, 20. See also KaMa 
Up. VI, 16. 



160 b/ijhadArajvyaka-upanishad. 

firmly within the heart. Through these indeed that 
(food) flows on flowing, and he (the Tai^asa) receives 
as it were purer food 1 than the corporeal Self (the 
VaijvAnara). 

4. ‘His (the Tai^asa’s) Eastern quarter are the 
pr&#as (breath) which go to the East; 

‘ His Southern quarter are the prA»as which go 
to the South; 

‘ His Western quarter are the pr&^as which go to 
the West; 

‘His Northern quarter are the pr&was which go to 
the North; 

'His Upper (Zenith) quarter are the prAwas which 
go upward; 

‘ His Lower (Nadir) quarter are the prd/zas which 
go downward; 

‘All the quarters are all the pr&was. And he (the 
Atman in that state) can only be described by No 2 , 
no! He is incomprehensible, for he cannot be com¬ 
prehended ; he is undecaying, for he cannot decay; 
he is not attached, for he does not attach himself; 
he is unbound, he does not suffer, he does not perish. 
O Ganaka, you have indeed reached fearlessness/— 
thus said Y&f^avalkya. 

Then (kanaka said: ‘ May that fearlessness come 
to you also who teachest us fearlessness. I bow to 
you. Here are the Videhas, and here am I (thy 
slave)/ 


1 Dvivcdaganga explains that food, when it is eaten, is first of 
all changed into the coarse food, which goes away downward, and 
into the subtler food. This subtler food is again divided into the 
middle juice that feeds the body, and the finest, which is called 
the red lump. 

* See Brih. Up. II, 3, 6; IV, 9, 26. 





iv adhyAya, 3 SrAhmawa, r. t 6'i- 


Third BrAhMA-VA. 

i. YA^wavalkya came to Canaka Vaideha, and he 
did not mean to speak with him 1 . But when formerly 


1 The introduction to this Brahmawa has a very peculiar interest, 
as showing the close coherence of the different portions which 
together form the historical groundwork of the Upanishads. Ganaka 
Vaideha and Ya^wavalkya are leading characters in the BrrhadS- 
ra#yaka-upanishad, and whenever they meet they seem to converse 
quite freely, though each retains his own character, and YS^la- 
valkya honours Ganaka as king quite as much as Ganaka honours 
YSgwavalkya as a Brahmazza. Now in our chapter we read that 
Ya^avalkya did not wish to enter on a discussion, but that Ganaka 
was the first to address him (pfirvam papra^Ma). This was evi¬ 
dently considered not quite correct, and an explanation is given, 
that Ganaka took this liberty because on a former occasion Y^na- 
valkya had granted him permission to address questions to him, 
whenever he liked. It might be objected that such an explanation 
looks very much like an after-thought, and we find indeed that in 
India itself some of the later commentators tried to avoid the diffi¬ 
culty by dividing the words sa- mene na vadishya iti, into sam enena 
vadishya iti, so that we should have to translate, ‘ Ya^avalkya came 
to Ganaka intending to speak with him.’ (See Dvivedaganga’s 
Comm. p. 1141.) This is, no doubt, a very ingenious conjecture, 
which might well rouse the envy of European scholars. But it is 
no more. The accents decide nothing, because they are changed 
by different writers, according to their different views of what the 
Pada text ought to be. What made me prefer the reading which 
is supported by *Sahkara and Dvivedagahga, though the latter 
alludes to the other pada^/zeda, is that the tmesis, sam enena 
vadishye, does not occur again, while sa mene is a common phrase. 
But the most interesting point, as I remarked before, is that this 
former disputation between Ganaka and YS^Iavalkya and the per¬ 
mission granted to the King to ask any question he liked, is not a 
mere invention to account for the apparent rudeness by which 
Y^wavalkya is forced to enter* on a discussion against his will, 
but actually occurs in a former chapter. In .Satap. Br. XI, 6, 2,10, 
we read: tasmai ha Ya^ilavalkyo vara m dadau; sa hova&t, kama- 

[*5J 



162 br/hadAra^yaka-upanishad. 


(kanaka Vaideha and YA^wavalkya had a disputation 
on the Agnihotra, Yd^wavalkya had granted him a 
boon, and he chose (for a boon) that he might be 
free to ask him any question he liked. YA§i»a- 
Valkya granted it, and thus the King was the first to 
ask him a question. 

2. ‘ YA^wavalkya/ he said, ‘what is the light of 
man 1 ?’ 

YA^avalkya replied: ‘The sun, O King; for, 
having the sun alone for his light, man sits, moves 
about, does his work, and returns/ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘ So indeed it is, O Y&gna.- 
valkya/ 

3. Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘ When the sun has set, 
O YAf^avalkya, what is then the light of man?’ 

Y^wavalkya replied : ‘The moon indeed is his 
light; for, having the moon alone for his light, man 
sits, moves about, does his work, and returns.’ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘ So indeed it is, O Ykgna.- 
valkya/ 

4. Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘ When the sun has set, 
O Y&^wavalkya, and the moon has set, what is the 
light of man V 

YA^wavalkya replied: ‘Fire indeed is his light; 


jprawia eva me tvayi Ya^wavalkyasad iii, tato brahma Ganaka isa. 
•This would show that Ganaka was considered almost like a B ratl¬ 
in a«a, or at all events enjoyed certain privileges which were sup¬ 
posed to belong to the first caste only. See, for a different view, 
Deussen, Vedanta, p. 203 ; Regnaud (Matiriaux pour servir k l’his- 
toire de la philosophic de l’lnde), Errata; and Sacred Books of 
the East, vol. i, p. Ixxiii. 

1 Read kiwi^yotir as a Bahuvrihi. Purusha is difficult to trans¬ 
late. It means man, but also the true essence of man, the soul, 
as we should say, or something more abstract still, the person, as 
I generally translate it, though a person beyond the Ego. 



iv adhyAya, 3 brAhmajva, 8. 163 

for, having fire alone for his light, man sits, moves 
about, does his work, and returns.’ 

5. Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘When the sun has set, 
O Y&£"»avalkya, and the moon has set, and the fire 
is gone out, what is then the light of man?’ 

Y&f«avalkya replied: * Sound indeed is his light; 
for, having sound alone for his light, man sits, moves 
about, does his work, and returns/ Therefore, O 
King, when one cannot see even one’s own hand, 
yet when a sound is raised, one goes towards it.’ 

kanaka Vaideha said: ‘So indeed it is, O Y&f«a- 
valkya.’ 

6. Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘ When the sun has set, 
O Y&^wavalkya, and the moon has set, and the fire 
is gone out, and the Sound hushed, what is then the 
light of man ?’ 

Ya^wavalkya said : * The Self indeed is his light; 
for, having the Self alone as his light, man sits, 
moves about, does his work, and returns.’ 

7. Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘ Who is that Self?’ 

Y&£#avalkya replied: ‘He who is within the 

heart, surrounded by the Pr&was 1 (senses), the person 
of light, consisting of knowledge. He, remaining the 
same, wanders along the two worlds 2 , as if 3 thinking, 
as if moving. During sleep (in dream) he tran¬ 
scends this world and all the forms of death (all that 
falls under the sway of death, all that is perishable). 

8. ‘ On being born that person, assuming his body, 


1 Samipyalaksha«a saptami, Dvivedaganga. See Brfh. Up. IV, 
4, 22. 

* In this world, while awake or dreaming ; in the other world, 
while in deep sleep. 

* The world thinks that he thinks, but in reality he does not, he 
only witnesses the acts of buddhi, or thought. 

M 2.. 





164 BiWHADARAiVYAKA-UPANISHAD. 


J^ecomes united with all evils; when he departs and 
dies, he leaves all evils behind. 

9. 4 And there are two states for that person, the 
one here in this world, the other in the other world, 
and as a third 1 * an intermediate state, the state of 
sleep. When in that intermediate state, he sees 
both those states together, the one here in this 
world, and the other in the other world. Now what¬ 
ever his admission to the other world may be, 
having gained that admission, he sees both the evils 
and the blessings a . 

‘And when he falls asleep, then after having 
taken away with him the material from the whole 
world, destroying 3 and building it up again, he 
sleeps (dreams) by his own light. In that state the 
person is self-illuminated. 

10. 4 There are no (real) chariots in that state, no 
horses, no roads, but he himself sends forth (creates) 
chariots, horses, and roads. There are no blessings 
there, no happiness, no joys, but he himself sends 
forth (creates) blessings, happiness, and joys. There 

1 There are really two sthanas or states only; the place where 
they meet, like the place where two villages meet, belongs to both, 
but it may be distinguished as a third. Dvivedagahga (p. 1141) 
uses a curious argument in support of the existence of another 
world. In early childhood, he says, our dreams consist of the 
impressions of a former world, later on they are filled with the 
impressions of our senses, and in old age they contain visions of a 
world to come. 

a By works, by knowledge, and by remembrance of former 
things; see Bnh. Up. IV, 4, 2. 

3 Dividing and separating the material, i. e. the impressions 
received from this world. The commentator explains matrS as a 
portion of the impressions which are taken away into sleep. 

‘ Destroying 9 he refers to the body, which in sleep becomes sense¬ 
less, and ‘building up* to the imaginations of dreams. 



iv adhyAya, 3 brAhmaata, 14. 165 

are no tanks there, no lakes, no rivers, but he him¬ 
self sends forth (creates) tanks, lakes, and rivers. 
He indeed is the maker. 

11. ‘ On this there are these verses: 

‘After having subdued by sleep all that belongs 
to the body, he, not asleep himself, looks down 
upon the sleeping (senses). Having assumed light, 
he goes again to his place, the golden person 1 , the 
lonely bird. (1) 

12. ‘Guarding with the breath (pra#a, life) the 
lower nest, the immortal moves away from the nest; 
that immortal one goes wherever he likes, the golden 
person, the lonely bird. (2) 

13. ‘ Going up and down in his dream, the god 
makes manifold shapes for himself, either rejoicing 
together with women, or laughing (with his friends), 
or seeing terrible sights. (3) 

14. ‘ People may see his playground 2 , but himself 
no one ever sees. Therefore they say, “ Let no one 
wake a man suddenly, for it is not easy to remedy, 
if he does not get back (rightly to his body).” 

‘Here some people (object and) say: “No, this 
(sleep) is the same as the place of waking, for what 
he sees while awake, that only he sees when asleep 3 .” 


1 The Madhyandinas read paurusha, as an adjective to ekahawsa, 
but Dvivedag..nga explains paurusha as a synonym of purusha, 
which is the reading of the Kawvas. 

2 Cf. Sujruta III, 7, i. 

3 I have translated this according to the commentator, who says: 
* Therefore the Self is self-illuminated during sleep. But others 
say the state of waking is indeed the same for him as sleep; there 
is no other intermediate place** different from this and from the 
other world. .. . And if sleep is the same as the state of waking, 
then is this Self not separate, not cause and effect, but mixed with 
them, and the Self therefore not self-illuminated. What he means 




1 66 BRIH ADARAi^YAK A-tlPANIS!I AD. 

No, here (in sleep) the person is self-illuminated (as 
we explained before)/ 

GanakaVaideha said: ‘I give you, Sir, a thousand. 
Speak on for the sake of (my) emancipation/ 

15. Y^/zavalkya said : 4 That (person) having en¬ 
joyed himself in that state of bliss (sampras&da, deep 
sleep), having moved about and seen both good and 
evil, hastens back again as he came, to the place 
from which he started (the place of sleep), to dream \ 
And whatever he may have seen there, he is not 
followed (affected) by it, for that person is not 
attached o anything/ 

GanakaVaideha said: 4 So it is indeed, Ya^wa- 

is that others, in order to disprove the self-illumination, say that this 
sleep is the same as the state of waking, giving as their reason that 
we see in sleep or in dreams exactly what we see in waking. But 
this is wrong, because the senses have stopped, and only when the 
, senses have stopped does one see dreams. Therefore there is no 
necessity for admitting another light in sleep, but only the light 
inherent in the Self. This has been proved by all that went before/ 
Dr. Roer takes the same view in his translation, but Deussen (Ve¬ 
danta, p. 205) takes an independent view, and translates : ‘ There¬ 
fore it is said : It (sleep) is to him q, place of waking only, for 
what he sees waking, the same he sees in sleep. Thus this spirit 
serves there for his own light/ Though the interpretations of 
.Sankara and Dvivedaganga sound artificial, still Dr. Deussen’s 
version does not remove all difficulties. If the purusha saw in 
sleep no more than what he had seen before in waking, then the 
whole argument in favour of the independent action, or the inde¬ 
pendent light of the purusha, would go; anyhow it would be no 
argument on Ya^ftavalkya's side. See also note to paragraph 9, 
before. 

1 The Madhyandinas speak only of his return from svapnanta 
to buddhanta, from sleep to waking, instead of his going from 
sampras&da (deep sleep) to svapna (dream), from svapna to bud- 
dh&nta, and from buddhSnta again to svapnanta, as the K£«vas 
have it. In § 18 the Kawvas also mention svapnanta and buddh&nta 
only, but the next paragraph refers to sushupti. 




iv adhyAya, 3 brAhmava, 20. 167 

valkya. I give you, Sir, a thousand. Speak on for 
the sake of emancipation/ 

16. Y&gnz valkya said: * That (person) having en¬ 
joyed himself in that sleep (dream), having moved 
about and seen both good and evil, hastens back 
again as he came, to the place from which he started, 
to be awake. And whatever he may have seen 
there, he is not followed (affected) by it, for that 
person is not attached to anything/ 

6anaka Vaideha said: ‘So it is indeed, Y&f»a- 
valkya. I give you, Sir, a thousand. Speak on for 
the sake of emancipation/ 

17. Y&gnz valkya said: ‘That (person) having en¬ 
joyed himself in that state of waking, having moved 
about and seen both good and evil, hastens back 
again as he came, to the place from which he started, 
to the state of sleeping (dream). 

j 8. ‘In fact, as a large fish moves along the two 
banks of a river, the right and the left, so does that 
person move along these two states, the state of 
sleeping and the state of waking. 

19. ‘And as a falcon, or any other (swift) bird, 
after he has roamed about here in the air, becomes 
tired, and folding his wings is carried to his nest, so 
does that person hasten to that state where, when 
asleep, he desires no more desires, and dreams no 
more dreams. 

20. ‘ There are in his body the veins called Hit&, 
which are as small as a hair divided a thousandfold, 
full of white, blue, yellow, green, and red 1 . Now 

1 Dvivedaganga explains that if phlegm predominates, qualified 
by wind and bile, the juice in the veins is white; if wind predomi¬ 
nates, qualified by phlegm and bile, it is blue; if bile predominates, 
qualified by wind and phlegm, it is yellow; if wind and phlegm 




168 br/hadAra#yaka-upanishad. 

when, as it were, they kill him, when, as it were, 
they overcome him, when, as it were, an elephant 
chases him, when, as it were, he falls into a well, 
he fancies, through ignorance, that clanger which he 
(commonly) sees in waking. But when he fancies 
that he is, as it were, a god, or that he is, as it 
were, a king 1 , or “ I am this altogether,” that is his 
highest world 2 . 

21. ‘This indeed is his (true) form, free from 
desires, free from evil, free from fear 3 . Now as a 
man, when embraced by a beloved wife, knows 
nothing that is without, nothing that is within, thus 
this person, when embraced by the intelligent (pr£gna) 
Self, knows nothing that is without, nothing that is 
within. This indeed is his (true) form, in which 
his wishes are fulfilled, in which the Self (only) is 


predominate, with little bile only, it is green; and if the three ele¬ 
ments are equal, it is red. See also Anandagiri’s gloss, where 
Surruta is quoted. Why this should be inserted here, is not quite 
clear, except that in sleep the purusha is supposed to move about 
in the veins. 

1 Here, again, the commentator seems to be right, but his inter¬ 
pretation does violence to the context. The dangers which a man 
sees in his sleep are represented as mere imaginations, so is his 
idea of being of god or a king, while the idea that he is all this 
(aham evedawz sarva/z, i. e. ida m sarvam, see .Sankara, p. 873,1. 11) 
is represented as the highest and real state. But it is impossible to 
begin a new sentence with aham evedazzz sarvam, and though it is 
true that all the preceding fancies are qualified by iva, I prefer to 
take deva and ra^an as steps leading to the sarvatmatva. 

* The Madhyandinas repeat here the sentence from yatra supto 
to pa.ryati, from the end of § 19. 

8 The Ka«va text reads atiAManda apahatapdpma. .Sankara 
explains ati/vf/zanda by ati££/;andan), and excuses it as svadhyaya- 
dharma^ pa//za^. The Madhyandinas read ati< 6 A 4 ando, but place 
the whole sentence where the KSwvas put &ptak£mam &c., at the 
end of §21. 




iv adhyAya, 3 beAhmajva, 23. 169 

his wish, in which no wish is left,—free from any 
sorrow l . 

22. ‘Then a father is not a father, a mother not 
a mother, the worlds not worlds, the gods not gods, 
the Vedas not Vedas. Then a thief is not a thief, a 
murderer not a murderer 2 , a K&ndH la 3 not a Kkndk la, 
a Paulkasa 4 not a Paulkasa, a vSrama^a 6 not a .Sra- 
ma#a, a TApasa 6 not a TApasa. He is not followed 
by good, not followed by evil, for he has then over¬ 
come all the sorrows of the heart 7 . 

23. 4 And when (it is said that) there (in the 
Sushupti) he does not see, yet he is seeing, though 
he does not see 8 . For sight is inseparable from the 

1 The Kawvas read jokantaram, the Madhyandinas ajok&ntaram, 
but the commentators arrive at the same result, namely, that it 

* means jokarflnyam, free from grief. Sankara says: rok&ntaraw 
sokaMMdram jokajfinyam ityeta£, ^okamadhyaman iti vS; sar- 
vathapy arokam. Dvivedaganga says; na vidyate xoko 'ntare 
madhye yasya tad a-rokantara/;* (ra, Weber) jokahinyam. 

2 Bhrfi//ahan, varish/iiabrahmahanla. 

8 The son of a SMra father and a Brdhmawa mother. 

4 The son of a .Stidra father and a Kshatriya mother. 

5 A mendicant. 

6 A Vanaprastha, who performs penances. 

7 I have translated as if the text were ananvagataA puwyena 
ananv&gataA papena. We find anvdgata used in a similar way in 
§§ 15,16, &c. But the Ka/zvas read ananv&gatam puwyena anan- 
v&gatam papena, and Sankara explains the neuter by referring it 
to rfipam (rfipaparatvan napu/rcsakalingam). The Madhyandinas, if 
we may trust Weber's edition, read ananvagata^ puz/yenanv&ga- 
taA p&pcna. The second anvdgata^ may be a mere misprint, but 
Dvivedagariga seems to have read ananvagatam, like the K&»vas f 
for he says: ananv&gatam iti rfipavishayo napuzz/sakanirdeja/*. 

8 This is the old Upanishad argument that the true sense is the 
Self, and not the eye. Although therefore in the state of profound 
sleep, where the eye and the other senses rest, it might be said 
that the purusha does not see, yet he is a seer all the time, though 
he does not see with the eye. The seer cannot lose his character 




170 BR/HADARAiVYAKA-UPANISHAD. 

se."r, because it cannot perish. But there is then 
no second, nothing else different from him that he 
could see. 

24. ‘And when (it is said that) there (in the 
Sushupti) he does not smell, yet he is smelling, though 
he does not smell. For smelling is inseparable from 
the smeller, because it cannot perish. But there is 
then no second, nothing else different from him that 
he could smell. 

25. ‘And when (it is said that) there (in the 
Sushupti) he does not taste, yet he is tasting, though 
he does not taste. For tasting is inseparable from 
the taster, because it cannot perish. But there is 
then no second, nothing else different from him that 
he could taste. 

26. ‘ And when (it is said that) there (in the. 
Sushupti) he does not speak, yet he is speaking, 
though he does not speak. For speaking is inse¬ 
parable from the speaker, because it cannot perish. 
But there is then no second, nothing else different 
from him that he could speak. 

27. ‘And when (it is said that) there (in-the 
Sushupti) he does not hear, yet he is hearing, though 
he does not hear. For hearing is inseparable from 
the hearer, because it cannot perish. But there is 
then no second, nothing else different from him that 
he could hear. 

28. ‘And when (it is said that) there (in the 
Sushupti) he does not think, yet he is thinking, 
though he does not think. For thinking is inse¬ 
parable from the thinker, because it cannot perish. 

--_ 

of seeing, as little as the fire can lose its character of burning, so 
long as it is fire. The Self sees by its own light, like the sun, even 
where there is no second, no object but the Self, that could be seen. 


iv adhyAya, 3 brAhmajva, 33. 171 

But there is then no second, nothing else different 
from him that he could think. 

29. ‘And when (it is said that) there (in_ the 
Sushupti) he does not touch, yet he is touching, 
though he does not touch. For touching is inse¬ 
parable from the toucher, because it cannot perish. 
But there is then no second, nothing else different 
from him that he could think. 

30. ‘And when (it is said that) there (in the 
Sushupti) he does not know, yet he is knowing, 
though he does not know. For knowing is inse¬ 
parable from the knower, because it cannot perish. 
But there is then no second, nothing else different 
from him that he could know. 

31. ‘ When (in waking and dreaming) there is, as 
it were, another, then can one see the other, then 
can one smell the other, then can one speak to the 
other, then can one hear the other, then can one 
think the other, then can one touch the other, then 
can one know the other. 

32. ‘An ocean 1 2 is that one seer, without any 
duality; this is the Brahma-world -, O King.' Thus 
did Yd^avalkya teach him. This is his highest 
goal, this is his highest success, this is his highest 
world,'this is his highest bliss. All other creatures 
live on a small portion of that bliss. 

33. ‘ If a man is healthy, wealthy, and lord of 
others, surrounded by all human enjoyments, that 


1 Salila is explained as salilavat, like the ocean, the seer being 
one like the ocean, which is one only. Dr. Deussen takes salila as 
a locative, and translates it ‘ In dem Gcwoge,’ referring to Sveta- 
jvatara-upanishad VI, 15. 

2 Or this seer is the Brahma-world, dwells in Brahman, or is 
Brahman. 




tJ2 BR/HADARAJVYAKA-UPANISIIAD. 

is the highest blessing of men. Now a hundred 
of these human blessings make one blessing of the 
fathers who have conquered the world (of the fathers). 
A hundred blessings of the fathers who have con¬ 
quered this world make one blessing in the Gan- 
dharva world. A hundred blessings in the Gandharva 
world make one blessing of the Devas by merit 
(work, sacrifice), who obtain their godhead by merit. 
A hundred blessings of the Devas by merit make 
one blessing of the Devas by birth, also (of) a 
►Srotriya 1 who is without sin, and not overcome by 
desire. A hundred blessings of the Devas by birth 
make one blessing in the world of Pra^iipati, also 
(of) a iSrotriya who is without sin, and not overcome 
by desire. A hundred blessings in the world of 
Pra^apati make one blessing in the world of Brah¬ 
man, also (of) a iSrotriya who is without sin, and 
not overcome by desire. And this is the highest 
blessing 2 . 

‘ This is the Brahma-world, O king/ thus spake 
Y&^vZavalkya. 

Ganaka Vaideha said: * I give you, Sir, a thousand. 
Speak on for the sake of (my) emancipation.’ 

Then Y 4 ^; 2 avalkya was afraid lest the King, 
having become full of understanding, should drive 
him from all his positions 3 . 

34. And YA^wavalkya said: ‘That(person),having 
enjoyed himself in that state of sleeping (dream), 

1 An accomplished student of the Veda. 

* See Taitt. Up. II, 8, p. 59; ATMnd. Up. VIII, 2, i-to ; Kaush. 
Up. I, 3-5 5 Regnaud, II, p. 33 seq. 

8 <S’ankara explains that Yn^wavalkya was not afraid that his 
own knowledge might prove imperfect, but that the king, having 
the right to ask him any question he liked, might get all his know¬ 
ledge from him. 




TV ADHyAyA, 4 BRAHMAiVA, 1 . I73 

having moved about and seen both good and bad, 
hastens back again as he came, to the place from 
which he started, to the state of waking 1 . 

35. ‘ Now as a heavy-laden carriage moves along 
groaning, thus does this corporeal Self, mounted by 
the intelligent Self, move along groaning, when a 
man is thus going to expire 2 . 

36. ‘And when (the body) grows weak through 
old age, or becomes weak through illness, at that 
time that person, after separating himself from his 
members, as an Amra (mango), or Udumbara (fig), 
or Pippala-fruit is separated from the stalk, hastens 
back again as he came, to the place from which he 
started, to (new) life. 

37. ‘And as policemen, magistrates, eqUerries, 
and governors wait for a king who is coming back, 
with food and drink, saying, “He comes back, he 
approaches,” thus do all the elements wait on him 
who knows this, saying, “ That Brahman comes, that 
Brahman approaches.” 

38. ‘And as policemen, magistrates, equerries, and 
governors gather round a king who is departing, 
thus do all the senses (pr&was) gather round the Self 
at the time of death, when a man is thus going to 
expire.’ 


Fourth BrAhmawa. 

1. Yd^avalkya continued: ‘ Now when that Self, 
having sunk into weakness s , sinks, as it were, into 


1 See § 17, before. 

* Sankara seems to take uK'/mtsi as a noun. He writes: 
yatraitad bhavati; etad iti kriyavijesha/zam flrdhvoi^vasi yatror- 
dhvo/£<Wvasitvam asya bhavatityarthaA. 

* In the Kaush. Up. Ill, 3, we read yatraitat purusha irto 





174 JtTHAD AR A2I/YAK A-U 

unconsciousness, then gather those senses .(prdwas) 
around him, and he, taking with him those elements 
of light, descends into the heart When that person 
in the eye 1 turns away, then he ceases to know any 
forms. 

2. He has become one/' they say, “ he does not 
see 2 .” “ He has become one,” they say, “he does 
not smell.” “ He has become one,” they say, “ he 
does not taste.” “ He has become one/’ they say, 
“ he does not speak.” “ He has become one,” the'y 
say, “ he does not hear.” “ He has become one,” they 
say, “he does not think.” “He has become one,t 
they say, “ he does not touch.” “He has become 
one,” they say, “ he does not know.” The point of his 
heart 3 becomes lighted up, and by that light the Self 
departs, either through the eye 4 , or through the 
skull 6 , or through other places of the body. And 
when he thus departs, life (the chief pr&«a) departs 
after him, and when life thus departs, all the other 


marishyan abalyam etya sammohati. Here abalyam should cer¬ 
tainly be abalyam, as in the commentary; but should it not be 
kbklyam, as here. See also Brth. Up. Ill, 5, 1, note. 

1 A^kshusha purusha is explained as that portion of the sun 
which is in the eye, while it is active, but which, at the time of 
death, returns to the sun. 

a Ekibhavati is probably a familiar expression for dying, but it 
is here explained by Sankara, and probably was so intended, as 
meaning that the organs of the body have become one with the 
Self (lingdtman). The same thoughts are found in the Kaush. Up. 
Ill, 3, pra«a ekadha bhavati. > 

* The point where the ndrfis or veins go out from the heart. 

4 When his knowledge and deeds qualify him to proceed to the 
si,in. S'ankara. 

* When his knowledge and deeds qualify him to proceed to the 
Brahma-world. 


iv adhyAya, 4 brAhma^a, 4; 175 

vital spirits (pr&#as) depart after it He is conscious, 
and being conscious he follows 1 and departs. 

‘ Then both his knowledge and his work take hold 
of him, and his acquaintance with former things V 

3. ‘And as a caterpillar, after having reached the 
end of a blade of grass, and after having made another 
approach (to another blade) 3 , draws itself together 
towards it, thus does this Self, after having thrown 
off this body 4 and dispelled all ignorance, and after 
making another approach (to another body), draw 
himself together towards it. 

*4. ‘And as a goldsmith, taking a piece of gold, 
turns it into another, newer and more beautiful shape, 
so does this Self, after having thrown off this body 

1 This is an obscure passage, and the different text of the 
Mddhyandinas shows that the obscurity was felt at an early time. 
The Mddhyandinas read: Saz^ramam anvavakrdmati sa esha gnaA 
savi^wdno bhavati. This would mean, ‘Consciousness departs 
after. He the knowing (Self) is self-conscious/ The Kazzvas read: 
Savi^wdno bhavati, savi^wanam evdnvavakrdmati. Roer translates: 
Tt is endowed with knowledge, endowed with knowledge it departs 
and he explains, with .Sankara, that the knowledge here intended is 
such knowledge as one has in a dream, a knowledge of impressions 
referring to their respective objects, a knowledge which is the 
effect of actions, and not inherent in the self. Deussen translates : 
‘Sie (die Seele) ist von Erkenntnissart, und was von Erkenntnissart 
ist, ziehet ihr nach/ The Persian translator evidently thought that 
self-consciousness was implied, for he writes : 1 Cum quovis corpore 
addictionem sumat.... in illo corpore ah am est, id est,ego sum/ 

8 This acquaintance with former things is necessary to explain 
the peculiar talents or deficiencies which we observe in children. 
The three words vidyd, karman, and pfirvapra^fid often go toge¬ 
ther (see .Sankara on Brzh. Up. IV, 3, 9). Deussen's conjecture, 
apfirvapra^wd, is not called for. 

3 See Brzh. Up. IV, 3, 9, a passage which shows how difficult, 
it would be always to translate' the same Sanskrit words by the 
same words in English; see also Brahmopanishad, p. 245. 

4 See Brzh. Up. IV, 3, 9, and IV, 3,13. 




176 er/hadAraivyaka-vpanishad. 

and dispelled all ignorance, make unto himself an¬ 
other, newer and more beautiful shape, whether it be 
like' the Fathers, or like the Gandharvas, or like the 
Devas, or like Pra^Apati, or like Brahman, or like 
other beings. 

5. ‘ That Self is indeed Brahman, consisting of 
knowledge, mind, life, sight, hearing, earth, water, 
wind, ether, light and no light, desire and no desire, 
anger and no anger, right or wrong, and all things. 
Now as a man is like this or like that J , according as 
he acts and according as he behaves, so will he be:—- 
a man of good acts will become good, a man of bad 
acts, bad. He becomes pure by pure deeds, bad by 
bad deeds. 

‘ And here they say that a person consists of 
desires. And as is his desire, so is his will; and as is 
his will, so is his deed; and whatever deed he* does, 
that he will reap. 

6. ‘And here there is this verse: “To whatever 
object a man’s own mind is attached, to. that he goes 
strenuously together with his deed; and having 
obtained the end (the last results) of whatever deed 
he does here on earth, he returns again from that 
world (which is the temporary reward of his deed) to 
this world of action.” 

* So much for the man who desires. But as to 
the man who does not desire, who, not desiring, 
freed from desires, is satisfied in his desires, or 
desires the Self only, his vital spirits do not depart 
elsewhere,—being Brahman, he goes to Brahman. 

7. ‘ On this there is this verse : “ When all desires 

1 The iti after adomaya is not clear to me, but it is quite clear 
that a new sentence begins with tadyadetat, which Regnaud, II, 
p. 101 and p. 139, has not observed. 





iv adhyAya, 4 brAhma^a, i i. 177 

which once entered his heart are undone, then does 
the mortal become immortal, then he obtains Brah¬ 
man.” 

‘ And as the slough of a snake lies on an ant-hill, 
dead and cast away, thus lies this body; but that dis¬ 
embodied immortal spirit (prAwa, life) is Brahman 
only, is only light.’ 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘Sir, 1 give you a thousand.’ 

8 1 . ‘ On this there are these verses : 

‘The small, old path stretching far away 2 has been 
found by me. On it sages who know Brahman move 
on to the Svarga-loka (heaven), and thence higher 
on, as entirely free 3 . 

9. ‘ On that path they say that there is white, or 
blue, or yellow, or green, or red 4 * * * ; that path was found 
by Brahman, and on it goes whoever knows Brahman, 
and who has done good, and obtained splendour. 

10. ‘All who worship what is not knowledge 
(avidyA) enter into blind darkness: those who delight 
in knowledge, enter, as it were, into greater darkness 8 . 

11. ‘There are 8 indeed those unblessed worlds, 


1 This may be independent matter, or may be placed again into 
the mouth of Y&gTtavalkya. 

2 Instead of vitata^, which perhaps seemed to be in contradiction 

with a#u, there is a Madhyandina reading vitara, probably intended 

originally to mean leading across. The other adjective mSiS- 

spr/sh/a I cannot explain. .Sankara explains it by md;« sprfsh/aA, 
maya labdha/z. 

* That this is the true meaning, is indicated by the various 
readings of the Madhyandinas, tena dhira apiyanti brahmavida 
utkramya svargaw lokam ito vimukta^. The road is not to lead 
to Svarga only, but beyond. 

* See the colours of the veins as given before, IV, 3, 20. 

8 See V$g. Up. 9. .Sankara in our place explains avidya by 
works, and vidya by the Veda, excepting the Upanishads. 

* See V$g. Up. 3; Ka/Aa Up. I, 3. 

C^] N . .. 





178 , BJtniADARAJVYAKA-UPANISHAD. 

covered with blind darkness. Men who are ignorant 
and not enlightened go after death to those worlds. 

12. ‘ If a man understands the Self, saying, “ I am 
He,” what could he wish or desire that he should 
pine after the body 1 . 

13. ‘Whoever has found and understood the Self 
that has entered into this patched-together hiding- 
place 2 , he indeed is the creator, for he is the maker 
of everything, his is the world, and he is the world 
itself 3 . 

14. ‘ While we are here, we may know this; if not, 
I am ignorant 4 * , and there is great destruction. Those 
who know it, become immortal, but others suffer pain 
indeed. 

15. ‘ If a man clearly beholds this Self as God, 
and as the lord of all that is and will be, then he is 
no more afraid. 

16. ‘He behind whom the year revolves with the 
days, him the gods worship as the light of lights, as 
immortal tiniq. 

17. ‘He in whom the five beings 6 and the ether 
rest, him alone I believe to be the Self,—I who 

1 That he should be willing to suffer once more the pains 
inherent in the body. The Madhyandinas read rarfram anu 
sawX’aret, instead of san^-varet. 

2 The body is meant, and is called deha from the root dih, to 
knead together. Rocr gives sawdehye gahane, which Sankara 
explains by sa/wdehe. Poley has sawdeghe, which is the right 
Ka«va reading. The Madhyandinas read sawdehe. Gahane might 
be taken as an adjective also, referring to sawdehe. 

3 Sankara takes loka, world, for atma, self. 

* I have followed Sankara in translating avediA by ignorant, but 
the text seems corrupt. 

• The five ^anas, i. e. the Gandharvas, Pitr/s, Devas, Asuras, and 

Rakshas; or the four castes with the Nishadas; or breath, eye, 
ear, food, and mind. 




IVADHYAyA, 4 BRAHlilAiVA > 22 .* 179 


know, believe him to be Brahman; I who am im¬ 
mortal, believe him to be immortal. 

18. ‘They who know the life of life, the eye of the 
eye, the ear of the ear, the mind of the mind, they 
have comprehended the ancient, primeval Brahman 1 . 

19. ‘By the mind alone it is to be perceived 2 , 
there is in it no diversity. He who perceives therein 
any diversity, goes from death to death. 

20. ‘ This eternal being that can never be proved, 
is to be perceived in one way only; it is spotless, 
beyond the ether, the unborn Self, great and eternal. 

21. ‘ Let a wise Brahma^a, after he has'discovered 
him, practise wisdom 3 . Let him not seek after many 
words, for that is mere weariness of the tongue. 

22. ‘And he is that great unborn Self, who consists 
of knowledge, is surrounded by the PrA/jas, the ether 
within the heart 4 . In it there reposes the ruler of all, 
the lord of all, the king of all. He does not become 
greater by good works, nor smaller by evil works. 
He is the lord of all, the king of all things, the pro¬ 
tector of all things. He is a bank 6 and a boundary, 
so that these worlds may not be confounded. Brah- 
ma«as seek to know him by the study of the Veda, by 
sacrifice, by gifts, by penance, by fasting, and he who 
knows him, becomes a Muni. Wishing for that 
world (for Brahman) only, mendicants leave their 
homes. 

‘ Knowing this, the people of old did not wish for 
offspring. What shall we do with offspring, they said, 


1 See Talavak. Up. I, 2. 

* See Ka/fta Up. IV, 10-n. 

* Let him practise abstinence, patience, &c., which are the means 
of knowledge. 

4 See B rih. Up. IV, 3, 7. 6 See KHni. Up.VIU, 4. 




i8o b^hadArajvyaka-upanishad. 

we who have this Self and this world (of Brahman) 1 ? 
And they, having risen above the desire for sons, 
wealth, and new worlds, wander about as mendicants. 
For desire for sons is desire for wealth, and desire 
for wealth is desire for worlds. Both these are indeed 
desires only. He, the Self, is to be described by No, 
no 2 ! He is incomprehensible, for he cannot be com¬ 
prehended; he is imperishable, for he cannot perish; 
he is unattached, for he does not attach himself; 
unfettered, he does not suffer, he does not fail. Him 
(who knows), these two do not overcome, whether 
he says that for some reason he has done evil, or for 
some reason he has done good—he overcomes both, 
and neither what he has done, nor what he has 
omitted to do, burns (affects) him. 

23. ‘ This has been told by a verse (Rik) : “ This 
eternal greatness of the Brahma#a does not grow 
larger by work, nor does it grow smaller. Let man 
try to find (know) its trace, for having found (known) 
it, he is not sullied by any evil deed.” 

‘ He therefore that knows it, after having become 
quiet, subdued, satisfied, patient, and collected 8 , sees 
self in Self, sees all as Self. Evil does not overcome 
him, he overcomes all evil. Evil does not burn him, 
he burns all evil. Free from evil, free from spots, 
free from doubt, he becomes a (true) Brahmawa; this 
is the Brahma-world, O King,’—thus spoke Y&gna.- 
valkya. 

Ganaka Vaideha said: ‘ Sir, I give you the Videhas, 
and also myself, to be together your slaves.’ 

24. This 4 indeed is the great, the unborn Self, the 

1 Cf. Brill. Up. Ill, 5,1. a See Brih. Up. Ill, 9, 26; IV, 2, 4. 

* See Deussen, Ved&nta, p. 85. 

■ As described in the dialogue between Ganaka and Y^navalkya. 





iv adhyAya, 5 brAhmajva,* 5. 181 

strong 1 , the giver of wealth. He who knows this 
obtains wealth. 

25. This great, unborn Self, undecaying, undying, 
immortal, fearless, is indeed Brahman. Fearless is 
Brahman, and he who knows this becomes verily the 
fearless Brahman. 

Fifth BrAiimajva 2 . 

1. YA^wavalkya had two wives, Maitreyi and 
KAtyAyanl. Of these Maitreyi was conversant with 
Brahman, but KAtyAyanl possessed such knowledge 
only as women possess. And YA/wavalkya, when 
he wished to get ready for another state of life (when 
he wished to give up the state of a householder, and 
retire into the forest), 

2. Said, ‘Maitreyi, verily I am going away from 
this my house (into the forest). Forsooth, let me 
make a settlement between thee and that KAtyAyanl.’ 

3. Maitreyi said: ‘ My Lord, if this whole earth, 
full of wealth, belonged to me, tell me, should I be 
immortal by it, or no ?’ 

‘No,’ replied YA^wavalkya, Tike the life of rich 
people will be thy life. But there is no hope of 
immortality by wealth.’ 

4. And Maitreyi said: ‘What should I dp with 
that by which I do not become immortal ? What 
my Lord knoweth 3 (of immortality), tell that clearly 
to me.’ 

5. YAfwavalkya replied: ‘Thou who art truly dear 
to me, thou hast increased what is dear (to me in 


1 AnnAda is here explained as ( dwelling in all beings, and eating 
all food which they eat.’ 

* See before, II, 4. 

3 The K£»va text has vettha instead of veda. 



i82 


br/hadAraayaka-upanishad. 


thee) 1 . Therefore, if you like, Lady, I will explain it 
to thee, and mark well what I say.’ 

6. And he said: ‘ Verily, a husband is not dear, 
that you may love the husband; but that you may 
love the Self, therefore a husband is dear. 

‘Verily, a wife is not dear, that you may love the 
wife; but that you may love the Self, therefore a 
wife is dear. 

* Verily, sons are not dear, that you may love the 
sons; but that you may love the Self, therefore sons 
are dear. 

‘Verily, wealth is not dear, that you may love 
wealth; but that you may love the Self, therefore 
wealth is dear. 

‘Verily, cattle 2 are not dear, that you may love 
cattle; but that you may love the Self, therefore 
cattle are dear. 

‘Verily, the Brahman-class is not dear, that you 
may love the Brahman-class; but that you may love 
the Self, therefore the Brahman-class is dear. 

‘Verily, the Kshatra-class is not dear, that you 
may love the Kshatra-class; but that you may love 
the Self, therefore the Kshatra-class is dear. 

‘Verily, the worlds are not dear, that you may 
love the worlds; but that you may love the Self, 
therefore the worlds are dear. 

‘Verily, the Devas are not dear, that you may 
love the Devas; but that you may love the Self, 
therefore the Devas are dear. 

1 The Kawva text has avrzdhat, which Sankara explains by 
vardhitavati nirdharitavaty asi. The Madhyandinas read avrz'tat, 
w^ich the commentator explains by avartayat, vartitavaty asi. 

8 Though this is added here, it is not included in the summing 
up in § 6. 



IV ADHYAYA, 5 BRAHMAiVA, 8. 1 83 


‘Verily, the Vedas are not dear, that you may 
love the Vedas; but that you may love the Self, 
therefore the Vedas are dear. 

‘Verily, creatures are not dear, that you may love 
the creatures; but that you may love the Self, there¬ 
fore are creatures dear. 

‘Verily, everything is not dear, that you may love 
everything; but that you may love the Self, there¬ 
fore everything is dear. 

‘Verily, the Self is to be seen, to be heard, to be 
perceived, to be marked, O Maitrey!! When the 
Self has been seen, heard, perceived, and known, 
then all this is known.’ 

7. ‘Whosoever looks for the Brahman-class else-, 
where than in the Self, was abandoned by the 
Brahman-class. Whosoever looks for the Kshatra- 
class elsewhere than in the Self, was abandoned by 
the Kshatra-class. Whosoever looks for the worlds 
elsewhere than in the Self, was abandoned by the 
worlds. Whosoever looks for the Devas elsewhere 
than in the Self, was abandoned by the Devas. 
Whosoever looks for the Vedas elsewhere than in 
the Self, was abandoned by the Vedas. Whosoever 
looks for the creatures elsewhere than in the Self, 
was abandoned by the creatures. Whosoever looks 
for anything elsewhere than in the Self, was aban¬ 
doned by anything. 

‘ This Brahman-class, this Kshatra-class, these 
worlds, these Devas, these Vedas, all these befngs, 
this everything, all is that Self. 

8. ‘Now as the sounds of a drum, when beaten, 
cannot be seized externally (by themselves), but the 
sound is seized, when the drum is seized, or the 
beater of the drum; 





BfcTHADARAiVYAKA-UPANISHAD. 


184 


t ■ 9. ‘ And as the sounds of a conch-shell, when blown, 
cannot be seized externally (by themselves), but the 
sound is seized, when the shell is seized, or the blower 
of the shell ,* 

10. ‘And as the sounds of a lute, when played, 
cannot be seized externally (by themselves), but the 
sound is seized, when the lute is seized, or the player 
of the lute; 

11. ‘As clouds of smoke proceed by themselves 
out of lighted fire kindled with damp fuel, thus 
verily, O Maitrey!, has been breathed forth from 
this great Being what we have as AYg-veda, Ya^ur- 
veda, Sctma-veda, Atharvangirasas, Itih&sa, Purina, 
Vidyd, the Upanishads, Alohas, Sfttras, Anuvyd- 
khydnas, Vyakhydnas, what is sacrificed, what is 
poured out, food, drink 1 , this world and the other 
world, and all creatures. From him alone all these 
were breathed forth. 

12. ‘As all waters find their centre in the sea, 
all touches in the skin, all tastes in the tongue, all 
smells in the nose, all colours in the eye, all sounds 
in the ear, all percepts in the mind, all knowledge in 
the heart, all actions in the hands, all movements in 
the feet, and all the Vedas in speech,— 

13. ‘As a mass of salt has neither inside nor 
outside, but is altogether a mass of taste, thus indeed 
has that Self neither inside nor outside, but is alto¬ 
gether a mass of knowledge; and having risen from 
out Aese elements, vanishes again in them. When 
he has departed, there is no more knowledge (name), 
I say, O Maitrey!/—thus spoke Y&^avalkya. 

1 Explained by annad&nanimittam and peyad&nanitnitta/n dhar- 
ma^atam. See before, IV, 1, 2. 




IV ADHYAyA, 6 BRAIIMAATA, I. . 185 

14. Then Maitreyl said: ‘ Here, Sir, thou hast 
landed me in utter bewilderment. Indeed, I do not 
understand him.’ 

But he replied: * O Maitreyl, I say nothing that is 
bewildering. Verily, beloved, that Self is imperish¬ 
able, and of an indestructible nature. 

15. ‘For when there is as it were duality, then 
one sees the other, one smells the other, one tastes 
the other, one salutes the other, one hears the other, 
one perceives the other, one touches the other, one 
knows' the other; but when the Self only is all this, 
how should he see another, how should he smell 
another, how should he taste another, how should 
he salute another, how should he hear another, how,, 
should he touch another, how should he know 
another? How should he know Him by whom he 
knows all this ? That Self is to be described by No, 
no 1 ! He is incomprehensible, for he cannot be 
comprehended; he is imperishable, for he cannot 
perish; he is unattached, for he does not attach 
himself; unfettered, he does not suffer, he does not 
fail. How, O beloved, should he know the Knower ? 
Thus, O Maitreyl, thou hast been instructed. Thus 
far goes immortality.’ Having said so, Yaj^avalkya 
went away (into the forest). 

Sixth Brahmava. 

1. Now follows the stem 2 : 

1. (We) from Paut;imashya, 

2. Pautimdshya from Gaupavana, 

3. Gaupavana from Pautimashya, 


1 See Bnh. Up. Ill, 9, 26; IV, 2, 4; IV, 4, 22. 

* The line of teachers and pupils by whom the Ya^navalkya- 





BP/IIADArAA'V'AKA-UPANISHAD. 


i 86 . 


4. Pautimdshya from Gaupavana, 

5. Gaupavana from Kamika, 

6. Kaiuika from Kau«d?inya, 

7. Kau«//inya from .Sdwflfilya, 

8. SkndWyz from Kaudka and Gautama, 

9. Gautama 

2. from Agnivesya, 

10. Agnivesya from Gargya, 

11. Gdrgya from Gdrgya, 

12. Gargya from Gautama, 

13. Gautama from Saitava, 

14. Saitava from Pdrasarydyawa, 

15. Parayarydyawa from Gdrgyayawa, 

16. Gdrgydya»a from Uddalakdyana, 

17. Uddalakdyana from 6abalayana, 

18. Udbdldyana from Mddhyandinayana, 

19. Mddhyandindyana from Saukarayawa, 

20. Saukardya/ra from Kdshdyawa, 

21. Kdshdyawa from Sdyakayana, 

22. Sdyakdyana from Kaiuikayani\ 

23. Kaiuikayani 

3. from Ghntakaudka, 

24. Gh/'ftakaiuika from Parasarydyawa, 

kdwrfa was handed down. From 1-10 the Vmra agrees with the 
Varna at the end of II, < 5 . 

The Madhyandina text begins with vayam, we, and proceeds to 
1. Saurpaw&yya, 2. Gautama, 3, Vatsya, 4. Pdrararya, &c., as in the 
Madhukd«</a, p. 118, except in 10, where it gives Gaivantdyana for 
Atreya. Then after 12. Kau«<finyayana, it gives 13. 14. the two 
Kau«<fmyas, 15. the Aur«avabhas, 16. Kaunrfinya, 17. Kauwdinya, 
18. Kauwfinya and Agnivcjya, 19. Saitava, 20. Parararya, 21. Gratu- 
kar»ya, 22. Bharadva^a, 23. Bharadva^a, Asuraya«a, and Gautama, 
24. Bharadvafa, 25. Valakakaujika^ 26. Kdshdyana, 27. Saukara- 
ya»a, 28. Traiva«i, 29. Aupag-andhani, 30. Sayakayana, 31. Kauri- 
kayani, &c., as in the Kd»va text, from No. 22 to Brahman. 

1 From here the Varna agrees again with that given at the end 
•of II, 6 . • 



IV ADHYAYA, 6 BRAHMAffA, 3. 187 

25. Pdrd.rarydya#a from Pdrdrarya, 

26. PdriLrarya from (S&tukaraya, 

27. G&tukarwya from Asurdyawa and Yaska 1 , 

28. Asurdyawa from Trava«i, 

29. Travam from Aupa^andhani, 

30. Aupa^andhani from Asuri, 

31. Asuri from Bharadvd^a, 

32. Bharadvd^u from Atreya, 

33. Atreya from Md«/i, 

34. Md«/i from Gautama, 

35. Gautama from Gautama, 

36. Gautama from Vdtsya, 

37. Vdtsya from .Sa«^ilya, 

38. S&ndilya. from Kai-rorya Kapya, 

39. Kaisorya Kdpya from Kumdrahdrita, 

40. Kumdrahdrita from Gdlava, 

41. Gdlava from Vidarbhi-kaiuiflfinya, 

42. Vidarbht - kauWinya from Vatsanapdt Bd- 

bhrava, 

43. Vatsanapdt Babhrava from Pathi Saubhara, 

44. Pathi Saubhara from Ayasya Angirasa, 

45. Aydsya Angirasa from Abhdti Tvash/ra, 

46. Abhtiti Tvash/ra from VLsvartipa Tvdsh/ra, 

47. Viyvardpa Tvash/ra from A^vinau, 

48. Arvinau from DadhyaA’ Atharvawa, 

49. Dadhya^ Atharvawa from Atharvan Daiva, 

50. Atharvan Daiva from Mrz'tyu Prddhvawsana, 

51. Mntyu Pradhvawsana from Pradhva^sana, 

52. Pradhvawsana from Ekarshi, 

53. Ekarshi from Vipra^itti 2 , 

54. Vipra&tti from Vyash/i, 

1 The Madhyandina text has, 1. BhSradvdga, 2. Bhdradv^a, 
AsurSyawa, and Yaska. 

* Vipra^itti, Mddhyandina text. * 




i88 


B/tTHADARAA r YAKA-UPANISHAD. 


55. Vyash/i from Saniru, 

56. Sandra from Sandtana, • 

57. Sandtana from Sanaga, 

58. Sanaga from ParameshMin, 

59. ParameshMin from Brahman, 

60. Brahman is Svayambhu, self-existent. 
Adoration to Brahman. 




V ADHyAyA, 2 BRAHMA 2 V A, 2. 1 89 


FIFTH ADHYAYA. 

First BraiimajVa 1 . 

1. That (the invisible Brahman) is full, this (the 
visible Brahman) is full a . This full (visible Brah¬ 
man) proceeds from that full (invisible Brahman). 
On grasping the fulness of this full (visible Brah¬ 
man) there is left that full (invisible Brahman) 3 . 

Om (is) ether, (is) Brahman 4 . ‘ There is the old 

ether (the invisible), and the (visible) ether of the 
atmosphere/ thus said Kauravyaya^lputra. This 
(the Om) is the Veda (the means of knowledge), 
thus the Brahma^as know. One knows through it 
all that has to be known. 

Second Brahmaata. 

1. The threefold descendants of Pra/apati, gods, 
men, and Asuras (evil spirits), dwelt as Brahma^a- 
rins (students) with their father Pra^apati. Having 
finished their studentship the gods said: ‘Tell us 
(something), Sir.’ He told them the syllable Da. 
Then he said: ‘Did you understand?’ They said: 
‘We did understand. You told us “D&myata,” Be 
subdued.’ ‘Yes/ he said, ‘you have understood.’ 

2. Then the men said to him : ‘Tell us something, 

1 This is called a Khila, or supplementary chapter, treating of 
various auxiliary means of arriving at a knowledge of Brahman. 

* Full -and filling, infinite. 

* On perceiving the true nature of the visible world, there remains, 
i.e. there is perceived at once, as underlying it, or as being it, the 
invisible world or Brahman. This and the following paragraph 
are called Mantras. 

4 This is explained by •Sankara as meaning, Brahman is Kha, the 
ether, and called Om, i.e. Om and Kha are predicates of Brahman. 




190 b/hhadAraotaka-upanishad. 


Sir.’ He told them the same syllable Da. Then he 
said: ‘Did you understand ?’ They said: ‘We did 
understand. You told us, “ Datta,” Give.’ ‘Yes,’he 
said, ‘ you have understood.’ 

3. Then the Asuras said to him : ‘ Tell us some¬ 
thing, Sir.’ He told them the same syllable Da. 
Then he said: ‘ Did you understand ?’ They said : 
‘We did understand. You told us,“Dayadham,” Be 
merciful.’ ‘Yes,’ he said, ‘you have understood.’ 

The divine voice of thunder repeats the same, 
Da Da Da, that is, Be subdued. Give, Be merciful. 
Therefore let that triad be taught, Subduing, Giving, 
and Mercy. 

Third Brahmaaa. 

1. Pra^apati is the heart, is this Brahman, is all this. 
The heart, hrfdaya, consists of three syllables. One 
syllable is h ri, and to him who knows this, his own 
people and others bring offerings 1 . One syllable is 
da, and to him who knows this, his own people and 
others bring gifts. One syllable is yam, and he who 
knows this, goes to heaven (svarga) as his world. 

Fourth Braiimaiva. 

1. This (heart) indeed is even that, it was indeed 
the true 2 (Brahman). And whosoever knows this 
great glorious first-born as the true Brahman, he 
conquers these worlds, and conquered likewise may 
that (enemy) be 8 ! yes, whosoever knows this great 

1 .Sankara explains that with regard to the heart, i.e. buddhi, the 
senses are ‘its own people,’ and the objects of the senses ‘ the others.’ 

* The true, not the truth; the truly existing. The commentator 
explains it as it was explained in II, 3,1, as sat and tya, containing 
both sides of the Brahman. 

* An elliptical expression, as explained by the commentator: 

‘ May that one (his enemy) be conquered, just as that one was 




V ADHYAYA, 5 BRAhMAATA, 2. 101 

glorious first-born as the true Brahman; for Brahman 
is the true. 

Fifth BrAiimaata. 

1. In. the beginning this (world) was water. 
Water produced the true \ and the true is Brahman. 
Brahman produced Pra^apati 2 , Pra^pati the Devas 
(gods). The Devas adore the true (satyam) alone. 
This satyam consists of three syllables. One syl¬ 
lable is sa, another t(i), the third 3 yam. The first 
and last syllables are true, in the middle there is the 
untrue 4 . This untrue is on both sides enclosed by 
the true, and thus the true preponderates. The 
untrue does not hurt him who knows this. 

2. Now what is the true, that is the Aditya (the 
sun), the person that dwells in yonder orb, and the 
person in the right eye. These two rest on each 
other, the former resting with his rays in the latter, 
the latter with his prawas (senses) in the former. 
When the latter is on the point of departing this life, 
he sees that orb as white only, and those rays (of the 
sun) do not return to him. 

conquered by Brahman. If he conquers the world, how much 
more his enemy !* It would be better, however, if we could take 
^ita in the sense of varikr/ta or d&nta, because we could then go 
on with ya eva m veda. 

1 Here explained by the commentator as Pfitr&tmaka Hirawyagarbha. 

2 Here explained as Vir^. 

3 Satyam is often pronounced satiam, as trisyllabic. Sankara, how¬ 
ever, takes the second syllable as t only, and explains the i after it as 
an anubandha. The Ka«va text gives the three syllables as sa, ti, am, 
which seems preferable; cf.JTHnd. Up. VIII, 3 , 5 ; Taitt. Up. II, 6 . 

4 This is explained by a mere play on the letters, sa and ya 
having nothing in common with mr/tyu, death, whereas t occurs in 
mr/tyu and anr/ta. Dvivedaganga lakes sa and am as true, be¬ 
cause they occur in satya and amr/ta, and not in mn'tyu, while ti 
is untrue, because the t occurs in mrztyu and anrrta. 





192 BJUHADARAiVYAKA-UPANISHAD. 


3. Now of the person in that (solar) orb BhM is 
the head, for the head is one, and that syllable is 
one; Bhuva^ the two arms, for the arms are two, 
and these syllables are two; Svar the foot, for the 
feet are two, and these syllables are two 1 . Its 
secret name is Ahar (day), and he who knows this, 
destroys (hanti) evil and leaves (^ahati) it 

4. Of the person in the right eye BhM is the head, 
for the head is one, and that syllable is one; Bhuva/£ 
the two arms, for the arms are two, and these sylla¬ 
bles are two; Svar the foot, for the feet are two, and 
these syllables are two. Its secret name is Aham 
(ego), and he who knows this, destroys (hanti) evil 
and leaves (/ah&ti) it. 

Sixth BrAhmajya. 

1. That person, under the form of mind (manas), 
being light indeed 2 , is within the heart, small like a 
grain of rice or barley. He is the ruler of all, the 
lord of all—he rules all this, whatsoever exists. 

Seventh BrAhmana. 

1. They, say that lightning is Brahman, because 
lightning (vidyut) is called so from cutting off 
(vid&nAt) 8 . Whosoever knows this, that lightning 
is Brahman, him (that Brahman) cuts off from evil, 
for lightning indeed is Brahman. 

1 Svar has to be pronounced suvar. 

2 BhaAsatya must be taken as one word, as the commentator 
says, bha eva satya m sadbhava^ svarfipaw yasya so 'yam bh&isatyo 
bhasvara^. 

3 From do, avakha»</ane, to cut; the lightning cutting through the 
darkness of the clouds, as Brahman, when known, cuts through 
the*darkness of ignorance. 




v adhyAya, io brAhmana, I. 


193 


Eighth Braiimaa?a. 

i. Let him meditate on speech as a cow. Her 
four udders are the words SvAhA, Vasha/, Hanta, 
and SvadhA \ The gods live on two of her udders, 
the SvAhA and the Vasha/, men on the Hanta, the 
fathers on the SvadhA. The bull of that cow is 
breath (prAwa), the calf the mind. 

Ninth Brahmana. 

i. Agni VaixvAnara is the fire within man by 
which the food that is eaten is cooked, i.e. digested. 
Its noise is that which one hears, if one covers one’s 
ears. When he is on the point of departing this 
life, he does not hear that noise. 

Tenth Brahmana. 

i. When the person goes away from this world, 
he comes to the wind. Then the wind makes room 
for him, like the hole of a carriage wheel, and 
through it he mounts higher. He comes to the sun. 
Then the sun makes room for him, like the hole 
of a Lambara 2 , and through it he mounts higher. 
He comes to the moon. Then the moon makes 
room for him, like the hole of a drum, and through 
it he mounts higher, and arrives at the world where 
there is no sorrow, no snow 8 . There he dwells 
eternal years. 

1 There are two udders, the SvShS and Vasha/, on which the 
gods feed, i. e. words with which oblations are given to the gods. 
With Hanta they are given to men, with Svadha to the fathers. 

1 A musical instrument. 

8 The commentator explains hima by bodily pain, but snow is 
much more characteristic. 

[*5J 


O 




194 


br/hadAranyaka-upanishad. 


Eleventh BrAhmana. 

i. This is indeed the highest penance, if a man, 
laid up with sickness, suffers pain 1 . He who knows 
this, conquers the highest world. 

This is indeed the highest penance, if they carry 
a dead person into the forest 2 . He who knows this, 
conquers the highest world. 

This is indeed the highest penance, if they place a 
dead person on the fire 3 . He who knows this, con¬ 
quers the highest world. 

Twelfth Braiimawa. 

i. Some say that food is Brahman, but this is not 
so, for food decays without life (pr 4 ;za). Others say 
that life (pra«a) is Brahman, but this is not so, for life 
dries up without food. Then these two deities (food 
and life), when they have become one, reach that 
highest state (i.e. are Brahman). Thereupon Pri- 
tr/da. said to his father: * Shall I be able to do any 
good to one who knows this, or shall I be able to do 
him any harm*?’ The father said to him, beckoning 
with his hand: ‘ Not so, O Pr&t/'z'da; for who could 
reach the highest state, if he has only got to the 
oneness of these two ?’ He then said to him : ‘ Vi; 

1 The meaning is that, while he is suffering pain from illness, he 
should think that he was performing penance. If he does that, 
he obtains the same reward for his sickness which he would have 
obtained for similar pain inflicted on himself for the sake of per¬ 
forming penance. 

2 This is like the penance of leaving the village and living in 
the forest. 

* This is like the penance of entering into the fire. 

* 4 That is, is he not so perfect in knowledge that nothing can 
harm him? 



v adhyAya, 13 brAiimana, 4. 


195 


verily, food is Vi, for all these beings rest (vish/Ani) 
on food.’ He then said : ‘ Ram; verily, life is Ram, 
for all these beings delight (ramante) in life. All 
beings rest on him, all beings delight in him who 
knows this.’ 


Thirteenth BrAhmaaa. 

1. Next follows the Uktha \ Verily, breath (prA#a) 
is Uktha, for breath raises up (utthApayati) all this. 
From him who knows this, there is raised a wise son, 
knowing the Uktha; he obtains union and oneness 
with the Uktha. 

2. Next follows the Yajnis. Verily, breath is 
Ya^us, for all these beings are joined in breath 1 2 . 
For him who knows this, all beings are joined to 
procure his excellence; he obtains union and one¬ 
ness with the Ya^us. 

3. Next follows the SAman. Verily, breath is the 
SAman, for all these beings meet in breath. For him 
who knows this, all beings meet to procure his excel¬ 
lence ; he obtains union and oneness with the SAman. 

4. Next follows the Kshatra. Verily, breath is 
the Kshatra, for breath is Kshatra, i.e. breath pro¬ 
tects (trAyate) him from being hurt (kshawitoA). 
He who knows this, obtains Kshatra (power), which 
requires no protection; he obtains union and one¬ 
ness with Kshatra 3 . 

1 Meditation on the hymn called uktha. On the uktha, as the 
principal part in the Mahdvrata, see Kaush.Up. Ill, 3 ; Ait. Ar. II, 1 , 2 . 
The uktha, ya^us, sdman, &c. are here represented as forms under 
which pra«a or life, and indirectly Brahman, is to be meditated on. 

2 Without life or breath nothing can join anything else; there¬ 
fore life is called ya^us, as it were yugus. 

• Instead of Kshatram atram, another -S&khd, i. e. the M&dhyan- 
dina, reads Kshatramatram, which Dvivedaganga explains as, he 

O 2 . 



I96 BR/HADARANYAKA-UPANISHAD. 


Fourteenth Brahmana. 

1. The words Bhtimi (earth), Antariksha (sky), and 
Dyu 1 (heaven) form eight syllables. One foot of the 
Gayatrl consists of eight syllables. This (one foot) 
of it is that (i. e. the three worlds). And he who thus 
knows that foot of it, conquers as far as the three 
worlds extend. 

2. The A’zkas, the Yajfftwzshi, and the Samani form 
eight syllables. One foot (the second) of the Gayatrl 
consists of eight syllables. This (one foot) of it is 
that (i.e. the three Vedas, the A’/g-veda, Ya^ur-veda, 
and Sama-veda). And he who thus knows that foot 
of it, conquers as far as that threefold knowledge 
extends. 

3. The Prdwa (the up-breathing), the Apana (the 
down-breathing), and the Vydna(the back-breathing) 
form eight syllables. One foot (the third) of the 
Gdyatrl consists of eight syllables. This (one foot) 
of it is that (i. e. the three vital breaths). And he who 
thus knows that foot of it, conquers as far as there 
is anything that breathes. And of that (Gayatrl, 
or’speech) this indeed is the fourth (turiya), the 
bright (clareata) foot, shining high above the skies 8 . 
What is here called turiya (the fourth) is meant for 
^aturtha'(the fourth); what is called darsatam 
padam (the bright foot) is meant for him who is 
as it were seen (the person in the sun); and what 
is called parora^as (he who shines high above the 

obtains the nature of the Kshatra, or he obtains the Kshatra which 
protects (Kshatram atram). 

‘ 1 Dyu, nom. Dyaus, must be pronounced Diyaus. 

8 Parora^as, masc., should be taken as one word, like paroksha, 
viz. he who is beyond all ra^as, all visible skies. 



v adhyAya, 14 brAhma^a, 5. 197 

skies) is meant for him who shines higher and higher 
above every sky. And he who thus knows that foot 
of the Gdyatrl, shines thus himself also with hap¬ 
piness and glory. 

4. That Gayatri (as described before with its three 
feet) rests on that fourth foot, the bright one, high. 
above the sky. And that again rests on the True*(sa- 
tyam), and the True is the eye, for the eye is (known 
to be) true. And therefore even now, if two persons 
come disputing, the one saying, I saw, the other, 

I heard, then we should trust the one who says, I 
saw. And the True again rests on force (balam), 
and force is life (prawa), and that (the True) rests on 
life 1 . Therefore they say, force is stronger than the 
True. Thus does that GAyatri rest with respect to 
the self (as life). That Gayatri protects (tatre) the 
vital breaths (gayas); the gayas are the prAwas 
(vital breaths), and it protects them. And because 
it protects (tatre) the vital breaths (gayas), therefore 
it is called Gayatri. And that SAvitri verse which 
the teacher teaches 2 , that is it (the life, the prA«a, and 
indirectly the Gayatri); and whomsoever he teaches, 
he protects his vital breaths. 

5. Some teach that SAvitrl as an Anush/ubh 3 * * * * 8 verse, 
saying that speech is Anush/ubh, and that we teach 

1 .Sankara understood the True (satyam) by tad, not the balam, 

the force. 

4 The teacher teaches his pupil, who is brought to him when 

eight years old, the Savitri verse, making him repeat each word, 

and each half verse, till he knows the whole, and by teaching him 

that Savitri, he is supposed to teach him really the prdna, the life, 

as the self of the world. 

8 The verse would be, Rig-veda V, 82,1: 

Tat savitur vr/Vztmahe vaya//* devasya bhoganam 
•Sresh/Aaw sarvadhatamaw turam bhagasya dhimahi. 



198 br/hadArajvyaka-upanishad. 


that speech. Let no one do this, but let him teach 
the G&yatri as S&vitrl 1 . And even if one who knows 
this receives what seems to be much as his reward 
(as a teacher), yet this is not equal to one foot of the 
G&yatrl. 

6. If a man (a teacher) were to receive as his fee 
these three worlds full of all things, he would obtain 
that first foot of the Gayatri. And if a man were to 
receive as his fee everything as far as this threefold 
knowledge extends, he would obtain that second 
foot of the Gayatri. And if a man were to receive 
as his fee everything whatsoever breathes, he would 
obtain that third foot of the Gayatri. But ‘that fourth 
bright foot, shining high above the skies 2 ’, cannot 
be obtained by anybody—whence then could one 
receive such a fee*? 

7. The adoration 3 4 of that (Gayatri): 

‘ O Gayatri, thou hast one foot, two feet, three 
feet, four feet 1 . Thou art footless, for thou art not 
known. Worship to thy fourth bright foot above 
the skies.’ If 5 6 one (who knows this) hates some 


1 Because Gayatri represents life, and the pupil receives life when 
he learns the Gayatri. 

2 See before, § 2. 

3 Upasthana is the act of approaching the gods, irpoaKvvrjcrts, 
A ngehen, with a view of obtaining a request. Here the application 
is of two kinds, abhWarika, imprecatory against another, and 
abhyudayika, auspicious for oneself. The former has two formulas, 
the latter one. An upasthdna is here represented as effective, if 
connected with the Gayatri. 

4 Consisting of the three worlds, the threefold knowledge, the 

threefold vital breaths, and the fourth foot, as described before. 

6 I have translated this paragraph very freely, and differently 
from *Sankara. The question is, whether dvishyat with iti can be 
used in the sense of abhiidra, or imprecation. If not, I do not see 
how the words should be construed. The expression yasmd upa- 



V ADHYAYA, 15 iBRAHMAiVA, 2. 199 

one and says, * May he not obtain this/ or ‘ May this 
wish not be accomplished to him/ then that wish is 
not accomplished to him against whom he thus prays, 
br if he says, ‘ May I obtain this/ 

8 . And thus Ghnaka Vaideha spoke on this point 
to BuaTila A-yvatar&rvi 1 : ‘How is it that thou who 
spokest thus as knowing the Gayatri, hast become 
an elephant and carriest me ?’ He answered: ‘Your 
Majesty, I did not know its mouth. Agni, fire, is 
indeed its mouth; and if people pile even what seems 
much (wood) on the fire, it consumes it all. And 
thus a man who knows this, even if he commits what 
seems much evil, consumes it all and becomes pure, 
clean, and free from decay and death.' 


Fifteenth Braiimana. 

1. 2 The face of the True (the Brahman) is covered 
with a golden disk 3 . Open that, O Pftshan 4 , that we 
may see the nature of the True 5 . 

2. O Pftshan, only seer, Yama (judge), Sftrya (sun), 
son of Pra^apati °, spread thy rays and gather them ! 

tish/ 7 *ate is rightly explained by Dvivedaganga, yadartham evam 
upatish/Aate. 

1 Ajvatarasyfovasyapatyam, -Sankara. 

2 These verses, which are omitted here in the Madhyandina 
text, are found at the end of the V^gasaneyi-upanishad ig-18. 
They are supposed to be a prayer addressed to Aditya by a dying 
person. 

8 Mabidhara on verse 17 : ‘The face of the true (purusha in the 
sun) is covered by a golden disk.' -Sankara explains here mukha, 
face, by mukhya m svarftpam, the principal form or nature. 

4 Pfishan is here explained as a name of Savitr/, the sun; like¬ 
wise all the names in the next verse. 

8 Cf. Maitr. Up. VI, 35. 

6 Of Irvara or Hirawyagarbha. 




200 br/hadAranvaka-upanishad. 


The light which is thy fairest form, I see it. I am 
what he is (viz. the person in the sun). 

3. Breath to air and to the immortal! Then this 
my body ends in ashes. Om! Mind, remember! 
Remember thy deeds ! Mind, remember! Remem¬ 
ber thy deeds 1 ! 

4. Agni, lead us on to wealth (beatitude) by a good 
path 2 , thou, O God, who knowest all things! Keep 
far from us crooked evil, and we shall offer thee the 
fullest praise! (Rv. I, 189,1.) 

1 The Va^asaneyi-sawhita reads: Om, krato smara, k/fbe smara, 
kri'taw smara. Uva/a holds that Agni, fire, who has been wor¬ 
shipped in youth and manhood, is here invoked in the form of 
mind, or that kratu is meant for sacrifice. ‘Agni, remember me! 
Think of the world! Remember my deeds!' K/fbe is explained 
by Mahidhara as a dative of k/ip, k/fp meaning loka, world, what 
is made to be enjoyed (kalpyate bhog&ya). 

9 Not by the Southern path, the dark, from which there is a 
fresh return to life. 



vi adhyAya, i brAhma^a, 5. 201 


SIXTH ADHYAYA. 

First BrAhma-va 1 . 

1. Hari h> Om. He who knows the first and 
the best, becomes himself the first and the best 
among his people. Breath is indeed the first and 
the best. He who knows this, becomes the first 
and the best among his people, and among whom¬ 
soever he wishes to be so. 

2. He who knows the richest 2 , becomes himself 
the richest among his people. Speech is the richest. 
He who knows this, becomes the richest among his , 
people, and among whomsoever he wishes to be so. 

3. He who knows the firm rest, becomes himself 
firm on even and uneven ground. The eye indeed 
is the firm rest, for by means of the eye a man 
stands firm on even and uneven ground. He who 
knows this, stands firm on even and uneven ground. 

4. He who knows success, whatever desire he 
desires, it succeeds to him. The ear indeed is suc¬ 
cess. For in the ear are all these Vedas successful. 
He who knows this, whatever desire he desires, it 
succeeds to him. 

5. He who knows the home, becomes a home 
of his own people, a home of all men. The mind 

1 This Brahma«a, also called a Khila (p. 1010, 1 . 8; p. 1029, 
1 . 8), occurs in the M&dhyandina-j&khS. XIV, 9, 2. It should be 
compared with the A'Mndogya-upanishad V, 1 (Sacred Books of 
the East, vol. i, p. 72); also with the Ait. Ar. II, 4; Kaush. Up. 
Ill, 3; and the Prawa Up. II, 3. 

* Here used as a feminine, while in the A'Mnd. Up. V, 1, it is 
vasish// 4 a. 




202 


b/j/hadArajvyaka-upanishad. 


indeed is the home. He who knows this, becomes 
a home of his own people and a home of all men. 

6. He who knows generation 1 , becomes rich in 
offspring and cattle. Seed indeed is generation. He 
who knows this, becomes rich in offspring and cattle. 

7. These Pr£«as (senses), when quarrelling toge¬ 
ther as to who was the best, went to Brahman 2 
and said: * Who is the richest of us ?’ He replied : 
‘ He by whose departure this body seems worst, he 
is the richest.' 

8. The tongue (speech) departed, and having 
been absent for a year, it came back and said: 
‘ How have you been able to live without me ?' 
They replied : ‘ Like unto people, not speaking with 
the tongue, but breathing with breath, seeing with 
the eye, hearing with the ear, knowing with the 
mind, generating with seed. Thus we have lived.’ 
Then speech entered in. 

9. The eye (sight) departed, and having been 
absent for a year, it came back and said: * How 
have you been able to live without me ?’ They re¬ 
plied : ‘ Like blind people, not seeing with the eye, 
but breathing with the breath, speaking with the 
tongue, hearing with the ear, knowing with the 
mind, generating with seed. Thus we have lived.' 
Then the eye entered in. 

10. The ear (hearing) departed, and having been 
absent for a year, it came back and said: ‘ How 
have you been able to live without me ?' They re¬ 
plied : ‘ Like deaf people, not hearing with the ear, 

1 This is wanting in the jOand. Up.. Roer and Foley read Prao-apati 
for pra^ati. MS. I. 0 .375 has pra^iti, MS. I. O. 1973 pra^apati. 

* Here we have Pra^apati, instead of Brahman, in the ATMnd. 

, Up .; also rresh/^a instead of vasish/Aa. 



vi adhyAya, i brAhmawa, 14. 203 

but breathing with the breath, speaking with the 
tongue, seeing with the eye, knowing with the mind, 
generating with seed. Thus we have lived.’ Then 
the ear entered in. 

11. The mind departed, and having been absent 
for a year, it came back and said : ‘How have you 
been able to live without me ?’ They replied: ‘Like 
fools, not knowing with their mind, but breathing 
with the breath, seeing with the eye, hearing with 
the ear, generating with seed. Thus we have lived.' 
Then the mind entered in. 

12. The seed departed, and having been absent 
for a year, it came back and said : ‘ How have you 
been able to live without me ? ’ They replied: 
‘Like impotent people, not generating with seed," 
but breathing with the breath, seeing with the eye, 
hearing with the ear, knowing with the mind. Thus 
we have lived.’ Then the seed entered in. 

13. The (vital) breath, when on the point of de¬ 
parting, tore up these senses, as a great, excellent 
horse of the Sindhu country might tare up the pegs 
to which he is tethered. They said to him: ‘ Sir, 
do not depart. We shall not be able to live without 
thee.’ He said: ‘ Then make me an offering.’ 
They said: ‘ Let it be so.’ 

14. Then the tongue said: ‘ If I am the richest, 
then thou art the richest by it.’ The eye said: 

‘ If I am the firm rest, then thou art possessed of 
firm rest by it.' The ear said: ‘ If I am success, 
then thou art possessed of success by it.’ The mind 
said: ‘ If I am the home, thou art the home by 
it.’ The seed said: ‘ If I am generation, thou art 
possessed of generation by it.’ He said : ‘ What shall 
be food, what shall be dress for me ?’ 



204 BR/H AD ARANYAK A-UPANISII AD. 


They replied: * Whatever there is, even unto dogs, 
worms, insects, and birds 1 , that is thy food, and water 
thy dress. He who thus knows the food of Ana (the 
breath) 2 , by him nothing is eaten that is not (proper) 
food, nothing is received that is not (proper) food. 
.Srotriyas (Vedic theologians) who know this, rinse 
the mouth with water when they are going to eat, and 
rinse the mouth with water after they have eaten, 
thinking that thereby they make the breath dressed 
(with water).’ 

Second BrAhman a 3 . 

1. 6Vetaketu Aru#eya went to the settlement of 
the PawX’dlas. He came near to Prav&hawa (Pai- 
vali *, who was walking about (surrounded by his 
men). As soon as he (the king) saw him, he said : 
‘ My boy!’ .Svetaketu replied: ‘ Sir!’ 

Then the king said: ‘ Have you been taught by 
your father! ’ ‘ Yes/ he replied. 

2. The king said: ‘ Do you know how men, when 
they depart from here, separate from each other ? ’ 

4 No,’ he replied. 

4 Do you know how they come back to this 
world?’ ‘ No/ he replied 6 . 

1 It may mean, every kind of food, such as is eaten by dogs, 
worms, insects, and birds. 

a We must read, with MS. 1 . 0 . 375, anasyannam, not annasy&n- 
nam, as MS. 1 . 0 .1973, Roer, and Poley read. Weber has the right 
reading, which is clearly suggested by A”Mnd. Up. V, 2, 1. 

* See A7/and. Up. V, 3 ; Muir, Original Sanskrit Texts, I, 433; 
Deussen, Vedanta, p. 390. The commentator treats this chapter as 
a supplement, to explain the ways that lead to the pitnloka and 
the devaloka. 

*■ The MSS. I. O. 375 and 1973 give (7aivali, others Gaibali. 
He is a Kshatriya sage, who appears also in A 7 mnd. Up. I, 8,1, as 
silencing Bralimawas. 

* The same question is repeated in Roer’s edition, only substi- 




vi adhyAya, 2 brAhmajv-a, 4. 205 

‘ Do you know how that world does never become 
full with the many who again and again depart 
thither ?’ ‘ No,’ he replied. 

* ’Do you know at the offering of which libation 

the waters become endowed with a human voice 
and rise and speak ?’ ‘ No/ he replied. 

‘ Do you know the access to the path leading to 
the Devas and to die path leading to the Fathers, 
i. e. by what deeds men gain access to the path lead¬ 
ing to the Devas or to that leading to the Fathers ? 
For we have heard even the saying of a AYshi: “ I 
heard of two paths for men, one leading to the 
Fathers, the other leading to the Devas. On those 
paths all that lives moves on, whatever there is be¬ 
tween father (sky) and mother (earth).” ’ 

•SVetaketu said: ‘ I do not know even one of all 
these questions.’ 

3. Then the king invited him to stay and accept 
his hospitality. But the boy, not caring for hospi¬ 
tality, ran away, went back to his father, and said: 
‘ Thus then you called me formerly well-instructed!’ 
The father said : ‘ What then, you sage ?’ The son 
replied: ‘ That fellow of a Ra^anya asked me five 
questions, and I did not know one of them/ 

* What were they ? ’ said the father. 

‘ These were they/ the son replied, mentioning 
the different heads. 

4. The father said: ‘You know me, child, that 
whatever I know, I told you. But come, we shall 
go thither, and dwell there as students/ 

‘ You may go, Sir/ the son replied. 

tuting sampadyante for &padyante. The MSS. I. O. 375 and 1973 
do not support this. 



206 br/hadAraatyaka-upanisiiad. 


Then Gautama went where (the place of) PravA- 
ha#a 6raivali was, and the king offered him a seat, 
ordered water for him, and gave him the proper 
offerings. Then he said to him: ‘ Sir, we offer a 
boon to Gautama.’ 

5. Gautama said: ‘ That boon is promised to 
me; tell me the same speech which you made in 
the presence of my boy.' 

6. He said: ‘That belongs to divine boons, name 
one of the human boons.’ 

7. He said : ‘ You know well that I have plenty of 
gold, plenty of cows, horses, slaves, attendants, and 
apparel; do not heap on me 1 what I have already in 
plenty, in abundance, and superabundance.’ 

The king said : ‘ Gautama, do you wish (for in¬ 
struction from me) in the proper way ? ’ 

Gautama replied : * I come to you as a pupil.’ 

In word only have former sages (though Brah¬ 
mans) come as pupils (to people of lower rank), but 
Gautama actually dwelt as a pupil (of Pravdha^a, 
who was a Ra^anya) in order to obtain the fame of 
having respectfully served his master 2 . 


1 Abhyavadanya is explained as niggardly, or unwilling to give, 
arid derived from vadanya, liberal, a-vadanya, illiberal, and abhi, 
towards. This, however, is an impossible form in Sanskrit. 
Vadanya means liberal, and stands for avadanya, this being 
derived from avadana, lit. what is cut off, then a morsel, a gift. In 
abhyavadanya the original a reappears, so that abhyavadanya 
means, not niggardly, but on the contrary, liberal, i. e. giving more 
than is required. Avadanya has never been met with in the sense 
of niggardly, and though a rule of Pd«ini sanctions the formation of 
a-vadanya, it does not say in what sense. Abhyavadd in the sense 
of cutting off in addition occurs in .Satap. Br. II, 5, 2, 40; avadana** 
karoti, in the sense of making a present, occurs Maitr. Up.VI, 33. 

* * The commentator takes the opposite view. In times of 
distress, he says, former sages, belonging to a higher caste, have 





vt adhyAya, 2 brAhmajva, ii. 207 

8. The king said: ‘ Do not be offended with us, 
neither you nor your forefathers, because this know¬ 
ledge has before now never dwelt with any Brah- 
ma#a J . But I shall tell it to you, for who could 
refuse you when you speak thus ? 

9. ‘ The altar (fire), O Gautama, is that world 
(heaven) 2 ; the fuel is the sun itself, the smoke his 
rays, the light the day, the coals the quarters, the 
sparks the intermediate quarters. On that altar 
the Devas offer the jraddh& libation (consisting of 
water 3 ). From that oblation rises Soma, the king 
(the moon). 

10. ‘ The altar, O Gautama, is Par^anya (the god 
of rain); the fuel is the year itself, the smoke the 
clouds, the light the lightning, the coals the thunder¬ 
bolt, the sparks the thunderings. On that altar the 
Devas offer Soma, the king (the moon). From that 
oblation rises rain. 

11. ‘The altar, O Gautama, is this world 4 ; the 
fuel is the earth itself, the smoke the fire, the light 
the night, the coals the moon, the sparks the stars. 
On that altar the Devas offer rain. From that 
oblation rises food. 

submitted to become pupils to teachers of a lower caste, not, how¬ 
ever, in order to learn, but simply in order to live. Therefore 
Gautama also becomes a pupil in name only, for it would be 
against all law to act otherwise. See Gautama, Dharma-sfitras 
VII, r, ed. Stenzler; translated by Biihler, p. 209. 

1 Here, too, my translation is hypothetical, and differs widely 
from Sankara. 

3 Gf. ^Mnd. Up.V, 4. 

8 Deussen translates : ‘ In diesem Feuer opfern die Gotter den 
Glauben.* 

4 Here a distinction is made between aya/ra loka, this world, and 
pr/thivt, earth, while in the Kh% nd. Up. ayaw loka is the earth, 
asau loka the heaven. 




208 BiWHADARAiVYAKA-UPANISriAD. 

12. ‘ The altar, O Gautama, is man; the fuel the 
Opened mouth, the smoke the breath, the light the 
tongue, the coals the eye, the sparks the ear. On 
that altar the Devas offer food. From that oblation 
rises seed. 

13. ‘The altar, O Gautama, is woman 1 . On that 
altar the Devas offer seed. From that oblation 
rises man. He lives so long as he lives, and then 
when he dies, 

14. ‘ They take him to the fire (the funeral pile), 
and then the altar-fire is indeed fire, the fuel fuel, 
the smoke smoke, the light light, the coals coals, the 
sparks sparks. In that very altar-fire the Devas 
offer man, and from that oblation man rises, brilliant 
in colour. 

15. ‘ Those who thus know this (even Grzbasthas), 
and those who in the forest worship faith and the 
True 2 (Brahman Hira»yagarbha), go to light (ar- 
Xis), from light to day, from day to the increasing 
half, from the increasing half to the six months 
when the sun goes to the north, from those six 
months to the world of the Devas (Devaloka), from 
the world of the Devas to the sun, from the sun to the 
place of lightning. When they have thus reached the 
place of lightning a spirit 3 comes near them, and leads 
them to the worlds of the (conditioned) Brahman. 
In these worlds of Brahman they dwell exalted for 
ages. There is no returning for them. 

1 Tasya upastha eva samil, lomani dhfimo, yonir ar&r, yad 
anta^karoti te ’ngard, abhinanda visphulingaA 

* .Sankara translates, ‘those who with faith worship the True,' 
and this seems better. 

* * A person living in the Brahma-world, sent forth, i. e. created, 
Uy Brahman, by the mind,’ .Sankara. ‘Der ist nicht wie ein 
Mensch,’ Dcussen, p. 392. 



vi adhyAya, 3 brAiimajva, i. 209 

16. ‘ But they who conquer the worlds (future 
states) by means of sacrifice, charity, and austerity, 
go to smoke, from smoke to night, from night to the 
decreasing half of the moon, from the decreasing 
half of the moon to the six months when the sun 
goes to the south, from these months to the world 
of the fathers, from the world of the fathers to the 
moon. Having reached the moon, they become food, 
and then the Devas feed on them there, as sacrificers 
feed on Soma, as it increases and decreases*. But 
when this (the result of their good works on earth) 
ceases, they return again to that ether, from ether 
to the air, from the air to rain, from rain to the 
earth. And when they have reached the earth, they 
become food, they are offered again in the altar-fire, 
which is man (see § 11), and thence are born in the 
fire of woman. Thus they rise up towards the worlds, 
and go the same round as before. 

‘ Those, however, who know neither of these two 
paths, become worms, birds, and creeping things.’ 

Third Braiimaiva 2 . 

1. If a man wishes to reach greatness (wealth for 
performing sacrifices), he performs the upasad rule 
during twelve days 3 (i. e. he lives on small quantities 
of milk), beginning on an auspicious day of the light 
half of the moon during the northern progress of the 
sun, collecting at the same time in a cup or a dish 

1 See note 4 on ATMnd. Up.V, 10, and Deussen, Vedanta, p. 393. 
.Sankara guards against taking apyayasvapakshiyasva as a Mantra. 
A similar construction is^ayasva mr/yasva, see A 7 *&nd. Up. V, 10, 8. 

* M&dhyandina text, p. 1103; cf. AMnd. Up.V, 2, 4-8; Kaush. 
Up. II, 3. 

* Yasmin pu»ye ’nukfile ’hni karma ftklrshati tata£ prak pu»y&- 
ham evSrabhya dvfidar&ham upasadvratt. 

[15] * 



210 


BK/HADARAtfYAKA-UPANISHAD. 


made of U dumbara wood all sorts of herbs, includ¬ 
ing fruits. He sweeps the floor (near the house- 
altar, dvasathya), sprinkles it, lays the fire, spreads 
grass round it according to rule \ prepares the clari¬ 
fied butter (d^ya), and on a day, presided over by a 
male star (nakshatra), after having properly mixed 
the Mantha 2 (the herbs, fruits, milk, honey, &c.), 
he sacrifices (he pours d^ya into the fire), saying 3 : 
4 O G&tavedas, whatever adverse gods there are in 
thee, who defeat the desires of men, to them I offer 
this portion; may they, being pleased, please me 
with all desires.’ Svdhd! 

' That cross deity who lies down 4 , thinking that 
all things are kept asunder by her, I worship thee 
as propitious with this stream of ghee.’ Svdhd! 

2 . He then says, Svdhd to the First, Svdhd to 
the Best, pours ghee into the fire, and throws what 
remains into the Mantha (mortar). 

He then says, Svdha to Breath, Svdhd to her who 
is the richest, pours ghee into the fire, and throws 
what remains into the Mantha (mortar). 

He then says, Svalid to Speech, Svdhd to the 
Support, pours ghee into the fire, and throws what 
remains into the Mantha (mortar). 

He then says, Svdhd to the Eye, Svdhd to Success, 
pours ghee into the fire, and throws what remains 
into the Mantha (mortar). 

He then says, Svalid to the Ear, Svdhd to the 

1 As the whole act is considered smarta, not srauta, the order to 
be observed (avrz't) is that of the sthalipaka. 

2 Dravadravye prakshipta matliitfi/z saktavaA is the explanation 
of Mantha, given in Gaimin. N. M.V. p. 406. 

♦ 8 These verses are not explained by Sankara, and they are 
absent in the Khd.nCt. Up. V, 2, 6, 4. 

* The Madhyandinas read nipadyase. 



vi adhyAya, 3 brAhmajva, 3. 21 1 

Home, pours ghee into the fire, and throws what 
remains into the Mantha (mortar). 

He then says, Svdha to the Mind, Svdhd to Off¬ 
spring, pours ghee into the fire, and throws what 
remains into the Mantha (mortar). 

He then says, Svdhd to Seed,pours ghee into the fire, 
and throws what remains into the Mantha (mortar). 

3. He then says, Svdhd to Agni (fire), pours ghee 
into the fire, and throws what remains into the 
Mantha (mortar). 

He then says, Svdha to Soma, pours ghee into 
the fire, and throws what remains into the Mantha 
(mortar). 

He then says, BhM (earth), Svdhd, pours ghee 
into the fire, and throws what remains into the 
Mantha (mortar). 

He then says, Bhuva/fc (sky), Svdhd, pours ghee 
into the fire, and throws what remains into the 
Mantha (mortar). 

He then says, Sva^ (heaven), Svdhd, pours ghee 
into the fire, and throws what remains into the 
Mantha (mortar). 

He then says, Bhdr, Bhuva^, Sva/£, Svdhd, pours 
ghee into the fire, and throws what remains into the 
Mantha (mortar). 

He then says, Svdhd to Brahman (the priesthood), 
pours ghee into the fire, and throws what remains 
into the Mantha (mortar). 

He then says, Svdhd to Kshatra (the knighthood), 
pours ghee into the fire, and throws what remains 
into the Mantha (mortar). 

He then says, Svdhd to the Past, pours ghee into 
the fire, and throws what remains into the Mantha 
(mortar). 


p 2* 



212 


BJJ/IIADARAAWAKA-UrANISIIAD. 


He then says, Sv&h£ to the Future, pours ghee 
into the fire, and throws what remains into the 
Mantha (mortar). 

He then says, Svaha to the Universe, pours ghee 
into the fire, and throws what remains into the 
Mantha (mortar). 

He then says, Svcthd to all things, pours ghee into 
the fire, and throws what remains into the Mantha 
(mortar). 

He then says, SvahcL to Pra^&pati, pours ghee 
into the fire, and throws what remains into the 
Mantha (mortar). 

4. Then he touches it (the Mantha, which is dedi¬ 
cated to Prd/za, breath), saying: ‘ Thou art fleet (as 
breath). Thou art burning (as fire). Thou art full 
(as Brahman). Thou art firm (as the sky). Thou 
art the abode of all (as the earth). Thou hast been 
saluted with Hin (at the beginning of the sacrifice 
by the prastotrz). Thou art saluted with Hin (in 
the middle of the sacrifice by the prastot ri). Thou 
hast been sung (by the udg&t ri at the beginning of 
the sacrifice). Thou art sung (by the udg&tri in the 
middle of the sacrifice). Thou hast been celebrated 
(by the adhvaryu at the beginning of the sacrifice). 
Thou art celebrated again (by the agntdhra in the 
middle of the sacrifice). Thou art bright in the wet 
(cloud). Thou art great. Thou art powerful. Thou 
art food (as Soma). Thou art light (as Agni, fire, 
the eater). Thou art the end. Thou art the ab¬ 
sorption (of all things).’ 

5. Then he holds it (the Mantha) forth, saying : 

' Thou 1 knowest all, we know thy greatness. He is 

* l These curious words a ma«si £ mamhi te mahi are not 
explained by Sankara. Anandagiri explains them as I have trans- 





vi adhyAya, 3 brAhma^a, 7. 


2 


indeed a king, a ruler, the highest lord* May that 
king, that ruler make me the highest lord.’ 

6. Then he eats it, saying: ‘Tat savitur vare- 
#yam 1 (We meditate on that adorable light)—The 
winds drop honey for the righteous, the rivers drop 
honey, may our plants be sweet as honey! Bhft/& 
(earth) SvAhA! 

‘ Bhargo devasya dhtmahi (of the divine 
Savitrz)—May the night be honey in the morning, 
may the air above the earth, may heaven, our father, 
be honey ! Bhuva^ (sky) SvAhA ! 

‘ Dhiyo yo na/z pro/fcodayAt (who should rouse 
our thoughts)—May the tree be full of honey, may 
the sun be full of honey, may our cows be sweet like 
honey ! Sva h (heaven) SvAhA! ’ 

He repeats the whole SAvitrl verse, and all the 
verses about the honey, thinking, May I be all this! 
Bhftr, Bhuva^, Sva h, SvAhA! Having thus swal¬ 
lowed all, he washes his hands, and sits down behind 
the altar, turning his head to the East. In the 
morning he worships Aditya (the sun), with the 
hymn, ‘ Thou art the best lotus of the four quarters, 
may I become the best lotus among men.’ Then 
returning as he came, he sits dtfwn behind the altar 
and recites the genealogical list 2 . 

7. UddAlaka Aruwi told this (Mantha-doctrine) to 
his pupil VA^asaneya YA^zavalkya, and said: ‘If 
a man were to pour it on a dry stick, branches would 
grow, and leaves spring forth.’ 

lated them. They correspond to ‘ amo namasy ama hi te sarvam 
idam’ in the Khi.nA. Up. V, 2, 6, 6. The Madhyandinas read : 
amo ’sy Sma m hi te mayi, sa hi ra^a, &c. Dvivedagaiiga translates: 

‘ thou art the knower, thy knowledge extends to me.’ 

1 Rv. Ill, 62, 10. 

8 This probably refers to the list immediately following. 





214 


BRmADARAAYAKA-UPANISHAD. 


8. V&^asaneya Y&^»avalkya told the same to his 
pupil Madhuka Paingya, and said: ‘ If a man were to 
pour it on a dry stick, branches would grow, and 
leaves spring forth.’ 

9. Madhuka Paingya told the same to his pupil 
Attla Bhagavitti, and said: ‘ If a man were to pour 
it on a dry stick, branches would grow, and leaves 
spring forth.’ 

10. A’ftla Bhigavitti told the same to his pupil 
G&naki Ayasthfiwa, and said: ‘ If a man were to 
pour it on a dry stick, branches would grow, and 
leaves spring forth.’ 

11. G&naki Ayasthuwa told the same to his pupil 
Satyak&ma Gabala, and said : ‘ If a man were to 
pour it on a dry stick, branches would grow, and 
leaves spring forth.’ 

12. Satyak&ma G&b&la told the same to his pupils, 
and said: ‘ If a man were to pour it on a dry stick, 
branches would grow, and leaves spring forth.’ 

Let no one tell this 1 to any one, except to a son 
or to a pupil 2 . 

13. Four things are made of the wood of the 
Udumbara tree, the sacrificial ladle (sruva), the cup 
(/6amasa), the fuel, and the two churning sticks. 

There are ten kinds of village (cultivated) seeds, 
viz. rice and barley (brihiyavas), sesamum and kidney- 
beans (tilam&sh&s), millet and panic seed (a/mpriyan- 
gavas), wheat (godhfimAs), lentils (masftras), pulse 
(khalv&s), and vetches (khalakulas 3 ). After having 

1 The Mantha-doctrine with the prdwadarjana. Comm. 

4 It probably means to no one except to one's own son and 
to one’s own disciple. Cf. .SVet. Up. VI, 22. 

, 3 I have given the English names after Roer, who, living in India, 
had the best opportunity of identifying the various kinds of plants 
here mentioned. The commentators do not help us much. .Sankara 




VI ADIIYAyA, 4 BRAHMAiVA, 2, 215 


ground these he sprinkles them with curds (dadhi), 
honey, and ghee, and then offers (the proper por¬ 
tions) of clarified butter 1 (&£ya). 

Fourth Brahma^a 2 . 

1. The earth is the essence of all these things, 
water is the essence of the earth, plants of water, 
flowers of plants, fruits of flowers, man of fruits, 
seed of man. 

2. And Pra.^apati thought, let me make an abode 
for him, and he created a woman (^atarfipa). 

T&m 3 srishtv&dha up&sta, tasmat striyam adha 
updsita. Sa etam pr&n&am grava^am &tmana eva 
samudaparayat, tenainam abhyasr/^at. 

says that in some places Priyangu (panic seed or millet) is called 
Kangu; that Khalva, pulse, is also called Nishpava and Valla, and 
Khalakula, vetches, commonly Kulattha. Dvivedagahga adds that 
Am is called in Guzcrat Moriya, Priyangu Kangu, Khalva, as 
nishp&va,Valla, and Khalakula Kulattha. 

1 According to the rules laid down in the proper Gn'hya-sfitras. 

2 This Brahmawa is inserted here because there is supposed 
to be some similarity between the preparation of the A^rimantha 
and the Putramantha, or because a person who has performed the 
*Srimantha is fit to perform the Putramantha. Thus *Sahkara 
says: Pr&wadamna// jrimanthaw karma krftavata/z putramanthe 
’dhikara^. Yada putramantha#* ^ikirshati tad& jrimantha#* kmva 
r*iukala/w patny&A (brahma£arye;*a) pratikshata iti. 

3 I have given those portions of the text which did not admit of 
translation into English, in Sanskrit. It was not easy, however, to 
determine always the text of the Ka#va-sakha. Poley’s text is not 
always correct, and Roer seems simply to repeat it. -Sankara’s com¬ 
mentary, which is meant for the Ka#va text, becomes very short 
towards the end of the Upanishad. It is quite sufficient for the pur¬ 
pose of a translation, but by no means always for restoring a correct 
text. MS. Wilson 369, which has been assigned to theKa/iva-rakha, 
and which our Catalogue attributes to the same school, gives the 
M&dhyandina text, and so does MS. Mill 108. I have therefore col¬ 
lated two MSS. of the India Office, which Dr. Rost had the kindness 
to select for me, MS. 375 and MS. 1973, which I call A. and B. 




216 


br/hadAra^yaka-upanishad. 


3. TasyA vedir upastho, lomAni barhij', >6armA- 
dhishavawe, samiddho 1 madhyatas, tau mushkau. 
Sa yAvAn ha vai va^apeyena ya^amAnasya loko 
bhavati tavAn asya loko bhavati ya evaw vidvAn 
adhopahAsaw ^araty A sa 2 strinam sukrixktn vmikte 
’tha ya idam avidvAn adhopahAsa*« /Saraty Asya 
striya/fc sukritam \ringate. 

4. Etad dha sma vai tadvidvAn UddAlaka Arumr 
Ahaitad dha sma vai tadvidvAn NAko Maudgalya Ahai- 
tad dha sma vai tadvidvAn KumArahArita Aha, bahavo 
maryA brAhmawAyanA 3 nirindriyA visukWto’smAl lokAt 
prayanti 4 * ya idam avidvA//2so ’dhopahAsa^z /ferantlti. 
Bahu vA° idaw suptasya vA^Agrato vA reta^ skandati, 

5. Tad abhimrAred anu vA mantrayeta yan me 
’dya reta h przthivlm askAntsld yad oshadhir apy 
asarad yad apa-6, idam aha»/ tad reta Adade punar 
mAm aitv indriyam punas tcgah punar bhaga//, punar 
agnayo 6 dhishwyA yathAsthAna;;« kalpantAm, ity 
anamikAngush//zAbhyAm AdAyAntarewa stanau vA 
bhruvau vA nimW%yAt 7 . 

6. If a man see himself in the water 8 , he should 


1 Roer reads samidho, but Sankara and Dvivedaganga clearly 
presuppose samiddho, which is in A. and B. 

2 Roer has asa»z sa striwam, Poley, A. and B. have dsdw strtodm. 
Sankara (MS. Mill 64) read d sa stri«dm, and later on asya striyaA, 
though both Roer and Poley leave out the a here too (a asyeti khu daA). 

8 BrahmawayanaA, the same as brahmabandhavaA, i. e. Brahmans 
by descent only, not by knowledge. 

4 Narakaw ga^Mantityarlha^. Dvivedaganga. 

B Bahu va svalpa;« va. 

* The Mddhyandina text has agnayo, and Dvivedaganga explains 
it by dhishwyd agnaya/4 jarlrasthitd//. Poley and Roer have punar 
agnir dhishwyd, and so have A. and B. 

7 Nirmn^ydt, A.; nimrhlgyat, B. 

* * Dvivedaganga adds, rctoyondv udake reta//si^as tatra sva££M- 
yddamne prdyaj&ttam dha. 




vi adhyAya, 4 brAhma^a, io. 


217 


recite the following verse: ‘May there be in'me 
splendour, strength, glory, wealth, virtue.’ 

She is the best of women whose garments are 
pure \ Therefore let him approach a woman whose 
garments are pure, and whose fame is pure, and 
address her. 

7. If she do not give in 2 , let him, as he likes, bribe 
her (with presents). And if she then do not give in, 
let him, as he likes, beat her with a stick or with his 
hand, and overcome her 3 , saying: ‘With manly 
strength and glory I take away thy glory,’—and 
thus she becomes unglorious 4 . 

8. If she give in, he says: ‘ With manly strength 
and glory I give thee glory,’—and thus they both 
become glorious. 

9. Sa yAm i&Met kAmayeta meti tasyam arthaw 
nish/aya 6 mukhena mukha m sandhAyopastham asyA 
abhimmya ^aped ahgadangat sambhavasi hrfdayAd 
adhi ^yase, sa tvam angakashAyo 6 ’si digdhavid- 
dhAm T iva mAdayemAm amftm mayiti 8 . 

10. Atha yAm \kkhen na garbhaw dadhiteti 9 tas- 
yAm arthaw nish/Aya mukhena mukhawz sandhAyA- 
bhiprAwyApAnyAd indriye^a te retasA reta Adada ity 
aretA 10 eva bhavati. 

1 Triralravrataw kr/’tva ^aturtha ’hni snat&m. 

2 Instead of connecting kamam with dadyat, Dvivedaganga 
explains it by yath&rakti. 

8 Atikram, scil. maithunaya. 4 Bandhya durbbaga. 

8 Nish/Sya, A. B.; nish/Hya, Roer, Poley; the same in § 10. 

8 Sa tvam anganaw kashayo raso ’si. 

7 Vishaliptararaviddh&m mrigtm iva. 

8 Madayeti is the reading of the Madhyandjna text. Poley, Roer, 
A. and B. read mSdayemAm amfim mayiti. Anandagiri has mngim 
ivimflm madiySw? striyam me madaya madvaiaw kurv ityarthaA 
Dvivedaganga explains mSdayeti. 

8 RfipabhrawrayauvanahanibhaySt. 


18 Agarbhiwi. 



2 l8 


BR/HADARA2VYAKA-UPANISHAD. 


. ii. Atha yam XkkhzA garbha*» dadhiteti tasy&m 
arthaz# nish/aya mukhena mukha m sandh£y&p&- 
ny&bhipr&zzy&d indriyewa te retasi reta ddadhimiti 
garbhiwy eva bhavati. 

12. Now again, if a man’s wife has a lover and 
the husband hates him, let him (according to rule) 1 
place fire by an unbaked jar, spread a layer of arrows 
in inverse order 2 , anoint these three arrow-heads 3 
with butter in inverse order, and sacrifice, saying: 
‘ Thou hast sacrificed in my fire, I take away thy up 
and down breathing, I here V 

‘ Thou hast sacrificed in my fire, I take away thy 
sons and cattle, I here.’ 

‘ Thou hast sacrificed in my fire, I take away thy 
sacred and thy good works, I here.’ 

‘ Thou hast sacrificed in my fire, I take away thy 
hope and expectation, I here.’ 

He whom a Brahmazza who knows this curses, de¬ 
parts from this world without strength and without 
good works. Therefore let no one wish even for 
sport with the wife of a .Srotriya 6 who knows this, for 
he who knows this, is a dangerous enemy. 

13. When the monthly illness seizes his wife, she 

1 Avasathyagnim eva pra^valya. 

2 Paj£im%ra»/ dakshiwagraw va yatlia syat tatha. 

8 Tisra// is left out by Roer and Poley, by A. and B. 

4 I have translated according to the Kawva text, as far as it could 
be made out. As there are four imprecations, it is but natural that 
tisra/i should be left out in the Ka«va text. It is found in the 
Madhyandina text, because there the imprecations are only three in 
number, viz. the taking away of hope and expectation, of sons and 
cattle, and of up and down breathing. Instead of asSv iti, which is 
sufficient, the Madhyandina text has asav iti nama grfhwati, and both 
4 -nandagiri and Dvivedaganga allow the alternative, atmana// jatror 
v& nama grdiwati, though asau can really refer to the speaker only. 

8 Roer reads dvSrewa; Poley, A. and B. d&re«a; the M&dhyan- 




VI ADHyAyA, 4 BRAHMAiVA, 1 8 . 


219 


should for three days not drink from a metal vessel, 
and wear a fresh dress. Let no VWshala or VWshali 
(a .SYldra man or woman) touch her. At the end of 
the three days, when she has bathed, the husband 
should make her pound rice 1 . 

14. And if a man wishes that a white son should 
be born to him, and that he should know one Veda, 
and live to his full age, then, after having prepared 
boiled rice with milk and butter, they should both 
eat, being fit to have offspring. 

15. And if a man wishes that a reddish 2 son with 
tawny eyes should be born to him, and that he 
should know two Vedas, and live to his full age, 
then, after having prepared boiled rice with coagu¬ 
lated milk and butter, they should both eat, being 
fit to have offspring. 

16. And if a man wishes that a dark son should 
be born to him with red eyes, and that he should 
know three Vedas, and live to his full age, then, after 
having prepared boiled rice with water and butter, 
they should both eat, being fit to have offspring. 

17. And if a man wishes that a learned daughter 
should be born to him, and that she should live to 
her full age, then, after having prepared boiled rice 
with sesamum and butter, they should both eat, 
being fit to have offspring. 

18. And if a man wishes that a learned son should 
be born to him, famous, a public man, a popular 
speaker, that he should know ail the Vedas, and that 

dinas ^ayaya. .Sankara, according to Roer, interprets dvare«a, but 
it seems that d&re«a is used here.in the singular, instead of the 
plural. See P&raskara Grchya-sfllras I, 11. 

1 To be used for the ceremony described in § 14 seq. 

* Kapilo varwataA pingalaA pihgakshaA. 




220 


br/hadArajvyaka-upanishad. 


he should live to his full age, then, after having pre¬ 
pared boiled rice with meat and butter, they should 
both eat, being fit to have offspring. The meat 
should be of a young or of an old bull. 

19. And then toward morning, after having, ac¬ 
cording to the rule of the SthAllpdka (pot-boiling), 
performed the preparation of the Afya (clarified 
butter 1 ), he sacrifices from the Sth&lipika bit by bit, 
saying : ‘ This is for Agni, Sv&ha! This is for Anu- 
mati, Svahi! This is for the divine Savitri, the true 
creator, Sv£h£!’ Having sacrificed, he takes out the 
rest of the rice and eats it, and after having eaten, 
he gives it to his wife. Then he washes his hands, 
fills a water-jar, and sprinkles her thrice with it, 
saying: ‘ Rise hence, O VLrvavasu 2 , seek another 
blooming girl, a wife with her husband.’ 

20. Then he embraces her, and says : ‘ I am Ama 
(breath), thou art Si (speech) 3 . Thou art Si (speech), 
I am Ama (breath). I am the Siman, thou art the 
Rik 4 5 . I am the sky, thou art the earth. Come, let 
us strive together, that a male child may be 
begotten V 

1 K&mm .rrapayitvd. 

2 Name of a Gandharva, as god of love. See Rig-vedaX 85, 22. 
Dvivedaganga explains the verse differently, so that the last words 
imply, I come together with my own wife. 

3 Because speech is dependent on breath, as the wife is on the 
husband. See A^and. Up. I, 6, 1. 

4 Because the S&ma-veda rests on the Rig-veda. 

5 This is a verse which is often quoted and explained. It occurs 
in the Atharva-veda XIV, 71, as 1 amo ’ham asmi sa tvaw, samd- 
ham asmy rik tva m, dyaur aham pnthivi tvam; tdv iha sam 
bhavdva pra^&m d ^anaydvahai/ 

Here we have the opposition between amaA and sa, while in 
the Ait. Brdhma«a VIII, 27, we have amo ’ham asmi sa tvam, 
giving amaA in opposition to sa. It seems not unlikely that this 




VI ADHyAyA, 4 BRAHMA^A, 23 . 221 

21. AthAsyA ArA vihApayati, vi^ihlthAw dyAvApW- 
thivi iti tasyAm artha m nish/Aya mukhena mukhaw 
sandhAya trir enAm anulomAm 1 anumarsh/i, Vishwur 
yoni m kalpayatu, Tvash/A rApAm piwjatu, Aswiatu 
Pra^Apatir DhAtA garbhaw dadhatu te. Garbha/w 
dhehi SinivAli, garbhaw dhehi pmhush/uke, garbhaaw 
te A^vinau devAv AdhattAm pushkarasra^au. 

22. Hirawmayi arawi yAbhyAw nirmanthatAm 8 arvi- 
nau 8 , tarn te garbha/# havAmahe 4 dasame mAsi 
sAtave. YathAgnigarbhA p/'z'thivl, yathA dyaur in- 
dre#a garbhi/zi, vAyur disAz# yathA garbha evam 
garbha/# dadhAmi te ’sAv iti 6 . 

23. Soshyantim 6 adbhir abhyukshati. YathA vAyu^ 7 
pushkari/ziz# sami^ayati sarvata^, evA te garbha 
ejratu sahAvaitu ^arAyu#A. I ndrasyAya/# vra^aA 
kr/ta/i sArga/a^ 8 sapamraya^ ®, tam indra nit^ahi 
garbhezza sAvarAz# 10 saheti. 


was an old proverbial formula, and that it meant originally no more 
than ‘ I am he, and thou art she.’ But this meaning was soon for¬ 
gotten. In the A 7 /and. Up. I, 6,1, we find sa explained as earth, 
ama as fire (Sacred Books of the East, vol. i, p. 13). In the Ait. 
Br&hmawa s£ is explained as Rik, ama as Saman. I have therefore 
in our passage also followed the interpretation of the commentary, 
instead of rendering it, ‘ I am he, and thou art she ; thou art she, 
and I am he.' 

1 Anulomam, mfirdhanam firabhya padlntam. 

* Nirmathitavantau. 3 Aivinau devau, Madhyandina text. 

4 Dadhamahe, Madhyandina text Instead of sfitave, A. has 
sfiyate, B. sfitaye. 

5 Iti nama gr/h«Sti, Madhyandina text. .Sankara says, asav iti 
tasySA Anandagiri says, asav iti patyur va nirdera^; tasya nfima 
gr/h»Atiti pfirvewa sambandhaA Dvivedaganga says, ante bhartfi- 
sav aham iti svatmano nama gr/hwati, bharyaya va. 

* See P&raskara Grihya-sfitra 1 ,16 seq. 7 VataA M. 

3 Arga</aya nirodhena saha vartamAnaA sarga</aA Dvivedaganga. 

* Saparirraya/i, parirrayewa parivesh/anena ^arayuwa sahitaA 
Dvivedaganga. 

10 SavarSm* is the reading given by Poley, Roer, A. and B. 





222 


bwhadAra^yaka-upanishad. 


24 \ When the child is born, he prepares the fire, 
places the child on his lap, and having poured pri- 
shad&^ya, i. e. dadhi (thick milk) mixed with ghr/ta 
(clarified butter) into a metal jug, he sacrifices bit by 
bit of that przshad&fya, saying: ‘ May I, as I in¬ 
crease in this my house, nourish a thousand ! May 
fortune never fail in his race, with offspring and 
cattle, SvAh&P 

‘ I offer to thee in my mind the vital breaths which 
are in me, Sv&hA! * 

4 Whatever 2 in my work I have done too much, 
or whatever I have here done too little, may the wise 
Agni Svish/ak/'zt make this right and proper for us, 
Sv&hi! ’ 

25. Then putting his mouth near the child’s 
right ear, he says thrice, Speech, speech 3 ! After 

Anandagiri explains: garbhani/jsarazzSnantaraw ya m&wsaperf 
nirga&Wati savarS, t&m to nirgamayety arthaA. Dvivedaganga (ed. 
Weber) writes: nirgamyamanamawsaperf sd-avaraxabdava^yS, tawz 
sdvaraw to nirgamaya. 

1 These as well as the preceding rules refer to matters generally 
\treated in the Grfhya-sfttras; see Ajvalayana, Gri hya-sfitras I, 
13 seq.; Pdraskara, Grfhya-sfltras I, n seq.; .Sankhayana, Grzhya- 
sfttras I, 19 seq. It is curious, however, that Arvaldyana I, 13, 1, 
refers distinctly to the Upanishad as the place where the pu/Hsavana 
and similar matters were treated. This shows that the Upanishads 
were known before the composition of the Grihya-sutras, and 
explains perhaps, at least partially, why the Upanishads were con¬ 
sidered as rahasya. Ajvalayana says, ‘ Conception, begetting of a 
boy, and guarding the embryo are to be found in the Upanishad. 
But if a man does not read the Upanishad, let him know that he 
should feed his wife/ &c. # NSrayazza explains that Awalayana here 
refers to an Upanishad which does not exist in his own Sakhd, but 
he objects to the conclusion that therefore the garbhddhdna and 
other ceremonies need not be performed, and adds that some hold 
it should be performed, as prescribed by *Saunaka and others. 

* 2 Ajvalayana, Gr/hya-sfltra 1 ,10, 23. 

9 Trayilakshawd vdk tvayi pravwatv iti ^apato ’bhiprSyaA. 




vi adhyAya, 4 brAhmazvA, 28. 223 

that he pours together thick milk, honey, and clari¬ 
fied butter, and feeds the child with (a ladle of) 
pure gold *, saying : ‘ I give thee BhM, I give thee 
Bhuva^, I give thee Sva^ 2 . Bhflr, Bhuva6, Sva^, I 
give thee all V 

26 4 . Then he gives him his name, saying: ‘Thou 
art Vedabut this is his secret name 5 . 

27. Then he hands the boy to his mother and 
gives him her breast, saying: ‘ O Sarasvatl, that 
breast of thine which is inexhaustible, delightful, 
abundant, wealthy, generous, by which thou cherishr 
est all blessings, make that to flow here V 

28 7 . Then he addresses the mother of the boy: 

1 Cf. Pdraskara Gnhya-sfitras I, 16, 4, anamikaya suvar«antar- 
hitayd; .Sankhdyana, Gr/hya-sfitras I, 24, pnuaye^^dtarupewa, 

* Bhfir bhuvaA sva// are explained by Dvivedaganga as the Htg- 
veda, Ya^oir-veda, and Sama-veda. They might also be earth, air, 
and heaven. See -Sankhdyana, Gnhya-sfitras I, 24; Bhur ngvedaw 
tvayi dadhami, &c. 

8 The Madhyandinas add here another verse, which the father 
recites while he strokes his boy: ‘ Be a stone, be an axe, be pure 
gold. Thou art my Self, called my son; live a hundred harvests.' 
The same verse occurs in the Ajvalayana Grrhya-sfitras I, rg, 3. 

4 The two ceremonies, here described, are the dyushya-karman 
and the medhd^anana. They are here treated rather confusedly. 
Pdraskara (Gr/hya-sfitras I, 16, 3) distinguishes the medhd^anana 
and the dyushya. He treats the medha^anana first, which consists 
in feeding the boy with honey and clarified butter, and saying to 
him bhfts tvayi dadhdmi, &c. The dyushya consists in repeating 
certain verses in the boy’s ear, wishing him a long life, &c. In 
Arvaldyana’s GWhya-sfitras, I, 15,1 contains the dyushya, 1 ,15, 2 
the medhdganana. Aankhdyana also (1,24) treats the dyushya first, 
and the medha^anana afterwards, and the same order prevails in 
the Mddhyandina text of the Brihaddra»yaka-upanishad. 

8 In the Mddhyandina text these acts are differently arranged. 

4 Rig-veda 1 ,164, 49. 

T These verses are differently explained by various commentators. 
Anandagiri explains i/d as stutyd, bhogyd. He derives Maitrdvanuil 



224 


bwhadAramtaka-upanishad. 


‘ Thou art I/«l Maitr&vanm!: thou strong woman 
hast born a strong boy. Be thou blessed with 
strong children thou who hast blessed me with a 
strong child/ 

And they say of such a boy: ‘Ah, thou art better 
than thy father; ah, thou art better than thy grand¬ 
father. Truly he has reached the highest point in 
happiness, praise, and Vedic glory who is born as 
the son of a Brdhma^a that knows this/ 

Fifth BrAhma^a. 

i. Now follows the stem 1 : 

i. Pautimashiputra from Kdtydyaniputra, 


from Maitravaruwa, i. e. Vasish/Aa, the son of Mitrdvaruwau, and 
identifies her with Arundhati. Dvivedaganga takes i d& as bhogyd, 
or Wdpdtri, or pr/thivirfipd, and admits that she may be called 
Maitravaruwt, because born of Mitravaru«au. Vtre is rightly taken 
as a vocative by Dvivedaganga, while Anandagiri explains it as a 
locative, mayi nimittabhfite. One expects a^ana^ instead of 
a^iganat, which is the reading of A. and B. The reading of the 
Mddhyandinas, a^i^anathd/fc, is right grammatically, but it offends 
against the metre, and is a theoretical rather than a real form. 
If we read a^ana/;, we must also read akaraA, unless we are 
prepared to follow the commentator, who supplies bhavati. 

1 The Mddhyandinas begin with vayam,we, then i.Bharadvd#!- 
putra, 2. Vatsima«</aviputra, 3. Pdrafariputra, 4. Gargiputra, 5. Pa- 
rajart-kau«</iniputra, 6. Gargiputra, 7. Gdrgiputra, 8. Bac/eyiputra, 
9. Maushikiputra, 10. Harikamiputra, n. Bhdradva^iputra, 12. 
Paingiputra, 13. Saunakiputra, 14. Kajyapi-baldkya-ma/^ariputra, 
15. Kautsiputra, 16. Baudhi putra, 17. .Salankdyantputra, i8.Varsha- 
ga/dputra, 19. Gautamiputra, 20. Atreyiputra, 21. Gautamtputra, 
22. Vdtsiputra, 23. Bharadvd^iputra, 24. Pdrd^ariputra, 25. Varkd- 
ru/riputra; then from No. 20 as in the Kawva text. 

This stem is called by Sankara, Samastaprava&mavaflwaA, and 
Anandagiri adds, pflrvau vamau purushavweshitau, tntiyas tu 
strfviseshitaA, stripradhanyat. Dvivedaganga writes, putramantha- 
karma»aA strlsa^skdrdrthatvenoktatvat tatsannidhdnad aya m varnsaA 
stripradhanyeno/fyate. 





vi adhyAya, 5 brAhmaata, 2. 225 


2. KAty Ayanlputra from Gotamlputra, 

3. Gotamlputra from BhAradvA^lputra, 

4. BhAradvA^lputra from PArA.sarlputra, 

5. PArAsarlputra from Aupasvatlputra, 

6. Aupasvatlputra from PArAxarlputra, 

7. PArA^arlputra from KAtyayanlputra, 

8. KAtyAyanlputra from Kamiklputra, 

9. Kau^iklputra from Alambiputra and VaiyA- 

ghrapadiputra, 

10. Alambiputra and VaiyAghrapadiputra from 

KAwvlputra, 

11. KAmdputra from KAplputra, 

12. KAplputra 
from Atreylputra, 

13. Atreylputra from Gautamlputra, 

14. Gautamlputra from BhAradva^lputra, 

15. BhAradvA^iputra from PArA^ariputra, 

16. PArAsarlputra from VAtslputra, 

17. VAtslputra from PArA^arlputra, 

18 1 . PArAsariputra from VArkAru/dputra, 

19. VArkAruwlputra from VArkAru/dputra, 

20. VArkAru«iputra from Artabhaglputra, 

2 1. - ArtabhAglputra from .Saunglputra, 

22. .Saunglputra from SAnkmlputra, 

23 2 . SAnkWtlputra from AlambAyanlputra, 

24. AlambAyanlputra from Alambiputra, 

25. Alambiputra from GAyantlputra, 

26. G&yantiputra from MAwofokAyanlputra, 

27. MAw^AkAyanlputra from MAwafaklputra, 

28. MA;«^Aklputra from .SA^aTillputra, 

29. 6A«rtfillputra from RAthltarlputra, 

30 3 . RAthltarlputra from BhAluklputra, 

1 M. has only one. 2 M. inverts 23 and 24. 

3 Deest in M. 

[*d ' Q. 



226 ba/hadArajvyaka-upanishad. 


31. Bhalukiputra from Krauzz&kiputrau, 

32. Krauzziikiputrau from Vai/Zabhatiputra 1 , 

33. Vai/Zabhatiputra from KArsakeylputra 2 , 

34. KArrakeyiputra from PrS^lnayogiputra, 

35. PrA>£inayoglputra from Saw^ivi^utra 3 , 

36. Sazlglviputra from Pra.r;zlputra Asurivisin, 

37. Pramiputra Asurivasin from Asurayazza, 

38. Asurayazza from Asuri, 

39. Asuri 

3. from Yft^zzavalkya, 

40. Yft^zzavalkya from UddAlaka, 

41. U ddalaka from Aruzza, 

42. Aruzza from Upaveri, 

43. Upaved from Kusri, 

44. Korn from Vafaxravas, 

45. Va^a^ravas from (Pihvavat Vadhyoga, 

46. (Sahvavat V&dhyoga from Asita VArshagazza, 

47. Asita Varshagazza from Harita Ka^yapa, 

48. Harita Kajyapa from *Sllpa Ka^yapa, 

49. ^ilpa Ka^yapa from Kasyapa Naidhruvi, 

50. Karyapa Naidhruvi from Va/6, 

51. Va^ from Ambhizzi, 

52. Ambhizzi from Aditya, the Sun. 

As coming from Aditya, the Sun, these pure 4 
Ya^us verses have been proclaimed by Y&gna.- 
valkya V a^asaneya. 


1 Vaidabhn’tfputra, M. * Bhalukiputra, M. 

* K&rzakcyiputra after 35 in M. 

* They are called fukl&ni, white or pure, because they are not 
mixed with Brahmawas, avyamurrawi brahmawena (doshair asankir- 
«ani, paurusheyatvadoshadvilrabhavad ityartha/z). Or they are aya- 
taySmani, unimpaired. Anandagiri adds, Pra^ilpatim Srabhj'a 
San^iviputraparyantaOT (No. 36) Va/*asaneyi.rakbasu sarvasv eko 
vawzra ityaha samanam iti. Dvivedaganga says: VS^ifSkhdva^Min- 



VI ADHyAyA, 5 BRAH^tAiVA, 4. 


227 

4 1 . The same as far as SAw^ivfputra (No. 36)* then 

36. SA^iviputra from MAwafllkAyani, 

37. MAwafakAyani from MAwtfavya, 

38. MA/fc/avya from Kautsa, 

39. Kautsa from MAhitthi, 

40. MAhitthi from VAmakaksh Ayawa, 

41. VAmakakshAya«a from S£ndilya, 

42. S&ndi\ya from VAtsya, 

43. VAtsya from Karri, 

44. Kurd from Yagnavakas RA^astambAyana, 

45. Ya^wavaA’as Ra^astambayana from Tura 

KAvasheya, 

46. Tura KAvasheya from Pra^Apati, 

47. Pra^Apati from Brahman, 

48. Brahman is Svayambhu, self-existent. 
Adoration to Brahman! 


nanaw ya.gtishazB Sftrye«opadish&tvaOT Y^navalkyena praptatvam 
ka. pura/zeshu prasiddham. 

1 This last paragraph is wanting in the Madhyandina text, but a 
very similar paragraph occurs in .Satapatha-brahmarza X, 6, 5, 9, 
where, however, VAtsya comes before Sandilya. 

