//OCR by Pooja, 13 Oct 2021

काण्वशतपथब्राह्मणम् Kāņvasatapathabrāhmaṇam 
INDIRA GANDHI NATIONAL CENTRE FOR THE ARTS 
-. 
. 
. 
. 
. . 
.. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
It is fer the first time that a complete critical edition of the Satupatha Brahmana of along with its English translation is pablished. The cition has taken into Hoolant the readings available in a few more 
BBLICTIPTE, besides those in the published altkm in Telugu script, which were not xailable to Prol Catand who brought out a 
. 
: 
. 
: 
. 
. 
:.. 
....... 
. 
. 
::: 
. 
........ 
** glo dit hrs Sitempt at providing a complete English translation. No doubt the ECHTS of the Sanguette of the Mädhyandina and Känva schon do not differ much from Kawas VIII o XVI and Prof. Exgding's translation of the terme l available Seli a fresh atempt at translating the latter portion 
folt ecoskary at a result of detailed 
Text Notes to ultatšate the check 
articular readings a section under the berdixe Pianta discusing certain selected Dupa ce ar tre out of a sady of the text an EXHALETANE kwa of contents, Brátumanggapixe 
be most important advantages of this 
' 
. 
.. 
. 
काण्वशतपथब्राह्मणम् Kāņvasatapathabrāhmaṇam 
कलामलशास्त्र-ग्रन्थमाला 
(12) KALĀMŪLAŠĀSTRA SERIES 
। 
L 
H 
(12) 
General Editor Kapila Vatsyayan 
काण्वशतपथब्राह्मणम् Kāņvasatapathabrāhmaṇam 
Volume I 
Edited and Translated 
by C.R. Swaminathan 
INDIRA GANDHI NATIONAL CENTRE FOR THE ARTS 
NEW DELHI 
and .. . MOTILAL BANARSIDASS PUBLISHERS PVT. LID. 
DELHI 
. 
. 
. 
. 
First Published 1994 
Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts All rights reserved. No part of the publication may be reproduced in any 
form or by any means, without written permission of the publishers. 
Published by INDIRA GANDHI NATIONAL CENTRE FOR THE ARTS Central Vista, Janpath, New Delhi-110001 
in association with MOTILAL BANARSIDASS PUBLISHERS PVT. LTD. 
Bungalow Road, Jawahar Nagar, Delhi-110007 
ISBN: 81-208-1126-7 Vol. I) 
81-208-1128-3 (set) Price : Rs. 300.00 (Vol. I) 
i 
Photo composed by Neographics.. 1811, Gyani Bazar, Kotla Mubarakpur 
3. New Delhi-110003 . . Printed in India at Shri Jainendra Press A-45, Naraina Industrial Area, Phase-I 
... New Delhi-110028 
. 
. 
. 
. 
* 
! 
FOREWORD 
As is now well-recognised, the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts through its diverse programmes of research and publications, field work an documentation, seeks to recontextualise the arts within the larger dynamics of the natural and human environment. The methodology is interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary. As a primary prerequisite is the need to make accessible, in original and translation, texts that lay the foundations of the Indian artistic traditions and those others that are specific to particular arts. The Kalāmülasāstra Series, thus, concentrates on the 'textual' in relation to the traditions of oral transmission, as also contemporary practice. In the Series, early fundamental textson music, such as, Mātrālakṣaṇam, Dattilam, Brhaddećī as also comparatively late texts, e.g., Srīhastamuktāvali and Nartananirnaya, have already appeared. Also, Silparatnakośa and Mayamatam, västu and silba texts of the Orissan and Tamilian traditions have been published. Two texts belonging to the category of Agama and Purana, viz. Svayambhuvasūtrasamgraha and Kālikāpurāne murtivinirdeśaḥ, have also been published. Now, we have pleasure in introducing the first volume of the Kanvasatapathabrahmaram, as twelfth in the Series. The present volume comprises only the first kända of the Brāhmana. Subsequent volumes will present the remaining Kāndas. 
While the texts on particular arts or a group of related arts, provide details of the principles of form and delineate intricacies of techniques, the foundations of these lie in the articulation of a world-view in the Vedas, the speculative thought of the Upanişads and the elaborate system of rites and rituals enumerated in the Brahmaņas. The theory and technique of the particular arts is but a specific branch and flowering of a single unified vision. The world-view is embedded in the recognitionofceaseless movement of the universe where the parts are related to the whole, matter and energy are reciprocal and 'man' is only one amongst all living matter. Vedichymns are considered as 'revelations' (Dışta) because they are inspired by an intuitive insightand 'flash". Little wonder while the Sruti (the Vedic corpus) has remained immutable, its interpretation at the level of thought, intellection and systematised concretisation, have been many. 
While the Upanişads speculate on the nature of the universe, and the relationship of the one and the many, the immanent and transcendental, the Brāhmaṇas make concrete the world-view and the concepts through a highly developed system of ritual-paña This functions as a strategy for a 
Pr! 
3 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
continuous reminder of the inter-relatedness of man and nature, the five elements and the sources of energy. The rituals (yajñas) yoke together the different orders of time and space in specific duration, and thus establish a system of correspondences between the micro and the macro, the finite and infinite, the specific and the universal, the physical and the metaphysical. Physical space is demarcated and consecrated, the śālā, altars are made, Sky, Earth, Sun and the Moon are invoked, fire is kindled, verses of Rg, Saman and Yajusare chanted, sung and recited, by different people, oblations are made of diverse substances through stylised movement and gestures. Through the ritual a spatial and temporal order is restored, individual identities are submerged in a collective purification. The Brahmanic ritual also is, in our contemporary language, a multimedia performance of a very high order. In thisperformative act lie the seeds of later temple architecture, musical forms, dance and drama. It is not without significance that the writer of the Natyaśāstra acknowledges debt to all the Vedas and states that the theatrical performance is a yajña. 
Aesthetics and artistic practices are rooted in the functionality of ordinary and everyday life but its goal and ultimate objective is to evoke a state of bliss and experience, analogous but not identical, to the supreme mystical ānanda. The ordinary is transubstantiated to the extraordinary, the laukika to the laukika. For this purpose at the level of structures, methodologies and techniques, the Brāhmaṇa texts and the practice of the yajña and its viniyoga serve as a model. The Brāhmaṇa texts thus serve as the foundation of artistic practice, as much as being texts of theology and liturgy or litany. The texts on the specific arts tacitly accept this as is evident from a reading of the early texts on the arts and an examination of the actual survivals. 
So far, the Brāhmaṇa texts have been looked at and studied by those whose primary concern has been with cosmology, religion and ritual. It is only in the last decade that there has been a new and fresh interest in the study of art as ritual and ritual as artistic practice. In this context the re edited publication of this fundamental text on ritual -- the Satapathabrāhmanam- is both timely and relevant. 
Julius Eggeling, Caland and other pioneers, had edited and translated the text. While Eggeling translated the Mädhyandina recension, Caland carried on the work of editing and translating eight Kāndas of the Kanvasatapathabrāhmanam Julius Eggeling who spent many decades of his life on this particular Brähmaņa, in an erudite introduction, says - 
*** In the whole range of literature fewworks are probably less calculated 
* 
ii. 
FOREWORD 
to excite the interest of any outside the very limited number of specialists, than the ancient theological writings of the Hindus, known by the name of Brāhmaṇas. For wearisome prolixity of exposition, characterised by dogmatic assertion and aflimsy symbolism rather than by serious reasoning, these works are perhaps not equalled anywhere; unless, indeed, it be by the speculative vapourings of the Gnostics, than which, in the opinion of the learned translators of Irenaeus, 'nothing more absurd has probably ever been imagined by rationalbeings.If I have, nevertheless, undertaken, at the request of the Editor of the present Series, what would seem to be a rather thankless task, the reason will be readily understood by those who have taken even the most cursory view of the history of the Hindu mind and institutions." 
As Eggeling continued the work, gradually but surely he began to recognise the value of the work. Not only was he impressed with the ritual (then called 'sacrifices') practices, but began to see the philosophic and mystical significance. He recognised that through the ritual (vajña), the 'cosmos' was being renewed. The yajñain essence is refuelling the depleted energies -- a resurrection of the dead elements. He began to appreciate why in the etymology of the Brāhmaṇas it is born through movement, Hence it is yañ + ja which is as much vajña. Eggeling then remarked that "............. the periodical sacrifice is nothing else than a microcosmic representation of the ever-proceeding destruction and renewal of all cosmic life and matter." - (Introduction to Part IV). 
At the end of his arduous task requiring extraordinary patience, perhaps, Eggeling himself changed, for no longer was it a thankless task. The Brāhmaṇas were no longer just a series of highly artificial system of sacrificial ceremonies, but were, instead, both mystical and concrete. Understandably, he concluded: 
"And now my task is done, and I must take leave of this elaborate exposition of the sacrificial ordinances of Indian theology. For well-nigh a score of years the work has dragged its slow length along,' and during that time it has caused me wand, I doubt not, has caused some of my readers, too-not a few weary hours. ............. but for Professor Max Muller's timely exhortations and kindly encouragement, the work might perhaps never have been completed. 'I know,' he once wrote to me, you willthank me one day for having pressed you to go on with your work;' and now I do indeed thank him most sincerelyand with all my heart for the kindness and patience he has shown 
viji 
KĀNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
me these many years. But, strange to say, now that the work is completed, I feel as if I could not do without working at it; and certainly, if a second edition could ever have been required of a work of this kind, it would have found me ready once more to work myway through the bewildering maze of rites.." – (Introduction to Part V) 
The IGNCA undertook to look at the text, once again, taking into account the valuable work done by Eggeling and Caland, in order to contextualise the text within the larger discourse of the Indian tradition, specially its system of developing multilevelled and multilayered structures of thought, meaning and form. Also, because the Satapatha is a fundamental text of the formal aspects of ritual traditions relevant for identifying the principles of form and the methodology of establishing correspondences between the idea and the 'image', the concept and the symbol and of course, myth and ritual in the Indian arts. As is well recognised, the conception of the 'Purusa' is fundamental and pervasive in the Vedas, Brāhmaṇas and the Upanişads. While the Puruşa Sukta of the Rg Veda may be revelation, itis the Brāhmaṇas which identify the ritual (yajña) with Prajāpati. The physical construction of the altars, the essence of the piling up of bricks is essentially symbolic. It has the purpose of carrying out in ritual form the essential act of reconstruction of Prajāpati whose sacrifice as Puruşa has resulted in the creation of the universe in all its parts. The ritual is not restricted to a definite act in time; it is a constant process. Therefore, the dismembered Prajapati must be ever and again renewed. The renewal is brought about by the construction of Prajāpati in the shape of a fire altar. The concepts of Prajāpati, Puruşa and Agni coalesce, The Satapatha develops the theme in the tenth Kānda philosophically and identifies its symbolic significance in terms of space and time. Indian architecture, likewise, conceives of the temple as Puruşa and assembles the architectural members as in a ritual. So far, art-historians have not paid adequate attention to this relationship, except a few like Stella Kramrisch in her monumental work “The Hindu Temple". 
· The publication of a new edition with text and translation will, it is hoped, facilitate access to a primary text offundamental importance for the student of both ritual as well as the arts.. 
· The Satapathabrāhmanam belongs to Sukla Yajurveda and as has been 
pointed out by the editor, is available in two recensions known as Kāņva and :. Madhyandina. The Mādhyandina text was edited by Weber in the year 1923 
and its English translation was rendered by Eggeling. In the case of
FOREWORD 
Kāņvasatapatha, Prof. Caland published the critical edition only of the first seven Kändas; of the remaining ten Kāndas he included only the difference in reading in the two recensions. 
The present edition includes the full text with translation. No doubt, the work of Caland and Eggeling has been considered primary. However, the learned editor, Dr.C.R. Swaminathan has consulted other manuscripts, specially one in Telegu script and another in a private collection from Karnataka. These are based on the oral transmission of the text. 
A careful re-collation of the text has thus been done by checking original manuscripts used by Caland and others, now located in Nasik, Belgaum and Pandarpur and the orally transmitted text. Consequently, the text has been culled out bya most comprehensive search, collation, editing and translation. Also, naturally, the view point differs from the European scholars. No longer is the fundamental concern to trace Indo-Iranian sources and make comparisons with the Romans, etc. Dr.C.R.Swaminathan - our editor - critically assesses the text in Vimaría section. With a command on both. language and contemporary practice, he comments and elucidates certain technical aspects of the performance of yāgas connected with this Brāhmaṇa. Besides, he alludes to other vāgas and the relevance of the Känvašatapatha as textual authority. A Glossary of technical terms related to objects used in performing yāgas along with their illustrations, has been added. All this material, it is hoped, will be an invaluable source of knowledge on a much partially quoted and discussed butinfrequently read text, in original or translation. The contents would be of interest both to theologists as also to those interested in the foundations of artistic traditions, architecture, music, dance and theatre and those interested in the study of ritual as a discipline. 
IGNCA is deeply indebted to Dr.C.R.Swaminathan for undertaking this enormous and highly specialised project. With his command on the subject, he has accomplished a very difficult task, with erudition, patience and rare understanding. I should also like to acknowledge and appreciate .. the work of Dr. Advaitavadini Kaul for seeing this complex text through the press. 
CILOITTO 
KAPILA VATSYAYAN 
NEW DELHI 14.11.1994 
CONTENTS 
2-27 
Foreword by Kapila Vatsyayan Abbreviations Introduction 
EKAPĀTKÄNDA Chapter One Brähmana I Sambhāra Brāhmaṇa-preparations to be made for 
adhāna or establishment of sacrificial fires. Brāhmaṇa II Nakşatra Brāhmana---auspicious stars for perfor 
ming adhāna. Brāhmaṇa III Rtu Brāhmana-seasons in which adhana is to be 
done. Brāhmaṇa IV Upavasatha--rules to be observed on the day previ 
ous to ādhāna, 
28-55 
Chapter Two Brāhmana I 
28 
Brähmana II 
Pūrņāhuti offering and pavamâneşti at the comple tion of õdhāna. Details of daksinā to be offered at the adhāna; trans ferring of the kindled fires into oneself; observance of truthfulness by an Ahitāgni. Punarădhāna-reviving the fires externally; ägnevesti and daksinā for punaradhana. Agnihotra description of the oblations and the deities. 
Brāhmana III 
Brāhmaṇa IV 
56-85 
Chapter Three Brāhmaṇal 
Brāhmaṇa II 
66 
Brāhmana III 
Agnihotra-importance of Sun; timing of offering; milking of cow and preparation of the milk oblation. Āgrayanesti~its details and importance before freshly harvested grains are used for Agnihotra or for eating...... . Pindapitryajña--in the afternoon of the new-moon days where rice-balls are offered to father, grand father and great grandfather. . Dākṣāyanawajña-also known as Vašistha-Yajna to be performed on full-moon and new-moon days and offering of Vājina: 
Brāhmaṇa IV 
KANVASATAPATHABRAHMAŅAM 
86-100 
Chapter Four Brahmanal 
Brāhmaṇa!! 
Agnihotra-upasthāna or worshipping of Agni in the evening; importance of cow; worshipping of Gärhapatya and Ahavanīya. Agnihotra continued-worshipping of the fires when one goes on a voyage and when one comes back after a voyage. Câturmāsya Yāga-(a) Vaišvadeva parvan and its im portance. 
96 
Brāhmana III 
100 
110-135 
Chapter Five Brāhmaṇa I Cāturmāsya Yāga--(b) Varunapraghāsaparvan to be 
performed with two vedis. Brāhmaṇall Caturmäsya Vāga-(c) Sākhamedha Parvan—to be 
done in two days. Brāhmaṇa III Mahāhavişesti 
110 
124 
130 
136-163 
136 
148 
Chapter Six Brāhmana I Pitryajña—to propitiate three types of ancestors 
namely Somavantah; Barhişadaḥ and Agnişvāttāḥ. Brāhmaṇa II Tryambakești-to be performed at a road junction 
at the north of the residence. Brāhmaṇa III Cäturmäsya Yāga,(d) Sunäsiriya Parvan-Propi 
tiating Vāyu and Sürya, optionally performed with 
Soma Juice. Brāhmaṇa IV Cāturmāsya Yāga--the importance and significance 
of all the four Parvan. Pāghavimarsa 
var 
154 
158 
165 
ABBREVIATIONS 
M 
MD Ms Mss My 
Manuscript from Belgaum got through the good offices of Sri Pim plapure. Manuscript in the Calcutta Asiatic Society Library, described by Caland as codex 3. The reading adopted by Caland in his edition. Calcutta manuscript described by Caland as codex 10. Colebrooke's manuscript described under codex 4. Paper manuscript in possession of Sri Marthanda Dikshit, Hubli, Kar nataka. Incomplete palm-leaf manuscript of Sri Kumaraswami Dikshitar, Illip pai, Tamil Nadu. Manuscript in the India Office Library, described by Caland as codex 9. Madras manuscript--Government Oriental Manuscripts Library, Madras, described by Caland as codex 1. 
The Mādhyandina Satapatha Text. Manuscript. Manuscripts. Paper manuscript of Oriental Institute, Mysore, described by Caland as codex 8. Manuscript from Nasik compared by the good offices of Sri Pimplapure. Nepal manuscript described by Caland as codex 11. Manuscript in the Paris Library referred to by Caland as codex 4. Paper manuscript from Poona University Library, complete. Paper manuscript from Poona University Library, incomplete, Manuscript from Pandarpur, compared through the good offices of Sri Pimplapure. Oxford University Manuscript described by Caland as codex 5. The Känua Satapatha Brāhmana. Palm-leaf manuscript of Saraswati Mahal Library, Tanjore, described by Caland as codex 2. Printed edition of the Kanva Satapatha, edited by Bhagavatulu Lak shmipathi Sastri, printed at Tripurasundari press, Tenali, published by Yajñavalkya Mahajana Sangha in 1923 in 2 Vols. Banaras manuscript numbered by Caland as codex 6.: Paper manuscript belonging to Sri Lakshmikant Ramacharya Purohit of Varanasi. Manuscript from Wai, Maharashtra, compared through the good offices of Sri Pimplapure. 
N 
Ne 
Р P.1 
P.2 
V1 .V2 
INTRODUCTION 
The Vedas form the earliest literature available to humanity, handed down by an unbroken oral tradition, throwing light on the religious, social and cultural life and aspirations of the people who inhabited the south and south-east Asian regions. The word 'Veda', is derived from the root vid, to know. The Veda refers to that group of expressions which enables us to know the ways and means of achieving the fourfold aims of human existence, namely dharma (righteousness), artha (prosperity in material terms), kāma (physicaland mental happiness) and mokșa (unmitigated spiritual bliss of ever-lasting nature). Another definition of the Veda is that which throws light on those means of emancipation or on those superhuman agencies who can help in the emanci pation, which cannot be known or identified by the other two means of know - ledge,viz. pratyakșa (perception) and anumāna (inference). It is, in other words, a collection of sounds that reveal super-mundane matters or that which enables us to perceive the supra-sensual phenomena, forteagasgufa. 
The Vedas consist of the mantras (also called Samhitās) and the Brāhmanas. Mantras include prayers to divine beings and also deal with the super-natural powers of those divine entities which have a sway over the living beings in this Universe, both in their genesis and in their behaviour. The mantras, by virtue of the potency of their sounds, are themselves believed to influence the atmospheric conditions and also divert the physical, psychical and metaphysical activities of living beings and bring about peace and harmony among human beings themselves and between human beings and nature." 
The Brāhmaṇas are in a sense, the earliest annotations of the mantrus also called the Samhitā portions. They contain some etymological derivations of words found in the latter, serve as manuals for the performance of Vedic sacrifices involving the usages of the mantras, dilate on some narratives and anecdotes to drive home the significance of particular statements of the Samhitā and their usages in particular contexts, etc. In short, the Brāhmaṇas reveal to us the nature of dharma (that unseen moral and spiritual merit or adrsta produced by such mental and physical activities that fall within the purview of righteousness), which would lead to the other three puruşarthas or human goals, viz. artha, kāma and mokşa. The Samhita, on the other hand, reveals to us the divine entities to be propitiated for the earning of dharma, their nature and the various offerings that go to propitiate them. 
Indian tradition holds both the Samhita and the Brāhmana equally sac rosanct revelations of non-human origin. They are eternal collections of sounds revealed from time to time due to divine will. Jaimini, who, according to 
1 . 
itt? 
. 
UVU 
xvi 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRĀHMAŅAM 
Indologists, antedates the Christian era, in his Mīmāmsã-sūtras that lay down the guide-lines for the interpretation of the Vedas, has treated the Samhitā and the Brāhmaṇa at par. He has not only accepted both as authentic Vedic texts but laid at rest all speculations regarding the apauruşeyatva of the Brāhmaṇa part. He refers to an earlier scholar, by name Kāśakstsna, on whose lines, he claims to have planned his own sūtras. That means, much earlier to Jaimini, the apauruşeyatva of both the Samhitã and Brāhmaṇa had come to stay as an accepted fact and both together had been held as the uncontrovertible source of the entire spectrum of valid knowledge, the sheet-anchor of later metaphysical speculations. 
Of the four Vedaş, the first three are considered specially important and are collectively called the Trayī vidyā. This is because these three are indispensable for the performance of sacrifice or påga. The hymns of the Rgveda, totalling 10,424 mantras are distributed over one thousand sūktas (hymns) that are divided into ten Mandalas. These Ķks are used in the chanting of śastras or invocatory prayers in honour of deities like Indra, Agni, Varuna, etc. and in the uttering of yājjas and puronuvākyas at the times of actual offerings. The Yajus formulae in prose, refer to the details of the performance of the various iştis and yāgas and to the process of pressing Soma juíce, etc. While collecting the pressed Soma juice in different cups or grahas for different gods, the Rk hymns set to music called Sämans are sung. These Sāman chants are called stotras, Both sastras and stotras (in Rks and Samans respectively) are in praise of the qualities and characteristics of various deities for whom the grahas are collected. The priests who handle these three Vedas and perform the rituals connected with these are respectively called Hots, Adhvaryu and Udgāts. Besides these, there is the Brahmä who is to monitor the entire sacrificial rituals and is supposed to be well-versed in the functions of the other three categories of priests. Each one of these four priests have three assistants, forming four ganas or groups. Thus the Hotr-gana includes (1) Hots, (2) Maitrāvaruņa, (3) Acchāvāka (4) Grāvastut. The Adhvaryu-gana consists of (1) Adhvaryu, (2) Pratiprasthāts, (3) Nestr and (4) Unnets. The Udgātr-gana comprises of (1) Udgåts, (2) Prastotr, (3) Pratihartr and (4) Subrahmanya. The Brahma-gana includes (1) Brahma, (2) Brāhmaṇācchamsin, (3) Agnidhra and (4) Potr. 
The Yajurveda, which is most important from the point of view of sacrifice, is concerned with the techniques of conducting the vägas and its Brāhmaņa parts explain the rationale behind each one of the technical details. The priest handling the Yajus part is called Adhvaryu denoting his role in the adhvara or sacrifice. The Yajurveda has two main divisions, namely the Sukla or white and the Krsna or black. There are three säkhās or schools of recitation of the Krsna-Yajurveda, called the Kathaka, the Maiträvanīya and the Taittirīya. The Brāhmana portions of the first two are not available now. The Taittirīya sākhā has two divisions of Mantra and Brāhmana but they are not exclusively of 
INTRODUCTION 
xvii 
Mantras and Brāhmaṇas respectively. There is an intermixture of the two and that is perhaps the reason for its being named Krsna or black. 
Two recensions of the Sukla-Yajurveda have come down to us and each of them has the Samhitā and the Brāhmaṇa clearly separated and exclusive of each other. The Brāhmana texts of both are called by the same name of Satapatha, which literally means 'The hundred paths. In the Mādhyandina version, the order in which the topics are dealt with, is the same as they appear in the Samhitā text of that sākhā, except for the Pinda-pity-pajña which appears after Darśapürnamāsa in the Samhitā and after ädhāna in the Brāhmana. In the Kāņva version, the Samhitā starts with the Darśapürnamāsa and the Brāhmana deals with adhāna first. Hence the first and second Kändas of the Mădhyandina Satapatha are in the reverse order in the Kāņva recension. The Madhyandina Brāhmaṇa is divided into Kāņdas, Adhyāyas, Prapāthakas, Brāhmaṇas and Kandikäs; whereas in the Kāņva, all the divisions except the Prapāthakas are found. The contents of each division vary in the two versions and are as follows: 
Mådhyandina 
Käpya 
14 
17 
100 
104 
Divisions Kāndas Adhyāyas Prapāthakas Brāhmaņas Kaņdikās 
68 
Nil 
486 7179 
435 6806 
The names of the Kāndas also vary between the two and the sequence in which they appear is as below: 
Name of the Kanda 
Serial no. in Känva 
Serial no. in Madhyandina 
Ekapät Kända Haviryajña Kanda Udhāri Kānda Adhvara Kānda Graha Kānda 
Väjapeya Kända Sava Kāņda Rājasūya Kāņda Ukhâsambharaņa Kānda Hastighata Kānda Citi Kända Sāgniciti (Sāciti) Kāņda Sancti Kānda 
ouloop in WONG 
i wanalol mwen 
T 
xviii 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
Agnirahasya Kānda Astādhyāyī Kānda Madhyama Kānda Ašvamedha Kanda Pravargya Kāṇda Brhadāranyaka Kānda 
Generally, the division of Kandikās is more rational in the Kāņva text than in the other. The sequence of the Adhyâyas in the former recension is also less erratic than in the Mādhyandina. The name 'Satapatha', as Eggeling has suggested, might have been based on the number of Adhyāyas in the Madhyan dina which is exactly one hundred. But the Kāņva recension, which has one hundred and four Adhyāyas is also known by the same name. In Indian tradition words like 'fata' and 'sahasra', indicating numbers, do not always stand for the exact numbers. They are often approximate indications. When they name a work as Sahasranāma-stotra (a prayer with 1000 appellations of gods) it is not unusual to find 1008 names in it. 
The first half of the Mädhyandina-Satapatha ending with Sanciti Kānda consists of sixty Adhyāyas distributed among nine Kāndas and the correspond ing portion of the Känva-Satapatha ending with Sägniciti or Săciti Kānda consists of sixty-five Adhyâyas distributed among eleven Kāndas. There are some evidences to show that only this first part in each of these Brāhmanas was in vogue in the oral tradition of learning, i.e. adhyayana-paramparā. It is perhaps due to the fact the Kāndas from 10 to 13 in Madhyandina and from 12 to 15 in Käņva deal with sacrificial rituals not usually practised and the 14th Kanda in Mädhyandina and the last two Kändas in Kanva (16 and 17) deal with metaphysical matters comprising the Brhadaranyakopanişad. However, it should be remembered that the Byhadaraniyakopanışad has been in adhyayana-paramparā separately as an Upanişad, though not as a part of the Brāhmaṇa text. The text of the Madhyandina school has already been critically edited by Weber and an English translation of the same by Eggeling has also come out. Prof. Caland prepared and pub lished the critical text of the first seven Kāndas of the Kānva-Satapatha. In respect of the remaining Kāndas, he has only indicated the main differences in readings between the Mädhyandina and the Kāņva recensions. 
Here an attempt has been made to present the critical text of the entire Kānra-Salapatha-brähmana with all the 17 Kāndas and also an English transla tion side by side. . It would be a repetition to describe the details of the manuscript material consulted by Caland in the preparation of his critical edition of the seven Kändas. The present edition, however, besides the variations in readings assiduously collected by Caland and carefully consulted here, has the added advantage of consulting the following materials: 
INTRODUCTION 
Xix 
(1) One imporant material that has been availed of for the preparation of this edition, which Caland has not mentioned, is the printed text of the Kanta Satapaiha in Telugu script in two volumes. Despite many printing mistakes and typical characteristics of Telugu pronunciation, this printed edition has been very useful in sorting out some of the problems which Caland faced in deciding the correct textual passages. In the absence of a living oral tradition of the Kānva-Satapatha, this edition, which was prepared at a time when the adhyayana-paramparā of the Brāhmaṇa was still in vogue, serves as a useful guide to understand how it was actually being chanted. In other words, it enables us to peep into the unbroken oral tradition upto a point of time when it was still a śruti and not a written document. We naturally attach maximuni importance to this edition in keeping with our age-old practice of accepting greater credibility to what is an unbroken oral transmission than to what has been preserved in the form of written record. 
(2) Out of the manuscripts collated by Caland, the following were rechecked in respect of the entire text. The reason being that Caland had to depend upon handwritten copies of Mss supplied to him by the concerned libraries and hence were likely to carry scribal errors. 
(a) The manuscript designated as M (Madras) and numbered as Codex-1 by Caland has been rechecked with the original. This manuscript, as already described by Caland, is in Grantha script partly and Telugu script in some Kāndas. It has no accent. 
(b) The manuscript T (Tanjore) and numbered as Codex-2 by Caland is again unaccented and is a palmleaf manuscript which was described by Burnell and is available in the Tanjore Saraswati Mahal Library. The first three books of this manuscript which could not be consulted by Caland have also been collated for the present edition. 
(c) The manuscript B (Benares) referred to by Caland as Codex-6 is the paper manuscript of the Sampurnanand Sanskrit University, Varanasi. This was also rechecked. 
(d) The manuscript My (Mysore)described as Codex-8 by Caland belongs to the Oriental Library, Mysore and is again unaccented. A xerox copy of the entire manuscript in Telugu script, instead of a Devanagari transcript, was obtained for collation purposes. . 
(e) Besides the above, the paper manuscripts belonging to Sri Lakshmikant Ramacharya Purohit of Varanasi with accent, was obtained through the good offices of Pandit Rajahans Ghanapathi, a disciple of Sri Purohit. This manus cript has been designated as V 2 indicating Varanasi-11. 
(1) My good friend Dr. T.N. Dharmadhikari, Director, Vaidika Samsodhana Mandala, Pune, helped me in getting a xerox copy of each of the two manu scripts deposited in the Pune University Library. Both are paper manuscripts with accent. The first one is complete and is given the symbol P.1 in our 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMAŅAM 
references. The second one which seems to be only a copy of the former, covers the first three Kāndas only and it is designated as P.2. 
(g) One of the most valuable manuscripts which we could procure and which was not available for Caland, is the one in possession of Pt. Marthanda Dikshit of Hubli, Karnataka. It is a paper manuscript well accentuated and complete in every respect. It was got prepared by the late Chidambara Dikshitar of Hubli and he belonged to the last generation of svādhyāyins who maintained the oral tradition of Satapatha adhyayana. The value of the manuscript is, for reasons stated earlier, of high order since it was recorded by a person himself well-versed in the oral recitation, 
Hubli seems to have been a very well-known centre of Kāņva studies in Karnataka and the name Chidambara is appearing in that line of scholarship almost in every alternate generation. All the five manuscripts including the two in Pune, that are found in south Maharashtra have somewhere or other the mention of Chidambara Dikshitar. My good friend Sri G.W. Pimplapure, who has been working on this text for quite some time, brought to my notice four manuscripts from Nasik, Belgaum, Wai and Pandarpur-all these four manuscripts from the region of north Karnataka and south Maharashtra have been partially collated with the help of copies made available by Sri Pimplapure. They are given the symbols N, B, W and Pa respectively. Although we may not attach individual importance to each of these four, because they all appear to be copies of the text of Hubli tradition but their utility in solving the riddles, particularly in the matter of accentuation cannot be under-estimated. 
THE NEED FOR THE FRESH EDITION 
Caland's edition is limited to the first seven Kāņdas;in respect of subsequent Kāndas, he only gives main deviations in the Känva-Satapatha from the Mädhyandina-Satapatha. 
Caland has made some emendments either on the basis of the Madhyandina readings or on his own conjecture.In many such instances we found that the transcripts of the manuscripts which were consulted by Caland and which were fortunately made available to us in original, provided the clues to solve the riddles instead of resorting to conjectures, In some other cases, Caland's emendments were found to have been induced by imaginary grammatical defects. In a few cases,consultation with other Brāhmaṇa texts was found useful to solve problems of the readings without resorting to arbitrary amend ments.
INTRODUCTION 
N 
H 
Pact + 
There are certain instances where the Kanva recension is more elaborate than the Mädhyandina or the vice versa. In such cases doubts about readings could be solved either by referring to the Mädhyandina Brāhmana text or its commentaries by Säyaņa and Harisvāmin. No doubt, Savana has meant only a brief gloss to the Madhyandina text and has skipped over many passages presuming that the reader would have understood them from the other Brāhmana texts and their commentaries. Harisvämin's commentary, though little more elaborate, is less helpful when the merit of variant readings has to be decided on etyinological or grammatical grounds. In spite of these draw backs, both Sayana and Harisvāmin have come to our rescue in quite a number of places. 
Of course, it is intriguing to find Sāyana interpreting the same expression in one way in the Mädhyandina-Satapatha and in a different way in some other texts. In such instances, it becomes difficult to decide the text and the meaning of such expressions found in the Kanva recension. This is not men tioned with a view to questioning the credibility of Sayana's scholarship. It would only mean that Sāyana himself has acknowledged the possibility of variation in the interpretation or it may be that the entire Bhāşya literature attributed to Sāyana was not from the same pen. They might have been the products of individual efforts of a synod or consortium of scholars under the supervision of Sāyana-an inference which has widely been accepted by scholars. 
The manuscripts in Grantha or Telugu scripts which were obtained by Caland for collation in the form of Devanagari transcripts, have obviously carried some human scribal errors causing some difficulties for Prof. Caland. These are rectified by directly rechecking the original manuscripts, as in the instances of misspeit letters like tha and tha. . 
The Telugu printed edition in two volumes, mentioned earlier,was published by Tenali Sambhasivaraya in the year 1923. This edition has the following drawbacks: 
(1) It is non-critical in nature, since the manuscripts outside the peninsula do not seem to have been consulted. 
(2) Being in Telugu script, there are some obvious spelling mistakes caused by the different pronunciation of Sanskrit letters by the Telugu-speaking people as indicated above. . 
(3) The printing is of very poor quality. 
• In spite of these drawbacks, this edition has the credit of having been pro 
duced at a time when oral tradition of Satapatha study was alive. 
lit 
. 
* 
Y 11 
A 
AR 
i 
1 
. LA 
! 
LLU 
1 
12 
& 
xxii 
KĀNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
Besides, the manuscripts got from Hubli has also indication that it was written down by those who were themselves preserving the oral tradition and hence were in a position to make corrections in the manuscripts, wherever there were errors. 
In conclusion, with all due respect to the western scholarship that has brought to the limelight some of the most valuable Vedic texts, I would like to submit that the preparation of critical editions of Vedic texts cannot be and should not be on the same lines as preparing the critical edition of any other classical Sanskrit text. Insofar as the Vedic literature is concerned, the oral tradition is the most dependable basis and the sources where the oral tradition was alive till the recent past will be more dependable than the manuscripts which are copies of the copies. In other words, the validity of the recorded evidence of Vedic text is directly proportionate to its proximity in time and space, to the oral tradition. This principle has been kept in view while preparing this edition. 
A detailed textual note is appended at the end of each Kāņda where our preferences to a particular reading needed justification or inclusion of a particular alternate reading called for reasoning. 
In the case of translation, Prof. Eggeling's rendering of the Mädhyandina Satapatha has been taken as a guiding light, not only because that great scholar has maintained a high level of excellence, but also because he has made it a readable translation despite the repetitive nature of the Brāhmaṇa text. His cross references to other texts on occasions where the translation of a passage is difficult, has helped us in no small measure. I have no hesitation in recording my dependence on Eggeling's translation. 
A section entitled Vimarśa has been appended to discuss certain technical topics connected with the Satapatha-brāhmana. Incidentally it also contains a bird's eye view of all the Somavāgas which are elaborately dealt with in the Srauta-fütras and for the performance of which this Brāhmaṇa text provides the basic material. This section also includes certain titles, with a view to throwing some light on the ritualistic significance of some specific rites pre scribed during the course of performance of yāgas. 
We have also appended an almost exhaustive glossary of technical terms relating to the utensils used in the sacrifices and pictorial representations of these utensils and instruments are also given separately. An alphabetical Kandikā index with Kända, Adhyâya and Brāhmana numbers is included to facilitate quick reference. At the beginning, a descriptive list of contents of each Brāhmana has also been provided for the benefit of scholars. 
Originally it was proposed to give an English translation of Kandas I to VIII only where there are major differences between the Käņva and Mädhyan dina recensions. It was even felt that giving an English translation for Kändas 
VI 
INTRODUCTION 
Xxiii 
IA 
7 
IX to XVII may be redundant while the translation by Eggeling is available. In fairness to Eggeling, it must be mentioned that his translation does not call for much improvement. Despite this, a fresh translation has been attempted also for the latter half of the känta-Sataputha even though the readings of Mädhyandina and Kānva have very little difference. This fresh attempt is justifiable on the grounds that it is in the interest of continuity of the methodo logy adopted for the first eight Kāndas and it would also help to present a homogeneous independent translation of the Kanva recension. I have no hesitation to acknowledge may dependence on the translation of Fggeling and at the same time I would like to assure the readers that the alterations in the language of Eggeling are not introduced only for the sake of alterations and not in the least as a camouflage. The changes introduced are niostly to maintain continuity in the usage of English equivalents adopted in the earlier Kandas. 
Therefore, to the extent my translation agrees with that of Eggeling, the gratitude to Eggeling is obvious. To the extent they differ from Eggeling, it may be ascribed to the compulsions which were felt to bring about homogeneity and uniformity with my translation of the first eight Kāndas. 
A colossal work like this, which was undertaken without fully realising its vastness could not have been completed without the unreserved co-operation of friends and institutions who lent or provided copies of manuscripts in their possession, team of scholars with knowledge of various scripts who helped in getting the manuscripts collated word for word and above all the unflinching help that was received from a group of scholars in editing and translating the text. Particular mencion should be made of Prof. K.V. Seshadrinath Sarma, Sri T.K. Chayapati Sarma and Prof. A.V. Nagaraja Sarma who provided the academic co-operation for this monumental work. Sri S. Ranganatha Sarma, Sri G.W. Pimplapure and Sri A.S. Subbukrishna Srautigal have helped me in collating the various manuscripts. Last but not the least in importance, Sri H. Subramanian was very helpful in doing the typing work of the translation. 
I cannot find adequate expression to convey my gratitude to the IGNCA and particularly to its dynamic Academic Director Dr. (Smt.) Kapila Vatsyayan for the confidence she reposed on these weak shoulders of mine when this project was entrusted to me. 
. 
HT 
काण्वशतपथब्राह्मणम् Kāņvasatapathabrāhmanam 
upsamagraneponounganagarmenAmकाममा 
PATRIKA 
एकपात्काण्डम् 
प्रथमोऽध्यायः 
प्रथमं ब्राह्मणम् ॐ स वै संभारान्त्संभरति यद्वा एनानितश्चेतच संभरति तदेव संभाराणासंभारत्व स यत्र यत्राग्नेच॑क्तं भवति ततस्तत एन२ संभरति यशसेव त्वदेन समर्धयन्पशुभिरिव त्वन्मिथुनेनैव त्वदेनं प्रजननेन समर्धयति संभर स्तस्माद्वा व संभारान्त्संभरति ॥ १ ॥ __ स यत्राग्नी आधास्यन्भवति तत्स्फ्येनोल्लिखति बहु वा अस्याः पृथिव्या अमेध्यं यदभिष्ट्यूतं वाऽभिष्ठितं वा तदेवैतत्स्फ्येनोल्लिखत्यथ मेध्यायामेव यज्ञियायां पृथिव्यामाधत्ते तदद्भिवोक्षति सोऽपासंभारोऽन्नमु वा आपोऽन्नर हि वा आपस्तस्माद्यदेहाप आगच्छन्त्यथेहान्नं जायतेऽन्नाद्येनैवैनमेतत् समर्धयति योषा उ वा आपो वृषाग्निस्तन्मिथुनं प्रजननं मिथुनेनैवैनमेतत् प्रजननेन समर्धयत्यद्भि वा इदर सर्वमाप्तमद्भिरेवैनमेतदाप्त्वाधत्ते तस्माद्वा अपस्संभरति ॥ २ ॥ __ अथ हिरण्य संभरत्यग्निर्ह वा अपोऽभिदध्यौ मिथुन्येनाः स्यामिति तास्संबभूव तासु रेतः प्रसिषेच तद्धिरण्यं तस्माद्धिरण्यमग्निसंकाशमग्नेर्हि रेतस्तस्मादेनदप्स्वेवानुविन्दन्य॑प्सु पुनन्त्यप्सु ह्येनत्प्रासिञ्चन्नैनेन धावयन्ति न किंचन कुर्वन्त्यथ यशो देवरेतस हि यश सैवैनमेतत्समर्धयति सरेतसं कृत्स्नमग्निमाधत्ते तस्माद्धिरण्य संभरति ॥ ३ ॥ 
-- 
समधयति 
१. एनानिस्थान्चेस्थाञ्च C see Notes. . २. संभर TE. ३. यत्रामी३ P1, P2, H, TE. , see Notes. ४. आप TE. ५. मिथुन्येना Ca., See Notes. ६. TE निन्दत्यप्सु, see Notes. ७. TE समर्धयति. 
Chapter One 
BRAHMANAI 1. He (who is to perform the installation of the holy fires, agnvädhāna) gathers the requisite materials; he collects them from here and there (from various places). That verily constitutes the collectedness' of the materials. He gathers this (fire) from different places where there is inherence of fire. By that, he makes it flourish with glory, as it were, with cattle (wealth) and with a mate; thus he makes it grow with productivity. Therefore, indeed, he gathers the required materials. 
2. That place where he is going to set up the two fires, he scrapes with a wooden sword. Much of this earth that has been spat upon and that has been trodden is indeed impure. That very thing he scrapes with the wooden sword and then he establishes (the fires) only upon pure ground that is fit for sacrifice. That (place) he sprinkles with water. That is the provision of water. Water is verily food; water, indeed, is food. Therefore when waters arrive here, then food grows here. This (sprinkling of water) makes it (the fire) flourish with (good) food. Water is, indeed, the female, fire the male. That makes a productive couple. This (sprinkling with water) makes this (fire) prosper with a procreative mate. All this (Universe) is verily pervaded by the (primordial) waters. Covering this place) with water itself, he (the sacrificer) installs this (fire). Hence is it that he procures water. 
3. Then he provides gold. (Once)Agni coveted the waters, thinking, “I shall be coupled with these." He united with them and deposited his seed in them. That (became) gold. Hence gold shines like fire; (for) it is indeed the seed of fire. So people find this (gold) only in waters. In waters do they purify (this), for he (Agni) deposited it verily in waters. People do not wash with this (gold), nor do they do anything (else). Now, splendour (glory) is the seed of gods. This (provision of gold) makes this (fire) grow with splendour. He (the sacrificer) sets up the entire fire with its seed. Therefore does he procure gold. 
KĀNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMAŅAM 
[I.1.1,4 
AR 
HALAM 
अथोषान्त्संभरत्यसौ ह वै द्यौरस्यै पृथिव्यै पशून्ददौ त ऊषास्तस्माद्यत्रोषरं तत्पश व्यमाहुः साक्षाद्भयेते पशवो यदूषाः पशुभिरेवैनं तत्समर्धयति सवा एषोऽमुष्या दिवोरसः सोऽस्यां पृथिव्यां प्रतिष्ठितस्तमनयो_वापृथिव्यो रसं मन्यन्तेऽनयोरेवै तद्यावापृथिव्यो रसेन समर्धयति ॥४॥ ___ अधाखुकरीष संभरत्याखवो ह वा अस्याः पृथिव्या रसं विदुस्तस्मादधोऽध एव चरन्तः पीविष्ठास्ते ह यत्र यत्रास्या रसस्ततस्ततो हैतदुल्किरन्त्यस्या एवैनमेतत्पृथिव्या रसेन समर्धयति समानमु वै करीषं च पुरीषं च पुरीषीति वै समाचक्षते यः श्रियं गच्छति तस्याश्चैवावरुद्धये ॥ ५॥ __ अथ शर्करास्संभरति देवाश्च ह वा असुराश्चोभये प्राजापत्या अस्पर्धन्ताथ हेय तर्हि पृथिव्ययतेवास यथा पुष्करपर्ण लेलायेदेव ह स्म लेलायति तार ह स्म वातस्संवहति सोपदेवाञ्जगामोपासुरान्त्सा यत्र देवानुपजगाम ॥ ६ ॥ __ तद्धोचुर्हन्तेमा प्रतिष्ठा दृरहामहा इति तां प्रतिष्ठा कृत्वाशिथिलां तस्यामनी आधाय द्विषतः सपत्नानसुरान्निर्भक्ष्याम इति तान्ह यत्रोपजगाम तदेनां यथा शंकुभिश्चर्म वितनुयादेवः समन्त शर्कराभिः पर्यवृहस्तां प्रतिष्ठा कृत्वाशिथिलां तस्यामग्नी आधाय द्विषतः सपत्नानसुरान्निरझजस्तथोवा एषएतदिमांप्रतिष्ठांकृत्वाशिथिलांतस्यामग्नी आाय द्विषतस्सपत्नान्निर्भजति ॥ ७ ॥ 
८. उषा TE, P1, P2, H. See Notes. . ९. प्रतिष्ठित TE. १०. रेवैन Co. ११. करीष Co. १२. पुरीषीति Ca. १३. तमाचक्षते Ca. १४. हेयं TE, PI. १५. तदेनान्यथा Ca., see Notes. १६. द्विषतः Ca. 
Fa. ... .. 
RAM- 
P. 
SUE 
1.1.1.71 
TRANSLATION 
4. Then he brings salts. Yonder sky (the resplendent region visible above) bestowed cattle (wealth) on this earth. That became the salts. Hence, where there is saltish ground they declare it fit for cattle. Verily, the salts are the visible wealth (cattle). Thus, this (provision of salts) makes this (fire) flourish with cattle (wealth). Such a thing (the salt) is the essence of the yonder divine region. It became established in this earth. They consider it (the salt) as the essence of Heaven and Earth. It (the provision of salts) makes this (fire) prosper with the very essence of these two_Heaven and Earth. 
5. Then he secures (the earth from) a mole-hill. Moles, indeed, know the savour of this earth. Therefore moving down and (further) down they became fat. Wherever there is the essence of this (earth), from there they throw it up. This (provision of earth from a mole-hill) enriches it (the fire) with the essence of the earth. Karīşa (what is scattered or thrown up) and purīļa (what is cast off/wealth) are alike. (They are synonymous.) They call a person who attains wealth,'Purīşi; for the preservation (retention) of that (wealth) too (does the sacrificer provide the mole-hill). 
6. Then he (the sacrificer) gathers pebbles. Devas and Asuras (gods and demons) both sprung from Prajāpati, contended (with each other). Then this earth was, as it were not restrained (fixed). It tossed about as a lotus leaf would toss about. The wind carried it along. It (the earth) then came near the Devas and then came near the Asuras... 
7. When it approached the gods, they said, "Ah! Let us fasten this to make it) steady. Having made it stable and tight and installing the two fires on it, we shall deprive the Asuras,our hateful rivals (of any share)." Where (when) it reached them, they fixed it all round with pebbles as one would spread out a hide with pins. Having made it firm and steady and setting up the two fires on it, they excluded the Asuras,their hateful rivals, from any share. In that manner, this person (sacrificer) keeps away (from any share) his inimical rivals by making this (ground) firm and steady and installing the two fires on it. 
KĀNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.1.1.8 
तान्वा एतान्पञ्च संभारान्संभरति पातो वै यज्ञः पाक्ताः पशवः पञ्चर्तवः संवत्सरस्य तस्मादेतान्पञ्च संभारान्संभरति ॥ ८॥ 
तदाहुः षड्[ ऋतवस्संवत्सरस्येति यदि वै षळ्तवस्संवत्सरस्य न्यूनमु वै प्रजननं न्यूनाद्वा इमाः प्रजाः प्रजायन्ते प्रजननमु वा अप्येतत्तर्हि श्वःश्रेयसमुत्तरावद्यधु वै पतवोऽग्निरेवैषा षष्ठो भवति तेनैव तं काममाप्नोति यस्तत्र कामः॥९॥ __ तदाहु कञ्चन संभरेदित्यस्या वा एतान् पृथिव्याः संभरत्यस्यामु वा आधत्ते स यदेवास्यामाधत्ते तेनैव तान्कामानाप्नोति ये संभारेषु कामा इति तदु समेव भरेद्यदाहास्य माधत्ते तेन सर्वमाप्नोति यदु संभारैः संभृतैर्भवति तद्वस्य भवति स यश्च संभारेषु कामो यश्चास्यां पृथिव्यां तस्मा उभय समर्धयति तस्मादु समेव भरेत् ॥ १० ॥ इति प्रथम ब्राह्मणम्॥ 
द्वितीयं ब्राह्मणम् कृत्तिकास्वग्नी आदधीतेत्याहुरेतद्ध वा अग्नेर्नक्षत्रं यत्कृत्तिकास्तद्वै सलोम यदग्ने क्ष त्रेऽग्नी आदधीताथो एक दृमि वा अन्यानि नक्षत्राणि त्रीणि चत्वारीत्यथैष भूमा भूमानमेवैतदुपैति बहुलैव प्रजया पशुभिर्भवत्यथो इति च वा अन्यानि नक्षत्राणीति च व्युद्यन्त्यथैता एव प्राच्या दिशो न यन्ति प्राच्यार हैवास्य दिश्याहितौ भवतः प्राचीमेवैत द्दिशमुपैति तस्मात्कृत्तिकास्वादधीत ॥ १ ॥ 
१७. पळूतवः TE. १८. न्यूनमुवै Pl, P2. १९. Pa, P1 and Ca. श्वः श्रेयस other Mss श्वश्रेयस; see Notes.. २०. समेववभरेत् H.. 
१. त्वमिका M; see Notes. 
1.1.2.1) 
TRANSI ATION 
8. He verily collects these five requisite materials (described before). Indeed the sacrifice is fivefold and fivefold are the (sacrificial) animals and five are the seasons of the year. Hence he gathers these five materials. 
9. Regarding that, they (some) say, “Indeed six are the seasons of the year." If the seasons of the year are six, surely deficient is the production. These creatures are indeed born of the deficient (lower part of the body). This is production too, then and the prosperity (of the future) has further improvement (for the sacrificer). If the seasons are six, then Agni himself becomes the sixth of these (materials) and he (the sacrificer) acquires (fulfills) with Agni himself, that desire (need for the sixth material) which is there. 
10. About that (provision of materials) they (some) say, "One need not do anything at all. He (the sacrificer) indeed collects (all) these materials from this earth and installs (the fires) on this earth). By the very fact that he sets up (the fires) on this earth), he acquires (fulGlls) those desires (needs) that are there in the matter of the materials." 
But (in this matter) one must gather (the inaterials). Regarding what one says, "He (the sacrificer) sets up (the fires) on this (earth) and by that he obtains everything": truly what occurs with the gathered materials come to him and there is the fulfilment of the desire for the materials and the desire regarding this earth (place). For that, he (the sacrificer) enriches both by providing the materials). Therefore, he must verily gather (the equipment). 
(First Brāhmana Ends) 
BRAHMANA II 1. They say that one may set up the two fires under the constellation Krttika (when the moon is in conjunction with the Kittika stars). Kritikās are verily the asterism of Agni. It is but proper that one should install the two fires under the star of Agni. Moreover, the other stars (stellar groups) consist of one, two, three, or four (stellar bodies). But then, this (Krttikä group) is large. This (setting up of fires) verily attains largeness. And he (the sacrificer) becomes plentiful with progeny and cattle. Also, the other stars move away. Only these (Kyttikā stars) do not move away from the eastern direction. His two (the sacrificer's two fires) become established only in the eastern quarter. That (setting up of the fires) reaches the eastern quarter only. Hence one should set up the fires) under the Kyttikās.
KÄNVA-SATAPATHABRĀHMANAM 
JI.1.2.2 
तदाहुन कृत्तिकास्वादधीतास्त्यासु परिचक्षेत्वृक्षाणा५ ह वा एता अग्रे पत्न्य आसु ऋक्षा इति ह स्म वै पुरा सप्तर्षीनाचक्षते ता मिथुनेन व्यानृघिरे अग्रेणोद्यन्तीहोत्तरेण सप्तर्षयः कस्तास्वादधीत या मिथुनेन व्युद्धानेन्मिथुनेन व्युद्धयाँ इति तद्वैव दधीताग्निर्वा एतासां मिथुनमेतेन वा एता मिथुनेन समृद्धास्तस्माद्वैव दधीत ॥ २ ॥ 
रोहिण्यामग्नी आदधीतेत्याहू रोहिण्या ह वै प्रजापतिरनी आदधे प्रजाकामो बहुः प्रजया पशुभिस्स्यां प्रजायेयेति स इमाः प्रजास्ससृजे तमिमाः प्रजास्सृष्टा रोहिण्य इवोपस्तब्धास्तस्थुरेकरूपा इवैव तद्रोहिण्या रोहिणीत्वं प्र॒जायते ह प्रजया पशुभिर्य एवं विद्वात्रोहिण्यामाधत्ते ॥ ३ ॥ 
रोहिण्यामु ह वाव पशवोऽग्नी आदधिरे मनुष्याणां कामे रोहामेति यथेमेऽद्यापि मनुष्याणां कामे रूळ्हाः पशवो यथा ह वाव तत्पशवो मनुष्याणां कामेऽरोहन्नेव हैव पशूनां कामे रोहति य एवं विद्वानोहिण्यामाधत्ते ॥४॥ 
मृगशिरस्यग्नी आदधीतेत्याहुः प्रजापतेर्वा एतच्छिरो यन्मृगशिरः श्रीवै शिरः श्रीर्ह वै शिरोऽथ योऽर्धस्य श्रेष्ठो भवत्यसौ तस्यार्धस्य शिर इत्याचक्षते श्रियः ह यच्छति श्रेष्ठो ह भवति य एवं विद्वान्मृगशिरस्याधत्ते ॥ ५॥ 
तदाहुन मृगशिरस्यादधीतास्त्यस्मिन्परिचक्षेति प्रजापतेर्वा एतच्छरीरं यौनमेष देव इषुणा त्रिकापडेनाविध्यत्तत एतद्विद्धोऽजहात्तदेतद्वास्तु निर्वीर्यमयज्ञियं कस्तस्मिन्नादधीतेति तद्वैव दधीत न वै तस्य देवस्य वास्तु न निर्वीर्य नायज्ञियमस्ति यत्प्रजापतेस्तस्माद्वैव 
दधीत॥६॥ 
पुनर्वस्वोः पुनराधेयमादधीत फल्ग्वोरादधीतैतद्ध वा इन्द्रनक्षत्रं यत्फल्ग्वापि हास्य प्रतिनामानावर्जुनो हवै नामेन्द्रो यदस्य गुह्यं नामार्जुन्यो नामैतास्तत्कोऽर्हति तस्य गुह्यं नाम २. एतामग्रे Co; एता अग्रे V1, K, Ca. ३. सप्त ऋषयः M, Ca. ४. व्यध्या Ca. 
५. निर्वै Pl. ६. स्व इमाः TE. ७. रूल्हा: TE:रूव्हाः Ca. ८. रोहति P1, P2,H. १. नाविध्यत एत TE. 
1.1.2.7) 
TRANSLATION 
2. About this they (some) say "One should not set up (the fires) under the Kritikās. There is rejection (disapproval) in their case”. “At first (originally) these (Krttikās) were the wives of the Rkşcas (the Bears). Formerly they (people) called the seven sages (of the Great Bear constellation) Rkşas. They (Krttikās) were deprived of pairing, because they rise here in the east and the seven sages rise in the north. Who will set up the fires) under these stars that were deprived of copulation? If not (ifone, on the contrary, sets up), it will lead to deprivation of intercourse". 
One may well set up (the fires) under them. It is Agni that is their mate. These (Kyttikā stars) prospered with intercourse with him. Therefore, one may surely set up (the fires under Kittikās). 
3. They say that one may install (the fires) under Rohini. It was under Rohini that Prajapati who desired progeny set up (the fires), thinking, "I shall become plentiful with progeny and cattle. I shall be born (I shall create)". He created these creatures. The created beings were all of one form (similar), very much like herded red cows and they waited upon him. That is the red-cow nature (Rohinitva) of (the asterisın) Rohinž. Indeed, a person who, realizing this, sets up (the fires) under Rohini becomes rich (great) in progeny and cattle. . 
4. Thinking (wishing), "We should grow up (ascend) in the desire (love) of men" for cattle, did set up the two fires under Rohini. Just as these (present) cattle even now have arisen in the wish of men and as those cattle arose in the desire of men, in the very same manner does a person who, understanding this, sets up (the fires) under Rohinī grows up in the wish (love) of cattle. 
5. They say one may set up the two fires under (the asterism) Mrgasiras. What is called Mrgasiras is indeed the head of Prajăpati. 'Excellence' indeed is the head. Verily the head is 'excellence"! "He who is the best of a community (of people)-he is the head of that community" so they say. He who sets up (the fires) under Mrgaširas, knowing this surely attains excellence (wealth) and becomes the most excellent. 
6. About that they (some) say, "One should not install (the fires) under Mrgasiras. There is rejection (disapproval) of this (asterism). This (star) is verily the body of Prajapati wherein the god pierced him with a thret-segmented arrow. Being struck, he (Prajāpari) gave it up. As such, this abode (body) (of Prajāpati) came to be without virility and unfit for sacrifice. Who will set up the fires) under that (star)? 
One may well install that (the fires) (under Mrgafiras). That abode of God is neither lacking in virility nor is it unfit for sacrifice (unholy), as it belongs to Prajāpati. Therefore, one may certainly set up (the fires under Mrgažiras). : : 
7. Under Punarvasu one should perform bunarödhewa re-kindling! re-installation). One should set up (the fires) under the two Phalgu (stars). "The 
AL10$ 
AR 
& 
Te-11 
UIT 
10 
KÄNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.1.2.7 
ग्रहीतुमिति परोक्षमिवाचक्षते फल्गुन्य इतीन्द्रो वै यजमानः स्व एवैतन्नक्षत्र आधत्त इन्द्रो यज्ञस्य देवता सेन्द्रमस्य भवति पूर्वयोरादधीत पुरस्तात्क्रतुर्दैवास्मै भवति न हैनमतिपद्यत उत्तरयोरादधीतोत्तग़वद्धैवास्मै श्वःश्रेयसं भवति ॥ ७ ॥ 
हस्तेऽग्नी आदधीतेत्याहुर्यः कामयेत प्र मे दीयतामिति तद्वा अनुष्ठ्या यदिद* सर्व हस्तेनैव प्रदीयते प्र हास्मै दीयते य एवं विद्वान्हस्ते आधत्तॆ ॥ ८॥ 
चित्रायामग्नी आदधीतेत्याहुर्देवाश्च ह वा असुराश्चोभये प्राजापत्या अस्पर्धन्त ते होभये स्वर्ग लोकर समारुरुक्षां चक्रुस्ततो हासुरा रौहिणमग्निं चिक्यिरे स्वय॑मनेन स्वर्ग लोकर समारोक्ष्याम इति त उ ह देवा बिभयां चक्रुरिमं चेद्वा इमे समाप्स्यन्त्यभि नों भविष्यन्तीति ततो हेन्द्र आर्केण दाम्नेष्टका प्रबध्येयाय ब्राह्मणो ब्रुवाणः ॥ ९ ॥ 
स होवाचाहमपीमामुपदधा इत्युप हीति ताहोपदधे स हाल्पकादिवासञ्चित आसाथ होवाचाहं तामिष्टकां दास्ये या ममेत्याहीति तामभिहायाबंबर्ह तस्या आबर्हणमन्वग्नि-व शशादाग्नेरनु व्यवशादमसुरा व्यवशेदुः स ताभिरेवेष्टकाभिर्वज्रान्कृत्वैषां प्रजघान ततो देवा अभवन्परासुरा भवति हैवात्मना परास्य द्विषन्भ्रातृव्यो भवति य एवं विद्वा-श्चित्राया माधत्ते ॥ १० ॥ 
ते ह देवाः समेत्योचुश्चित्रं वा अभूम य इयतः सपत्नानवधिष्मेति तच्चित्रायाचित्रात्वर हन्तीह सपत्न- हन्ति द्विषन्तं श्रातृव्यं य एवं विद्वा चित्रायामाधत्ते तस्मादप्येतद्राजन्य बन्धव उपेप्सन्ति ते ह जियो सन्ति वीव जिगीषन्त्येतद्वपि ब्राह्मण आदधीत पाप्मा वै 
१०. See Notes on I-I-I-9. ११. आधत्ते PI, Co. B. १२. न्त्यभितो भवि P1. P2, H. १३. तामभिहयाबबर्ह TE; तामभिहायावबर्ह P1, P2, H. १४. न्कृत्वैतान् M. १५. इहतः VI My; इहतः Ca., P1, P2, H, TE. १६. हन्ति ह Ca., P1. १७. जिगारसंति TE. L, H, Pl, P2. 
in" 
TRANSLATION 
two stars called Phalgu form, indeed, the asterism of Indra and they have his corresponding names. Indra is also known as Arjuna, which is his secret (mystic) name. These (stars-Phaigus) are known as Arjunis. Who is fit to utter his secret name? So they indirectly call them (the stars) Phalgunis. The sacrificer is indeed Indra. He sets up (the fires) under this, his own asterism. Indra is the deity of the sacrifice. The installation is then connected with Indra. One may install (the fires) under the two prior stars (Purva phalgunis). To him (the sacrificer) the sacrifice accrues even before (even at the outset). It does not go beyond him. One may set up(the fires) under the two later stars (Uttara Phalguni). His future prosperity certainly acquires superiority (progression). 
8. They say that one may set up the fires) under Hasta. He who wishes, “May it (good things) be presented to me" may perform it. To him who, knowing this, sets up the two fires under Hasta, all that is given verily with the hand is given. 
9. They say one may set up the two fires under Citrā. Devas and Asuras,both of them sprung from Prajāpati, contended. Both of them wished to ascend to the heavenly world. Then the Asuras kindled the fire (constructed the fire altar) 'Rauhina' (conducive to ascent) that would lead to heaven, thinking, "We shall ascend to heaven by means of this". The gods were afraid and thought,"If these (Asuras)will complete this (Rauhina fire-altar), they will overpower us". Then Indra bound up a brick with a rope of lightning (a rope of Řks) and went there proclaiming himself to be a Brāhmin. 
10. He said, "I too shall place this (brick). (The Asuras said) *Putit". He placed it. That (altar) seemed verily to be incomplete with very little (required very little for completion). 
Then he said, "I shall take (back) that brick of mine”. (They said), "Take it" He went towards it and pulled it. Following its pulling out, the fire became extinct. Following the extinction of the fire, the Aşuras fell down. Making thunderbolts with their very bricks, he (Indra) killed (hit) them. Then the gods remained (safe)and the Asuras turned away (were afar). He who, knowing this, sets up (the fires) under Citrā remains by himself (unaffected) and his spiteful enemy goes far away. 
11. Those gods got together and said, “We have become wonderfulwewho have killed so many enemies". That is the wonderful nature (Citrätza) of Citrā (asterism). He who sets up (the fires) under Citrā, understanding this, destrovs his rival and kills his spiteful enemy, Therefore, too, the Ksatriyas want to take it 
+44 TOS 
ke 
UU 
1:24 
AL 
vin 
"PATRAFTTTA 
KANVASATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.1.2.11 
ALLL 
ब्राह्मणस्य सपनो हन्ति पाप्मानं परास्य द्विषन्भ्रातृव्यो भवति य एवं विद्वा श्चित्राया 
Teau 
। 
तानि ह वा एतानि क्षत्राणि नानैव तेपुर्यथासौ वा सूर्यश्चन्द्रमा वा तेषार होद्यन्नेवादित्यः क्षत्रं वीर्यं तेजः प्रलुलोप तबैषामादधे ते ह देवा ऊचुर्न वा इमानि क्षत्राण्यभूवन्निति तन्नक्षत्राणां नक्षत्रत्वमा वा एषामदितेति तदादित्यस्यादित्यत्वं तस्मान्न नक्षत्रमाद्रियेत यदैवेष कदा चोदियादादधीतैष हि सर्वाणि क्षत्राणि या नक्षत्रकामादुपो आसीत नक्षत्रमहास्य भवति नो एतस्यानुदयोऽस्ति तस्माद्वप्युपैवासीत ॥ १२ ॥ इति द्वितीयं 
STMENT 
MEROIN 
Rames 
TerimeTETWAL अर 
। 
pati 
तृतीयं ब्राह्मणम् वसन्तो ग्रीष्मो वर्षा एते देवा ऋतवोऽथ शरद्धेमन्तश्शिशिर एते पितरो य एवायमा पूर्यतेऽर्धमास एते देवा योऽपक्षीयते स पितरोऽहरेव देवा रात्रिः पितरस्समानस्याह्नः पूर्वाह्न एव देवा अपराह्नः पितर एते हैवर्तवो देवाः पितरः स य एवं विद्वान्देवाः पितर इति हवल्या हास्य देवा देवहूयं यन्त्या पितरः पितृहूयमवन्ति हैन देवा देवहूयेऽवन्ति पितरः पितृहये य एवं विद्वान्देवाः पितर इति यति ॥ १ ॥ 
तन्वा हस्तानुभयानसावेवोद्यन्नभिरक्षति योऽसौ तपति स यत्रोदडेति तर्हि देवानृतू नभिरक्षति तर्हि देवेतृतुषु भवत्यथ यत्र दक्षिणैति तर्हि पितॄनृतूनभिरक्षति तर्हि पितृवतुषु भवति ॥२॥ 
FLI 
HTRA 
- 
. 
MISHREE 
MORE 
mymaNP 
LEGE 
१८. मादे Ca; see Veters.. १९. बोटीया TE, M, VI. PI, P2, H. २०. कामः स्वदुषो TE, Ca. २१. मान्य PI, F2; see Nekes. 
1.1.3.21 
TRANSLATION 
de 
VM 
i 
ph 
up. They indeed wish to kill (their enemies) and desire to conquer. The Brahmin too may install this (the two fires under Citrā). Sin is verily the enemy of the Brahmin. He who knowing this sets up (the fires) under Citrä destroys sin and his hateful enemy goes far away. 
12. Those stars that are (seen) shone variously just like the yonder Sun or the moon. The Sun, even (as he was) rising, destroyed their power, virility and lustre. He took that (power etc.) of these (stars). The gods said, “These are not powers (any more)". That is the powerlessness' (nakṣatratva) of the stars. He (the Sun) took away (cut off power etc.) of these (stars). That is the Adin ziua (the state of taker or cutter off) of the Sun. Therefore one need not mind the stars. Even when this (Sun), rises, one nay then set up (the fires). For, this Sun is all the 'powers'. If one is desirous (mindful) of the stars (to set up the fires) (under any star) he may worship (the Sun) (set up the fires during day time). Indeed the (benefit of the) star comes to him. There is certainly no non-rise for this (Sun) (the Sun never fails to rise). Hence, too, one should verily worship (the Sun) (i.e. set up the fires during day time). 
(Second Brāhmaṇa Ends) 
BRAHMANA III 1. Spring', 'summer', 'rains - these seasons are (of) gods. And autumn', snow' and 'cold' (winter) these are (of) the manes. Verily this half-month (fortnight) that fills up the fortnight of the waxing moon) is (of) gods. That which decreases (the fortnight of waning moon) is (of) the manes. The day itself is (of) the gods; the night (of) the manes. Of the day which is equal (uniform), the forenoon itself is (of) the gods and the afternoon is (of) the manes. These very seasons are the gods and manes. The gods surely come to the (ritual of) invocation of the gods and the manes come to the (ritual of) invocation of the manes, of that person who, knowing this, invokes them calling 'gods and *manes'. In the (ritual of) invocation of gods, the gods protect (please) him and the manes protect (please) him in the (ritual of) invocation of the manes, of that person who, knowing this, invokes them as "gods' and 'manes'. 
2. Verily, the yonder one (Sun) who shines protects both these (gods and manes), as he rises. Where (when) he reaches the north, then he guards the gods and (their) seasons; then he remains amidst the gods and (their) seasons. And where (when) he goes to the south, then he protects the manes and (their) 
LA 
1. 
2. 4 
" 
" 
Season 
MATAY 
nanes a 
r 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.1.3.3 
44. 
. 
तस्माद्यत्रैवोदङ्यिात्तāवादधीत तर्हि वा एष देवानुपावर्तते तर्हि देवानभिरक्षति तर्हि देवेषु भवत्यपहतपाप्मानो वै देवा अप पाप्मान ह तेऽमृता देवा नामृतत्वस्याशास्ति सर्वमेवायुरेति श्रीर्देवाः श्रियं गच्छति यशो देवा यशो ह भवति तस्मात्तादधीताथ यत्र दक्षिणैति न तादधीत तर्हि वा एष पितॄनुपावर्तते तर्हि पितॄनभिरक्षति तर्हि पितृषु भवत्यनपहतपाप्मानो वै पितरो न पाप्मान पहते मर्त्याः पितरः पुरा हायुषो म्रियते तस्मात्तर्हि नादधीत ॥ ३ ॥ 
तद्वै ब्रह्मैव वसन्तः क्षत्रं ग्रीष्मो विड्वर्षास्तस्माद्ब्राह्मणो वसन्त आदधीत ब्रह्म हि वसन्तः क्षत्रियो ग्रीष्मे क्षत्रः हि ग्रीष्मो वैश्यो वर्षासु भूमा हि विड् भूमा हि वर्षा यं तु ह कामं कामयेत तमभ्यादधीत ॥४॥ 
ब्राह्मणो यदि ह कामयेत ब्रह्मवर्चसी स्यामिति वसन्त आदधीत ब्रह्म वै वसन्तो ब्रह्मवर्चसी हैव भवति ॥ ५॥ 
यदि ह कामयेत क्षत्रस्य प्रतिमा स्याश्रिया यशसेति ग्रीष्म आदधीत क्षत्रं वै ग्रीष्मः क्षत्रस्य हैव भवति प्रतिमा श्रिया यशसा ॥ ६ ॥ 
यदि है पुष्टिकामः स्याद्वर्षास्वादधीत भूमा वै विड् भूमो वर्षा बहुहैव प्रजया पशुभिर्भवत्येतन्नु यथर्तु ॥७॥ 
तद्वा आहुरूपहतपाप्मानो वा ऋतव इत्यसौ वा एतेषामुद्यन्सर्वं पाप्मानमपहन्तीति तस्माद्यदेवैनं कदा चोपनमेदादधीताथ यजेत न श्वश्वमुपासीत न वै मनुष्यः श्वस्तनं वेद को हि तस्मै मनुष्यो यः श्वस्तनं विद्यात् ॥ ८॥ इति तृतीयं ब्राह्मणम् ॥ 
APR 
Mammohan 
Health 
क 
. 
च 
HIP 
.. 
.. 
2 
* +mm 
... 
न 
SASTE 
SHARE 
३. बोदडल्या Ca. ४. यदि पुष्टि TE. ५. भूमा बै TE:भूम वै Ca. इ. मुदर सबै TEमुहास Ca. 
. स्यादेवन P2, H, Car, Ske Notes. 
T 
1. 
. 
. 
E 
ARH 
S 
. 
. 
१. सदा .. 
. 
1.1.3.8) 
TRANSLATION 
-X, 
i 
3. There one may set up (the fires) only when he (the Sun) moves to the north. Then indeed he returns (turns) to the gods, then does he protect the gods and remains amidst them. The gods have their evils dispelled. He (the sacrificer) dispels evil from himself. The gods are immortal. (But) there is no hope of immortality (for the sacrificer). He attains the entire (full span of) life. The gods are 'Prosperity'. He (the sacrificer) attains prosperity. The gods are ‘glory. He becomes (attains) glory. Therefore one should set up (the fires) there. When the Sun reaches the south, then one should not set up (the fires). Then indeed, this (Sun) returns (turns) to the manes; then he guards the manes and then does he remain amidst the manes. The manes do not have their evils dispelled. He (the sacrificer) does not (then) dispel his (own) evils. The manes are mortals. He (the sacrificer) dies before his appointed) time (if he sets up the fires then). Therefore one should not set up (the fires) then. 
4. Spring is the Brahman (Brāhmana), summer is Kşatra (Ksatriya) and the rainy season is Vit (vaisya). The Brāhmin should, therefore, set up the fires) in spring; for Brahman, indeed, is the spring. The Kşatriya (should set up the fires) in summer for Kşatra (valour) is summer. The Vaišya (should set up the fires) in the rainy season. Indeed, abundance (plenty) is Vit (Vaiśya); plentiful is the rainy season. What desire one may entertain, towards that, one may setup (the fires) (in the relevent season). 
5. Should the Brāhmin wish, “I should become one having holy lustre (Brahmavarcasa)", he should set up the fires) in spring. Brahman, indeed, is Spring and he (the sacrificer) verily becomes one endowed with holy łustre. 
6. If one (a Brāhmin) should desire," I should be equal to Kşatra in splendour (wealth) and glory" he should set up (the fires) in summer. Ksatra, indeed, is suinmer. He (the sacrificer) verily becomes the equal of Kşatra (Ksatriya) in splendour and glory. 
7. If one is for nourishment (rich growth), he should set up the fires) in the rainy season. 'Abundance' is verily Vit (Vaišva) and abundance is the rainy season. He (the sacrificer, becomes plentiful with progeny and cattle (All) this is in consonance with the seasons. 
8. They say (about this), "The seasons have their evils dispelled. The yonder one (Sun), rising, destroys all evil of these (seasons). Therefore, one may set up (the fires) and perform sacrifice at any time it occurs to him. He should not look to the next day and the morrow. Indeed, man does not know of the thing of the morrow; which man is there who may know of the morrow for that (setting up of the fires). 
(Third Brähmana Ends) 
S 
nes 
TAY V SAY 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMAŅAM 
[I.1.4.1 
चतुर्थं ब्राह्मणम् स वै यदहरस्य श्वोऽग्न्याधेय स्यात्तदहर्दिवैवाश्नीयान्मनो वै देवा मनुष्यस्याजानन्ति ते हैनमेतद्विदुरनी आधास्य॒मानमेष नः प्रातर्यष्टेति तस्य विश्वे देवा गृहानभ्यागच्छन्ति तेऽस्मिन्नेता रात्रिमुपवसन्ति तस्मादुपवसथस्तन्वा अनवकृप्तं यो मनुष्यान्वसतों ऽत्यश्नादनवकृप्तमिदु तदसो देवान्वसतोऽत्यश्नात्तस्मान्नाश्नीयादित्याहुस्तदुं काममेवानी यान्न वै व्रतचर्यानाहिताग्नेरस्ति मानुषो न्वा एष तावद्वावदग्नीनाधत्ते तस्मादु काममेवानी 
। 
मन 
Aman" THEME 
. L 
MAP 
ETTE 
- 
HAINA 
१ 
m 
तबैक एता रात्रिमजमुपबध्नन्त्याग्नेयोऽजोऽग्नेः सर्व त्वायेति तदु तथा न कुर्याद्यद्य स्याज उपतृप्तः स्याच्छोभूत एवैनमग्नीधैं सर स्थितौ दद्यात्तेनैव तं काममाप्नोति यस्तत्र कामस्तस्मात्तन्नाद्रियेत ॥ २ ॥ 
तद्धैक एतार रात्रिमेतमोदनं चातुप्राश्य पचन्ति छन्दारसीदं प्रीणीम इति वदन्तो यथा येन वाहनेन स्यन्स्यन्त्स्यादिति तत्सुहितं कुर्यात्तत्सुहितं चिकीर्षेदेवमेतदिति तदु तथों न कुर्याद्यास्यविजश्चानृत्विजश्चास्मिन्वसन्तोऽस्य कुल एता रात्रिमश्नन्ति ते 
नैव तं काममाप्नोति यस्तत्र कामस्तस्मात्तत्राद्रियेत ॥३॥ 
तस्य सर्पिरासेचनं कृत्वा सर्पिरसिच्याश्वत्थीस्तिस्रः समिधो घृतेनान्वज्य समिद्वती भिघृतवतीभित्रम्भिरभ्यादधति शमीगर्भमिदमाप्नुम इति वदन्तस्तदु तथा न कुर्यात्सं क्सर ह तथा पुराभ्यादध्यात्तेन ह तं काममाप्नुयाद्यस्तत्र कामस्तस्मात्तन्नाद्रियेत ॥ ४ ॥ १. मेष TE; Ca 
ALLER: 
..-MARAT 
MEDIT 
ITH 
काममाप्रोति 
' 
- 
EE 
MARATHI 
" www 
२.असच का My,Ca, 
मार 
HE 
- 
ई. मम्मी TE: ७. सायलेनैक TE. 
. Ta TE. १०. अशा अवस्यतिबज्जो Ca; अनास्थविजो Co. 
1.1.4.41 
TRANSLATION 
BRAHMANA IV 1. He (the sacrificer) should take his food during the day-time itself on that day, on the morrow of which the Agngãdheya (setting up of the fires) is going to be. Indeed gods know fully well the mind of man. They know this about him who is going to install the two fires. “This person is going to worship us (perform sacrifice to us) in the morning." All the gods repair to his residence. There they fast that night. Hence it is called 'upavasatha' (a day of fasting, a day of preparation, a day of remaining near). “It is indeed improper that a person takes his food while people remaining (with hiin) have not had their food. Surely, it is not right that a person should eat before the gods who remain (with him) have had their food. Therefore he (the sacrificer) should not take his food", So they say. But one may eat (at will). There is verily no observance of ritual restriction (abstinence) for one who has not set up the holy fires. As long as he does not set up the two fires, he is indeed a 'man' (a lay man). Therefore he may surely eat at will. 
2. With regard to this, some tether a goat this night. The goat is intended for Agni and it is for the fullness of Agni. One need not do it that way. If a goat is meant (prepared) for this (fire), he (the sacrificer) may give it to the 'Agnidh' the next day itself for (at) the completion (of the ritual). By that itself he secures that wish which is there (regarding the offering of the goat). Therefore, one need not favour it (the tying up of the goat, the previous night). 
3. Here (in this matter) some (sacrificers) cook that night a (soft) rice-food sufficient for four (priests). “Cătuşprāśya“, saying, with this we propitiate the chandas (Vedas)". "This is just as one would satisfy (with foodetc.) and wish to satisfy that (animal) by which he is going to move (ride/drive). This is so". One need not do it that way. For, he achieves the desire that may be there (of propitiating the metres or Vedas) by the very fact that the priests and non-priests staying in his house eat there that night. Therefore, he need not care for it (the practice of cooking special soft food for four priests). 
4. Scooping out a depression in it (the soft rice-food) for ghee, pouring ghee in it and smearing three sticks of Afvattha wood with ghee, they put them in the fire with (uttering) (three) Rks (metrical chants) containing the words "Sawit' and 'Ghita ', (specific mantras) and saying, "We obtain this (fire) that is within (in the womb of) the Sami (wood)". One need not do that way. For, one should so put the kindling sticks on the fire, earlier for a year (daily, prior to the adhtina) and by that indeed will he achieve that desire that is therein. Therefore one need not have concern for that (practice of putting the three speciai sticks).
KÄNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.1.4.5 
फ 
. 
intelliger 
Deapmapp 
GYA 
* 
on 
का 
+ 
क 
तदु होवाचेन्द्रद्युम्नो भाल्लवेयो यथान्यत्करिष्यन्नन्यत्कुर्यादिति यथान्यद्वदिष्यन्न न्यदेदिति यथान्येन पथैष्यन्नन्यं पन्थानं प्रतिपपद्येवमेतद्य एतमोदनं पचादपरा द्धिरिव वै सा तस्मात्तन्नाद्रियेतेत्यनवक्तृप्तमु वाव तद्यद्यस्मिन्नृचा वा यजुषा वाहुतिं वा जुहुयुः समिधं वाभ्यादयुर्यत्तं ततोऽनु वा गमयेयुर्दक्षिणा वा हरेयुरन्वाहार्यपचनो भविष्यतीति ॥ ५ ॥ 
तदाहुर्जागृयादेतार रात्रिमिति जाग्रति देवा देवाने वैतदुपावर्तते सोऽमिश्रान्ततर स्तपस्वितरः स देवतरोऽग्नी आधत्त इति तदु काममेव स्वप्यान्न वै व्रतचर्यानाहिताग्नेरस्ति मानुषो न्वा एष तावद्यावदनीनाधत्ते तस्मादु काममेव स्वप्यात् ॥ ६॥ 
तद्धैकेऽनुदिते मथित्वोद्यन्तमुपासत उदिते प्राञ्चमुद्धरिष्याम इत्यहोरात्रयोः परिगृही तये प्राणोदानयोर्मनसश्च वाचश्चेति तदु तथा न कुर्यादुभौ वा अस्यैतावनुदित आहितो भवतोऽनुदिते हि मथित्वा तत एव प्राञ्चमुद्धरति य उ ह तमुदित आहवनीयं मन्थेत्स ह तत्पर्याप्नुयात् ॥ ७॥ 
तदु क उभौ निर्मन्थ्यौ कुर्वीताहर्देवा रात्रिः पितरोऽनपहतपाप्मानः पितरो न पाप्मान महते माः पितरः पुरा हायुषो म्रियते योऽनुदित आधः ॥ ८ ॥ 
अथाहर्वे देवा अपहतपाप्मानो वै देवा अप पाप्मान हतेऽमृता देवा नामृतत्वस्या 
* 
H 
mami 
A 
Byaprayan 
BIRH 
EdiA. 
- 
- 
HOWMMA 
EHA 
THA 
Momindaneg 
माम 
मा 
g' 
- 
C 
PRA 
" 
MP 
E 
POST 
# 
E 
E 
U 
ne 
१६. मानो TEPI,H.. 
3. See Mores. १४, मायादा TE. 
१६. स्मोनिया M. 
१७. अखि TE,H, Pi, Ca 
१८.. चिल्हा V2. 
२०, अवता VI, Po, L.. २६. अनन् , 
1.1.4.91 
TRANSLATION 
5. About this, Indradyumna Bhāllaveya said, “That one (the sacrificer) should cook this rice-food, surely seems to be a wrong thing and it is like this that one (actually) does something intending to do something else, intending to say something may say something else and intending to go along a (particular) path may go along a different way (with action and intention being at variance with each other). Therefore one need not care for it". It is indeed (improper) wrong that they (the sacrificers) should either extinguish (that fire) or take it to the south so that it will be 'Anvähāryapacana'(Daksinägni)-that fire wherein they put the oblation or put a stick with (the utterance of) a Rk or Yajus (earlier). But really, they either extinguish or take it to the south that it may become (serve as) "Anvähāryapacana”. 
(The preparation of a fire for cooking of the soft rice-food the previous night itself and putting ghee and Samit in it with chants and extinguishing the sanctified fire is improper. Improper is it also to convert it into Dakşirágni, since it is a fire prepared before the actual agnvädheya.) 
6. With regard to this (conduct on the previous night), they say, "He (the sacrificer) should keep awake during this entire) night". The gods keep awake. This means that he approaches the gods by this and he sets up(the next day) the two fires becoming more subdued, more disciplined (with greater austerity)and becoming more godly. However, he may sleep as he pleases. For there is no observance of vow (ritualistic restriction) for one who has not (yet) set up the holy fires. He remains verily a man as long as he does not set up the two fires. Therefore he may sleep at will. 
7. Now, some churn (the fire) (produce the fire by cerernonial churning of two prescribed pieces of wood) before sunrise and then worship the rising Sun, thinking, "After the Sun has risen we shall take it the kindled fire) eastward, for securing (the benefit of) (both) day and night, the inhaled breath and the exhaled breath and the mind and specch." One should not do it that way. For both (the fires) of this (sacrificer) become set up (even at night) when the Sun has not risen. He churns before sunrise and then takes it to the east. (So the two fires are only nocturnal). Verily he who churns the Ahuvanīva after the Sun has risen,will obtain that (benefit of setting up the fires). 
8. Then who will make the two churned fires (before sunrise)? (Therefore one should make the two fires by churning (after sunrise only). The day is the gods, the night the manes. The manes do not have their evils dispelled. He (the sacrificer who kindles the fire before sunrise) does not dispel his (own) evil. The manes are mortal. He who sets up the fires) when the Sun has not risen dies before his (normal) life-span. 
9. Moreover, the day indeed is the gods and verily the gods have their evils dispelled. He (the sacrificer) dispels (his own) evil. The gods are immortal. 
KĀNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMAŅAM 
[I.1.4.9 
. 
- 
m 
A 
TTARE 
A 
शास्ति सर्वमायुरेति श्रीर्देवाः श्रियं गच्छति यशो देवा यशो ह भवति तस्मादुदित एवाद धीत ॥ ९॥ 
तदाहुर्यन्नर्चा न यजुषा न साम्नाग्निराधीयते केन त्वग्निराधीयत इति स ह ब्रूयाद्ब्रह्मण एव ब्रह्मणेति वाग्वै ब्रह्म तस्याः सत्यमेव ब्रह्मता एताः सत्यमेव व्याहतयो भूर्भुवः स्वरिति सत्येन हैवास्याहितौ भवतः ॥ १० ॥ 
भूरिति वै प्रजापतिरिमामजनयद्भुव इत्यन्तरिक्ष स्वरिति दिवमेतावद्वा इदं यावदिमे लोकास्सर्वेण हैवास्याहितौ भवतः ॥ ११॥ __भूरिति वै प्रजापतिर्ब्रह्माजनयद्भुव इति क्षत्र स्वरिति विशमेतावद्वा इदं यावद्ब्रह्म 
क्षत्रं विट् सर्वेण हैवास्याहितौ भवतः ॥ १२ ॥ 
भूरिति वै प्रजापतिरात्मानमजनयद्भुव इति प्रजा स्वरिति पशूनेतावा इदं यावदात्मा प्रजा पशवः सर्वेण हैवास्याहितौ भवतः ॥ १३ ॥ __स भूर्भुव इत्येतैस्त्रिभिरक्षरैगार्हपत्यमादधाति द्वे परिशिनष्टययातयामतायै केन ह्यमुमादध्याद्यत्सर्वैरादध्यात्ते एव द्वे इतराणि त्रीण्यन्वाप्यायन्ते तेनो तान्ययातयामानि भवन्ति तान्यष्टावक्षरोणि सम्पद्यन्ते त्रीणीमानि पश्चामून्यष्टाक्षरा गायत्री गायत्रमग्नेश्छ न्दः स्वेनैवैनं तच्छन्दसाधत्ते ॥ १४ ॥ 
देवानु ह वा अग्नी आधित्समानानसुररक्षसानि ररक्षुर्नागिर्जनिष्यते नाग्नी आश्वास्यध्व इति तस्माद्रक्षासि ततो ह देवा एतं वज्रं ददृशुदश्वं तमुदयच्छरस्तेन 
- EHA 
sandhr 
नम। 
२२. ब्रह्मासि TE, Ca, VI, Pl, P2. २. भजन: C २४. भाद: Ca २५. परिशिE TE, BI, Ca, Pl, P2,H, 
Mament 
२७. शचन्दले नवेन TE. २८. अभिल , अधिE; Ca, Pa, TE; H. 
o 
1 
TRANSLATION 
9 
B. 
PO 
i 
LAIN 
ph 
GE 
LC 
TEN IR 
There is no hope of immortality (for the sacrificer). He (the sacrificer) attains entire (full) life. The gods are wealth (prosperity). He attains prosperity. The gods are 'glory' (glorious). He becomes glorious. Therefore,one should set up the fires only after the Sun has risen. 
10. They say, "As the fire is not set up with the chanting of) a Rk nor with Yajus nor with Saman, then with what is the fire set up?" He (the sacrificer) should indeed say, "Surely it is of Brahman, with Brahman"(it is set up) with Brahman (the symbolic formula of the Brahman only). Indeed "Speech is Brahman". Its truth itself is Brahman. These tychrtis (mystic utterances) Bhūh, Bhuvah, Svah are only 'Truth'. His (the sacrificer's) two fires are verily set up with 'Truth'. 
11. Indeed Prajāpati generated this earth) by (uttering) (the mystic syllable) 'Bhūh' the middle region (between earth and heaven) by 'Bhurah and the sky by 
Svah As far as these worlds are thus far is this (Universe). The two fires become established with the whole of this (Universe). 
12. Prajāpati created Brahmaņa(the Brāhmaṇa class/priesthood)by(uttering) 'Bhūh, the Kşatra(Ksatriya class) by Bhuvah and vit (Vaişya)by Szah. So much is this-as much as are Brāhmana, Kșatra and viț. Indeed the two fires are set up with the whole of this. 
13. Prajapati verily generated Atman (the self) with Bhak; the excellent creature(s) (human race) with Bhuvah' and the animals with "Svah. So much indeed is this, viz., as much as the self, humanity and animals. 
14. He (the sacrificer) installs the Gärhapatya (fire) with (uttering) these three syllables 'Bhurbhuvah' and (leaves out, keep (unused) two (syllablcs) for the sake of freshness' (the state of not becoming stale with lapse of time). With what will he set up that (the Āhavaniya) if he should establish (the Garkapatya) with all (the five syllables)? He should set up (the Ahavaniya) with all (the five syllables). Those very two (syllables that were left out); the other three (once used) are strengthened (refreshed). Thereby they become fresh (not old and stale). They formn eight syllables (for the two fires together)--these five and those threc. Indeed Gayatri consists of eight syllables. Gayatra is the metre of Agni. He (the sacrificer), thus sets up this (fire) with its own metre. 
15. The Asuras and Räksasas verily kept away (prevented) the gods who wished to set up the two fires. (They said to the gods), * Agni will not be produced (be born); you are not going to set up the two fires". Therefore they became (came to be called) 'Raksasas" (preventees). Then indeed did the gods 
n the 
A 
1 
da 
. 
& 
R154. 
69 
A 
2 
- 
2011 
KÄNVA-SATAPATHABRĀHMANAM 
[I.1.4.15 
OTO 
Pawaane 
। 
नाष्ट्रा रक्षारस्यपहत्य तस्याभयेऽनाष्ट्रे निवातेऽग्निरजायत तस्माद्ब्रयादग्निं मथिष्यन्नश्व मानयेति ॥ १५॥ 
स पुरस्तादुपतिष्ठेत तथो वा एष एतं वज्रमुद्यच्छति तेन नाष्ट्रा रक्षा स्यपहत्य तस्याभयेऽनाष्ट्रे निवातेऽग्निर्जायते ॥ १६॥ 
स पूर्ववाट् स्याद्वीर्यं वा अश्व एष वा अपरिमितं वीर्यमभिवर्धते यः पूर्ववाड्यदि न पूर्ववाळपि य एवं कश्चित्स्याद्यदि नाश्वोऽप्यनड्वान्त्स्यादृषो एवान हो बन्धुता ॥ १७॥ 
तं यत्र प्राञ्चमुद्धरिप्यन्तस्यात्तद्रूयादश्वेन पूर्वेण प्रेहीति वज्रो वा अश्वो वज्रेणैवैतत्पु रस्तान्नाष्ट्रा रक्षारस्यपघ्नन्प्रभिन्दन्नेत्यथैतमभयेऽनाष्ट्र निवाते हरति तं तथा हरेद्यथा प्रत्यङ् यजमानमुपाचरेत् ॥ १८॥ 
एष वाव यज्ञो यदग्निः प्रत्यङ्हैवैनं यज्ञः प्रविशति तं क्षिप्रं यज्ञ उपनमत्यथ यस्मादेष पराङ्भवति पराङ्हास्माद्यज्ञो भवति यो हैन तत्रानुव्याहरेत्पराङस्माद्यज्ञोऽभूननं यज्ञ उपनस्यतीतीश्वरो ह तथैव स्यात्तस्मादेनं तथा हरेद्यथा प्रत्यङ्यजमानमुपाचरेत् ॥ १९ ॥ 
एष वाव प्राणो यदग्निः प्रत्यङ्हैवैनं प्राणः प्रविशति स सर्वमायुरेत्यथ यस्मादेष पराभवति पराङ् हास्मात्प्राणो भवति यो हैन तत्रानुव्याहरेत्पराङस्मात्प्राणोऽभूत्प्राण एनर हास्यतीतीश्वरो ह तथैव स्यात्तस्मादेनं तथा हरेथा प्रत्ययजमानमुपाचरेद्योऽयं पवते ॥ २० ॥ 
एष उ वाव यज्ञः प्रत्यङ्ग हैवैनं यज्ञः प्रविशति तं क्षिप्रं यज्ञ उपनमत्यथ यस्मादेर्षे पराङ् भवति पराङ् हाँस्माद्यज्ञो भवति यो हैनं तत्रानुव्याहरेत्पराङस्माद्यज्ञोऽभूननं यज्ञ 
स्यतीतीश्व 
T 
- 
- 
MO 
का 
* 
wipe 
- 
- 
Hin 
more 
२६. मन्यिाय TE. Ca ३०. मुखदर CM,T, My. ३६.. पाइह स्यानो TE, SEE Notes.. 
1.1.4,211 
'IRANSLATION 
PURA 
C 
VW VILL 
SAYT:2 
destructive Raksasas, fire arose (was produced) in its safe shelter that was free from fear. Therefore, one who is going to churn the fire (produce fire by churning) should say, “Bring the horse", 
16. It (the horse) should stand in front. Thus indeed does this (sacrificer) light up this thunderbolt (viz. the horse).(On his) Destroying the destructive Rākşasas with it, fire arises (is born) in its fearless and safe (not destructive) shelter. 
17. It (the horse) should be one that moves ahead) (eastward) is a leader (foremost of horses). Indeed virility is the horse. This (horse) is verily (represents) limitless vigour. He who is the leader (who goes in the fore front who moves eastward) grows greatly. If there is no leader (leading horse) available, any one (any horse that is available) will do. If even an ordinary) horse is not available, there may be an ox (an ox will serve the purpose). This indeed is the relationship of the ox (with the horse). 
18. Where he (the sacrificer) is going to take it (the fires) on eastward, then he should say, "Move on with the horse ahead". Indeed the horse is the thunderbolt. Verily destroying the devastating demons(Rākşasas)in front with the thunderbolt itself and breaking them up, he (the sacrificer) moves and then takes it (the fire) into the safe and fearless shelter. One should take it in such a manner that it will turn (westward) (backward) towards the sacrificer. (As the fire is taken forward towards the east, the smoke will move backwards towards the Yajamāna), 
19. This fire is indeed the sacrifice. The sacrifice verily enters him (the sacrificer) (westward) backwards. Him the sacrifice quickly approaches. Moreover, the sacrifice turns away from him from whom this (fire) turns away. If one, there, should curse him saying, “May the sacrifice turn away from this person, may the lordly sacrifice not approach this person: lordly is it (the sacrifice). (The sacrifice will not approach this person)". It will surely happen so. Therefore,one should carry this (fire) so that it will turn (back) towards (facing) the sacrificer, 
20. This fire indeed is the vital breath. Him (who takes the fire in such a way that it turns back towards him) verily the life-breath enters back. He attains the entire (span of) life. And from whom this (fire) turns away, vital breath also turns away from him. If one should curse him thus saying, "May life turn away from this person. Vital breath (life) is going to leave this person". Lordly is it (the vital breath) and it will surely happen so. Therefore, one should convey this 
AT 
2 
L 17 
po 
2 
19 
ESTA 
11 
4. 
PRET 
. 
3 
$ 27. 
ppet 
7 Tak 
2 
T 
Dr 
ge! 
E 
FA 
PR 
LAI 
9.- 
19 
OPE 
by 
back towards the sacrificer. 
21. This (fire) verily is the sacrifice. Indeed, him (the sacrificer) the sacrifice 
. 
. 
. 
. 
KANVASATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.1.1.21 
. 
प 
उपनःस्यतीतीश्वरो तथैव स्यात्तस्मादेनं तथा हरेथा प्रत्यङ् यजमानमुपाचरेद्योऽय 
पवते ॥ २१ ॥ 
एष उ वाव प्राणः प्रत्यङ् हैवैनं प्राणः प्रविशति स सर्वमायुरेत्यथ यस्मादेष पराङ् भवति पराङ् हास्मात्प्राणो भवति यो हैन तत्रानुव्याहरेत्पराङस्मात्ाणोऽभूत्प्राण एन हारयतीतीश्वरो ह तथैव स्यात्तस्मादेनं तथा हरेद्यथा प्रत्यङ् यजमानमुपाचरेत् ॥ २२ ॥ 
तमश्वमाक्रमयति तं प्राञ्चमुत्क्रमयति तं पुनरावर्तयति वीर्यं वा अश्वो नेदस्माद्यजमाना त्पराङ् वीर्यमसदिति तमुदञ्च प्राञ्चं प्रमुञ्चति तमश्वस्य पद आधत्ते वीर्यं वा अश्वो वीर्य एवैनं तदाधत्ते तमुपस्पर्शयति तमुद्यच्छति तमुपस्पर्शयति तमुद्यच्छति तं तृतीयेनैव भूर्भुवः स्वरित्याधत्ते त्रयो वा इमे लोकास्तदेनेनेमाल्लोकान्व्यश्नुत इमाल्लोकान्व्या प्रोति ॥ २३ ॥ 
तदाहुः सकृदेवोपस्पृश्याथ द्वितीयेनैवादध्यादिति यो वा अस्यामप्रतिष्ठितो भारमुद्य च्छतीति नैनमुद्यन्तु शक्नोति समेन श्रृणाति स यत्सकृदुपस्पृशति तदस्यों प्रतिष्ठायां प्रतितिष्ठति स प्रतिष्ठितो द्वितीयेनैव भूर्भुवः स्वरित्याधत्ते तथा न व्यथते तद्वासुरिः पाश्चिर्माधुकिरिति दधिरै सर्वं वा एतदन्यदियसितमिति प्रथमेनैवैनं वयं भूर्भुवः स्वरित्यादधामेति त उ ह ते तथा चक्रुरत एकतमेनाधाये। २४॥ 
। 
AAC 
u 
ru 
" 
३४. चरेधशोऽयं TE. 34.99724ta Ca., and most Mes; see Notes. ३६. मुद्यच्छयति TE. ३७, तमुपाच्छति TE. ३८. व्यक्षुत Po. Ca. ३९. सदस्याः TE. ४०. दधिरे TE. ४१. नावाय M, T, Ca.; नाधाय B. 
1.1.4.24) 
TRANSLATION 
surely from him from whom this (fire) turns away. Should one curse him therein, "May the sacrifice turn away from this person! The sacrifice is not going to reach him!” The sacrifice (fire) being powerful, it will surely happen so. Hence, one should convey this (fire) in such a manner that this (sacrifice) which purifies will move back towards the sacrificer. 
22. This (fire), indeed, is the vital breath (life). The vital breath enters this person (sacrificer) backward. He attains the full (span of) life. And the vital breath turns away from him whom this(sacrifice/fire) turns away. If one curses him, “May life-breath turn away from this person! Life-breath will leave this person ", the sacrifice being lordly, it will surely happen so. Therefore, one should convey this (fire) in such a manner that it will approach the sacrificer back, 
23. He (the sacrificer) makes the horse step on it (the fire-altar), then makes it move up towards the east and then makes it turn back again. Indeed the horse is (represents) virility. In order that virility may not run away from this sacrificer, he turns it (the horse) towards the north and east. He places it (the fire) at the foot (foot-print) of the horse. The horse is verily virility'. Therefore this indeed places it (the fire) in virility. He (the sacrificer) makes it (the fire) touch it (the horse's foot-print) and lifts it up (again); he makes it touch it and lifts it up. Only at the third time he establishes it (the fire) chanting Bhürbhuvahsvah'. These worlds are indeed three. Therefore with this he enjoys these worlds; he pervaded these worlds. 
24. They say, regarding this, "Touching (the horse's footprint) only once, then at the second time one should establish (the fire)". He who, without remaining established (well planted) on this (earth) lifts up a burden (tries to lift up) cannot lift it up. It crushes him. The fact that he touches once (means) he stays firin on this resting place (the earth). Being firmiy established, he sets up (the fire) at the second time uttering, Bhurbhuvahsvak". Thus (thereby; he does not come to grief. Asuri, Pandi and Madhuki thus set up the fire), (saying). *All this else (on the altar) becomes troubled. So, we established it, chanting "Bhürbhuvahsvah' even at the first time". Indeed, they did so, establishing (the fire) then, even with one (even at the first) touching.' 
25. He (the sacrificer) touches the burning sticks saying, "Like the sky with abundance, like the earth with girth (in superiority)". He says verily this, "Just as the yonder sky is plentiful with stars, so may I become plentifull* By "like the earth with girth"-he says verily this, "Just as this earth is big (vast) may I become big (great)". He (the sacrificer) establishes this (fire) on the back of this (earth). Chanting, "Oh Earth! the one fit for the worship of the Gods: On the back of 
i 
KANVA-SATAPATHARRĀHMANAM 
[I.I.4.25 
watamp 
fundati 
man 
TPTM Panta 
D 
S 
अPER 
Nameer 
mes 
U 
१ 
#. 
उल्मकान्युपस्पृशति द्यौरिव भूम्मा भूमिरिव वरिम्णेति यथासौ द्यौर्बह्वी नक्षत्रैरेवं बहुर्भूयासमित्येवैतदाह भूमिरिव वरिम्णेति यथेयमुर्वी भूमिरेवमुरुर्भूयासमित्येवैतदाह तस्यास्ते पृथिवि देवयजनि पृष्ठ इत्यस्या ह्येनं पृष्ठ आधत्तेऽग्निमन्नादमन्नाद्यायादध इत्यन्ना दोऽग्निरन्नादो भूयासमित्येवैतदाह सैषाशीस्तों यदि कामयेत जपेद्यधु कामयेतापि नैवद्रियेत ॥ २५॥ 
अथ सर्पराजया ऋग्भिरुपतिष्ठत आयं गौः पृश्निरक्रमीदसदन्मातरं पुरः । पितरं च प्रयन्त्स्वः । अन्तश्चरति रोचनास्य प्राणादपानती व्यख्यन्महिषो दिवम्। त्रिशद्धाम विराजति वाक्पतङ्गाय धीयते । प्रति वस्तोरह धुभिरिति स यदेवास्याधानेन वर्तुभिर्वा संभारैर्वा नक्षत्रैर्वानाप्तं भवति तदेवास्यैतेन सर्वमाप्नोति तदु नाद्रियेतेयं वाव सर्पराज्ञी यद्धि किं च सर्पति तस्येयमेव राज्ञी स यदेवास्यामाधत्ते तेनैवास्यैष कृत्स्नः सर्वः समृद्ध आहितो 
भवति ॥ २६॥ 
इति एकपात्काण्डे प्रथमोऽध्यायः॥ 
Com 
४२. तथासौ 1, P2. ४३. मित्येव तदाह P1. ४४. बाश्चैस्ता F1, P2. ४५. सर्पराजा M-B.Co. ४६. सेनेक न. 
- 
1.1.4.261 
TRANSLATION 
"Yourself-, I set up Agni the eater of food, for the sake of good food". He says (means) verily this "Agni is the consumer of food. May I become the consumer of food!" This is (a prayer for) blessing. One may mutter it, if he wishes. If he so wishes he may ignore it. 
26. Then he worships with the Ķks pertaining to the Queen of serpents", (thus), "This spotted bull has come here and has lain down before the mother and before the father, too, on going up to heaven. She, shining (with biking) moves in, breathing out from his breath. The great one has illumined the sky, He shines much in his thirty abodes, Speech is bestowed on the winged one, Ah! with the lustres of everything!" Whatever has not been secured by the installation of this (fire) or by the seasons or by the gathered) materials or the stars, that very thing all that one secures by this. One need not care for it. This earth) is indeed the Queen of Serpents (for) whatever creeps along of (all) that this earth) verily is the queen. The fact that he sets up (the fire) on this (earth). verily by that itself, this (fire), entire and full and rich, becomes established. 
(Fourth Brāhmaṇa Ends) 
(Chapter One ends)
KĀNTA-SATAPATIJA KRĀHMANAM 
[1.2.1.1 
RE 
mer 
प्र 
द्वितीयोऽध्यायः 
प्रथमं ब्राह्मणम् उद्धृत्याहवनीयं पूर्णाहुति जुहोत्यन्नादं वा एतं जनयत आत्मनो यदग्निं तस्मा एतदन्न मपिदधाति यथा वत्साय वा जाताय तरुणाय वा कुमाराय स्तनमपिदध्यादेवमस्मा एतदन्नमपिदधाति तेन शान्तः प्रीत उत्तराणि हवी घ्युपरमते श्रप्यमाणानि शश्वद्धाध्वर्यु वा यजमानं वा प्रदहेद्यदस्मिन्नेतामाहुतिं न जुहुयुस्तौ ह्यस्य नेदिष्ठमिव चरतः ॥ १ ॥ ___ तां वै पूर्णा जुहोति सर्वं वै पूर्णर सर्वेणैवैनं तच्छमयति स्वाहाकारेण जुहोत्यनिरुक्तो वै स्वाहाकारः सर्वं वा अनिरुक्त सर्वेणैवैनं तच्छमयति यामु वा अदः प्रजापतिः प्रथमामाहुतिमजुहोत्स्वाहाकारेण वै तामजुहोत्सो स्विद्वा एषा निदानेन तस्मात्स्वाहाकारण जुहोति तस्यां वरं ददाति सर्वं वै वरः सर्वेणैवैनं तच्छमयति ॥ २ ॥ 
तदाहुरेतामेवाहुति हुत्वेत्योत्तराणि हवी षि नाद्रियेतेत्येतयैव तं काममाप्नोति यस्मै कामायोत्तराणि हवी षि निर्वपेतेति ॥ ३ ॥ 
स यदग्नये पवमानाय निर्वपति प्राणं वा अस्मि स्तद्दधात्यन्नं वै प्राणोऽन्नमु का एषाहुतिस्तदेतयैवास्मि स्तुद्दधाति ॥४॥ 
अथ यदग्नये पावकाय निर्वपत्यन्नं वा अस्मिस्तुद्दधाति प्रत्यक्ष वा एषाहुतिरन्नं तदे तयैवास्मिस्तद्दधाति ॥ ५ ॥ 
अथ यदग्नये शुचये निर्वपति वीर्यं वा अस्मि स्तद्दधात्येतद्धवा अस्य वीर्य शुचि य एषोऽर्चिरुज्वलति तदेतस्यामेव हुतायामुच्चैस्तरामिवोज्वलति वीर्यवत्तर इव भवति 
pm 
OM 
ना 
१. मस्या P1,P2, H. २. उत्तराणि TE, My, Pa. ३. सर्वेणेवैन P2, H. ४. From पूर्ण upto स्वाहाकारः the text is missing in TE. ५, का missing ink. ६. रूज्ज्वलति Ca ७. रुम्ज्वलति Ca. 
TRANSLATION 
Chapter Two 
YY 
1HWAY 
AL 
BRAHMANAI 1. Having taken out the Ahavaniya fire, he (the sacrificer) offers the full oblations, 'Purnāhuti". Indeedhe (therebv) makes this Agni becomea consumer of food for his own sake. To him (Agni) he offers this food. Just as one (the cow or the mother) would offer the breast to the (just) born calf or to the voung child (son), in the same manner one offers this food to this (fire). Appeased and pleased by that, he (Agni) waits quietly for the subsequent oblations that are cooked. If they (the sacrificers) do not offer this oblation, in this (Agni), it (the fire) will soon burn up the Yajamāna or the Adhvarvulfor) those two move, as it were, nearest to it (the fre). 
2. That (offering) he offers in full. Indeed, full is (means) all'. That offering) appeases this (fire) with "all". He makes the offering uttering the sound 'swäha”, The expression "säha' is undefined (general). All' also is undefined (general). That, then, appeases this (fire) verily with 'all' every thing). The first offering which Prajāpati offered, he indecd offered it with the utterance of the sound svāha'. That is indeed this, primarily. Hence he (the sacrificer) makes the offering, muttering 'svāhā'. At (when) this (offering has been made), he (the sacrificer) presents a boon (gift) (to the priest). Everything is indeed a gift (a 
TERIA 
ma 
TI 
PI 
#hy 
Peg 
W 
Pr 
FO 
S 
URA 
2 
Am 
mas 
A 
K3 
RT 
(all). 
3. Here they (some) say, "Having made this offering (Pärnähruti) one need not care for the subsequent offerings. He surely achieves even by this that wish for which he may make the subsequent offerings. 
4. The fact that one makes an offering to Agni Paramara (the Blower) means that it puts life-breath, indeed, into this (sacrificer). Verily food is life breath, This offering is indeed food. Thus it puts into this (sacrificer) that (vital breath) by means of this (offering). 
5. Then, the fact that one makes an offering to Agni Paraka (purifier) means that it indeed puts food into this (Agni). This offering (viz.,) food is directly visible. Therefore one puts that (food) into this (fire) by this very offering 
6. That one makes an offering for Agru Sur (the Brilliant) means that it puts 
EL 
2 
RE 
119 
PE 
. 
. 
tre 
PH 
han 
4 
. 
Fr 
an offering is put into this (flame). It (the fire) becomes, as it were, more virile. 
+ 
- 
110 
. 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.2.1.6 
my 
तदेतयैवास्मिस्तद्दधाति तस्मान्नाद्रियेतेत्याहुस्तदु निर्वपेदेवं परोक्षमिव वा एतत्तदंदस्तदि दमितीव यावद्वा अजातो गर्भो मातुर्वैव तावत्प्राणमनु प्राणिति यथा वा ॥ ६ ॥ 
स यदग्नये पवमानाय निर्वपति प्राणो वै पवमानो जात एवास्मिस्तत्प्राणं दधाति ॥ ७ ॥ 
अथ यदग्नये पावकाय निर्वपत्यत्रं वै पावकं जात एवास्मिरस्तदन्नं दधाति ॥ ८॥ 
अथ यदाग्नये शुचये निर्वपति वीर्यं वा अस्मिरस्तद्दधाति यदो वा अन्नेन वर्धतेऽथ वीर्यं करोति तदेनमेतदन्नेनैव वर्धयित्वाथास्मिन्नेतद्वीर्यः शुचि दधाति तस्मान्निपेदेव तद्वा एतत्समानमेव सद्विपर्यस्तमिव यत्र ह वा अग्निदेवेभ्यो मनुष्यानुपाववर्त तद्धेक्षांचक्रे मैव सर्वेणैवात्मना देवेभ्यो मनुष्यानुपावृत्सीति स तिख़स्तनूरपनिदध एषु लोकेषु तस्य यत्पवमान रूपमासास्यां तत्पृथिव्यां निदधे यत्पावकमन्तरिक्षे तद्यच्छुचि दिवि तदथ मनुष्यानुपावैवर्त तदु हर्षयः प्रतिबुबुधिरे ये तर्हि मनुष्याणामृषय आसुरसर्वो वैनोऽग्निरु पाववृतीति तस्मादेतानि हवी षि निरवपन्॥ ९ ॥ __स यदग्नये पवमानाय निर्वपति यैवास्यास्यां पृथिव्यां तनूस्तामेव तेनाप्नोत्यथ यदग्नये पावकाय निर्वपति यैवास्यान्तरिक्षे तनूः पावका तामेव तेनाप्नोत्यथ यदग्नये शुचये निर्वपति वैवास्य दिवि तनूः शुचिस्तामेव तेनाप्नोति तर सर्वं कृत्स्नमग्निमनपनिहित माधत्ते केवलबर्हिः प्रथम हविर्भवति समानबर्हिषी उत्तरे इमे वै लोका एतानि 
Han-PAM 
८. निर्वदेवं P1. ९. एतत्तदद H. १०. अत्रे वर्धते H. ११. नुपाववर्त TE, PI, H, Co; see Notes, १२. सवेंणेवात्मना Ca १३. नुपाववर्त TE, P1, H, Co; see Notes. १४. रुपाववृत्तीति M; see Notes on ll above. १५. तस्मा एतानि Ca. १६. बहि: Ca. 
Mpma 
O 
1.2.1.101 
TRANSLATION 
Therefore, they (some) say, "One need not care for it (the subsequent oblations)". One must certainly make that (subsequent offerings). This (fact) is, as it were, invisible (incomprehensible) that "this is that yonder thing and that is this". Just as, as long as the child (embryo) is not born, it breathes (lives) in consonance with the vital breath of the mother. 
7. That one makes the offering for Agni Pavamana (the Blower) means that Pavamāna is the breath and he (the sacrificer) puts that into him (the fire) even as it (the fire) is born. 
8. Then he makes the offering for Agni Pāvaka (Purifier) for. food indeed is the purifier. As soon as this (fire) is born, he (the sacrificer) puts the food into this (fire). 
9. Then he makes the offering for Agni Suci (the Brilliant)and it puts virility into this (fire). For when he (the fire) grows with food, then, he builds up strength. Thus making this (fire) grow by means of food, thereby he (the sacrificer) puts this bright strength into this (fire). Therefore, one must make that offering. This being alike, it (the practice of not making the subsequent offerings after Pūrņāhuti) appears to be reversed (wrong), in a matter where Agni approached men from the gods and thought, “Let me not go to the mien from the gods with my full self (body)". He placed (his) three bodies in these (three) worlds; what was his Paramūna (blowing) form he placed on this carth; what was Pārku (the purifier) (that he placed) in the mid region and that which was Suci (bright) (he placed) in the sky. And then he came to the men. Those who were then sages among men realized that and thought), "Agni has come to us not in his entire form”. (Therefore) They made these offerings for hin (Agni). 
10. What he (the sacrificer) offers to Agni Paramana, by that he gets (reaches) that very body (of Agni) which is in this earth. And then what he offers for Agma Pāvaka, by that he gets at that very body (of Agni) which is in the mid region. And then what he offers for Agni Suci, by that he verily gets at that very body (of Agni) which is in the sky. (Thus) He (the sacrificer) sets up the entire Agni who is not placed away (who is present in his fulness).The first oblation has an only (separate) seat of sacred grass and the subsequent two (oblations) have a common barhis (seat of sacred grass). These are the worlds, these are the 
KĀNVA-SATAPATHABRĀHMANAM 
[1.2.1.10 
1. 
' 
- 
- 
A 
हवी षि सोऽयमद्धातमामिव लोको बहुलतम इव लेलयमिवेदमन्तरिक्षं लेलयेव द्यौरुभे चिदेनं प्रत्युद्यामिनी भवतामिति सभारतायै ॥ १० ॥ 
अष्टाकपाला आग्नेयाः पुरोळाशा भवन्त्यष्टाक्षरा गायत्री गायत्रमग्नेश्छन्दस्वेनैवैनं तच्छन्दसाधत्ते तानि चतुर्विशतिः सम्पद्यन्ते चतुर्विशत्यक्षरा वै गायत्री गायत्रमग्ने 
छन्दस्वेनैवैनं तच्छन्दसाधत्ते गायत्र्यो याज्यानुवाक्या भवन्ति गायत्रमग्नेश्छन्दस्वे नैवैनं तच्छन्दसाधत्तेऽथैष एवादित्यश्चरुरु परिष्टाद्भवति प्रच्यावयत इव ह वा एषोऽस्मान्म नुष्यलोकादेवलोकमभ्यात्मानं य एतानि हवी षि निर्वपत ऊर्ध्व इव हि समारोहन्नेतीयमु वा अदितिरिय प्रतिष्ठा तदस्यामेव प्रतिष्ठायामन्ततः प्रतितिष्ठति ॥ ११ ॥ 
तस्य विराजौ संयाज्ये स्यातां विराड्ढीर्यमित्यथो त्रिष्टुभौ त्रिष्टुब्भीर्यमित्यथो जगत्यौ जगती हीयमिति विराजौ त्वेव स्थितं तस्य धेनुर्दक्षिणा धेनुरिव वा इयं मनुष्येभ्यः सर्वान्कामान्दुग्धे सर्वान्वै कामान्धेनुर्दुग्धे मातेव वा इयं मनुष्याणां च पशूनां च मातेव धेनुस्तस्मादस्य धेनुर्दक्षिणैतन्वेकमयनम् ॥ १२ ॥ __ अथ द्वितीयमनय एवाष्टाकपालं पुरोळाशं निर्वपति परोक्षमिव वा एतदग्नये पवमानायाग्नये पावकायाग्नये शुचय इत्यथास्यैवं प्रत्यक्षमञ्जसाग्नी आहितौ भवतस्तस्य मूर्धन्वत्यौ याज्यानुवाक्ये भवतोऽथैष एवादित्यश्चरुरुपरिष्टात्तस्यैषैव बन्धुतैषा दक्षिणना ॥ १३ ॥ इति प्रथमं ब्राह्मणम् ॥ 
१७. M. १८. नन्दः खे TE, Ca ११. जन्म के TE, Ca. २०. छन्दः ये TE, Ca. २१. विमाडीब म विगतोय Ca; Sice Notes. २२. बिना P2, 
SH 
1.2.1.13] 
TRANSLATION 
33 
oblations. This world (earth) is, as it were, fine and dense; the mid region appears to be oscillating and oscillating seems the sky. For (imparting) equal weightiness, so that those two (worlds) may counterpoise (may come towards) this (earth), (the last two oblations are offered with a common barhis). 
11. The sacrificial cakes (intended) for Agni are cooked on eight potsherds. Gāyatri (metre) has eight syllables (in a pada or foot). Gāyatra is the metre of Agni, He (the sacrificer), then, establishes thís (Agni) with its own metre. They (the potsherds) amount to twenty-four. Indeed Gāyatrī has twenty-four syllables (on the whole). Gayatra is the metre of Agni. He then , sets up (the fire) with its own metre. The Yäjyānuvākyas (the offering formulas and the connected expressions) are in the Gayatri metre. Gāyatra is the metre of Agni and he then sets up (the fire) with his own metre. Then subsequently, occurs this (offering of) cooked food dedicated to Aditi. He who prepares and offers) these (preceding oblations) seems to make himself slip away from this world of men towards the world of the Gods. Indeed he moves as it were, ascending above. This (earth) is Aditi. This is (the firm) resting place. Therefore, ultimately, he (the sacrificer) rests firmly on this (firm) resting place. 
12. Its two Samyājyas (inviting and offering formulas) are in Virāt (metre), for this (earth) is indeed vast (shining); and (or) two tristubh verses for this (earth) is tristubh indeed (three-propped) and (or) two jagati verses; indeed this (earth) is Jagati (constantly moving). But anyway it remains that they are only two Virág verses. For that (the offering to Aditi) the fee is a cow; for this (earth) like a cow, produces (fulfils) all desires for men. Indeed the cow fulfils all the desires (of men). This (earth) is indeed like a mother to men and animals, like the cow which is like a mother. Therefore the fee for this offering) is a cow. This is one way (of performance). 
13. Now then (is) a second (way), one offers the cake cooked on eight potsherds only for Agni. This (offering) is, as it were, indirectly (invisibly) for Agni Pavamāna, Agni Päraka and Agni Suci. Then the two Agnis of this (sacrificer) become visibly and truly established. There are two Yajvărturvžkyas (one offering formula and one connected expression) containing the word Mürdhan', for that offering). Then (is offered) verily this cooked rice offering for Aditi, subsequently. This is indeed the relationship to it. This (cow) is the fee. 
(First Brāhmana Ends) . 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRĀHMANAM 
[I.2.2.1-- 
द्वितीयं ब्राहाणम् 
A 
+ 
पळदद्यात्वडवा 
E 
TAMIN 
घन्ति ह वा एतद्यज्ञं यदेनं तन्वते याजानमभिषुण्वन्ति तत्तं घ्नन्त्यथ यत्पशुः संज्ञपयन्ति यद्विशासति तत्तं घ्नन्त्युलूखलमुसलेन दृषदुपलेन हविर्यज्ञं घ्नन्ति स एवर हतो यज्ञो न ददक्षे तं देवा दक्षिणाभिर्दक्षयाचक्रुस्तस्माद्दक्षिणा नाम यदाभिरदक्षय स्त स्मादु दक्षिणा दद्यात्स यद्दक्षिणा ददाति यदेव हतस्य यज्ञस्य व्ययते तदेवास्यै तदृक्षिणा भिर्दक्षयत्यथ समृद्ध एव यज्ञः ॥ १॥ 
ताः षळ्दद्यात्वड्वा ऋतवः संवत्सरस्य संवत्सरो यज्ञः प्रजापतिः स यावानेव प्रजापतिवित्यस्य मात्रा तावतीभिरेवैनमेतद्दक्षयति ॥ २॥ 
अथो द्वादश दद्यावादश वै मासाः संवत्सरस्य संवत्सरो यज्ञः प्रजापतिः स यावाने व प्रजापतिर्यावत्यस्य मात्रा तावतीभिरेवैनमेतद्दक्षयति ॥ ३ ॥ ___ अथो चतुर्विशतिं दद्याच्चतुर्विशतिर्वा अर्धमासाः संवत्सरस्य संवत्सरो यज्ञः प्रजापतिः स यावानेव प्रजापतिर्यावत्यस्य मात्रा तावतीभिरेवैनमेतद्दक्षयत्येता आदिष्टाः काम यथाश्रद्धं भूयसीदद्यात् ॥ ४ ॥ ___ या उ वाव देवा देवा अहैवान्यद्देवा अथेमे मनुष्यदेवा य इमे ब्राह्मणाः शुश्रुवारसोऽनूचानास्तेषां द्वैधा विभक्तो यज्ञ आहुतय एव देवानां दक्षिणा मनुष्यदेवानां ब्राह्मणानार शुश्रूषामनूचाना स आहुतिभिरेव देवान्त्रीणाति दक्षिणाभिर्मनुष्यदेवा ब्राह्मणाच्छुश्रुषोऽनूचानास्त एनमुभये देवाः प्रीताः सुधायां दधति यथो वै रेतो योनौ 
-- 
mammyms 
ST 
यसदद्यात 
म 
द्व 
HEADLINE 
ARTHA 
THERE 
TU 
F 
K 
THE 
m 
pm 
RECR 
१. पुरान्ति त म H. 
i 
- 
। 
ARMEENA 
1.2.2.5) 
TRANSLATION 
BRAHMANA II 1. In that they perform (elaborately) the sacrifice, they kill it. In that they press (ritually prepare the juice) the King (the Soma plant), they kill it. In that they quieten and immolate the sacrificial) animal, they kill it. With mortar and pestle and with a pair of mill-stones they kill the haviryajña (the sacrificial food offerings). The sacrifice having been killed thus became incapable of producing the desired result. The gods made it capable with fees (ritual gifts to priests). As they invigorated (the sacrifice) with these, these (fees) came to be known as Daksiņā (invigorating means). Therefore, indeed, must one give the fees. Whatever (part) of this destroyed sacrifice flags, that very thing of the sacrifice does one invigorate by means of the sacrificial fees that one gives. Then the sacrifice becomes verily rich (prospers). 
2. One should give six of them (fees/cows). Indeed six are the seasons of the year; the year is the sacrifice, (it is) Prajāpati. As much as is the sacrifice, as much as is its measure, by so much (many) fees only does he (the sacrificer) thereby invigorates it. 
3. Or, one may give twelve; indeed twelve are the months of the year. The year is the sacrifice, Prajāpati, As much as is the sacrifice, as much as is its measure, by so much only does he thereby invigorate it. 
4. Or, one may give twenty-four. Indeed twenty-four are the half-months of the year. The year is the sacrifice, Prajapati.As much as is the sacrifice, as much as is its measure, by so much only does he thereby invigorate it. These have been indicated (advised). One may give more according to his faith. 
5. Verily the gods are of two kinds. The Gods indeed are of a different (one) kind of gods. Then these Brāhmins who have studied the Vedas and teach (them) are the humar gods. Their sacrifice (also) is divided into two kinds: the very oblations (form the sacrifice) for the gods, for the human gods viz., theBrahmins who have studied the Vedas and teach them, it is the sacrificial fee. He (the sacrificer) propitiates the gods only by the oblations and (propitiates) the human gods.the Brāhmins who have studied the Vedas and teach them, with sacrificial fees. Those two (kinds of) gods, being pleased, place this (sacrificer) in nectar (a state of bliss). As one would deposit semen into the genitals (of a woman), in the 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.2.2.5 
Pree 
FLk 
दध्यादेवमेतदृत्विजः स्वर्गे लोके यजमानं दधति तेभ्य एतद्ददाति ये मेद संप्रापिपन्नितीति नु दक्षिणानाम् ॥ ५॥ __ अथ देवाश्च ह वा असुराश्चोभये प्राजापत्या अस्पर्धन्त ते होभयेऽनात्मान आसुर्मा ह्यासुरनात्मा हि स यो मर्त्यस्तेषु हाग्निरेवामृतमास तमुभय उपाजीवस्तेषाः ह स्म यं प्रन्ति तद्ध स्मैव स भवति ततो ह देवास्तनीयास इव परिशिशिषिरे ते हार्चन्तः श्राम्य न्तः कथर सपत्नानसुरानभिभवेमेति ते हैतदेवाग्न्याधेयं ददृशुः ॥ ६॥ 
ते होचुर्हन्तेदममृतमन्तरात्मन्याधायेत्यमृताभूत्वा स्तर्यास्तान्त्सपत्नान्मल्नसुरानभि भविष्याम इति ॥ ७ ॥ 
ते होचुरुभयेषु वै नोऽयमग्निरित्ति हन्तासुरेभ्यः प्रतिप्रब्रवामेति ते हासुरानेत्योचुरा वै वयमग्निं धास्यामहेऽथैनं यूयं किं करिष्यथेति ते हासुरा असूयन्त इवोचुरथैनं वयं न्येव धास्यामह इत्यत्र तृणानि दहात्र दारूणि दहात्र मासं पात्रौदनं पचेति सोऽयमग्नियेनेदं मनुष्या भुञ्जते यदिदमिमाः प्रजा उपजीवन्ति ॥ ८ ॥ 
अथैनं देवा अन्तरात्मन्याधायामृता भूत्वास्तास्तर्यान्सपत्नान्मल्नसुरानभ्यभवर स्तस्मै कमनी आदधीत नामृतत्वस्याशास्त्यस्तयों हैव भवति न हैन तुस्तूर्षमाणश्च न स्तृणुते तस्माद्यदाहिताग्निश्चानाहिताग्निश्च स्पर्धेत आहिताग्निरेवाभिभवत्यस्तयों हि स 
भवति ॥ ९॥ 
H 
omsadi 
Nepa 
मामला 
my 
PATO 
- 
MARA 
Anand 
८. सौ प्रापि TE,सं प्रापिपत्रितीति १. झा TE,H. १०. ते Ca ११. मिमिः M. VI. Ca; sce Notes, १२, स्वामी स्वाको सप , My, Ca, 
F 
ROWTHAN 
का 
१४.स्य 
TE 
1.2.2.91 
TRANSLATION 
ST. 
- 
11 
1 LLL 
same manner, these priests place the sacrilicer in heaven. The sacrificer presents this (fee) to them (priests), thinking, "These are those who have made me reach this (heaven)". This is indeed, concerning sacrificial fees. 
6. The Devas and Asuras, both of them sprung from Prajapati, contended (with each other). Both of them were without Ātman (eternal soul). Indeed they were mortals. Verily he who is inortal has no (abiding) soul. Among them only Agni was immortal. Both of them (DevasandAsuras) lived by resorting to him (Agni). Whom (soever) among them they killed; he remained so (slain). Then the gods remained (were left over) thinner (in number or strength). They worshipped and tired themselves in austerities), thinking, "How can we overcome our rivals the Asuras?" They indeed discovered this very 'Agnipädheya' (installation of Agni). 
7. They said, “Ah! installing this immortal thing (Agni) within ourselves and thereby becoming immortal and invincible, we shall overcome the Asuras our mortal conquerable rivals. 
8. They said, “Verily this Agni is in both of us. Well, let us speak to the Asuras in a contrary way." They went to the Asuras and said, "Verily we are going to set up Agni (ceremoniously). What are you going to do with him (Agni)? " The Asuras spoke, as it were, maliciously **Then we shall surely lay it down, saying, *Burn the (blades of) grass here; -burn the logs of wood here;" cook meat here and 'cook rice here'. This (what the Asuras laid down) was the fire with which men eat and resorting to which these creatures live. 
9. Then, the gods, installing this (Agni) within themselves and becoming immortal and invincible, overcame their rivals, the conquerable mortal Asuras, For that(which)there are two fires, shall one set up? There is no hope of (attaining) immortality. (But) he (the sacrificer) indeed becomes unconquerable. One who wishes to conquer him does not conquer him at all, Therefore, when one who has set up his fires and one who has not set up his fires contend (with each other), only the one who has set up his fires overcomes (the other). For he, indeed, becomes invincible
AVAITI 
APATHANK 
HALA 
FLI" 
[I.2.2.10 
IMANAM 
G 
PARENTLEM 
enerangam PHEPHERU 
. 
मा 
IA 
तं यत्रादो मन्थन्ति तदेनं जातमभिप्राणिति प्राणो वा अग्निर्जातमेवैनं तज्जनयत्यथोद निति तदेनमन्तरात्मन्याधत्तेऽथेतरमुज्वलयन्तीह यक्ष्य इह साधु करिष्यामीति ॥ १० ॥ 
10. Then, where thevchum that (produce that firebv churning), then he (the sacrificer) breathes upon this (fire) that has been born. Indeed Agni is breath. It produces (enlivens) this one that has been born. Then he inhales the breath up. By that he installs this (fire) within himself. Then he makes the other one blaze up, thinking, "Here shall I put the oblation","Here shall I perform the sacrifice” and “Here shall I do it properly (I shall do the right thing here)". 

__ त केषामगि इव भवत्यन्वगन्निति तदु नाद्रियेत न वा अस्यैषोऽनुगच्छति योऽस्यान्त रामन्याहितो भवत्यनों व्ययासीद्रथो व्ययासीत् ॥ ११ ॥ 
11. To some, this appears to be a faull, that it (the fire) might go out. One need not mind it. The fire that has been installed in his own self, that does not go out. "The cart passed; the chariot passed (in between me and the fire)." 


अन्तरागादिति हैकेषामाग इव भवति तदू नो एवाद्रियेत न वा अस्यैतमनो वियाति न रथो वियाति नान्तरेणैति कश्चन योऽस्यान्तरात्मन्याहितो भवति ॥ १२ ॥ 
12. "It passed in between" --such, indeed, is a sense of fault (wrong) for some. That too one need not mind at all. The cart does not pass through this inner fire) of this (sacrificer), nor does a chariot pass nor does any one come in between the fire that has been established within himself. 

ते वा एते प्राणा एवाग्नयः प्राणोदानावेवाहवनीयश्च गार्हपत्यश्च व्यानोऽन्वाहार्यपच नस्तस्य वा एतस्याग्न्याधेयस्य सत्यमेवोपचारः ॥ १३ ॥ 
13. These breaths themselves are the fires. The Präna (exhaled breath the vital breath) and Udana (the inhaled/up-drawn) breaths verily are the Ahavaniya and Garhapatya (fires). The Vyana (pervasive breathing is the Anvähäryapacana (the fire for cooking subsequent offerings). For this consecrated fire, worship consists, verily in (speaking the) truth. 

स यथा समिद्धमग्निं घृतेनाभिषिश्चेत्तस्य वै भूयो भूयस्तेजो भवति स श्वः श्वः श्रेयान्भवत्येवर हैव की, यशसा श्रिया श्वः श्वे श्रेयान्भवति योऽग्नी आधाय सत्यं वदति ॥ १४॥ 
14. Just as one may sprinkle the kindled fire with ghee and its lustre becomes more and more and it (the fire) becomes greater day by day, in a very similar manner does a person who, having installed the fire,speaks the truth; becomes greater day by day with renown, glory and splendour (wealth). 

अथ यथा समिद्धमग्निमुदकेनाभिषिञ्चेत्तस्य वै कनीयः कनीयस्तेजो भवति स श्वः श्वः पापीयान्भवत्येव हैव कीर्त्या यशसा श्रिया श्वः श्वः पापीयान्भवति योऽग्नी आधाय मृषा वदत्यरुण होपवेशि ज्ञातय ऊचुः स्थविरो वा अस्यग्नी आधत्स्वेति ॥ १५ ॥ 
15. Now, Just as (if) one sprinkles fire with water, its lustre becomes less and less and day by day it becomes weaker (more pitiable), verily like this, he who having installed the fire speaks untruth becomes weaker (more pitiable) by (in the matter of) renown, glory and splendour. The relatives told Aruna Aupavesi, thus, “You are, indeed, old; set up the two fires". : 

स होवाच तन्मैतद्रूथ वाचंयम एवैधीति मा ब्रूथेति नह्यग्री आधाय मृषा वदेन्नो वाचा कदतोऽमृषोद्यमस्ति तस्मादु सत्यमेव विवदिषेत् ॥ १६ ॥ 
इति द्वितीयं ब्राह्मणम् ॥ 
16. He said. "Do not tell me this. Do not say, "Be one with a vow of silence (one with complete and habitual restraint on speech)" for one should, indeed, not speak untruth after having installed the two fires. For one who speaks, there is no non-speaking of untruth. Therefore, indeed.one must wish (strive) to speak only the truth. 
(Second Brähmana Ends) 


41 
 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.2.3.1 
तृतीयं ब्राह्मणम् 
स 
वरुणो हैनद्राज्यकाम आदधे स राज्यमगच्छत्तस्माद्यश्चैतद्वेद यश्च नै वरुणो राजेत्येवा चक्षते सोमो यशस्कामः स यशोऽभवत्तस्माद्ये च सोमे लभन्ते ये च न लभन्त उभय एवैनदागच्छन्ति यश एवैतद्रष्टुमागच्छन्ति यशो ह भवति राज्यं गच्छति य एनदेवं विद्वानाधत्तै ॥ १॥ 
1. Varuna indeed, established this (fire) being desirous of sovereignty. He attained sovereignty. Therefore, he who knows this and he who does not, all say, "Varuņa is the King". Soma was desirous of glory. (He established this fire). He became glorious. Therefore those who acquire (in the matter of) Soma and those who don't, both of them acquire this (glory) verily. People do come to see the glorious. He who, knowing this is so, sets up (the fires), indeed, becomes glorious and attains sovereignty. 

अग्ना उ ह वै देवाः सर्वाणि रूपाणि संनदधिरे यानि च ग्राम्याणि यानि चारण्यानि विजयं वोपपरैष्यन्तः कामचारस्य वा कामायाय नो गोपिष्ठो गोपायत्विति वा तान्ह्यग्निर्नि चकमे तान्त्संगृह्य प्रविवेश पुनरेम इति देवा ए॒तदग्निं तिरोभूतं तेषार हेयसैवास किमिह कार्य केह प्रक्षेति ॥ २ ॥ 
2. The Gods deposited, once, all forms -things and forms), those that were rural and those that were of the forest (domestic and wild), either because they (the gods) were going out to achieve victory (in battle against the enemies) or with a desire for free activity or with the thought, *This (Agni) is the best protector and may he protect us". Agni, indeed, coveted them much. Gathering them (the forms) he entered the seasons. The gods thought, "Let us go back and came to (the place of) Agni who had disappeared. 
What is to be done here? What knowledge is there about this? 

ततो हैतत्त्वष्टा पुनराधेयं ददर्श तदादधे योऽग्ने प्रियं धामोपजगाम तस्मा एतान्यग्निरु भयानि रूपाणि प्रतिनिःससर्ज यानि च ग्राम्याणि यानि चारण्यानि तस्माद्वा आहुस्त्वाष्ट्राणि रूपाणीति त्वष्टुर्ह वै सर्व रूपमुप तु हैवान्याः प्रजा यावच्छो यावच्छतिष्ठन्ते ॥ ३ ॥ 
3. Then, indeed, did Tvaştā see (intuitively discovered) this, 'Re-installation (re-installed fire). He established it and he reached Agni's favourite abode. Agni gave out to him both these forms, the domestic and the wild. Therefore they say, verily, “The forms are of Tvaştä". For all form belongs to Tvaştr. All other creatures (too) as much as they experience it. 

__तस्मै कं पुनराधेयमादधीत तथा हैवाग्नेः प्रियं धामोपगच्छति तस्मा एतान्यग्निरुभयानि रूपाणि प्रति निःसृजति यानि च ग्राम्याणि यानि चारण्यानि तस्मिन्नेतान्युभयानि रूपाणि दृश्यन्ते परमता वै सा स्पृहयन्ति हास्मै तथा पुष्यति लोक्यमु वा अप्याग्नेयोऽयं यज्ञो ज्योतिरग्निः पाप्मनो दग्धा सोऽस्य पाप्मानं दहति स ज्योतिरेवेह श्रिया यशसा भवति ज्योतिरमुत्र पुण्यलोकत्वा ॥४॥ 
4. So one should set up a re-installed fire for him (Tvastr)? Thus, indeed, one reaches the favourite abode of Agni. To him, Agni re-delivers both these forms that are domestic and that are wild. In it (the fire) are seen both these forms. That is indeed the supreme state. They (people) like him. So does he flourish. (His position) is also noticeable, indeed.
This sacrifice belongs to Agni. Agni is the light (flame), the burner of evil. He destroys the evil of this person (sacrificer). He (the sacrificer) becomes the very light with splendour and glory here (in this world) and the light in the yonder world (heaven), the state of a world of merit (the auspicious world). 
 
24 
[I.2.3.5 

सवै वर्षास्वेवादधीत वर्षा वै सर्व ऋतवो वर्षा हि वै सर्वऋतवोऽथादो वर्षमकुर्मादो वर्षमकुमॆति वर्षाभिरेव संवत्सरान्त्संपश्यन्ति वर्षा हि वै सर्वऋतवोऽथ वर्षा एव सर्वेषामृतुना रूपम् ॥ ५॥ 
5. He may set up (the fire - a second time)only in the rainy season. Indeed the rainy season (itself) is all the seasons. Verily is the rainy season all the seasons. Hence, they consider (count) the years only with the rainy season, saying "We did (this) for a year in that year) ","We did this that year," for the rainy season is all the seasons. And therefore the rainy season itself is the form of all the seasons, 

__ भवति वै तद्वर्षासु यत्राहुीष्प एवाद्येति भवति तद्यत्राहुः शिशिर ए॒वाद्येति वर्षादिदु वर्षेपर्यतत्परोक्षमिव रूपं यदेव पुरस्ताद्वाति तद्वसन्तस्य रूपं यत्स्तनयति तद्दीष्मस्य यद्वति तद्वर्षाणां यद्विद्योतते तच्छरदो यदृष्टो गृह्णाति तद्धेमन्तस्य वर्षाः सर्वऋतव ऋतूप्रा विशतुभ्य एवैनमेतनिर्मिमीते ॥६॥ 
6. Indeed, it happens in the rainy season when they say, “Today is verily summer!" It happens in the rainy season when they say, "Today is verily winter!" From the rain (it goes) into the years, indeed. And besides, this is, as it were, (the year's) invisible form. What blows in the east, that itself is the form of spring; what thunders is of summer, what rains is of the rainy season, what flashes (lightning) is of autumn and what, having rained sucks it up is of the season of snow. The rainy season is all the seasons. He (Agni) entered the seasons. From the seasons themselves does he produce this (fire). 

आदित्यो वाव सर्वऋतवः स यदैवोदेत्यथ वसन्तो यदा संगोऽथ ग्रीष्मो यदा मध्यन्दिनोऽथ वर्षा यदा न्योऽपराह्नोऽथ शरद्यदास्तमेत्यथ हेमन्तः ॥ ७ ॥ 
7. Indeed, the Sun is all theseasons. When it rises, even then is it spring; when it is the time for being gathered together (for milking) it is summer; when it is mid-day it is the rainy season; when the day declines, i.e.when it is afternoon, it is autumn. When he sets, then it is the season of snow (winter). 

स यत्र मध्यन्दिनः स्यात्त.वादधीत तर्हि वा एषोऽस्य लोकस्य नेदिष्ठो भवति नेदिष्ठादेवैनमेतन्मध्यानिर्मिमीते छायो वा अयं पाप्मा मनुष्यमनुषक्तश्चरति सोऽत्र कनिष्ठो भवत्यधस्पदमिव ह्यसीति कनिष्ठ वैतत्सन्तं पाप्मानमवबाधते ॥ ८॥ . 
8. When it is mid-day, then only should one establish (the fire). Then, indeed, does this (Sun) remain closest to this world (earth). He produces this (fire) from the nearest centre of this (World). This evil, indeed, moves about clinging to a man as his shadow. That (evil) becomes smallest here (at mid-day). (Thinking thus), "You are as if under (my) foot", he afflicts (and drives away) that evil even when it remains smallest. 

स वै कुशैरुद्धरति दारुभिर्वा अग्र उद्धरति दारुभिरग्रे दारुभिरपरं जामि कुर्यात्समदं कुर्यादापो वै वर्षा आपः कुशा वर्षा ऋतू-प्राविशदद्भिरेवैनमेतदभ्यो निर्मिमीते ॥ ९ ॥ 
9. Verily he takes it (fire) up by means of sacrificial grass. Or he take it out with pieces of) wood, the first time. (Should he take the fire) first with (pieces of) wood and the second time (too) with (pieces of ) wood, he would be committing repetition and he would be doing it with arrogance. Waters are the rainy season. Waters are the (blades of ) sacred grass and the rainy season. He (Agni) entered the seasons. Therefore he produces this (fire) with waters themselves from waters. 

सोऽर्कपलाशाभ्यां व्रीहिमयमपूपं कृत्वा यत्र गार्हपत्यमाधास्यन्भवति तन्निदधाति तगार्हपत्यमभ्वादधाति ॥ १० ॥ 
10. Having prepared a cake of rice with two leaves of the arka plant, he places it at the spot where he is going to establish the Gärhafxztya. And then he lays down the Garhapatya there.

अर्कपलाशाभ्याम्वेव यवमयमपूपं कृत्वा यत्राहवनीयमाधास्यन्भवति तन्निदधाति लदाहवनीयमभ्यादधाति पूर्वाभ्यामेवैनमेतदग्निभ्यामन्तर्दधाति ॥ ११ ॥ 
11. Having prepared a cake of barley with two leaves of the arka plant, he puts it at the place where he is going to establish the Ahavaniya. And then he lays down the Ahavaniya there. He covers this verily with the first two fires... 

HALAT 
PERHI 
Lip 
IPH 
infrior 
NEE 
. 
वाहमयमा 
ज 
TANTHINITIANTET 
तवाहवायमध्यादधाति 
१०. दात H; दस्त 12 88, son Ca. MT १२. का त्यायो . 
1.2.3.11 
TRANSLATION 
AB 
KANVASATAPATHABRAHMANN 
[I.2.3.12 
ANTATI 
T 
meruptimanigyaupigmenpum p pamp urnandnamrit 
OPICAR 
unti 
- 
R 
RANE 
MOTES 
LLI 
- 
E 
क 
विलि 
म 
+mamta 
PAN 
mmame 
mar 
f 
Hely 
MPA 
तदु नाद्रियेत रात्रिभिर्वाव सोऽन्तहितोऽथैतमाग्नेयं पञ्चकपालं पुरोळाशं निर्वपति तस्य पञ्चपदाः पतयो याज्यानुवाक्या भवन्ति पञ्चर्तव ऋतून्प्राविशदृतुभ्य एवैनमेतन्निर्मि मीते !! १२॥ 
आग्नेयः सर्वो भवति तथा ह्यनेः प्रियं धाम त्वष्टोपागच्छदुपा श्वेनेन चरन्ति यद्वै ज्ञातिभ्यो वा सखिभ्यो वा निष्केवल्य करिष्यन्भवति तिर इव वै तेन बोभुवत्तिर इव स्विद्वा एतद्यदुपाशु वैश्वदेवोऽन्यो यज्ञोऽथैष निष्केवल्य एवाग्नेय उत्तममनुयाजमुच्चैर्यजति कृत कर्मेव हि तर्हि भवति सर्वो हि कृतमनुबुध्यते ॥ १३ ॥ 
सं यत्राध्वर्युरतिक्रम्याश्राव्याह समिधो यजेत्याग्नेयमेव तद्रूपं परोक्षमिव त्वनीन्यजेति हैव तत्र छूयात् ॥ १४ ॥ 
स यजत्यग्न आज्यस्य व्यन्तु वौषळित्यग्निाज्यस्य वेतु वौषळित्यग्निनाज्यस्य व्यन्तु .. वौषळित्यग्निराज्यस्य वेतु वौषळिति ॥ १५ ॥ . अथ स्वाहाग्निं स्वाहाग्निं पवमानमिति यद्यग्नये पवमानाय ध्रियेरन्त्स्वाहाग्निमिन्दुमन्त मिति यद्यन्य इन्दुमते ध्रियेरन्त्स्वाहाग्नीनाज्यपाञ्जुषाणा अमय आज्यपों आज्यस्य व्यन्तु कळित्येवमेतान्प्रयाजान्त्सर्वानानेयान्करोति ॥१६॥ __ अथाहानयेऽनुगृहीत्याग्नेयमाज्यभागः सोऽन्वाहाग्नि स्तोमेन बोधय समिधानो अमर्त्यम् ! हव्या देवेषु नो दयदिति स्वपितीव स्विद्वा एतद्यदुद्वासितो भवति बोधयत्येवै नमेतत्समुदीपयति जुषाणो अग्निराज्यस्य वेत्विति यजति । १७ ॥ 
ܒܒܒܒ݁ܠܕ 
AP 
A 
ganwwam 
.. 
... 
0 
Rai 
wapata 
anta - 
. .. PRIMAR 
" 
d 
anti 
Free 
DATE 
ward 
१४. कोऽन्तर्डिको TE. Ca, Cia १५. Shoruild have been निकैवल्य. १६. करिब TE. 
dime 
245 
२०. अमावा 1,H 
Arial 
1.2.3171 
12. One need not favour that (practice), for it becomes covered indeed by the nights. Then he offers this oblation (frurodñía) cooked in five potsherds and dedicated to Agni. For it, the offering mantras and (connected) subsequent utterances (Yanvās and anurakyis) are in Parkti (inetre) with five pädas (feet); for, the seasons are five. He (Agni) entered the seasons. He (the sacrificer) thus produces this (fire) from the very seasons. 
13. The whole (sacrifice) belongs to Agni. That way, indeed, Ivaşır reached the favourite abode of Agni. They perform it with this (formula), in a low voice, what one is going to do purely for his relatives or fnends, he is verily secretive with it. This (which is uttered inj-a low voice is indeed like a secret. 
The other sacrifice belongs to all the gods. But this that belongs to Agni is special. The last 'subsequent offering' he (the sacrificer) offers in a loud voice. Then, indeed, he becomes, as it were, one who has done his work. Every one understands that it has been done (completed). 
14. When the Adhvaryn,having stepped bevond and having called (drawn attention) says, "Worship (offer) (pronounce the offering prayer for) Samidhs', it is, indeed, the form of Agni and it appears to be indirect. There one should say (directly) only "Worship the Agnis". 
15. Then he recites (in worship)“Oh! Agni! May they (Samidhs) well reach (accept) the ghee "."Vauşat "May he accept the fire of the ghee" zrzuşar". May they accept the ghee through Agni"*Vausat kor "May Agni accept the ghee". "Vausar". 
16. Then he says, "Svähägnim". "Svähägnin Pavamäram". If they decide on (offering it to) Agni Pavamäna. If they decide on (offering it to) Agou-Irudurrat -(he says) Svāhāgruim indumentum". He (the sacrificer) makes all these principal sacrificial ceremonies dedicated to Agni, (uttering)"Siūhūgnim-awdim" (Sudha; the fires that consume ghee) "May the Agnis, drinkcns of ghee, coming together (being pleased), accept the gher" "Vausat". 
17. Then he says, “Pronounce the inviting prayer for Agni", with regard to Agni's portion of ghee. He (the Hour) recites (following this instruction), Wake up Agni" with praise, enkindling him the immortal, so that he takes our offerings to the gods”. Indeed, having been removed, he (Agni) appears to sleep. He wakes him thus and makes him blaze up. He makes the offering, saying "May Agni be pleased and may he accept the ghee". 
17 
Dret 
12 
WE 
. 
w 
LJILLE 
H 
2 
det 
B5 
i 
11 
** 
ts 
2 
KÄNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
II.2.3.18... 
। 
A 
FA 
Hary 
OTA 
M 
cope 
मर 
भगवान 
- 
- 
2 
- 
4 
AN 
puri 
" 
..- 
01 
ON 
HTRA 
. 
S 
HTRA 
PM 
PL 
अथाहाग्नये पवमानायानुब्रूहीति यद्यग्नये पवमानाय ध्रियेरन्सोऽन्वाहाग्न आयू षि पवस आसुवोर्जमिषं च नः । आरे बाधस्व दुच्छुनामिति तथाहाग्नेयो भवति सोमो वै पवमानो नो सौम्यादाज्यभागाद्यन्ति जुषाणो अग्निः पवमान आज्यस्य वेत्विति यजति ॥ १८॥ 
अथाहानय इन्दुमतेऽनुब्रूहीति यद्यग्नय इन्दुमते ध्रियेरन्सोऽन्वाहेषु ब्रुवाणि तेऽग्न इत्थेतरा गिरः । एभिर्वर्धास इन्दुभिरिति तथाहाग्नेयो भवति सोमो वा इन्दुनों सौम्यादाज्य भागाद्यन्ति जुषाणो अग्निरिन्दुमानाज्यस्य वेत्विति यजति ॥ १९॥ । 
अथाहाग्नयेऽनुबूहीत्यग्निं यजेत्यग्नये स्विष्टकृतेऽनुह्यग्नि स्विष्टकृतं यजेति ॥ २० ॥ स यत्राध्वर्युरतिक्रम्याश्राव्याह देवान्यजेत्यग्नीन्यजेति हैव तत्र ब्रूयात् ॥ २१ ॥ 
स यजत्यग्नेर्वसुवने वसुधेयस्य वेतु वौषळिति अग्ना उ वसुवने वसुधेयस्य वेतु वौषळिति देको अग्निः स्विष्टकृदिति स्वयमाग्नेयस्तृतीयोऽनुयाजः ॥ २२ ॥ _ता का एताः - षड्विभक्तयश्चतस्नः प्रयाजेषु द्वे अनुयाजेषु षड्वा ऋतव ऋतून्पाविश दृतुभ्य एवैनमेतन्निर्मिमीते तासार षण्णां विभक्तीनां द्वादश वा त्रयोदश वाक्षराणि द्वादश का वै त्रयोदश वा संवत्सरस्य मासाः संवत्सर ऋतूप्राविशदृतुभ्य एवैनमेतन्निर्मिमीते न ₹चन सह करोति जामि हि कुर्याद्यढ़े चित्सह कुर्याद्वेतु व्यन्त्विति प्रयाजाना रूप वसुक्ने वसुधेयस्य वेत्वित्यनुयाजाना हिरण्यं दक्षिणा योऽयं यज्ञोऽग्नेहि रेतो हिरण्यम 
p 
reta 
। 
+ 
- 
Namaya 
P1 
LE 
SATH 
.... 
goog-m 
. 
. 
. 
.. 
२२. सध्या 2, Ca 
२४. कृर्त बजेते वषट्कृले जुहोति; Fixcess ixx M only. २५. श्वसुधेय TE. २६. 2 F1, 2, TE. २७. बडे TE, PI,#2. २८. लनु 2. 
1.2.3.29) 
TRANSLATION 
18. Then he says, if they decide on (offering to ) Agory-Pavamana, "Make the call for Agni-Pavamāna". Then he (Hoir says, "Oh Agni! you breath (blow) life. Please produce for us food and strength. Drive far away misfortune". Thus indeed, it becomes of Agni. Soma indeed is the Pauumana (the purifier). (The Soma elements) do not go away from the ghee portion belonging to Soma. "May Agni-Pawamāna being pleased, accept the ghee!" So he recites (on making the offering). 
19. If they decide on (offering to) 'Agni-Indumat' he says, "Make the call for *Agni-indumat". He(Hotā) says, following this, "Come here, Oh Agni! I shall gladly say these and other words (of praise). May you grow with these drops." Then, indeed does it become of (dedicated to) Agni. Soma, indeed, is Indu (the drop). They (the Soma elements) do not go away from the portion of ghee belonging to Soma. He recites, in worship, "May Agn-Indumat (possessor of drops), being pleased, accept the ghee". 
20. Then he says, “Make the call for Agni". "Worship (recite the offering prayers to) Agni". "Make the call for Agni Svistakyt.(who makes the offerings well offered)". "Recite the offering prayers to Agni Sviştakrt". 
21. Where the Adhvaryu (priest) over-stepping (these) and calling attention says "Worship(recite the prayers) for the gods, there he should verily say (recite the prayers for) “worship Agnis”. 
22. He recites “May it (Barhis) accept (the offering) for Agni re-acquisition of abundant wealth" "Vauşat". "The divine Agni Suistakyt". This third subsequent offering by itself belongs to Agni. 
23. These are indeed the six case-forms. Four (are used) in primary offerings and two in after-offerings. Verily six are the seasons. He (Agni) entered the seasons. He, thus, produces him (Agni) only from the seasons, of the six case-forms, there are twelve or thirteen syllables. Indeed twelve or thirtcen are the months of the year. The year entered the seasons. He (Agni) entered the year, the seasons. He verily produces him (Agni) from the seasons. He does not put two together. Should he perform two together, he would be doing a fault. The form of (usage of) primary offerings is "May it accept". "May they accept ". The form of expression) after-offerings is "May it accept for abundant acquisition of riches" Gold is the sacrificial fee. This sacrifice verily belongs to Agni. Indeed gold is the seed of Agni. Or it (the sacrificial fee) is an ox. Verily 
W TY. 
Po
AR 
KĀNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.2.3.23 
नड्डान्वानड्वान्हि वहसाग्नेयोऽग्न्यवदग्धमिव ह्यन हो वहो भवति देवाना हव्यवाह नोऽग्निर्वहत्येष मनुष्येभ्यः ॥ २३ ॥ इति तृतीयं ब्राह्मणम् ॥ 
meta 
चतुर्थ ब्राह्मणम् प्रजापतिर्ह वा इदमेक एवास स हेक्षा चक्रे कथं नु प्र॒जायेयेति सोऽश्राम्यत्स तपोऽतप्यत सोऽग्निमेव मुखाज्जनयां चक्रे तस्माद्वा अग्निरन्नादो मुखाद्धि जातो मुखेन 
ह्यन्नमद्यते ॥ १॥ 
स वा एषोऽग्रे देवतानामजायत तस्मादधिर्नामाग्रिर्ह वै नामैतद्यदग्निरित्याहुः स उ जातः पूर्वः प्रेयाय तद्वैवास्य द्वितीयमनित्वं पूर्व हि यन्तमाहुरग्र एतीति ॥ २ ॥ 
तस्माद्ध प्रजापतिर्बिभयांचकारान्नादं वा इममजीजन आत्मनो नो वा इहान्यदन्नमस्ति यं वा अयं नाद्यादिति काल्वालीकृतो हेयं तर्हि पृथिव्यास त?वास्य मनस्यासाथैनमग्नि व्यात्तेनोपपर्याववर्त तस्य भीतस्य स्वो महिमापचक्राम वाग्वै स्वो महिमा वाग्घेवास्मादप चाम स आत्मन्येवाहुतिमियेष स इत्युदमृष्ट तस्मादिदं चालोमकमिदं च तत्रो एव विवेद घृताहुतिं वा पय आहुति वोभयं त्वेव तत्पयः ॥ ३ ॥ 
सा हास्मै न छदयां चकार केशमिशेव हास तामोष धयेति व्यौक्षत्तत ओषधयः संबभूवुस्तस्मादोषधयो नाम स द्वितीयमुदमृष्ट तत्रो एव विवेद घृताहुति वा पय आहुति 
+ 
M 
- 
RATHA 
* 
२९. दग्धम्भिव TE. 
१. दविनम्मानिई VI. . २. मजिवं My, F1, 2, H. ३. सदैवास K. ४. समादधाम ५. साम्यश्चयेति TE; तामोयं Cor See Notes. 
. . 
enuga 
Air 
1.2.4.4] 
TRANSLATION 
1 
TE E 
4 
1.4 
3 
1. 
the ox is related to Agni, by its shoulder. The shoulder of the ox looks as if it is burnt by fire. Agni is the carrier of the oblations to the gods. This ox carries (burdens) for the sake of men, 
(Third Brāhmana Ends) 
BRAHMAŅA IV 1. Prajapati alone existed here. He saw (thought),"How canlbe born (become abundant progeny)?"He toiled. He performed penance. He produced Agni, indeed, from his mouth. Therefore, it is that Ágni is a consumer of food. For, he was born from the mouth. Indeed, it is by the mouth that food is eaten. 
2. This (Agni) was born before the gods. Therefore he is known as Agri. It is indeed Agri which they say 'Agni". Being born, he went at first ahead), That indeed is his second ahead-ness/firstness". They say (of) one who goes at first (before others) 'he goes ahead'. 
3. Of him, indeed, was Prajapati afraid, "I have created this (fire) as a food-consumer. There is no food here, except myself, which he will not eat". Then this earth was as if rendered bald. This was verily (disturbing) in his mind. Then Agni turned towards him with an open mouth. As he (Prajāpati) was frightened, his greatness departed away (from him). His own greatness was, indeed, 'speech'. It was verily speech that went out of him. He wished for an offering in his own self. He thus rubbed (his hands). Therefore this (palm) is hairless and so is this (other palm) too. There he obtained (knew/considered a ghee-offering or a milk-offering. Indeed both are milk, 
4. It was not pleasing to him. It was as though mixed with hair. He poured it away saying, "Osamdhava" "Drink it hot". From that were born the plants. Hence they are known as "Osadhayah'. He rubbed his hands a second time. Then he obtained (found) a ghee-offering or a milk-offering. Both indeed are milk. 
AR 
1 
. 
SA 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.2.4.5 
mergrtputam 
HORan 
. 
RAMA 
साहास्मै छदयां चकार स ह प्रजापतिळचिकित्सज्जुहवानी मा हौषामिति तर स्वो महिमाभ्युवाद जुहुधीति स विदां चकार स्वो वै मा महिमाह जुहुधीत्याहेति स स्वाहेत्येव जुहुवांचकार तत एवासा उदियाय योऽसौ तपति ततोऽयं प्रबभूव योऽयं पवते ततोऽग्निः शान्तः पराङ्कविवर्ते उ एव स्वाहाकारस्य बन्धुस्तस्मादप्येतर्हि स्वाहेत्येवं जुह्वति ॥ ५ ॥ 
स एव हुत्वा प्रजापतिः प्र चाजायताग्रेश्च मृत्योरत्स्यत आत्मानमत्रायतैव ह वाव प्रजायत एवमग्नेर्मृत्योरत्स्यत आत्मानं त्रायते य एवमेतद्वेद ॥ ६॥ 
तं यत्रोंदोऽभ्यादधति यथा मातुर्वोपस्थापितुर्वा संभवेदेवर हैव संभवति शरीर हैवास्य दहति तस्मादाहु नाहिताग्निः संभवतीति स यत्र हुत्वोपामृष्ट ततो विकंकतः संबभूव स वा एष वृक्षो यज्ञियो यज्ञपोत्रियोह्येतद्वेव विचिकित्साया जन्म यः प्रजापतिळ चिकित्सत्स वैसश्रेयस्यधियत यः प्रचाजायताग्नेश्च मृत्योरत्स्यत आत्मानमत्रायत श्रेयसि ह वाव ध्रियते विचिकित्सन्य एवमेतद्वेद ॥ ७ ॥ 
ते वा एते वीरा देवानामजायन्तायमग्निर्योऽयं पवते सूर्य आ ह वा अस्य वीरो जायते य एतान्वीरान्देवानां वेद ॥ ८॥ 
ते होचुरस्मा-प्रजापतिः पिताजीजनतेति हन्त वयं तज्जनयामहै यदस्मानन्वसदिति ते ह गायत्रेण तुष्टविरेऽपहिंकारेण परिवृत्य ते यत्पर्यवृण्वन्सोऽय समुद्र इयमेव पृथिव्या स्तावस्ते ह प्राञ्च उच्चक्रमुः पुनरेम इत्येदां जाताः सा हैनानुदीक्ष्य हिंचकार ते विदांचक्रुरेष 
Gar 
topA 
10. 
PRNER 
MULE 
.1. 
६. See Ncies Ex3 - 4 - 1 -2, जुड़वानी ३ in Mss. ७. See NetES CONT - 1 - 1-2 सौधा ३ in Mss. ८. पक्वतेष C., M.I.T. 
१. स्वाहेत्येव C. १०. तु या TE, VI, Ca. ११. पायो C. 
1.2.4.91 
TRANSLATION 
PILT 
5. It was pleasing to him. Prajapati then doubted, *Shall I offer?" "Shall I not offer?" His greatness addressed him, "Offer" He realized that his own greatness had indeed said, "Offer". He offered (the oblation) saying only "Svähā”. From it verily arose the yonder one (Sun) who burns. Then arose this one that blows (the wind). Thereupon Agni becoming calm turned away. This is indeed the significance of stähäkāra. Therefore, too, even now they offer the oblations only uttering "Svāhā". 
6. That Prajāpati, having thus made the offering came to be born (again) (produced progeny) and saved himself from Agni, death, who would have devoured him. Thus indeed one who knows this to be so is born and thus verily saves himself from Agni, the devouring death. 
7. Where they place him therefrom (from the fire) would he come into being just as one would be born out of the genitals of the father and of the mother. It (the fire) burns up only his body. Therefore they say, "One who has not performed Agnihotra does not come into being". Where he (Prajapati) rubbed (his hands) after making the offering, from there a rikankaia (tree) sprung forth. This is the very tree that is suitable for sacrifice and for sacrificial vessels. Indeed this is the origin of doubt. Prajapati who doubted remained steadfast in well-being. He (Prajāpati) who was born saves himself from Agni, the devouring death. He who after doubting knows this to be so is maintained verily in 'good' (welfare), 
8. These are the heroes who were born among gods: this fire, this one (wind) that blows and the Sun.Indeed to him, who knows these to be heroes among gods,a (virile) son is born. 
9. They said, Prajāpat, our father, produced us", "Hal let us produce that which will take after us". They verily praised ( with wantras) in Gayatri metre, changing it, to be without the sound 'Him". What surrounded, that was this 
. 
it 
3 
TER 
7 
8 
BLUE 
2 
. 
A 
! 
forth eastward, saying "Let us come again". They came upon a cow that had just been born. Looking at then she uttered the sound 'Him'. They realized This indeed is the sound 'Him of the Sámon (musical rendering of Rks). 
L. 
9. 
PE 
1941 
KANTA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.2.4.9 
aaaaa 
R 
HTTyuriagmayangramparpa 
Hal 
APRA 
- 
IMSELin 
Sho 
THA 
Trav 
RA 
STAB, 
म 
forgetNG Jpg 
grapra 
tori 
वाच साम्नो हिंकार इति ततो हार्वाक्सहिंकाराणि सामान्यपहिंकाराणि हैव ततः पुरी बभूवुस्तस्माद्वै गौरुपजीवनीया साम्रो हि हिंकारं बिभर्युपजीवनीयो ह वाव भवति य एत सानो हिंकारं वेद ॥ ९॥.. 
ते होचुर्भद्रं वा इदैमजीजनामहि य इमामजीजनामहीत्यन्न ह्यजनयन्त न हृतेग्वन्न मस्ति यज्ञ ह्यजनयन्त न हृते गुर्यज्ञस्तायते तद्धैतदेव यज्ञस्य नाम यदेतासां तस्माद्भद्रं पुण्यमिति परिहरेदुपनामुको हैन यज्ञों भवति बढ्योहास्यैता भवन्ति य एवं विद्वान्भद्रं पुण्यमिति परिहरति ॥ १० ॥ 
तार हाग्निरभिदध्यौ मिथुन्येनाः स्यामिति तार संबभूव तस्या रेतः प्रसिषेच तत्पयोऽग्नेहि वा एतद्रेतस्तस्मादेता आमाः सत्यः शृतं दुहते तस्मान्नानारूपाः सत्यः सदृशमेव दुहतेऽग्निसंकाशमग्नेहि रेतस्तस्मात्प्रथमदुग्धमुष्णमिव भवत्यग्निरेतसर हि ॥ ११॥ 
ते होचुर्जुहवामहा इदं प्रेदं जनयामहा इति स होवाचाग्निर्मह्यमेव प्रथमाय जुहुतेति मह्यमिति योऽयं पक्ते मह्यामिति सूर्यस्ते होचुरसंपादयन्तः प्रजापतिं पितरं प्रत्ययामेति यस्मै स आह तस्मै प्रथमाय जुहवामेति ॥ १२ ॥ . स होवाच प्रजापतिरनय एव प्रथमाय जुहुतेति स स्वर रेतोऽनुष्ठ्या प्रजनयिष्यत इति सूर्याय प्रातरित्यथ यदेव हुयमानस्य व्यनुषे तत्तवेतीममुवाच योऽयं पवते तदप्येतर्हि तथैव जुहृत्यमय एव सायर सूर्याय प्रातरथ यदेव हूयमानस्य व्यश्नुते तदेतस्य य एष पवते त एवं जुहतो देवा इमा प्रजाति प्राजायन्त येयमेषां प्रजातिरिमां जितिमजयन्येयमेषां जितिरिमा विजिति व्यजयन्ताग्निरेवेमं लोकमजयद्योऽयं पवते सोऽन्तरिक्ष दिवमेव सूर्यः 
pgaiguniya 
MOH 
m 
P कम 
2 
m 
Ded 
9 
. 
प 
. 
मन 
T 
SHARMA 
H 
Mir 
ANA 
proong HELI.POH 
ETHULE 
Anite 
Im 
१६. इमाम M.. 
१८. आई Pा. 
१३. सेऽ िTE... 
1.2.4.13 
Sri 
B5 
PRI 
Di 
! 
AR 
WAKE 
92 
ti 
they had indeed been without the sound "Him". Therefore indeed is the cowto be depended upon for living. She verily bears the sound "Him of the Saman. He who knows this (to be) the sound "Him" of the Sämans verily becomes one who is to be resorted to for living (who becomes the support of life). 
10. They said, We who have produced this thing (cow) have indeed produced an auspicious thing". They verily produced food. Indced there is no food without the cow. They indeed created the sacrifice. For indeed the sacrifice is not performed without the cow. Therefore this (cow) is verily the name of the sacrifice. This which is (the name) of these (cows). Therefore one should avoid (disrespect or harm to) it (the sacrifice, the cow), thinking, * (This is) auspicious". "(This is) meritorious." The sacrifice inclines towards (favours) him, indeed and these (cows) surely become many, for him who avoids (them) (disrespecting or harming them) thinking, “(This is) auspicious". (This is) meritorious" 
11. Verily Agnicoveted her the cow) (and thought), May I pair with her. He united with her. He deposited his semen in her. That is the milk. Indeed it (the milk) is the semen of Agni. Therefore these cows, being raw (not hot) yield 
(milk) what is cooked (warm). Therefore, being of different forms, (vet) they vield similarly (the same form of milk). It (the milk) shines like fire. Indeed it is the seed of Agni. Therefore what is first milked appears to be hot. For it is Agni's seed. 
12. They (the men) said, “Let us offer this oblation (milk), let us produce this well". He, Agni said, "Offer (oblations) to me, verily who arn the first * To me" (said) this (god) who blows (the wind). The Sun said, "Tome. Not making it up (not coming to an understanding), they said, "Let us go to our father, Prajāpati. Let us offer milk to him, the first, to whom he (Prajāpati) says (We should offer)". 
13. He, Prajāpati, verily said, "Offer (oblations/milk) only to Agni the first*. "He will employ his seed and will produce (will be reproduced)", "At dawn (offer to the Sun". "What (part) of (the oblation) that is offered, you consumer that (will be ) yours." So he (Prajāpati) told this (god) who blows (wind). They offer (the oblations/milk) even now the same way, only to Agni in the evening, 
P 
21 
d 
KÄNVA-SATAPATHABRĀHMANAM 
[I.2.4.13 
सा 
AP 
स य एवं विद्वान्जुहोत्येता हैव प्रजातिं प्रजायत एतां जितिं जयत्येतेषा सलोको भवति ॥ १३ ॥ इति चतुर्थं ब्राह्मणम् ॥ 
इति एकपात्काण्डे द्वितीयोऽध्यायः 
U 
offered he appropriates. That belongs to this one (wind) who blows. Those gods, offering (oblations) like this, came to be born in this form of birth that is theirs, they attained this victory which is theirs. They won this great victory. It was verily Agni who conquered this world; this one (wind) who blows (conquered) the mid region and the Sun (conquered) verily the sky. He who, offers (oblations), understanding this, is indeed born in this very form of birth (as of the three gods), wins this victory (as of the three gods) and becomes one (residing) in the same world (as the three gods). 
(Fourth Brāhmana Ends) 
(Chapter Two ends) 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.3.1.1 
तृतीयोऽध्यायः 
সত্ম ক্লাহ্ सूर्यो ह वा अग्निहोत्र' स यदेतस्या आहुतेरग्र उदैत्तस्माद्ध सूर्य एवाग्निहोत्रं तद्यदस्त मिते जुह्वति य इदं तस्मिन्निह सति जुहवामेत्यथ यत्पुरोदेतोर्जुह्वति प्रातर्य इदं तस्मिन्निह सति जुहवामेति स वा एषोऽस्तं यन्नग्निमेव योनिं गर्भो भूत्वा प्रविशति तं गर्भ भवन्तमिमाः सर्वाः प्रजा अनु गर्भो भवन्तीळिता इव हि शेरतेऽसंजानाना अथ यद्रात्रिस्तिर एव तत्कुरुते तिर इव हि गर्भः॥१॥ 
स यत्साय जुहोति गर्भमेवैनं तत्सन्तमभिकरोति गर्भा सन्तमभिजुहोति तस्मादन श्रन्तो गर्भा जीवन्त्यथ यत्प्रातर्जुहोति प्रैवैनं तज्जनयति स एष तेजो भूत्वा विभ्रांशमान उदयते शश्वद्ध नोदियाद्यदस्मिन्नेतामाहुतिं न जुहुयुः स. यथाहिस्त्वचो निर्मुच्येतैव रात्रेः सर्वस्मात्पाप्मनो निर्मुच्योदयते यथा ह वा अहिस्त्वचो निर्मुच्येतैव सर्वस्मात्पाप्मनो निर्मुच्यते य एवमेतद्वेद तं जायमानमिमाः सर्वाः प्रजा अनु प्रजायन्ते विसृज्यन्ते हि 
यथार्थान् ॥ २॥ 
तदाहुः पुरास्तमेतोरुद्धरेदित्येते वाव रश्मयो विश्वेदेवा अथ यत्परं भाति प्रजापतिवैव स इन्द्रो वा ते हैतेऽस्तं यन्तोऽग्निहोत्रमेव जुह्वतो गृहानभ्यागच्छन्ति तेऽस्याहवनीयमेव प्रविशन्ति स यथा श्रेयसेऽभ्यागमिष्यत आवसथमुपकल्पयेदेवमेतत्ते यस्योद्धृतमा गच्छन्ति तस्य प्रविशन्त्यथ यस्यानुद्धृतमप ह तस्मात्प्रयन्ति तस्मै वै व्य॒ध्यते यस्माद्देवा 
im 
V HEE + 
Lin 
PD 
OYALDATE AM. 
। 
T 
TATE 
A 
ALLL 
२. जुहोलि TE. ३. विमलाश M. ४ यार्थानाम् Ca. and. all Mss except V] ५. सम्पादन ६. मागच्च TE, . ॐ. ब्युश्यले TE.K. 
ade 
1.3.1.3) 
TRANSLATION 
Chapter Three 
BRAHMANAT 1. The Sun is indeed Agnihotra. It is because he rose ahead of this offering that the Sun is himself Agrihotra (= Agnihotra). That they offer (oblation) after sunset, thinking, "Let us offer while he (the Sun) is here " and that they offer before sunrise in the morning, thinking, "Let us offer while he is here" (is because of this?) He (this Sun), as he sets, verily enters Agni, the source (genetals) becoming an embryo. Following him who becomes an embryo all these creatures became embryos. Indeed they lie down as if coaxed and un aware (of anything). That the night verily covers (conceals) that is because the embryo is, as it were, indeed covered. 
2. That he, (the sacrificer) offers (oblation) in the evening, he does it for the sake of this (Sun) who is an embryo (in the womb); he offers it for the sake of what is an embryo. Therefore, the embryos here live (survive) without eating food. What he offers in the morning, that produces (regenerates) this (Sun) well. He(the Sun) becoming a light, rises shining brilliantly. If they do not offer this oblation, surely he would not rise. Just as a snake is freed from its slough, in the same manner does he (the Sun)rise freeing himself from all evil of the night. He who knows this to be so, will be freed from all evil. All creatures are born after him (the Sun) who is born; they are set free indeed according to their purposes. 
3. About this, they say, "One should take out the (Ahavaniya from Gärhapata) before the setting of the Sun). These rays are verily all the gods. What shines afterwards (high up)-that indeed is Prajāpati or Indra. All those gods, setting (disappearing) come only to the residence of the person who performs Agnihotra. They enter verily his Ahavaniya. This is just as one would prepare a residing place, for his (own) welfare, for a (revered) guest who is to arrive. They enter his (residence) whose (Ahavaniya) has been taken out. They go away from him whose (Ahavaniya) has not been taken out. From whom the Gods go away, 
C
KANVASATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.3.2.4-- 
- 
AN 
NVAR 
LAUN 
muna 
- 
त 
NR 
H 
TTA 
10 
th 
* 
MYA 
IA 
- 
. 
. 
HA 
. 
. 
. 
पू 
ते होचुः कस्य न इदं भविष्यतीति ते ह मम ममेति न संपादयांचक्रुस्ते होचुरसंपाद यन्तो हन्तास्मिन्नाजिमजामहा इति स य उज्जेष्यति तस्य न इदं भविष्यतीति तथेति तस्मि 
नाजिमाजन्त ॥४॥ 
तद्धेन्द्राग्नी उजिग्यतुस्तस्मादेतदैन्द्राग्नं यदाग्रयणमिन्द्राग्नी ह्यस्य भागधेयमुदजयतां तस्मादेष ऐन्द्रानो द्वादशकपालः पुरोळाशो भवति ॥ ५॥ 
तौ ह यत्रेन्द्राग्नी उजिगिवा सौ तस्थतुस्तद्ध विश्वेदेवा अन्वाजग्मुः क्षत्रं वा इन्द्राग्नी विशो विश्वेदेवा यत्र वै क्षत्रमुज्जयत्यन्वाभक्ता वै तत्र विट् तदेतद्विश्वान्देवानन्वाभजन्स एष वैश्वदेवश्चरुर्भवति ॥ ६ ॥ - स पुराणाना स्यात्क्षत्रं वा इन्द्राग्नी विशो विश्वेदेवा नेत्क्षत्रं विशाभ्यारोहयाणीत्यथो अपि नवानामेव स्याद्यद्वा इतरः पुरोळाशश्चरुरितरस्तेनैवानभ्यारूळ्हं तस्मादपि नवानामेव स्थात् ॥ ७॥ 
त उ होचुर्विश्वेदेवा अनुयोर्वा अयं द्यावापृथिव्यो रस ऐवे# अस्मिन्भजामेति तथेति तत आभ्यामेतं भागमकल्पयन्स एष द्यावापृथिव्य एककपालः स यदेककपालो 
भवतीयं वै पृथिवी कपाल सेयमेकेवैव तस्मादेककपालो भवति ॥ ८ ॥ । तदाहु ककपालः स्यादस्मिन्परिचक्षेतीदं नु यस्यै कस्यै च देवतायै हविगृह्णन्ति 
सर्वत्रैव स्विष्टकृदन्वाभक्तः सर्वमेत जुह्वति सा न्वेव परिचक्षार्थों पर्याभवति ॥ ९॥ __ तदाहुः पर्याभूद्वा अयं मोहिष्यतीदर राष्ट्रमिति नास्य सा परिचक्षाहवनीयो वा आहुतीनां प्रतिष्ठा स यदाहवनीयं प्राप्यापि दशकृत्वः पुनः पुनः पर्यावर्तेत कस्तेना र्थोऽन्यस्तु यदाह किं तत्संधर्युपेयात्तस्माद्वाज्यस्यैव यजेदेष वै प्रत्यक्षं द्यावापृथिव्यो रसो यदाज्यं तत्प्रत्यक्षमेवैने एतेन रसेन मेधेन प्रीणाति ॥ १० ॥ 
-- 
premem 
फ 
TAMP 
R 
+ 
___ 
ww 
__ Ani 
-TO 
pawanSBE 
T 
eries 
de 
POS 
T 
PRAT 
AHAR 
. 
. 
L 
See Notes ६६. रस हवेमे Ca, VI, P1, (रस:-आ-श्व-इमे), 
७, कमाल TE. 
. 
. 
९. किन्च 
न्त 
M. SEE Notes. 
TRANSLATION 
12 
1 
. 
och 
claiming). "To me", "To me ". Not agreeing, they said. "Let us run a race. Whoever wins, to him shall this be". Saying "Sobe it", they ran the race. 
5. Indra and Agni won it. Therefore this Agravana (first offering) is dedicated to Indra and Agni (together). Indeed, Indra and Agni won the share of it. Therefore there is (offered), in these (rituals) a sacrificial offering (purodāša) on twelve potsherds. 
6. Where those two, (Indra and Agni), remained victorious, there all the gods followed. For, Indra and Agni are Kşaira (warriors) and the "All-gods are the Vits (the common subjects). Where the Kşatra conquers, there the Vis is given a subsequent share. Hence they gave this subsequent share to the Višvedevas. That is this oblation (of boiled rice or barley) to Visvedevas. 
7. It (the offering to Viśvedevas) should be (made) of old (grains). For Indra and Agni are Ksatra and the 'All-gods' are Vis(the common subjects), (old grains should be used for preparing the offering to Visvedevas) Iest he (sacrificer) should think, "I shall elevate the Vis with Kşatra "(i.e. elevate the Vis to the level cfKsatra). Nevertheless, it should be only (made) of new (grains). Or, even by the fact that one is Purodāsa (a cake) and the other carn (a pap), (the Ksatra) is not mounted (by the Vis). Therefore, 100, it should be only of new (grains). 
8. They, the Viśvedevas, said, "This is indeed the essence of these two, heaven and earth. Let us take them in (for a share) in this". "Yes". Then they assigned this share to them. This offering) on one potsherd is dedicated to Heaven and Earth (together). That it is (offered on) one potsherd is because this earth is a bowl (vessel) and it is only one indeed. Therefore is the offering to beaven and carth) on one potsherd. 
9. About this they (some) say, "It should not be one of one potsherd. There is a flaw (censure) in it". It is this, when they take out sacrificial food for any deity, in all places (Agni) Sviştakrt is given a share. (But, here they offer the entire thing (to heaven and earth). That is indeed the flaw and morcover it (the offering) turns round. 
10. "Therefore, they say, "This offering) has verily turned round. This kingdom will fall into confusion", "That is not a flaw of this (Sacrificer). Indeed the Aharaniya is the firm basis of oblations. If it (the offering), after reaching the Ahavaniya should turn, again and again, ten times, what of it?* Then wone-body else says, "What will one have in that combination. Therefore one should offer only ghee. Indeed this ghee is the visible essence of Heaven and Earth. Therefore he verily pleases these two, directly with this sap offering. 
round. 
HAR 
41 
TAR 
HT1 
DALI KINA.SATAPITHA 
KAHN-31A 
Ener 
[L.3.2.11 
__ त एतेनेष्ट्वा देवा आसामोषधीनां कृत्यां त्वद्विषं त्वंदपाघ्नस्तत आलिशन्त पशव आश्नन्मनुष्या अथ यदेष एतेन यजते नाहैवैतस्य कृत्ययेव त्वद्विषेणेव त्वदोषधयः प्रलिप्ता भवन्तीति देवा अकुर्वन्निति त्वेवैष एतत्करोति यमु चैव देवा यज्ञे भागमकल्पय स्तमु चैवैभ्य एष एतत्करोतीमा उ चैवैतदुभयो रोषधीरनमीवा अकिल्बिषाः कुरुते ता अनमीवा अकिल्बिषा उपजीवन्ति तस्य प्रथमजो गौर्दक्षिणाय्यमिव हीदमित्येतत्तस्य कर्म य ईजानो वा स्याद्दर्शपूर्णमासाभ्यां वा यजेताथ योऽनीजानोऽन्वाहार्यपचन एवौदनं चातुप्राश्यं पचेत्तं ब्राह्मणेभ्य उपनिदध्यात् ॥ ११ ॥ ___ द्वया वै देवा देवा अहैवान्यद्देवा अथेमे मनुष्यदेवा य इमे ब्राह्मणाः शुश्रुवासोऽनूचा नास्तदेवास्य यथा हुतमेवं भवति तत्र यच्छन्नुयात्तद्दद्यादग्निहोत्र उ हैके जुह्वति तदु तथा न कुर्यात्समद ह स करोत्यन्यद्ध्येवाग्रयणमन्यदग्निहोत्रम् ॥ १२ ॥ इति द्वितीयं 
MAHAR 
ब्राह्मणम्॥ 
MaKHAL 
PAL 
11 
१ 
तृतीयं ब्राह्मणम् प्रजापति ह वै भूतान्युपसेदुः प्रजा वै भूतानि विधेहि नो यथा जीवामेति तं देवा यज्ञोपवीतिनो दक्षिणं जान्वाच्योपसेदुस्तान्होवाच यज्ञो वोऽन्नमित्यूर्योऽमृतं वः सूर्यो वो 
ज्योतिरिति ॥ १ ॥ 
अथ हैन पितरः प्राचीनावीतिनः सव्यं जान्वाच्योपसेदुस्तान्होवाच मास मासि कोऽन्नमिति स्वधा वो मनोजबो वश्चन्द्रमा वो ज्योतिरिति ॥ २ ॥ __ अथ हैन मनुष्याः प्रावृता एवोपस्थं कृत्वोपसेदुस्तान्होवाच सायंप्रातर्वोऽन्नमिति प्रजा वो मृत्युर्वोऽग्निो ज्योतिरिति ॥ ३ ॥ 
- 
THHAP 
HOMEMA 
MPER 
40 
JMER LE 
ALT 
ORE 
का 
.) NEnabn. 
7 
१०. ता . ११. दुभीगे P1,H. १२. मन्यदपि TE. 
SARE 
PAL 
11. Performing sacrifice with this, those guxis removed the magic and poison of these plants. Then the animals (cattle) went out (to graze) and men ate. That one performs that sacrifice (with this offering), is verily for the reason that his plants here should not become smeared with magic and with poison at all and that the gods did so (performed this offering), and whatever share the gods assigned in the sacrifice (to themselves), that very thing he prepares for them. He renders these plants of both men and animals) free from disease and free from fault (evil). (These creatures) subsist on those diseaseless and faultless (plants). His (the priest's) sacrificial fee is first-born calf. This is indeed the foremost (best) as it were. This is the ritual of that person who performs a sacrifice or performs the New Moon and Full Moon offerings. But one who does not perform a sacrifice should cook rice-food on Antiharapacata (the southern fire on which subsequent offerings are cooked), enough for four persons to eat and place it before thebrährins(prests). 
12. Indeed, there are two kinds of gods. The very gods are of a separate kind of gods. Then there are these hurnan gods viz.,the Brahminswho have studied the Vedas and teach them. That (feeding of the four priests) verily is like the offering (made in Agni). He should give (as fee) in that (ritual) as much as he can afford. Some offer in Agnihotra (milk from new cow). One should do so at all. For, thereby he makes it conflicting (between two deities of the two offerings). Indeed, different is Agravana (the offering of first produce) and different is Agnihotra. 
(Second Brāhunana Ends) 
2 
19 
1 
BRÄHMAN 
4. 
45 
TO 
ty 
1. The living beings approached Prajăpati. The bcings are indeed creatures. (They said), “Please ordain to us as to how we unay live". Then the gods approached him, wearing the sacirificial thread in the normal way) and bending the right knee. (He) told them, "The sacrifice is versly your food, immortality (nectar) your strength and the Sun' your light*. 
2. "Thereafter the manes approached him, with the sacred thread on the right shoulder and under the left arm and bending the left kazee. Hetold them, *Your food (will be) (once) every month, Sradha (will be your carrier) with the speed of your mind and the moon your lighi." . 
3. Then the human beings approached him covered (with dress) and bending their bodies. He told them, "Your food will be) in the evening and in the morning, progeny your death and fire your light." 
KÄNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
1.3.3.1 
अथ हैन पशव उपसेदुस्तेभ्यो ह स्व एवं चकार यदि यूयं काले यद्यकाले लभाईं तोवाश्नाथेति तस्मात्पशवो यदि काले यद्यकाले लभन्ते तद्देवाश्नन्ति स्व एषो ह्येभ्यः कृतः ॥ ४ ॥ 
अथ हैन शश्वदप्यसुरा उपसेदुस्तेभ्यो ह तमश्च मायां च प्रददावस्ति ह्येवासुरमायेतीव पराभूतास्त्वेव ताः प्रजास्ता इमाः प्रजास्तथोपजीवन्ति यथाभ्यः प्रजापतिळदधात् ॥ ५॥ 
तन्न देवा अतिक्रामन्ति न पितरो न पशवो मनुष्या एवातिक्रामन्ति तस्मान्मनुष्याणां यो मेद्यत्यशुभे मेधति वि हि हुर्छति नययनाय चन भवत्यनृत हि कृत्वा मेद्यति तस्मादु सायंप्रातराश्येव स्यात्स य एवं विद्वान्त्सायंप्रातराशी भवति सर्व हैवायुरेति यदु ह किं च वाचा वदति तथा हैव तद्भवति देवसत्य हि गोपायति ॥६॥ 
तद्वैतत्तेजो नाम ब्राह्मणं योऽस्य शक्नोति व्रतं चरितुः स मासि मासि पितृभ्यो ददद्यदहरेष पुरस्ताच्चन्द्रमा नोदेति तदहर्ददात्येष वै सोमो राजा देवानामन्नं यच्चन्द्रमाः स एतारात्रि क्षीयते तत्क्षीणे देवानामन्ने पितृभ्यो ददाति तथैभ्योऽसमदं करोति ॥ ७ ॥ 
सोऽपराह्ने ददाति पूर्वाह्नो वैदेवानां मध्यन्दिनो मनुष्याणामपराह्नः पितॄणां तस्मादपराह्ने ददाति ॥ ८॥ 
अर्थ खलु प्राचीनाववीती भूत्वा जघनेन गार्हपत्यं दक्षिणासीनः सव्यं जान्वाच्य तूष्णीमेवैतं चरुं गृह्णाति स तत एवोपोत्थायोत्तरेणान्वाहार्यपचनं दक्षिणा तिष्ठन्नवहन्ति स सकृदेव फलीकरोति सकृद्धयेव पराञ्चः पितरः स यदेतां दिशः सचन्त एषा हि पितॄणां दिक् श्रपयित्वैत चरुमधिश्रित आज्यं प्रत्यानयत्यग्नौ वै देवेभ्यो जुह्वत्युद्धृत्य मनुष्येभ्य उपनिदधत्यथैवं पितॄणां तस्मादधिश्रित आज्यं प्रत्यानयति ॥ ९ ॥ 
जी 
. 
P 
Homen 
AN 
mons 
- 
- 
MS.RE 
Tara 
- 
१३. स्वैवं चकार L.. १४. See Nexte:s. १५, भवत्यनृ Ca. १६. राआराजा देव TE. १७. अश्व अत्याचा TE. १८. खैन P1,2. 
TRANSITION 
NE ALA 
F 
C ! 1 BEL 
FIL 
WE91 HE 
1 
17 
o 
LA 
o 
4. Then the beasts approached him. To them he granted their wish (saying "Whenever you get (any food) in time or untimely,then verily may you cat". Therefore whenever they get (any food) in proper time or out of time, then indeed do they eat. For, it was their wish that had been granted. 
5. And then the Asuras,too, approached him again and again. To them he gave darkness and illusion. There is certainly what is called Asuramávi (demoni illusion). Those creatures have really perished. These creatures so subsist as Prajāpati has ordained for them. 
6. That (the decree of Prajāpati) the gods do not transgress, nor do the manes, nor the animals. Only men violate (it). Therefore whoever, among men, grows fat, he grows fat in unrighteousness; he indeed cheats. He cannot more about. For he grows fat, doing Falsehood. Therefore one should eat only in the evening and morning, He who knowing this cats (only) in the evening and morning, attains full (span of) life; whatever he speaks it verily becomes so (true). For he keeps the truth of gods.. 
7. This is indeed Brahmanic lustre. He who can keep his (Prajapati's) rule, offers (food) to the manes every month. He gives it on that day when the mom does not rise in the east (i.e. on the New Moon day. This moon is indeed King Soma, the food of the gods. This night (of the New Moon day) he decknes. When that food of gods is exhausted, he (the sacrificer) offen (food) to the manes. Thus he brings about absence of discord between them (gods and 
milanes 
8. He gives (food to the manes ) in the afternoon. For the forenoon is of the gods and mid-day of men and the afternoon of the manes. Therefore does he give in the afternoon. 
9. Then, wearing the sacred thread over his right shoulder and under his left arm, being seated behind the Gerhaparra and facing south, bending his left knee, he silently takes out the maru (vexcl with paddy for preparing the offering). Then getting up and standing to the north of Delson GR over which subsequent offerings are cooked and facing south he pounds it (the paddy for caru). Only once does he winnow it (to remove the chaft). For, once caly (Orice for all) the fathers have passed away. That he takes to the southern quarter (is because) this is the quarter of the manes. Putting the aru on line, he adds tee when it is cooked. Verily they offer to the gods into Agni; for men they take it off (the fire) and place it down. And for the inancı the paire) (it is) this time way (as for men). Therefore he adds gher after cooking it (while it is still on the fire). 
U 
? 
. 
9Y 
ei. 
KANVA SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.3.3.10 
-ma 
4LR Rang 
-.. 
A 
Pune 
। 
... 
PRANAYA 
म 
" 
. 
म 
. 
HEALTH 
7. 
FarmerryFOTT 
. 
उद्वास्याग्नौ द्वे आहुती जुहोति देवान्वा एष उपावर्तते य आहिताग्निर्दर्शपूर्णमासाभ्यां यजतेऽथेदं पितृभ्यो दास्यन्भवति स यानेव देवानुपावृत्तो भवति तेभ्य एवैतन्निद्भुत स देवैरतिसृष्टः पितृभ्यो ददाति स वा अमये चैव सोमाय च जुहोति स यदनये जुहोति सर्वत्र ह्येवाग्निरन्वाभक्तोऽथ यत्सोमाय पितृदेवत्यो हि सोमः ॥ १० ॥ 
स जुहोत्यग्नये कव्यवाहनाय स्वाहा सोमाय पितृमते स्वाहेत्यभ्याधाय मेक्षणं जघनेना न्वाहार्यपचन सकृदेव स्फ्येनोल्लिखति तद्वेदिभाजन सकृदुल्लिखति सकृद्धयेव पराञ्चः पितरः ॥ ११ ॥ 
अथोल्मुकं दक्षिणतो निदधाति यद्ध वा अनिधायोल्मुकं पितृभ्यो ददत्यसुररक्षसानि हैषां तद्विमनते स यदुल्मुकं निदधात्यसुररक्षसानामेवापहतये ॥ १२ ॥ 
स निदधाति ये रूपाणि प्रतिमुञ्चमाना असुराः सन्तः स्वधया चरन्ति परापुरो निपुरो ये भरन्त्यग्निष्टॉल्लोकात्प्रणुदात्यस्मादिति ॥ १३ ॥ 
अावनेजयत्यसाववनेनिक्ष्वेति यजमानस्य पितरमसाववनेनिश्वेति यजमानस्य पितामहमसाववनेनिक्ष्वेति यजमानस्य प्रपितामहं यथाशिष्यतोऽवनेजयेदेवमेतदथोप मूले दितानि सकृदाच्छिन्नानि भवन्त्यप्रमिव वै देवानां मध्यमिव मनुष्याणां मूलमिव पितॄणां तस्मादुपमूले दितानि भवन्ति सकृदाच्छिन्नानि भवन्ति सकृद्धयेव पराञ्चः पितरः ॥ १४ ॥ 
तानि दक्षिणास्ती| तेषु ददाति स इति ददातीति वै देवेभ्यो जुह्वतीति मनुष्येभ्य उद्धरन्त्यथैवं पितॄणां तस्मादिति ददाति ॥ १५ ॥ 
स ददात्यसावेतत्त इति यजमानस्य पित्रे ये च त्वामन्वञ्च इति वा हैक आहुर्याश्च त्वमन्वङ्सीति का तदु तथा न ब्रूयात्स्वयःह्येव तेषा' सह येषार सहासावेतृत्त इत्येव 
onaemia 
MOPPPM 
HAR 
NAARIMAnainamusmuta 
m 
A 
.- 
-"owapi 
WHTRA 
R 
_ 
: 
e 
HI. 
क 
- 
P 
PARATRA 
PERMER 
ददाति 
१ 
भ 
. 
SHEEM 
PRERNA 
m 
.. 
म 
Sugar 
me 
A 
- 
- 
१९. एवैतं निहते TE, My, Ca, Po. 
1 
HEAART 
२६. स्यामा २२. रूम Ca. 
1.3.3.16 
TRANSLATION 
10. After removing it (from the fire) he offers two offerings in the fire. For this Ahitäguni (one who has set up his fires) who makes the New Moon and the Full moon offerings returns to the gods. Then he has to offer this to the manes. He keeps this away from those gods to whom he has returned. Being pernited by the gods, he gives (the offering) to the manes. He offers to Agni and to Soma. He offers to Agni for Agni has a share in everything foffeing). And ihen (He offers) to Soma for Soma is the deity of the manes. 
11. He offers, chanting, "To Agni the conveyer of oblation to the departed ancestors, Sváha". "To Soma associated with the prites (manes), Svana". Placing the lid of the vessel down, he makes a furrow with the wooden sword behind the fire (West of the fire) only once. That is a representation of the altar. He makes a furrow once. For the fathers have passed away once only. 
12. Then he places a fire-brand at the south. For when they offer (food) to the manes without placing the fire brand. Asuras and Raksasas indeed disturb that (food) of these (manes). That he places the firebrand is for driving away the Asuras and Räkşasas. 
13. He places (the fire brand) (chanting), “The Asuras who, assuming (many) forms move about at their will and who bear huge bodies or small bodies-nay Agni drive them away from this world". 
14. Then he causes the deceased) father of the sacrificer to wash his hands saying, "(Uttering the name of the father) (in the vocative)-wash (your hands)", the (deceased) grandfather of the sacrificer, "(Uitering the name of the grandfather in the vocative) wash (your hands)", and the (deceased) great grandfather of the sacrificer "(Uttering his name in the vocative) wash (your hands)". This is just as one would make those who are about to eat, wash (thcir hands) . They (the stalks of sacred grass) are cut near the root, cut once (only) (at one stroke). Indeed the top (top portion of the sacred grass) belongs to the gods, the middle to the men and the bottom to the mancs. Therefore they are cut near the root. They are cut (only) once; for, the fathers have passed away (only) once. 
15. Spreading them (their tops pointing) southward, he gives (food to the pitrs) on them. He gives thus because they offer (oblation) to the gods (in fire). For men, they take it out (and serve) and for pity (they give) thus (on sacred grass). Therefore he gives thus. 
16. He presents the food) to the father of the sacrificer, saying, "(Name of the father in vocative), this is for you". Some say (in addition), “And those who come following you", and "Those after whom you come".One should not say it $o. For, he himself is with them with whom he is. So he should present the food) 
PM 
Vio 
LL 
#61. 
KÄNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[1.3.3.16. 
A 
प 
पर 
24 
न 
T 
यजमानस्य पित्रेऽसावेत्त इति यजमानस्य पितामहावासावेतत्त इति यजमानस्य प्रपिताम हायेतः पराङ्ददाति सकृद्धयेव पराञ्चः पितरः ॥ १६॥ 
अथाहात्र पितरो मादयध्वं यथाभागमावृषायध्वमित्यत्र पितरो यथाभागमश्नीतेत्येवै तदाहाथ पराङ् पर्यावर्तते तिर इव वै पितरस्तिर इवैतद्भवति ॥ १७ ॥ 
तदाहुरा तमितोरासीत तावान्ह्यसुरिति तदु मुहूर्तमेवासित्वोपपर्यावर्तेताथाहामीमदन्त पितरो यथाभागमावृषायिषतेल्याशिषुः पितरो यथाभागमित्येवैतदाह ॥ १८ ॥ 
अथावनेजयत्यसाववनेनिक्ष्वेति यजमानस्य पितरमसाववनेनिक्ष्वेति यजमानस्य पितामहमसाववनेनिश्वेति यजमानस्य प्रपितामहं यथो जक्षुषोऽवनेजयेदेवमे 
तत् ॥ १९ ॥ 
अथ नीविमुद्रुह्य नमस्करोति पितृदेवत्या वै नीविर्यज्ञ उ वै नमो यज्ञियानेवैतत्पितॄन्क रोति षट्कृत्वो नमस्करोति षड्वा ऋतव ऋतवो वै पितर ऋतुष्वेवैतद्यज्ञं प्रतिष्ठापयति गृहान्नः पितरो दत्तेत्याहैषो हैतस्याशीः कर्मणो गृहाणामु ह वै पितर ईशते तस्मादाह गृहान्नः पितरो दत्तेत्यथोखामवजिप्रति स यजमानभागः पुनः पिण्डान्समवदधत्यग्नौ सकृदाच्छि 
नान्यभ्यादधति पुनरुल्मुकमप्यर्जति ॥ २० ॥ इति तृतीयं ब्राह्मणम् ॥ 
ipm 
a rrinymyTET 
JAPAN 
AFTE 
M 
HALA 
PLE 
HOL 
HT 
२५NSAR 
। 
" 
Amar 
EDIA 
चतुर्थं ब्राह्मणम् प्रजापतिर्ह वा एतेन यज्ञेनेजे प्रजाकामो बहुः प्रजया पशुभिः स्यां प्रजायेय श्रियं । 
P 
- 
- 
जायणयज 
- 
इत्याख्यायत उत हैके वसिष्ठयज्ञ इत्याचक्षते स उ वा एकेन नाम्ना वसिष्ठस्तमेव 
- 
R 
PROF 
. 
. 
THER 
CHER . 
'A 
. 
म 
TY 
VOF 
pen 
AC 
22 
VAYA 
PWY 
& 
to the sacrificer's grandfather saying, (name in the vocative) This is for you" and to the sacrificer's great grandfather saying, "(name in the vocative), This is for you ". Thus he presents (the food in a sequence) (moving) away from the present. For the fathers have passed away only once. 
17. Then he says, "Oh! fathers! regale yourselves here. Act like bulls, according to your share". In that he says (means), Oh! fathers, eat each one his share". Then he turns away (his face in the opposite direction, away from the food offered). For, the fathers are hidden (from view). This (offering, becomes, 
RES 
' 72 
mu 
y 
1 
2 
BV 
ett 
tarde 
fon 
I 
18. They (some) say with regard to that, “He should remain (xo turning away, holding his breath) till fainting. For, thus far is his vital strength*. But then, he 
S7 
. 
A 
. 
to 
52 
24 
117 
ILLE 
7 
PLL 
SA 
their share". 
19. Then he makes the father of the sacrificer wash (his hands i saying, "(name in the vocative), Wash (your hands)", the grandfather of the sacrificer saying, "(name in vocative), Wash (your hands)", and the sacrificer's great grandfather saying "(name in the vocative Wash your hands) * This is just as one would make those who have caten wash (their hands). 
20. Then, loosening the tuck (of his garment) at the navet, he progratet (än obeisance). For, the tuck at the navel is sacred to the war. Indeed, obcisance is sacrifice. (By this) he makes these fathers worthy of worship sacrifice). He 
y 
. 
TSR 
Bi 
tte 12 
* 
W 
DO 
2 
. 
W 
por 
isance sex me 
1:22 
WER 
25 
- 
W 
. 
IN 
seasons. He estabáshes this sacrifice in the very seamns. He sayx 0 fathers! give us homes". This is indeed the blessing (he seeks) of thk (real). The 
PLSOS 
X 
- 
Uit 6 
2 
PE 
" 
Y 
They again put the rice-balk togethe they put into the fire. He moves the fire brand, 100, back to the fire). 
. (Third BrähmanEnds) 
BRAHMANA IV 
LH 
-. 
AL 
7:7 
1 Ky 
SO 
H2 
Ba
KÄNVA-SATAPATHAKRĀHIMANAM 
FI.3.1.3 
નાનું કામ 
Ma 
FAN 
PARU 
44 
१ 
न 
K 
अप प्रयन्ति तामनु व्यद्धिं यश्चैतद्वेद यश्च नानुद्धृतमस्याभ्यस्तमगादिति सर्व एव निन्दति ॥ ३॥ 
स यत्सायं जुहोत्यग्नावेवैभ्यस्तत्प्रविष्टेभ्यो जुहोत्यथ यत्प्रातर्जुहोत्यप्रेतेभ्य एवैभ्यस्त ज्जुहोति तस्माद्वयं मन्यामह उदितहोमिनो व्यवच्छिन्नमग्निहोत्रमिति होवाचासुरिर्यथा शून्य मावसथमाहरेदेवमेतदिति ॥ ४ ॥ 
द्वयमु वा इदं न तृतीयमस्ति मूलि चैवामूलं च तदुभयं देवाना सन्मनुष्या उपजीवन्ति मूलिन्य इमा ओषधयोऽमूलाः पशवस्त इमेऽमूलाः पशवो मूलिनीरोषधीज॑ग्ध्वापः पीत्वा तस्यैष उभयस्य रसः संभवति ॥ ५ ॥ __स यत्सायं जुहोत्यस्य रसस्य जीवनस्य देवेभ्यो जुहवामेति यदेषामिद सदुपजीवाम इति स यत्ततो रात्र्यानाति हुतोच्छिष्टमेव तन्निरवत्तबल्यश्नाति हुतोच्छिष्टस्योह्यशिताग्निहोत्रं जुहृदय यत्प्रातर्जुहोत्यस्य रसस्थ जीवनस्य देवेभ्यो जुहवामेति यदेषामिद सदुपजीवाम इति स यत्ततोऽहाश्नाति हुतोच्छिष्टमेव तन्निरवत्तबल्यश्नाति हुतोच्छिष्टस्योएशिताग्निहोत्रं जुह्वदथ यत्रातर्जुहोत्यस्य रसस्य जीवनस्य देवेभ्यो जुहवामेति यदेषामिद सदुपजीवाम इति स यत्ततोऽहानाति हुतोच्छिष्टमेव तन्निरवत्तबल्यश्नाति हुतोच्छिष्टस्योह्यशिताग्निहोत्रं जुहत् ॥ ६॥ 
तद्वै समेवान्ये यज्ञास्तिष्ठन्तेऽग्निहोत्रमेव न संतिष्ठतेऽपि वै द्वादशसंवत्सरमन्तवदेवाथै तत्सायर हुत्वा वेद होष्याम्यैव प्रातरिति प्रातर्तुत्वा वेद होष्याम्येव सायमित्येतस्यानुपस्थि तिमन्चनुपस्थिता इमाः प्रजाः प्र॒जायन्तेऽनुपस्थितो ह वै श्रिया प्रजया प्रजायते य 
- 
Prammar 
. 
H-1 
k 
AR 
SO 
maiya Newinder 
NAMOROTR न 
pa 
paw 
H Paypamaatime 
HERE 
P 
AN 
pra 
A 
S 
। 
तदाहुदोदन्तमिव स्यादथ जुहुयात्तर्हि ह्येतच्छृतं भवतीति तदु तथा न कुर्यादुपहैनत्स दहेद्यस्तथा कुर्यादप्रजनिष्णु वै रेत उपदग्धं तस्मादधिश्रित्यैव जुहुयादग्नेरु वा एतद्रेतस्तेनो 
H 
Home 
Evarta 
ARE 
OPANTARPETER:008 
1.3.1.8) 
TRANSLATION 
5 
A 
435 
42 
A 
SA 
H 
. 
ZUC9 
12 
to him occurs ruin (adversity /decline). Following that decline, every one censures that non-taking out of the Alavaniya) of one who knows this and who does not, has gone towards (caused) the setting of the Sun). 
4. "What he offers in the evening into Agni, he offers verily to these (gods) who have entered into it. And what he offers in the morning, he verily offers it to these (gods) who have not yet departed. Therefore, we think that the Agnihotra of one who offers (oblation) after sunrise is broken (cut off)-so said Asuri, “Just as one might take (food) to an empty house". 
5. This world of food) is twofold- there is no third (variety)-yiz., what has root and what is rootless. Men live by resorting to both which belong to the gods. These plants have roots. These animals (cattle) have no roots. These rootless animals eat the rooted plants and drink water; (therefrom) then arises this juice of both (milk), 
6. He offers (oblation) in the evening thinking, "Let us offer to the gods this life-giving juice and let us live upon this (good thing) that belongs to those (gods)". What he eats, there, from that night, he eats verify the left over from what has been offered and portions of which have been distributed (to beings). The person who performs Agrihotra is indeed the cater of the left over from what has been offered to the gods). And he offers in the morning thinking, "Let us offer to the gods this juice that gives life and let us subsist on this that belongs to these (gods)". What he then eats during day time from that, he eats verily the left over from what has been offered and portions of which have been distributed (to beings). For the performer of Agnihotra is indeed the cater of the left over from what has been offered to the gods). 
7. It is sure that other sacrifices come to an end; only Agriotra does not come to an end. Even the twelve-year thing (ritual) (sacrifice) has an end. But he (the sacrificer) performing Agnihotra having offered (oblation in Agnihotra) in the evening knows (thinks).“I am surely going to offer in the morning", Having offered in the morning he knows "I am surely going to offer in the evening". Following this endlessness, these creatures are born endlessly. He who knows this to be so is born endlessly with prosperity and progeny. Milking that (milk) he (the sacrificer) heats it on the fire. For cooked fod (is meant) for gods. 
8. About this they say, "When it rises to the brim (on boiling), then one may offer it. Then it becomes cooked, indeed". One need not do it so. For this will scorch him,who may do so. Verily the seed that is burnt becomes incapable of 
Warming 
IR 
GA 
1203 
RE 
i 
. 
T 
TER 
P 
RO 
Bit LA 
' 
R 
: 
w 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I... 18 
amayanandnepPramaya 
T 
imegranamg-panjagrity 
। 
Par 
त 
Re 
यात 
Monal 
THRSapmomum 
SE 
24 
त 
वा एतच्छृतं यदग्ने रेतस्तस्मादधिश्रित्यैव जुहुयादथ यद्वेवैनदग्नावधिश्रयन्ति तेनो एव शृतं तस्मादधिश्रित्यैव जुहुयात् ॥ ८॥ __ तवज्योतयति धृतं वेदानीत्यपः प्रत्यानयत्यग्निरेतसं वा एतच्छान्तिरापः शान्तय एव तस्माद्ययेनमासक्तिपानं क्षीरमभ्याभवेदुदस्तोकमाश्चोतयेत्येव ब्रूयाच्छान्तये पयसश्चैव सर्वत्वायेद हि यदा वर्षत्यौषधयो जायन्त ओषधी ग्ध्वापः पीत्वा तस्यैष उभयस्य रसः संभवति तस्मादुदस्तोकं प्रत्यानयति ॥ ९ ॥ _उदास्य चतुरुन्नयति चतुर्धा विहितर हीदं पयः समिधमादायोदाद्रवति समिद्धहोमाय सोऽनुपसाद्य पूर्वामाहुतिं जुहोति यद्धोपसाद्य जुहुयाद्यथा यस्मा आर्हरिष्यन्त्स्यात्ततो न्वन्तरेण निदध्यादेवः ह तदथ यदनुपसाद्य जुहोति यथा यस्मा औहरिष्यन्त्स्यात्तस्मा आहृत्यैवोपनिदध्यादेवं तदुपसायोत्तरां नानावीर्य एवैने एतत्करोति मनश्चैव वाचैते आहुती मनश्चैवैतंद्वाचं च व्यावर्तयति तस्मान्मनश्च वाक्च समानमेव सन्नानेव ॥ १० ॥ ___ स वै द्विर्जुहोति द्विरुपमृष्टे द्विः प्राश्नाति चतुरुन्नयति तद्दश दशाक्षरा वै विरातिराळु वै यज्ञो विराजमेवैतद्यज्ञमभिसंपादयति ॥ ११ ॥ - स यदन्नौ जुहोति तद्देवेषु जुहोति तस्माद्देवाः सन्ति यदुपसृष्टे तदोषधिषु च पितृषु च जुहोति तस्मादोषधयश्च पितरश्च सन्ति यत्प्राश्नाति तन्मनुष्येषु जुह्वति तस्मान्मनुष्याः सन्ति मनुष्याननु पशवो देवाननु बयारस्योषधयो वनस्पतयो यदिदं किंचान्यदेवम्विमाः प्रजा येझं आभजति या इमा अपराभूताः ॥ १२॥ 
HT-OLCASE 
41मा 
PSY 
aree 
ACHAR 
MAINA 
TES... 
१५. सदैव TE. १२. आली TE. BK. 
2. U Ca. see Notes, १४. भारि TE, B,K. १५. असा ह वै मनश्च वै . १६. तर १७. अलोति ., . 14:** VI; see Notes 
1.3.1.12 
TRANSLATION 
(milk) is indeed the sced of Agni. Therefore, this seed of Agni is warm (warmed by Agni himself). Therefore one should offer it only after warming it up (on fire). Or since they put it over the fire, thereby itself it becomes cooked. Therefore one should offer it only after warming it up (over the fire). 
9. He illumines it thinking, "Let me know if it has been heated". He pours water (into the milk). This (milk) is indeed the seed Waters are (represent) calmness (pacification).(This pouring of water into the boiling milk) is for pacification (making the milk calm down). Therefore, if milk, the much desired drink, should come to this person, then he should say verily, "Sprinkle a little water". This is indeed, for the calming down of the (hot) milk and for its fullness. When it rains here, then the plants spring up. (On the cattle) having eaten the plants and having drunk water, this (milk), the juice of both of these (plants and cattle)is produced. Therefore one adds a little water into the milk). 
10. Removing (the milk from the fire), he (the sacrificer) ladles out four times, for this milk has been produced in four ways (by the four teats of the udder). He then takes a kindling stick (Samidh) and rushes (to the Āhuvanīva) for making the offering in the kindled (fire). He makes the first offering without placing down (the wooden spoon). Should he offer (the oblation) after placing it down it would be just as if one taking food for somebody places it down in the middle (before reaching him). Then, that he offers without placing it down is just as if one taking food for somebody places it down only after taking it to him. After placing it down (he offers) the second offering. This makes these two (offerings) to be of different (kinds of) vigour. These, two offerings are mind and speech. This (offering one oblation without placing the spoon down and the other oblation after placing it down) seperates the mind and the speech. Therefore, the mind and the speech, being verily alike, appear as if they are different. 
11. He offers twice, wipes twice, drinks (of the milk) twice and ladies out four times. This makes ten. Indeed Virat (metre) has ten syllables (per foot). The sacrifice is verily Virat (shining much). This (ten-fold action) brings about this bright sacrifice. 
12. That he offers into the fire (means) he offers to the gods. Therefore the gods are (present at the sacrifice). What he wipes that he offers to the plants and manes. Therefore the plants and manes are (present). What he drinks (after offering) that he offers to. the men. Therefore men are (present). The animals are behind men. Behind gods are the birds, plants and trees and whatever else there is. Thus he apportions shares to these creatures which are not discarded. 
B 
ug 
it 
ir Lh Bha 
162 
KĀŅVA-SATAPATHABRAHMAŅAM 
[I.3.1.13 
a 
Am 
. 
Hin 
4 
. 
. 
RA 
S 
तदुहोवाच याज्ञवल्क्यो न यज्ञो मन्तवं अग्निहोत्रं पाकयज्ञ इवैवेतीद हि यदन्यस्मि न्यज्ञे मुच्यवद्यन्ति सर्वमेव तज्जुह्वत्यथैतद्धुत्वोत्सृप्याचामति निर्लेढि तदस्य पाकयज्ञस्ये 
वेति तद्वस्य तत्पशव्यमेव रूपं पशव्यो हि पाकयज्ञः ॥ १३ ॥ ___ सा वा एवैकैवान आहुतियाँ प्रजापतिरजुहोदथ यथेमे पश्चाद्भियन्तायमग्निर्योऽयं पवते सूर्य एवमेषा द्वितीया हूयते तद्यामग्रे जुहोति सा तस्यै देवतायै यस्या अग्निहोत्रमथ या द्वितीया स्विष्टकृद्भाजनमेव सा तस्मात्तामुत्तरतो जुहोत्येषा हि तस्य देवस्य दिमिथुनायो वा एषा प्रजननायें द्वितीया हूयते ॥ १४ ॥ 
ते वा एते आहुती भूतं च भविष्य॒च्च जातं च जनिष्यमाणं चागतं चाशा चाद्य चश्वश्च तद्वा एतद्वयमेवानु ॥ १५॥ 
आत्मा वाव भूतोऽद्धा वै तद्यद्भूतमद्धो तादात्मा प्रजैव भविष्यदनद्धा वै तद्यद्भवि ध्यदनदो तद्यत्प्रजा ॥ १६ ॥ 
आत्मा वाव जातोऽद्धा वै तद्यज्जातमद्धो तदात्मा प्रजैव जनिष्यमाणानद्धा वै तद्यजनिष्यमाणमनद्धो तात्प्रजो ॥ १७ ॥ 
आत्मा का आगतोऽद्धा वै तद्यदागतमद्धो तद्यदात्मा पंजैवाशानद्धा वैतादाशानद्धो 
Prem 
- 
- 
ETHALI 
का 
१ 
आत्मा वा अद्याद्धा वै तद्यदद्याद्धो तादात्मा प्रजैव श्वोऽनद्धा वै तद्यच्छोऽनद्धो सद्यत्प्रजा ॥ १९ ॥ 
तो त मन्त्रेण प्रथमामाहुतिं जुहोति स आत्मानमभि हूयतेऽद्धा वै तद्यन्यन्त्रोऽद्धो सहकदात्मा तूष्णीमुत्तराः सा प्रजामभि हूयतेऽनद्धा वै तद्यत्तूष्णीमनद्धो तद्यत्प्र॒जा !॥ २०॥ 
FREE 
२०. यो TE. २१. प्रजननाय TE; P1. P1. Ca. २२. तारा VI.. २३. My, VI. TE. २४. झूम TE. VI. P. Ca 
1.3.1.201 
TRANSLATION 
. 
TL 
9 
OS 
J 
! 
13. On this Yājnavalkya said, "Agnihotra should not be thought ofas a sacrifice (with offering of havis or burnt offerings) but this is verily a Pikavajña (domestic sacrifice)". In the other sacrifice (of havis), they ladle out into the offering spoon and they offer the entire thing. And here (in Agnihotra), stepping aside he (the sacrificer) makes acamana (ceremonial intake of a little water); he (completelvi licks off (the milk). This is only (a characteristic) of a Pākavajña. This is the very animal form of this (Agnihotra). Indeed, the Päkaya;ña pertains to the welfare of) beasts (cattle). 
14. This is, indeed, the only first offering which Prajapati offered. Then just as these (gods) later maintained-viz., Agni, this one (Wind) that blows and the Sun, so is this second (offering) offered. Therefore that which one offers first is for that divinity to whom Agnihotra belongs. The second one which one offers), that is indeed what reaches Svrstakrt (Agni who makes all the offerings heretofore offered good ). Therefore he (the sacrificer) offers it on the northern side. For this is the direction of that god. This second offering is made for pairing and for production, indeed. 
· 15. These two offerings are verily the past and the future; the one (already) born and the one which is going to be born; what has already come and the hope (of what is to come): today and tomorrow; (all) this is indeed a pair, in accordance 
16. Verily the past is the self (Alman). For what has already) been is certain. Indeed, the self is certain. The progeny is the future. Verily, what is going to be is uncertain. Indeed, progeny is uncertain. 
17. The self has already been bom. What has been born is, indeed, certain. Certain, verily, is the self. It is only progeny that is going to be born. What is going to be born is, indeed, uncertain. Therefore progeny is uncertain. 
18. The self, indeed, has already come. Certain, verily, is what has come. Therefore the self is certain. Progeny only is the hope. "Hope", indeed, is uncertain. Therefore progeny is verily uncertain. 
URN 
indeed, is the self. Only progeny is 'tomorrow. What is to-inOrTow" is indeed uncertain. Therefore progeny is verily uncertain.. 
20. Each first offering he offers with a mantra (sacred chant). That imaralya) is chanted towards (for the sake of) the self. True is the sacred chant. The self also, indeed, is true. (He offers) the second (offering) silently. It is offered towards (for the sake of ) progeny. What is silently (donc) is, indeed, uncertain. 
verild uncertain. Therefore progeny is verily uncertain. 
; . 
EL. 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[1.3.1,21-- 
O 
Hanuman 
CRNIN 
स जुहोत्यग्निज्योतिर्कोतिरग्निः स्वाहेति सायः सूर्यो ज्योतिज्योतिः सूर्यः स्वाहेति प्रातस्तद्वेतत्सत्सत्येनैव हूयत इद हि यदा सूर्योऽस्तमेत्यथाग्निरेव ज्योतिर्भवति यदो वै सूर्य उदेत्यथ सूर्य एव ज्योतिर्भवति तदु ह वै देवान्गच्छति यत्सत्येन जुह्वति ॥ २१ ॥ 
तदुहोवाच दक्ष आरुणये ब्रह्मवर्चसकामस्यैनेन जुहुयादित्यग्निर्वचों ज्योतिर्वर्चः सूर्यो वचों ज्योतिर्व) ब्रह्मवर्चसी हैव भवति यस्यैवं जुह्वतीत्यस्त्युवेवे प्रजननस्यैव रूपमग्नि ज्योतिज्योतिरग्निः स्वाहेति तदिदं ज्योती रेत उभयतो देवतया परिगृह्णात्युभय॒तः परिगृही तर हि रेतः प्रजायत इत्युभयत एवैतत्परिगृह्य प्र॒जनयति सूर्यो ज्योतियोतिः सूर्यः स्वाहेति तदिदं ज्योती रेत उभयतो देवतया परिगृह्णात्युभयतः परिगृहीत हि रेतः प्रजायत इत्युभयत एवैतत्परिगृह्य प्रजनयति ॥ २२ ॥ 
तदु होवाच जीवलश्चैलकिर्गर्भानेवारुणिः करोति न तु प्रजनयतीति स ह स एवमेव सायर होतव्यं मेनेऽथ प्रातज्योतिः सूर्यः सूर्यो ज्योतिः स्वाहेति तदिदं ज्योती रेतो बहिर्धा करोतीति होवाच बहिर्धा हि रेतः प्रजातं भवतीति ॥ २३ ॥ 
तदाहुरनिमेवैते सायर सूर्ये जुह्वति सूर्य प्रातरनावितीद हि यदा सूर्योऽस्तमेत्यथाग्नि रेव ज्योतिर्भवति यदो वै सूर्य उदेत्यथ सूर्य एव ज्योतिर्भवति तत्तदुदितहोमिनामेव लास्यैषा परिचक्षा तस्यै त्वेव देवतायै नाद्धा जुह्वति यस्या अग्निहोत्रम् ॥ २४॥ । 
अग्निोतिज्योतिरग्निः स्वाहेति नामये वाहेत्यग्निः स्वाहेत्येव सूर्यो ज्योतिज्योतिः सूर्यः स्वाहेति न सूर्याय स्वाहेति सूर्यः स्वाहेत्येव तस्मादनेनैव जुहुयात् ॥ २५॥ 
सजूदेवेन सवित्रेति सक्तृिमत्प्रसवाय सजू रात्र्येन्द्रवत्येति रात्र्या मिथुनीकरोतीन्द्रो यज्ञस्य देवता सेन्द्रं करोति जुषाणो अग्निवेंतु स्वाहेति प्रत्यक्षं तस्यै देवतायै जुहोति यस्या 
अग्निहोत्रम् ॥ २६ ॥ 
३ 
की 
4 
PORATu 
PARENA REATRE 
rampaign 
ALI 
- 
HTMLAnee 
2 
PAYPAL 
E 
andipdee 
sion 
pap 
- Hin 
Rit 
न 
AFETCOM. 
NE 
. 
. 
. 
२५. लौत्यस्तु वेव TE, VI, My, P; तीत्यस्तु एव M. १. प्रजननस्वेन . २७. भवतीति TE. 
1.3.1.26 
TRANSLATION 
21. He offers in the evening (chanting),"Agni is the light; the light is Agni, Svāhā" and in the morning, “The Sun is the light; the light is the Sun, Svähä". This is verily offered with truth. It is indeed this : when the Sun sets, then it is only Agni that becomes the 'light'. And when the Sun rises, then, verily, the Sun becomes the 'light. What they offer with truth-that indeed reaches the gods. 
22. Regarding this, Daksa said to Aruņi, "One who desires "Bralemavarcasa' (spiritual lustre) should offer with this mantra),: "Agni is the lustre; the light is the lustre". Sūrya is the lustre; the light is the lustre. He, for whom they offer thus, verily becomes one possessing 'Brahmavarcasa'. There is a form as of procreation in the other mantra). "Agni is the light; the light is Agn-Sisiha". This light, the seed, one encloses on both sides, with the deity. The seed that is verily enclosed on both sides germinates. Therefore, enclosing it verily on both sides, he causes it to be born. "Sürya is the light; the light is Sürya Srākā”. This light, which is the seed, one encloses on both sides with the deity. Verily, the seed, enclosed on both sides, germinates. Therefore, enclosing ir, verily on both sides, he causes it to be born. 
23. Regarding this, Jivala Cailaki said, "Aruni only brings about conception but does not cause birth". He indeed thought that it should be so offered only in the evening and then, in the morning (it should be offered) with (the chant), "The light is the Sun; the Sun is the light Svähä”. Then he places this light, the seed, outside. So he said, indeed, "The seed is. verily born outside (as an off-spring)". 
24. Then, they say, "These (performers of Agnihotra) offer verily Agni into Sürya in the evening and Surya into Agni in the morning". This is indeed, when the Sun sets and then Agni himself becomes the light. But when the Sun rises, the Sun himself becomes the light. All that is only for those who offer after sun-rise. This does not amount to a rejection of this. (This is no fault committed by the sacrificers). Only they do not offer directly to the deity itself to whom Agnihotra belongs. 
25. It is, "Agni is the light; the light is Agni, subhas and not "såd to Agni". It is only "Agnih svähä "* It is Surya is the light; the light is Sürya-saka and not *svāhā to Sürya" It is only 'Sirah svähá'. Therefore one should offer only with: 
this (chant). 
26. (He chants, "Along with the divine Savitr." for the production of the sacrifice) possessed of Savitr. (Chanting)," Along with the night united with Indra" he couples it with the night, Indra is the deity of the sacrifice. He (the sacrificer) makes it (the sacrifice) possessed of Indra. (Chanting)"May Agni. being pleased, accepe Sviha' he directly offers to that deity to whom Agniotra belongs. 
AL 
9 
14 
. 
KÄNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
1.3.1.27 
FA 
8 " 
' 
म 
M 
सजूदेवेन सवित्रेत्येव प्रातः सवितृमत्प्रसवाय सजूरुषसेन्द्रवत्येति वा सजूरह्नेन्द्रव त्येति वोषसा वा मिथुनीकरोतीन्द्रो यज्ञस्य देवता सेन्द्रं करोति जुषाणः सूर्यो वेतु स्वाहेति प्रत्यक्षं तस्यै देवतायै जुहोति यस्या अग्निहोत्रम् ॥ २७ ॥ 
ते होचुः को न इदं जुहुयादिति ब्राह्मण इति ब्राह्मणेदं नो जुहुधीति किं मम ततः स्यादित्यग्निहोत्रोच्छिष्टमिति तद्वैतदग्निहोत्रोच्छिष्टं यत्स्रुचि परिशिष्यतेऽथ यत्स्थाल्यां यथा कौष्ठाद्वा परीणहो वा निर्मिमीतैवं ततस्मात्तद्य एव कश्च पिबेन्न त्वब्राह्मणोऽग्नौ ह्येनदधिश्र यन्ति ॥ २८ ॥ इति प्रथमं ब्राह्मणम् ॥ 
- 
A 
- 
- 
MN 
4 
Ah 1 
4 
PF 
JILHANE 
- 
-- 
sale 
. 
६म 
A 
ETTEAM 
HHATom 
H 
SA 
द्वितीयं ब्राह्मणम् तदुहोवाच कोळः कौषीतकिरनयोर्वा एष द्यावापृथिव्यो रस इत्यस्य रसस्य देवेभ्यो हुत्वाथाश्नानीति तस्माद्वा आग्रयणेन यजेतेत्यथ होवाच याज्ञवल्क्यः ॥१॥ 
देवाश्च ह वा असुराश्चोभये प्राजापत्या अस्पर्धन्त ततो हासुराः कृत्ययेव त्वद्विषेणेव त्वदिमा उभयोरोषधीः प्रलिलिपुर्याश्च पशव उपजीवन्ति याश्च मनुष्या उतेत्थंचिद्देवानभि भवेमेति ततो न पशव आलिशन्त न मनुष्या आनरस्ता एता उभय्यः प्रजा अनशनेन नोत्परानभूवुः ॥ २ ॥ 
तदु वै देवा अस्पृण्वतानशनेन वा इमाः प्रजाः पराभवन्तीति हन्तासामोषधीनां कृत्यां 
का 
HEALAN 
PATI 
PAPE 
HE 
tmen 
PADMAAOM 
" 
T 
. 
HEATREPR 
-MARA 
Hary 
. 
: 
wiptimuT 
ETTE 
.. 
त्वद्विर्ष 
. 
DORE 
कल्प्यमासर्षयश्च ॥ ३ ॥ 
यश्च 
२८. कोष्टाहा .B. PI.P2. Fi. 
१. कफोल्ल: TE.CO. २. महानोति VI, PI, PA; see Notes, ३. द्वियं KB; Ca. ४. कृष्य कल्प Ca 
HOME 
REAM 
1.3.2.3) 
TRANSLATION 
27. (Chanting) only, "Along with the divine Savity" in the morning for the production (of the sacrifice) possessed of Savitr and (chanting) either" Along with the dawn united with Indra" or "Along with the day united with Indra" he couples it with either dawn or the day. Indra is the deity of the sacrifice. He makes it (the sacrifice) possessed of Indra (chanting), May Surya being pleased accept, Svāhā he offers directly to that deity to whom Agnihotra belongs. 
28. They said, "Who will offer this to us?""Brāhmana" (the Brahmin), "oh Brahmin offer this to us“. (The Brahmin asked), 'What will accrue to me from that?" They (the gods) replied,"The residue of the Agnihotra "Indecd this is the residue of the Agnihotra-what remains left over in the ladle and also in the pot. It is like what one builds up (garners) from the store-room or from a confined place. Therefore any one may drink it but not one who is not a Brahmin For, they cook it indeed, on the sacrificial) fire. 
(First Brähmana Ends) 
BRAHMANA II 1. Said, Kahola Kausītaki, “This is the essence of these heaven and earth. Therefore one eats of it after offering this essence to the gods", "Therefore one should perform the Agrayani (offering of the first fruits). And Yäjšavalkya said. 
2. "Gods and Åsuras,both sprung from Prajāpati contended. Then theAsuras smeared with (destructive) magic, with poison these plants of both-the plants on which animals subsist and those on which men too (subsist), thinking, "Thus indeed shall we overcome the Devas". Therefore, the animals did not move out (to graze) and men did not eat. These creatures of both kinds (men and cattle) did not overcome (hunger), for want of food. 
3. Then the gods heard that these creatures were suffering (perishing) verily for want of food. (They said to each other)"Ahl let us remote that magic and that poison of these plants". "By what means?" "By means of sacrifice". Indeed, by means of sacrifice the gods accomplished what was to be accomplished by.. them (so did) the Rșis too,
KANVA-SATAPATHABRĀHMAŅAM 
[I.3.4.1 
KAA 
बि 
PM 
. 
" B 
.. 
प 
En IPATH 
तदन्वाचक्षते स एतेन यज्ञेनेष्टा येयं प्रजापतेः प्रजातिर्या श्रीस्तद्बभूवैवर ह वाव प्र॒जायत एवः श्रियं गच्छति य एनेनैवं विद्वान्यजते ॥ १॥ 
तेनो ह वै तत ईजे प्रतिदर्शः त्रैक्णः स एतं प्रत्यासुस्तेषार ह विवाचनमिवास विवाचनमिव ह वै भवति य एवं विद्वानेतेन यज्ञेन यजते तमु ह सुप्ला साह्यो ब्रह्मचर्यमाजगाम तस्माद्धैतं च यज्ञमनूच्यान्यं च पुनः सृञ्जयानाजगाम ते ह सृञ्जया विदाचार्यज्ञं वै नोऽनूच्यागमदिति ते होचुः स ह वै नो देवैरागमदिति यो नो यज्ञमनूच्या गमदिति तद्वाव सहदेवः साञ्जयोऽपि निवचनमिवात्यन्य सुप्ता नाम दध इति स एतेन यज्ञेनेष्ट्वा यैषा सृञ्जयानां प्रजातिर्या श्रीस्तद्वभूवैव ह वाव प्र॒जायत एव श्रियं गच्छति य एनेनैव विद्वान्युजते ॥ २ ॥ 
तेनो ह वै तत ईजे देवभागः श्रौतर्षः स उभयेषां कुरुसृञ्जयानां पुरोहित आस परमता वै सा ययान्वेकस्य राष्ट्रस्य पुरोहितोऽसत्सेन परमताथ कि यो द्वयोः परमतामिव ह वै गच्छति य एवं विद्वानेतेन यज्ञेन यजते ॥३॥ 
तेनो ह वै तत ईजे दक्षः पार्वतिः स ह राज्यमिव प्राप त इमे दाक्षायणा एदानमेव राज्यमिव ह वै प्राप्नोति य एवं विद्वानेतेन यज्ञेन यजते तस्माद्वा एतेन यज्ञेन यजेत तदन्वहमेकैकः पुरोळाशो भवति तथा हास्यानुपबाधासर्पना श्रीर्भवति स द्वे पौर्णमास्यौ यजते द्वे अमावास्ये द्वन्द्वं वै मिथुन मिथुनमेवैतत्प्रजननं क्रियते ॥४॥ 
+ 
ज 
T 
। 
-- 
I 
FEMIST 
HOMARATRA 
Time 
JAN 
4 
... 
JHAR 
- 
S 
१. तमेतदन्याचा Ca. २. स्वैशा: M; : Po; वैवष्णः My. ३. तमू Ca.. ४. एतेनो as alternate reading in TE. ५. अयन्वे TE, Ca, Po; वयंन्वे VI, य इण्वेक M; see Notes; यह न्वेकस्य Ca. 
A-4 
. 
HindiCAYAN 
ENT 
. 
NCHEMEENA 
RA 
9. Se Notes 
TRANSLATION 
i 
3 
(form of) sacrifice, it is thereby called Däksyuna sacrifice. And some moreover say, "(This is) Vasiştha sacrifice". He (Daksa) was, indeed, (known) by one name, * Vasiştha' (the wealthiest). They call it verily after him. On his sacrificing with this sacrifice, there came to be this which is the progeny of Prajapati and what prosperity (there is). He who knowing thus sacrifices, with this (Daksāvana sacrifice), multiplies in progeny) like this and attains similar prosperity. 
2. Then Pratidarśa Sraikana indeed sacrificed with that (sacrifice). To those who looked up to him, he was like an authority [(authoritative) explanation). He who, knowing thus, sacrifices with this (sacrifice) indeed becomes an authority as it were. Suplā Sārijava came to him, verily, for disciplined Vedic study. Having studied from him this sacrifice and another too, he came back to the Srnjaya country. They, the Srñjayas knew, "He has come after studying the sacrifice for our sake". They said, “He who has come after studying the sacrifice has verily, come to us with the gods". Therefore the came to be known as Şahadeva Särñjaya. There is also the saying, "Suplä has taken another name!" Onhis sacrificing with this sacrifice,there came to be this progeny which is of the Srñjayas and what prosperity (there is). He who, knowing it to be thus, sacrifices with this sacrifice, produces (progeny) in this very manner and attains prosperity like this, indeed. 
3. Then Devabhäga, Srautarsa sacrificed verily with that sacrifice. He was the Purohita (an honoured family priest) of both the Kurus and Spájavas. Thai indeed is a supreme (superior) position that one is the Purohsia of one kingdom. What then is the superiority (of one) who is the Purchata) of two (kingdons): He who knowing thus, sacrifices with this sacrifice surely attains superiority, 
4. Then, Daksa Parvati verily sacrificed with that sacrifice. He acquired sovereignity (a kingdom). These descendants of Daksa, even now have acquired royal status. He who, knowing thus, sacrifices with this sacrifice, surely attains royal status. Therefore indeed one should sacrifice with this sacrifice. In it, there is to be offered) one Purmeria (cake) every day. Thus (thereby) his prosperity becomes free from disturbance and without a rival (to share :), He performs the sacrifice (on) two Full Moon days and two New Moon days, Indeed a pair is a group of two. Verily this, a productive pair is made, 
5. On the first day of Full Moon he sacrifices with a Parada (cake offering) consecrated to Agni and Soma (together). They are two deities. A group of two is a pair indeed. Verily this, a productive pair is made. Then at dawn (the next day) there is a Purodala consecrated to Agni. There is Saunáva offering) 
1 
. 
KĀNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[1.3.4.5 
h. 
pm 
A 
... 
. 
TE 
W 
MAT 
स पूर्वेयुः पौर्णमास्या अग्नीषोमीयेण पुरोळाशेन य॑जते ते द्वे देवते द्वन्द्वं वै मिथुनं मिथुनमेवैतत्प्रजननं क्रियतेऽथ प्रातराग्नेयः पुरोळाशो भवत्यैन्द्रः सान्नाय्यं ते द्वे देवते द्वन्द्वं 
वै मिथुनं मिथुनमेवैतत्प्रजननं क्रियते ॥ ५ ॥ __ अथ पूर्वेचुरमावास्याया ऐन्द्राग्नेन पुरोळाशेन यजते ते द्वे देवते द्वन्द्वं वै मिथुन मिथुनमेवैतत्प्रजननं क्रियतेऽथ प्रातराग्नेयःपुरोळाशो भवति मैत्रावरुणी पयस्या नेद्यज्ञाद यानीत्येवाग्नेयः पुरोळाशो मित्रावरुणावेव द्वे देवते द्वन्द्वं वै मिथुनं मिथुनमेवैतत्प्रजननं क्रियते एतद्धास्य तद्रूपं येन बहुर्भवति येन प्रजायते ॥ ६ ॥ 
अथ यदेव पूर्वेद्यः पौर्णमास्या अग्नीषोमीयेणं पुरोळाशेन य॒जते यमेवाद उपवस थेऽग्नीषोमीयं पशुमालभते स एवास्य सोऽथ प्रातराग्नेयः पुरोळाशो भवत्येन्द्र सान्नाय्यं प्रातःसवनमेवास्याग्नेयः पुरोळाशो गायत्र हि प्रातःसवनं गायत्रमग्नेश्छन्दो माध्यन्दिनमे वास्य सवनमैन्द्रः सान्नाय्यमैन्द्र हि माध्यन्दिन सवनम् ॥ ७॥ । . अथ पूर्वेधुरमावास्याया ऐन्द्राग्नेन पुरोळाशेन यजते तृतीयसवनमेवास्य स वैश्वदेवर हि तृतीयसवन सर्वा हि देवता इन्द्राग्नी अथ प्रातराग्नेयः पुरोळाशो भवति मैत्रावरुणी पयस्या नेद्यज्ञादयानीत्येवाग्नेयः पुरोळाशोऽथ यामेवामूमनूबन्ध्यां वशामालभते सैवास्य मैत्रावरुणी पयस्यैतदु पौर्णमासेन चेष्टामावास्येन च यावती सौम्येनाध्वरेण जितिं जयति तावतीं जयति तन्महायज्ञो भवति ॥ ८ ॥ 
अथ यद्वेव पूर्वेयुः पौर्णमास्या अग्नीषोमीयेण पुरोळाशेन यजत एतेन वा इन्द्रो वृत्रमहन्नेतेनो एव व्यजयत येयमस्य विजितिस्तथो वा एष एतेन पाप्मानं द्विषन्तं भ्रातृ व्य हन्ति तथो एव विजयतेऽथ प्रातरामावास्य सान्नाय्यं वा आमावास्यं दूरे तद्यदमावा स्येत्येनमेतद्नं जनिवासं क्षिप्रमेतेन रसेनाप्रीणन्क्षिप्र ह वै पाप्मानमपहते य एवं 
मान 
HEL 
-- 
LE 
-HT 
MEL 
A 
अमन 
TE 
THREE 
on 
ग 
- 
- 
९. मजाले . १०. जाने Ca ११, बजाते १२. सका TE 
. 
...... 
1.3.4.9] 
TRANSLATION 
(a mixture of sour milk and fresh milk) consecrated for Indra. They are two deities. Indeed a group of two is a pair. Verily thus.a productive pair is made. 
6. And on the first day of New Moon, he sacrifices with a Purodāsa consecrated to Indra and Agni (together). They are two deities. A group of two is indeed a pair. Verily thus a productive pair is made. Then at dawn (of the morrow) there is one Purodāśa consecrated for Agni. (There is an offering of) curds dedicated to Mitra and Varuņa (together). The Purodāśa (sacrificial cake) for Agni is for the very reason that if (it is) not offered), (Agni would say), “Let me go away from (this) sacrifice". Mitra and Varuna themselves are the two deities. Indeed a group of two is a pair. Verily this, a productive pair is formed. This indeed is that form of this (sacrifice), by means of which he becomes many (multiplies) and by which he is born (is reproduced) 
7. And, when, verily, on the first (previous) day of Full Moon, he sacrifices with a Purodāsa sanctified for Agni and Soma (together) that indeed is for this sacrificial animal dedicated to Agni and Soma, which he slaughters (for the sacrifice) on the day of fasting and preparation). Then, in the morning, there is (an offering of a Purodaśa dedicated to Agni. The Sannayya (offering of a mixture of sour milk and fresh milk) is dedicated to Indra. The Purodāta for Agni is in itself his morning libation. The (mantra for offering) morning libation is Gayatra (in Gāyatri mantra),Gayatra is Agni's metre. The sanndyra for Indra is itself his mid-day libation, Indeed the mid-day libation belongs to Indra. 
8. On the first day (previous day) of New Moon, he sacrifices with the offering of a Purodăía consecrated to Indra and Agni (together). That is indeed his third (evening) libation. Verily the third libation is what has the Viśvedevas as its deity. For, Indra and Agni are (they constitute) all the gods. Then on the (next) morning, there is the offering of a Purodkära dedicated to Aguai. (There is an offering of) curd sanctified for Mitra and Varuna (together). The Puroddía for Agni is for the very reason that if not; (Agni would say) "Let me go out of (this) sacrifice". That very barten cow, the anulomky (that should be subsequently tethered,i.e.offered) which he slaughters (for the sacrifice) is to him the curds (offering) sanctified for Mitra and Varuna (together). Thus preforming the Full Moon and New Moon offerings, one wins as much gain as one wins by ineans of a Soma sacrifice. That becomes a great sacrifice (or, by that he becomes one who has performed a great sacrifice). 
9. And what he sacrifices with a Puroddsu dedicated to Agni and Soma (together) on the first (previous day of Full Moon, with this indeed did Indra kill Vstra and with this only did he attain this victory which is his. In that very same manner does this (sacrificer) kill his evil hateful enemy and similarly becomes victorious. And now about the offering on the morning of the New Moon day; the oblation for New Moon day is indeed Sexmdymm(mixture of our milk and fresh milk). Amavasya is inderd far away (from the FullMoon) Taushe who knowing thus, makes an offering of scandina on Fun Moon day, quickly 
. 
KÄNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMAŅAM 
[I.3.4.9 
E 
IITBAR 
प 
. 
TV 
mmupasirtun pormheduliternmumabh.. JpREETTTERampu 
। 
. 
मान 
, 
8 
(CAR 
MPHIC 
L 
R 
Spm 
Th 
NO 
-- 
विद्वान्पौर्णमास्या सन्नयत्यथ यद्वेव पौर्णमास्याः सन्नयत्येष वै सोमो राजा देवानामन्नं यच्चन्द्रमास्तमेतत्पूर्वेयुः पौर्णमास्या देवा अभिषुण्वन्ति प्रातर्भक्षयिष्यन्तस्तमेतद्भक्षयन्ति यदपक्षीयते स यत्पूर्वेयुः पौर्णमास्या अग्नीषोमीयेण पुरोळाशेन यजतेऽभिषुणोत्येवैन तत्तस्मिन्नभिषुत एतः रसं दधाति तं तीव्रीकरोति स्वदयति ह देवेभ्यो हव्य स्वदते हास्य देवेभ्यो हव्यं य एवं विद्वान्पौर्णमास्या सन्नयति ॥ ९ ॥ __ अथ पूर्वेधुरमावास्याया ऐन्द्राग्नेन पुरोळाशेन यजते दर्शपूर्णमासयोः देवते स्त इन्द्राग्नी एव प्रत्यक्ष हास्य दर्शपूर्णमासाविष्टौ भवतो य एवं विद्वान्यजतेऽथ प्रातराग्नेयः पुरोळाशो भवति मैत्रावरुणी पयस्या नेद्यज्ञादयानीत्येवाग्नेयः पुरोळाशोऽथतावेवार्धमासौ मित्रावरुणौ य एवापक्षीयते स मित्रो य आपूर्यते स वरुणः ॥ १० ॥ 
तवेतार रात्रिमुभौ सह समागच्छतस्तावेतदुभौ सह सन्तौ प्रीणाति सर्वर ह वा अस्य प्रीतः सर्वमाप्तः सर्वं जितं भवति य एवं विद्वान्यजते ॥ ११ ॥ 
तदेतार रात्रि मित्रो वरुणे रेतः सिञ्चति तेन रेतसैतत् जायते यदापूर्यतेऽथ यदेषात्र पयस्यावसातमावास्यावै सान्नाय्यभाजना तत्पौर्णमास्या सन्नयति स यत्सन्नयेत्पौर्णमा स्या सन्नयेदमावास्याया जामि कुर्यात्समदं कुर्यादेतद्वेवैनमेष एतदद्भ्यश्चौषधिभ्यश्च संभृ त्याहुतिभ्यो जनयति मिथुनादिद्वा एनं जनयति योषा पयस्या रेतो वाजिनं तद्वा अनुष्ट्या यन्मिथुनात्प्रजायते ॥ १२ ॥ 
अथ वाजिभ्यो वाजिनं जुहोत्य॒तवो वै वाजिनो रेतो वाजिनमृतुष्वेवैतद्रेतः सिञ्चति तदृतवो रेतः सिक्तमिमाः प्रजाः प्रजनयन्ति तत्पश्चा यज्ञस्य जुहोति पश्चाद्वै परीत्य योषां वृषाधिद्रवति तस्या रेतः सिञ्चति तस्मात्पश्चा यज्ञस्य जुहोत्यग्ने वीहीति तत्विष्टकृभाजनं तदु प्राव जुहोति ॥ १३ ॥ 
MI 
aap 
१ 
1 
Pा १ 
। 
vaala dar 
P 
y 
amang 
Mastipada 
m 
UA 
AMIN 
NagPigy 
an 
१ 
PRATAR. . . 
Rapterwagle 
AJA 
ORN 
DिHAISA 
Forse 
HAN 
PARA 
M 
. 
. 
TFEVIT 
HON 
JAN 
Char 
AAR 
मा 
Limia 
84 
१३. स्वदचाताह Ks, H; स्वदयति रक्षा Mi See Notes. १४. विद्वान्याने Ca, TE. gives both the readings. १५. सह १६. स्थायदे TE, ree Notes 
. 
MAHARI 
HORN 
. 
1.3.4.12) 
TRANSI ATION 
1 
1 1 
dt 
destrovs evil, well propitiating him quickly by means of this juice; him who had killed Výtra by means of this offering . And then that he (the sacrificer) makes an offering of Sannayya (means this). This moon is himself the King Soma, the food of the gods. On the first (previous) day of Full Moon the gods ceremoniously extract him (the juice of Soma), (so that ) they would be consuming it in the (next) morning. Then they eat him up, wherefore he decreases. As he sacrifices with the Purodaśa consecrated for Agni and Soma (together) on the first (previous) day of Full Moon, in that he (the sacrificer) verily extracts him (Soma) thus and when that has been extracted he adds this juice (essence), makes it strong and (also) makes the oblation to be offered palatable to the gods. Whoever, knowing thus makes the Sännina oficring during Full Moon, his oblation indeed is sweet (palatable) to the gods. 
10. And now, the first (previous) day of New Moon he sacrifices with the Purodāsa dedicated to Indra and Agni (together). Indeed Indra and Agni are the deities of the New Moon and Full Moon days. Verily, directly are the New Moon and Full Moon worshipped (with sacrifice) (thus) by him who, knowing thus, sacrifices. Then, in the (next) morning there is offered) a Purolasa sanctified for Agni and curds dedicated to Mitra and Varuna (together for, if not (Agni would say), "Let me go away from the sacrifice". Therefore, indeed, there is (offered) the Purodāía to Agni. And these two half months (half moons) are Mitra and Varuna. That which wanes is verily Mitra and that which fills up (waxes) is Varuna. 
11. This night(of New Moon), the two come together, He (the sacrificer) this propitiates these two who are then together. To him who, knowing thus, 
1. 
8 
A 
. 
TV 
2 
1 
TE 
A 
ad 
auto 
TT 
i 
. 
VI 
ht" 
trot 
A2 
IT'S 
P R 
Por 
951 
.. 
! 
TY 
WILL 
TAP 
the 
WTON 
ra 
Tri 
2 
* 
* 
4. 
* 
* 
everything is won. 
12. Then during this night Mitra deposits his (virility) seed in Varuna. By that seed springs up this which fills up (waxes). Now {regarding this offering of curds that is most appropriately designed; indeed the New Moon day is the worthy recipient for Sännužyva .He (the sacrifier) leads (mixes and offers) during the Full Moon (too). Should he make the Stirrady during the Full Moon and make the Sinnäyyaduring New Moon, he would be doing a repeution and would create a conflict. This (sacrificer), collecting him (Soma) verily from the waters and plants, causes him (the moon-Soma) to be born from the oblations. Indeed, he produces this (Soma-moon) from the pair. The Curds" is female; the whey (produced by mixing lime juice with milk) is the seed. Therefore that is to be performed by which, it (the moon) is born from the pair. 
13. He then offers the whey to the divine) horses. Indeed the seasons are the horses; the whey is the seed (semen). He (the sacrificer) deposits this seed verily 
# 
B4 
LAF 
IL 
P 
2 
. 
i 
Hea 
A Bet 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.3.4.14 
d 
H 
ma 
अथ दिशो व्याधारयति दिशः प्रदिश आदिशो विदिश उद्दिशो दिग्भ्यः स्वाहेति पञ्च दिशः पञ्चर्तव ऋतूनेवैतद्दिग्भिमिथुनान्करोति पञ्चो एव भक्षयन्ति होता चाध्वर्युश्च ब्रह्मा चानीच्च यजमान ऋतूनामेवैतद्रूपं कृत्वर्तुष्वेव रेतः प्रतिष्ठापयन्ति प्रथमो यजमानो भक्षयति प्रथमो रेतः परिगृह्णांनीत्यथोत्तमो मय्युत्तम रेतः प्रतितिष्ठादित्युपहूत उपह्वयस्वेति सोममे वैतत्कृत्वा भक्षयन्ति ॥ १४ ॥ इति चतुर्थं ब्राह्मणम् 
॥इति तृतीयोऽध्यायः॥ 
. 
. . PI, P2, H: see Notes 
१८. गुलानोल्य TE, T. 
1.3.4.14) 
TRANSLATION 
F 
PU A 
' 42LL 
into the seasons. Then the seasons bring forth the seed that had been deposited as (in the form of) these creatures. Therefore does he offer it behind the sacrifice. Verily the male runs towards the female covering her from behind. He deposits his semen into her. Therefore does he (the sacrificer) offer behind (in the fire of) the sacrifice saying, 'Go verily in front". That is the receptacle of *Svistakrt" (Agni who renders all offerings already made properly offered) Therefore he verily offers that in the east. 
14. He then sprinkles the quarters (with the whey),--(1) the quarters. (2) the fore-quarters, (3) the by-quarters, (4) the intermediate quarters, (5) the upper-quarters, uttering "To the quarters Svähā !" The quarters are five. The seasons are five. He thus makes the seasons themselves become pairs with the quarters, Five only indeed eat (the residual whey)(1) the Hotr, and (2) the Adhvaryu (3) the Brahmāand (4) the Agnidhand (5) the sacrificer. Making this verily the form of the seasons, they establish the seed in the seasons themselves. The sacrificer, the first person, eats (first), thinking, "May I, the first person receive the seed (first)" and then the last (best), thinking, "May the best (last) seed stay firmly in me!" "Being invited, you please invite!"- thus saying and having verily rendered this (whey) as Soma itself, they (other four) cat (iu). 
(Fourth Brähmana Ends) 
X 
LINE 
+ 
1 
(Chapter Three ends) 
KÄNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[1.4.1.1 
चतुर्थोऽध्यायः 
प्रथमं ब्राह्मणम् 
- 
EVE 
अग्नौ ह वै देवाः सर्वान्पशूत्सन्निदधिरे ये च ग्राम्या ये चारण्या विजयं वोपपरेष्यन्तः कामचारस्य वा कामायायं नो गोपिष्ठो गोपायत्विति तान्हाग्निर्निचकमे तान्त्संगृह्य रात्रि प्रविवेश पुनरेम इति देवा एग्निं तिरोभूतं ते ह विदांचक्रुरिह वै प्राविशद्रात्रिं वै प्राविक्षदिति तमेतत्प्र त्यायत्या रात्रा उपातिष्ठन्त देहि नः पशून्पुनर्नो देहि पशूनिति तेभ्यो ह पुनर्ददौ ॥ १॥ 
तस्मै कमग्नी उपतिष्ठेतानी वै दातारौ तावेवैतत्पशून्याचते यदुपतिष्ठते तस्मात्सायमुपतिष्ठेत सायर हि देवा उपातिष्ठन्त दत्तो हास्मै पशून्य एवं विद्वानुपतिष्ठते ॥२॥ 
अथ यस्मान्नोपतिष्ठेत सह वा इदमग्र आसुर्देवाश्च मनुष्याश्च तद्ध स्म यन्मनुष्याणां न भवति तद्ध स्म देवान्याचन्त इदं वै नो नास्तीदं नोऽस्त्विति ते देवास्तस्या याच्च्याया द्वेषेण तिर 
आसुस्तस्मान्नोपतिष्ठेत नेद्धिनसानि नेद्वेष्योऽसानीति ॥ ३॥ __ अथ यस्मादुपैव तिष्ठेत यज्ञो वै देवानामाशीर्यजमानस्य स एष यज्ञो देवानां यदाहुतिरथैषा शीर्यजमानस्य यदुपतिष्ठते स यदे॒वास्यात्र तदेवैतदात्मनि कुरुते तस्मादुपैव तिष्ठेत ॥४॥ . ___ अथ यस्मान्नोपतिष्ठेत यो वै ब्राह्मणं वा राजन्यं वा शसमानोऽनुचरति गृहान्मे करिष्यतीति यो वै तत्र तं वाचा वा कर्मणा वा रिराधयिषति तस्मै वै स देयं मन्यतेऽथ य एनमाह कस्मै नु मम त्वमर्थायासि यो मे न ददासीतीश्वरो वै स तं द्वेष्टौंस्तस्मान्नोपतिष्ठेत नेद्धिनसानि नेद्वेष्यो ऽसानीत्येतत्स्विदा एनमेष याचते यदिन्द्धे यज्जुहोति ॥ ५॥ 
अथ यस्मादुपैव तिष्ठेतोत वै या—ल्लभत एव दातारमुतो भर्ता नानुबुध्यते यदा वै भायों भर्तारमाह बिभृहि मेत्यथ वै स तं बिभर्ति वा भार्यं वा मन्यते तस्मादुपैव तिष्ठेतेदं नु समस्तं 
m 
DIHARI 
भर 14, 
H"NSH 
RTO 
मा 
: 
01 
भाभारः 
A 
- 
- 
... 
प 
Pr 
Samaste 
.. 
RAHE 
. 
Xप 
" TILA 
- 
१. परेशमन्त .. २. एनदर्षि SEE Ncess.. ३, सनीति TE, M.K.. %. See Notes. 
TH. 
.. SON 
. 
. 
कर 
Chapter Four 
TUTO 
- 
9 
* 
BRAHMANA 1 1. The gods deposited all animals, those that were rustic (domestic) and those that were wild, into Agni, because they were going out to achieve victory or because of a desire for moving about (freely) as they wished or with a thought, **This (Agni) is the best protector (and, let him protect (these animals on ours". Agni coveted them very much and gathering them together he entered the night. The gods (said), “Let us get back" and verily (camej to Agni who was concealed. They came to know, "(Agni) has entered here; indeed he has entered the night ".When the night returned, they waited upon him saying. * Please give Our anim them. 
2. For that one should worship the two fires. Indeed the two fires are the bestowers. He (the sacrificer) thus verily supplicates only them for cattle, wherefore he worships them. Therefore he should worship them in the evening. For the gods waited upon (Agni) in the evening, To him who, knowing thus,worships (the two Agnis), they give (cattle). 
3. Now (this is the reason) why he should not approach (them) (with mantras). Indeed men and gods were here together in the beginning. Whatever there is not for men, that verily they asked of the gods,"This indeed we do not have. Let this be for us". Those gods, out of dislike for that request disappeared. Therefore one should not approach (the gods); (he should think), "If not (i.e. if 
them! I shall hurt (them) and if not (if I request them) I shall become one to be hated". .. 
4. Now (here is the reason) why one should verily worship (them): Indeed the sacrifice belongs to the gods and the prayer for the blessing is the sacificer's. The oblation is (in itself) this sacrifice belonging to the gods, that he worships is (in itself)the prayer for blessing of the sacrificer. What indeed is there for him 
e 
CY 
1 
0 
* 
CU 49 
LT 
1 
bu 
3 
1.5 
. 
& 
1. 94r. 24 
. 
HES 
SON 
(approach the gods). 
5. And now is the reason) why one should not approach (with worship for a blessing); whoever follows a Brähminor akşatriya Rajanya;a crowned monarch) praising him, thinking, This man will give me homes", he (the Brähmis or Kşatriva)thinks that it should be given to him who tries to please him with word 
tas 
SA 
At 
ADE 
' 
give me anything). That master hates him 
the suppliane). Therefore one 
SCH 
taart 
Nie 
. 
* 
not I may become hateful". 
Thus really does this (sacrificer) request this 
1 
should not request again).
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.4.1.6 
यस्मादुपैव तिष्ठेत प्रजापतिर्वा एष एतद्भूत्वा यावदेनमनु यावत ईष्टे तस्य सर्वस्य रेतः सिञ्चति यदग्निहोत्रं जुहोति तदुपतिष्ठमानो भूमानमनु विकरोति भूमानमनु प्रजनयति 
तस्मादुपैव तिष्ठेत ॥६॥ 
स वा उपवल्या प्रथमोपतिष्ठत इयं वा उप सा वा इयं द्वयनोप यद्वै किं च जायतेऽ स्यामेव तदुपजायते यदु किं च न्यृच्छत्यस्यामेव तदुपकीर्यते तदिदमह्ना रात्र्या भूयो भूय एव भवति भूम्नैवैतदक्षत्रूण प्रतिपद्यते ॥७॥ ___ स आहोपप्रयन्तो अध्वरमिति यज्ञो वा अध्वर उपप्रयन्तो यज्ञमित्येवैतदाह मन्त्र वोचेमाग्नय इति मन्त्र ह्यस्मै वक्ष्यन्भवत्यारे अस्मे च शृण्वत इति यद्यप्यस्मरमस्यथ न इदमेव शृण्वत्थमेवेदमस्त्वित्येवैतदाह ॥ ८ ॥ - अथाग्निर्मूर्धा दिवः ककुत्पतिः पृथिव्या अयम् । अपार रेता सि जिन्वतीति यथा याचन्कल्याणं वदेदामुष्यायणो वै त्वमस्यलं वै त्वमेतस्मा असीति प्रमुमोदयिषन्नुपस्तुया देवम्वेवैषा ॥ ९॥ 
अथैन्द्राग्न्यैष वा इन्द्रो य एष तपति स वा एषोऽस्तं यन्नग्निमेव प्रविशति तस्मादैन्द्रा ग्न्योभा वामिन्द्राग्नी आहुवध्या उभा राधसः सह मादयध्यै। उभा दातारा इषा रयीणामुभा वाजस्य सातये हुवे वामित्युभो मे दातारौ सह सन्तौ दत्तमित्येवैतदाह ॥१०॥ 
अथायन्ते योनिर्ऋत्वियो यतो जातो अरोचथाः । तं जाननम्न आरोहाथ नो वर्धया रयिमिति पुष्टं वै रयिः स्वन्त इदं यदस्माकं पुष्टं तन्नो भूयो भूय एव कुरु तन्नो वर्धयेत्येवै तदाह ॥ ११॥ 
- 
- 
- 
ami 
* 
PROHTAS 
PHEIRRIOR 
ARTY 
MAR 
PNA 
है. दीवा Ca ७. मस्तीत्ये TE. ८.वार्थ कारबाही P1,P2, BH.. १. नामधि TE, VI, B. 
Ca. has op basis in the Santihitä text. 
1.4.1.11) 
TRANSLATION 
PET 
21 
6. And now is the reason) why one should verily approach (with a request): he who asks verily finds a bestower. Also, the master does not know (the wants of the dependant). Only when the dependant says to the master, “Please support me" then does he (the master) supports him or does he consider him worthy of support. Therefore one must approach (the two fires with a prayer). This is the whole (argument) wherefore one must verily approach (the fires with worship and request). Indeed this (Agni), being Prajāpati (or Prajapati becoming this,(Agni) thus,deposits the seed of everything, all that is about him and all that he rules over, in that one who performs the Agnihotra. Performing that (worship) (Agnihotra) one imitates abundance and produces abundance continuously. Therefore one must verily worship. 
7. He prays with a first (prayer) that contains the word) “utuz". Indeed this (earth) is 'upa'. This upa is with two (meanings). Whatever is born, that surely is born upon this (earth). Whatever perishes, that is scattered upon this carth only. This verily becomes more and more, by day and by night. Thus, he (the sacrificer) takes up with this imperishable abundance. 
8. He says," Approaching verily the Adhvara-Indeed, the sacrificer is Adhvara. Saying, "Approaching the Adhuara-” he says (means) this only.viz., “Let us utter the chant (of prayer) to Agni ",for, he is going to utter the chant (mantra), "Who hears us also from afar". He verily says (means) this, **Though you are far away from us, please do hear this (prayer) of ours. Let this be verily thus"... 
9. And then, (he prays), “This Agni (is) the head, the shoulder of the sky, the lord of the earth. He pleases (excites) the seeds of waters*. Just as one who supplicates will speak auspiciously (thus), "You are verily the descendant of such and such a (great) person! Indeed you are capable of this achievement)". and will praise (the donor) wishing to make him happy, so indeed is this (Rk of praise). 
10. Then (is chanted) this of Indra and Agni; this one (Sun) who burns is verily Indra. This is the one who, setting, enters Agni indeed. Therefore is the chant) to Indra and Agn. I invoke you both Indra and Agnil Both of you together do I delight with pleasing service. Both of you are bestowery of strength and wealth. I invoke you two for acquisition of food. He verily says (ineans) this only, viz., "You two, the bestowers, remaining together give to me". 
11. Then (he chants), "This is thy seasonal source (womb), born from which you shone forth. Knowing that, Ohi Agnil climb up (grow) and increase our wealth". Indeed wealth is nourishment. He verily says (means) this: **This our nourishment is your own. Please make it more and more (abundant) to us. Please increase that (nourishment) of ours", 
ESE 
2 
ye 
AL 
SPORT 
22 
4. 
14 
1 
TL 
. 
AU 
* 
6. 
.. 
. 
. 
.. 
ISHILL 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.4.1.12 
- 
- 
Pan 
TETHI 
Acam 
DOT 
AAD 
। 
R 
M 
mins 
अयमिह प्रथमो धायी धातृभिर्होता यजिष्ठो अध्वरेष्वीड्यः। यमप्नवानो भृगवो विरुरु चुर्वनेषु चित्रं विश्वं विशे विश इति यथा याचन्कल्याणं वदेदामुष्यायणो वै त्वमस्यलं वै त्वमेतस्मा असीति प्रमुमोदयिषन्नुपस्तुयादेवम्वेवैषाथो यथैवैष तथैनमाह विभूद्वेष विशे विशे। अस्य पत्नामनु द्युत शुक्रं दुदुहे अह्रयः । पयः सहस्रसामृषिमित्येषा वै परमा सनिर्यत्सहस्रसनिस्तस्या एवैतदवरुद्धये तस्मादाह पयः सहस्रसामृषिमिति ॥ १२ ॥ 
तद्वा एतत्समाहार्य षळूचं तस्योपक्ती प्रथमा प्रत्नवत्युत्तमावोचाम तद्यस्मादुपवत्यसौ वाव प्रत्नं यावन्तो ह्येव स नाग्रे देवास्तावन्त एवाप्येतद्येते उ वा अन्तरेण सर्वे कामास्ताभ्यामेवैतन्निवेदयति ते हास्मै संजानाने सर्वान्कामान्त्सन्नमतः ॥ १३ ॥ 
त्रिः प्रथमां जपति त्रिरुत्तमा त्रिवृत्प्रायणा हि यज्ञास्त्रिवूदुदयना यदु ह वा अग्निहोत्रं जुह्वद्वाचा वा कर्मणा वानृतं वा वदत्यनृतं वा करोत्यात्मनो हैव तदायुषो वा वर्चसो वा प्रजाया वावद्यति ॥ १४ ॥ 
स उपतिष्ठते तनूपा अनेऽसि तन्वं मे पाह्यायुर्दा अग्नेऽस्यायुमें देहि । वर्षोदा अग्नेऽसि वर्षों मे देहिं ! अग्ने यन्मे तन्वा ऊनं तन्मा आपृणेति यदेवेह वाचा वा कर्मणा वायुषो वा वर्चसो वा प्रजाया वावादाम तन्नः पुनराप्यायतामित्येवैतदाह तथा हास्य तत्पुनराण्या यते ॥ १५॥ 
इन्धनास्त्वा शत हिमा धुमन्तर समिधीमहीति शतं वर्षाणि जीव्यासमित्येवैतदाह यदाह शतर हिमा इति घुमन्तर समिधीमहीति महान्त समिधीमहीत्येवैतदाह वयस्वन्तो क्यस्कृत सहस्वन्तः सहस्कृतमिति वयस्वन्तो वयं भूयास्म वयस्कृत्त्वमसीत्येवैतदाह सहस्वन्तो वयं भूयास्म सहस्कृत्त्वमसीत्यग्ने सपत्नदम्भनमदब्धासो अदाभ्यमिति सपना स्त्वया पापीयसः करवामेत्येवैतदाह ॥१६॥ 
चित्रवसो स्वस्ति ते फारमशीयेति त्रिर्जपति रात्रिर्ह वै चित्रावसुरेषा हीमानि चित्राणि संगृह्येव वसति तस्मान्नक्त नारकाचित्रं ददृशे तस्या ह स्मैवमृषयः पुरा स्वस्ति पार 
+-+ 
THI 
THANNELAMI 
M 
nape 
- 
NAS 
me 
. . 
४. 
hi 
HWpTuy 
A 
hai 
S 
AA 
- 
११. बात Ca, PI, B; या करोति Ca १२. राम TE. 
1.4.1.16) 
TRANSLATION 
91 
12. This one was the first here; he was upheld by the upholders: he is the (greatest) offerer (of oblations) (the Hois priest), the best sacrificer, worthy of praise at the sacrifices. (He is the one) whom Apnaväna and the Bhrgus (the Bhrgus-who acquired him) made bright, the colourful one in the forests, the one who pervades in every home". Just as one making a request would speak auspiciously (thus), "You indeed are the descendant of such and such a great person! You surely are capable of this achievement)" and desiring to make (the donor) happy, will praise him, so indeed is this. As he (Agni) really is, so does he (the sacrificer) speak of him (thus). “This (Agni) is pervading in house after house. In accordance with his old splendour, unflinching have milked the white milk of the accessible one who makes it a thousandfold". This is verily the supreme gift-this which is a thousandfold gift. This (praise) is indeed for keeping up that very thing (gift). Therefore does he say. The milk, (from) the wise (sage) (the accessible one) who gives a thousandfold". 
13. This is that collection containing six Rks of that (collection), the first (Rk) has the word 'upa', the last has the word "Pratna'. We recited that because she (the earth) has the word 'upa'( upon ) (and) the yonder (sky) is indeed old (contains the word 'Pratna'). As many gods as there were, of old in the beginning, so many are there even now. In between (the sky and the earth, the gods of old and the gods now) are all the wishes of the sacrificer). He conveys (respectfully) this only to those two. They indeed in accord, bring to him (the fulfilment of) all the wishes. 
14. He mutters the first (Rk) thrice and the last one (100) thrice. Indeed sacrifices have threefold beginning and threefold conclusion. Performing the Agnihotra, whatever one speaks falsely by word or does falsely in action, by that he verily cuts off his own body, life span, splendour or progeny. 
15. He (worships) utters the mantras, "Oh Agni! You are the protector of the body; please protect my body. Oh Agnil you are the bestower of life-span. Please give me (long) life. Oh Agnil you are the giver of splendour. Please give me splendour, Oh Agnil what is deficient in my body, please fill it up". He Verily, in this says (means), "Whatever we cut off here of (our) Hfe, splendour or progeny by our expression or action, may that be made up again for us". That way his (deficiency) is made up again. 
16. (He prays), “Kindling you the brilliant one, may we (continue to) kirdie (the fire) a hundred winters (snowy seasons). What he says. viz., "A hundred winters",-he verily says (means),"May I live a hundred years". (Saying),"Maywe kindle the brilliant one", he verily says (means), "May we kindle the great one, "(We) having vigour (en kindle) (you) the maker (giver) of vigour. (We) (having strength) (enkindle) you the maker (giver) of strength"-(by chis) he only says (means) this,viz., “May we be possessors of vigourl you are the maker (river) of vigour", and "May we be possessors of strength! you are the naker (giver) of 
Ad 
* 
. 
. 
HD 
KĀNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMAŅAM 
[I.4.1,17 
m 
- 
m 
- 
HOM 
समश्नुवते तथैनात्रात्र्या न नाष्ट्रा विवेद तथो वा अस्या एष एतत्स्वस्ति पार समश्नुते तथैन रात्र्या न नाष्ट्रा विन्दति तस्मादाह चित्रावसो स्वस्ति ते पारमाशीयेत्येतावत्तिष्ठन् जपत्यथोपविशति ॥ १७ ॥ - स जपति संत्वमग्ने सूर्यस्य वर्चसागथा इति यदेन सूर्यः प्रविशति समृषीणा स्तुतेनेति यदेनमुपतिष्ठते सं प्रियेण धाम्नेत्याहुत्यैतदाहाहुतिर्ह वा अस्य प्रियं धाम समहमा युषा संवर्चसा संप्रजया सरायस्पोषेण ग्मिषीयेति यथा त्वमेतेन समगथा एवमहमायुषा वर्चसा प्रजया संगच्छमानो भूयासमित्येवैतदाह सरायस्पोषेण ग्मिषीयेति भूमा वै रायस्पोषो भूमेत्येवैतदाह ॥ १८॥ 
अथ गामुपपरैत्यन्धस्थान्धो वो भक्षीय सहःस्थ महो वो भक्षीयेति यानि वो महासि यानि वो वीर्याणि तानि वो भक्षीयेत्येवैतदाहोर्जःस्थोऊं वो भक्षीयेति रसःस्थ रसं वो भक्षीयेत्येवैतदाह रायस्पोषः स्थ रायस्पोषं वो भक्षीयेति भूमा स्थ भूमानं वो भक्षीयेत्येवै तदाह ॥ १९॥ 
रेवती रमध्वमिति पशवो वै रेवन्तस्तस्मादाह रेवती रमध्वमित्यस्मिन्योना अस्मिन्गो ष्ठेऽस्मिन्क्षयेऽस्मिल्लोके। इहैव स्तेतो मापगातेत्यहं वः प्रियो भूयासमित्येवैत दाह ॥ २० ॥ 
अथ गामभिमृशति सहितासि विश्वरूपीति साहिता ह्येषा सर्वैः कामैर्विश्वरूपीति विश्वरूपा हि पशव ऊर्जामाविश गौपत्येनेति रसेनेति तदाह यदाहोति गौपत्येनेति भूम्ने त्येवैतदाह ॥ २१ ॥ - अथ गार्हपत्यमुपपरैत्युपत्वाने दिवे दिवे दोषावस्तर्धिया वयम्। नमो भरन्त एमसीति नम एवास्मा एतया करोति राजन्तमध्वराणां गोपामृतस्य दीदिविम्। वर्धमान वे दम इति खं त इदं यदस्माकं पुष्टं तन्नो भूयो भूय एव कुरु तन्नो वर्धयेत्येवैतदाह स नः पितेव सूनकेऽग्ने सूपायनो भव । सचस्का नः स्वस्तय इति यथा पिता पुत्राय सूपचर एवं नः १६. स्वास्ति है पारस १४. TE.. 
P 
MON 
ii 
MAR 
TOPATI CLIHEESHARE 
Parur 
24 
. 
A 
SH 
. 
NDTV 
PART 
पत्य 
imar 
Free 
HERONM 
: 
CARE THAPandhaan ABY: 
LSPEECH 
SPERME 
FDP 
LE 
AN 
1 
OP 
. 
Rive 
MS 
"E 
, 
ANAL 
.:: 
14.1.211 
TRANSLATION 
24 
1 
U 
33 
strength". And ahead (when he says),“(You) the uninjurable injurer of enemies, (we) the uninjured (enkindle)". He says, (means) verily this,víz, “Mav we, with vou, make our enemies more miserable". 
17. He mutters thrice, "Oh you, the one of colourful wealth! Mar it be well (auspicious) for you! May I reach the other shore (end). (Oh one of variegated riches! May I reach safely your other shore!) Indeed the night is the possessor of brilliant (coloured) wealth. For this one (the night) remains as though having gathered these things of various colours (the stars). Therefore, at night one does not see clearly from afar. (With) her (help) indeed, the sages formerly safely reached the shore of the night). Therefore, the destructive one (Raksasa did not find them by night. In that manner indeed, this person (the sacrificer) safely reaches this shore of this (night) and similarly the destructive one (the Räkşasa) does not find him by night. Therefore does he say, "Oh one with wealth of bright colours! May I safely reach your shore!" So much he mutters standing. Thereafter he sits down. 
18. He mutters, "Oh Agnil you have been united with the splendour of the Sun", for, the Sun enters this (Agni) along with the praise of the Rsis (the sages); wherefore he (the sacrificer) worships him with (at) his pleasing abode with this offering. He says, “Indeed, it is this offering that is his (Agni's) favourite abode. May I well be united with (long) life, with splendour, with progeny and with rich wealth". "Just as you are united with this (vour favourite abode). So may I be united with (long) life, splendour and progeny. This (is) what he verily says (means). (He says), “May I be united with rich wealth". Indeed rich wealth (nourishment of wealth) is 'Abundance'. He verily says (means) this With abundance". 
19. He then approaches the cow, (saying), "You are food! May I eat your food! You are wealth! May I enjoy your wealth?* He verily says (meas) this, "Whatever your riches are, whatever your virilities are, them may I enjoy?" He says (means) verily "You are 'strength"! May I enjoy your strength 1* **You are the essencel May I enjoy your essence!" He verily says (mcans) this, "You are the nourishment of wealth! May I enjoy your rich wealth!" "You are abundance! May I enjoy your abundance!" 
20. (He says), "Oh rich ones! engage in sport". Indeed cattle are rich, Therefore does he say, "Oh rich ones! revel in this sex, in this cowshed, in this residence, in this world". He verily says (means) this, "Remain there itself; don't 
go away from here. Thus may I become dear to you"! ..21. Then he touches the cow (saying); "You are gready favourable, having all. 
forms". Indeed is this (cow) very benign and has all forms, with (hulfilmen 00) all wishes. Indeed cattle have all forms. (He says), "Enter me (come to me) with strength and with possession of cows*. When he says, "With strength, he says 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.4.1.22 
P 
-- 
A 
- 
- 
- 
टिपत्ताभ: 
सूपचर एधीत्येवैतदाह यथा स तं ने केनचन हिनस्त्येवं त्वा मा केनचन हिसिष्मेत्यग्ने त्वं नो अन्तम उत त्राता शिवो भवा वस्थ्यः । वसुरग्निसुश्रवा अच्छा नक्षिधुमत्तम रयिं दाः । । तं त्वा शोचिष्ठ दीदिवः सुम्नाय नूनमीमहे सखिभ्यः। स नो बोधि श्रुधी हवमुरुष्याणो अघायतः समस्मादिति ॥ २२॥ ___ यदाहवनीयमुपतिष्ठते पशूस्तद्याचते तस्मात्तमुच्चावचैश्छन्दोभिरुपतिष्ठत उच्चावाचा हि पशवो यद्गार्हपत्यं पुरुषास्तच्चें गायत्रेण तृचेन पूर्वेणोपतिष्ठते गायत्रमग्नेश्छन्दः स्वेनैवैनं तच्छन्दसोपतिष्ठतेऽथ द्विपदाभिः पुरुषछन्दसं वै द्विपदा द्विपाद्ध्ययं पुरुषः पुरुषान्वा एतद्याचते पशुान्ह पुरुषवान्भवति य एवं विद्वानुपतिष्ठते ॥ २३॥ __ अथ गामुपपरैतीळ एह्यदित एहि काम्य एहीतीळा हि गौरदितिर्हि गौः काम्या हि गौः कामो ह्यासु मनुष्याणां प्रविष्टो मयि वः कामधरणमित्यहं वः प्रियो भूयासमित्येवैत दाह ॥ २४॥ __ अथान्तराहवनीयं च गार्हपत्यं च तिष्ठन्प्राङ् तिष्ठन्नाहवनीयमीक्षमाणो जपति सोमानर स्वरणं कृणुहि ब्रह्मणस्पचे । कक्षीवन्तं य औशिजः । यो रेवान्यो अमीवहा वसुवित्पुष्टिव र्धनः। स नः सिषक्तु यस्तुरः। मा नः शसो अररुषो धूर्तिः प्रणङ्मय॑स्य । रक्षाणो ब्रह्मणस्पत इति ॥ २५ ॥ - बदाहवनीयमुपतिष्ठते दिवं तदुपतिष्ठते यद्गार्हपत्यं पृथिवीं तदथैतदन्तरिक्षमुपतिष्ठते तस्माद्राह्मणस्पत्येन तृचेनोपतिष्ठत एषा हि दिग्ब्रह्मणस्पतेरेतार हि दिशमुपतिष्ठते महि त्रीणामकोऽस्तु धुक्षं मित्रस्यार्यम्णः । दुराधर्ष वरुणस्य । न हि तेषाममा चन नाध्वसु कारणेषु । ईसे रिपुरधशः सः। ते हि पुत्रासो अदितेः प्र॒जीवसे माय । ज्योतिर्यच्छन्त्य 
RVE 
- 
1 
RE 
THOUT 
+ 
manure 
• MiniPERH 
SALA 
. 
P 
:. 
" 
. 
420 
. 
१५. "TE. १६. अन्ना TE, VE, w.. १०, कक्रवाह awr. 
1.4.1.25) 
TRANSLATION 
TXY. 
SSCS 
114 
Par 
A 
CE 
(means), "With essence". (By saying), "With possession of cows“, he verily says (means) this, “With abundance". 
22. Then he goes near the Garhapatya (chanting), “Oh Agnil we approach you every day, at dusk and dawn, conveying our obeisance with our thought". By this (Rk) he verily performs obeisance to this (Agni). (He chants), "(Weapproach you) Who are the shining protector of sacrifices and the effulgent (protector) of the Sacred Law (Rta) and who thrives in your own home"He (in this) verily savs (means) this, "What is our nourishment, this is your own thing. Make it more and more for us! That of ours please increase". (He chants), "Oh Agnil be of good (easy) access to us, like a father to his son. Take us (on) for the sake of well-being ". Just as a father is easy for a son to serve (to move near), thus yeni please be easy for us to serve (approach)-this is just what he says (incans), das also) "Just as he (the son) does not in any way hurt him (the father), in the same way, may we not hurt you in any way". (He further chants), "Oh Agni voru please be proximate to us, (be) our protector, (be) auspicious, vou-the head of a host (of gods)! (you who provide security)!" Agni is the wealth, (Agni has) wealthy fame. (Agni is famed for wealth). Come towards us, you the bestower of most glowing wealth!" Oh most bright one! Oh resplendent one! We corne to you for happiness for (our) friends. Please understand us. listen to our call (prayer). Please be desirous of saving us from all evil-doers". 
23. That he worships the Ahavanija, (means) that he prays (in that) for (obtaining) cattle. Therefore he worships it (Ahavaniya) with metres, lofty and short. Indeed cattle are (of sizes) great and small. (That he worships) Garbapaty (means that he prays for obtaining) men. Therefore he worships (the Gärhapatya) first with a triadof Rks in Gayatri metre.Gayatra is the metre of Agni. He (the sacrificer) therefore, worships this (Agni) with its own metre. Then (he worships Gärhapanya) with Rks with two feet (padas). Indeed the deadá (Rk with two feet) is man's metre. Verily this, the man is a biped. Indeed with this he (the sacrificer) prays for (obtaining) men. He who knowing thus, worships becomes Verily one possessed of cattle and possessed of men. 
24. Then he goes very near the cow (chanting),"Oh ida! come here". "Oh Aditi! Come here!" "Oh covetable one! Come here". Indeed the cow is idā; indeed the cow is Aditi; indeed covetable is the cowl verily desire for them (cows) entered men as,"In me is the bearing of desire for you (I desire for youa)". He verily says (means) this, “May I become dear to you". 
25. Then standing between Ahavuniya and Gerkapatya and facing cast, looking at the Ahavaniya, he (the sacrificer) mutters, "Oh lord of Brahman (Veda)! Make the offerer of Soma sweet-voiced (the offerer) Kakşivant who is the son of Usij, who is the possessor of wealth, who destroys Woe, who finds wealth and who increases nourishment, may he the fleet one, get attached to ux. Let not the curse of the evil-doer (enemy) and the hurt of (Caused by) me reach t. Oh Lord of Vedal Protect us". 
LY 
7. 
Stas 
Trata. 
- 
B 
. 
0 
m 
KÄNVA-SATAPATHABRĀHMANAM 
[1.4.1.26-- 
PRA 
. 
D 
. 
४ 
६ 
- 
जस्रमितीमे वा अध्वनो वारणाय इमेऽन्तरा द्यावापृथिव्यौ तानेवैतदुपतिष्ठते तथा हैनमेते 
ध्वसु वारणेषु न नाष्ट्रा रक्षाऽसि विन्दन्ति ॥ २६ ॥ __ अथैन्धेन्द्रो यज्ञस्य देवता सेन्द्रमेवैतदग्न्युपस्थानं करोति कदाचन स्तरीरसि नेन्द्र सञ्चसि दाशुष इति कदा चन यजमानाय द्रुह्यसीत्येवैतदाहोपोपेन्नु मघवन्भूय इन्नुते दानं देवस्य पृच्यत इत्युपोपेन्नु यं न इदं पुष्टं तन्नो भूयो भूय एव कुरु तं नो वर्धयेत्येवैत दाह ॥ २७॥ 
अथ सावित्र्या सविता वै देवानां प्रसविता तथो हास्मा एते सवितृप्रसूताः सर्वे कामाः समृध्यन्ते तत्सवितुर्वरेण्यं भर्गो देवस्य धीमहि । धियो यो नः प्रचोदयादिति ॥ २८ ॥ __ अथाग्नेय्या तदन य एवोत्तमं गुप्तये परिधत्ते परि ते दूळभो रथोऽस्मा अश्नोतु विश्वतः । येन रक्षसि दाशुष इति यजमाना वै दावा सो यस्तेऽनाधृष्यतमो रथो येन यजमानान्गोपायसि तेन नः सर्वतो गोपायेत्येवैतदाह ॥ २९॥ __ अथ पुत्रस्य नाम गृह्णातीदं मे कर्मेदं वीर्य पुत्रोऽनुसन्तनोत्विति तथा हास्यैतत्कर्मैतद्वीर्य पुत्रोऽनुसन्तनोति यदि पुत्रो न स्यादप्यात्मन एव गृह्णीयात् ॥ ३० ॥ इति प्रथमं ब्राह्मणम्॥ 
. 
- 
- 
-- 
द्वितीयं ब्राह्मणम् स वा अग्निहोत्र हुत्वा सायमुपतिष्ठते भूर्भुवः स्वरिति ताच सत्येन समर्धयति तया समृद्धयाशिष आशस्ते सुप्रजाः प्रजया भूयासमिति तत्प्रजामाशास्ते सुवीरो चारैरिति तद्वीरानाशास्ते सुपोषः पोषैरिति तत्पुष्टिं भूमानमाशास्ते यद्वा अदोऽपि दीर्घमग्न्युपस्थान 
TREERIm 
HTTE 
२७. अथै केन्द्रो TE. 
२६. पन Ca... .१२. C B,K. 
२३. See NAMES Om plata. 
: 
1.4.2.1) 
TRANSLATION 
1 
pa 
WILS 
26. That he worships the Ahavaniya (amounts to this) that he worships the sky; (that he worships) the Gürhapaiya (means that he worships) the earthThen does he worship this mid region (ether). Therefore he worships (it) with a triad of Rks that praises Brahmanaspati (the lord of Vedas) (the lord of expression). Indeed this (mid region, the ether) is the direction of Brahmanaspati. Indeed he worships this direction (thus), "May the great heavenly and unassailable protection of the three, viz.. Mitra, Aryaman and Varuna be (with us)! The enemy who speaks ill (curses) indeed does not have power over them (who are thus protected), at home or on the roads that might prevent (one's movement). For, verily, those sons of Aditi constantly provide light for the man to live". These indeed are the obstacles of the paths, these that are in between heaven and earth. He verily worships them thus. Therefore, indeed, the destructive demons (Rākşasas) do not find him out in these paths that would (otherwise) be beset with obstacles. 
27. Then (he worships) with a prayer dedicated to Indra. Indra is the deity of the sacrifice. He (the sacrificer) makes this worship of Agni verily to be (connected) with Indra. (He says) "Oh Iridra! you are never barren. You cling to (honour) the givers (of oblations). 
He verily says (means) this, "Never do you harm (never are you malicious towards) the sacrificer". 
"Oh mighty godt more and more, indeed, and ever more does the gift of you, the god, increase" (By saying),"More and more, indeed". This is what he verily says (means), "This our nourishment (prosperity)- please make it verily more and more for us. Increase it for us".. 
28. Then (he worsnips) with a Rk addressed to Savitr. Indeed Savitr(the Sun) is the begetter of the gods. Therefore do all these desires, produced by Savitr get fulfilled for him. (He chants), "May we meditate upon the supenor effulgence of the divine Savitr, who will prompt our mental faculties!** 
29. Then (he worships) with a Rk addressed to Agri. By that, at last he gives (himself) to Agni for protection. (He chants), "May your infocessible chariot surround us to protect) all around-the chariot by which you protect the givers (of oblations)". Indeed the sacrificers are the givers (of oblations). He verily says (means) this, "That your most inaccessible chariot with which you protect the sacrificers- with that protect us from everything (all around). 
30. He then utters the name of (his) son. (He saysMay(my) son continue this my task, this (my) virility." In that same manner does his son continue this task of his and this virility. If there is no son, then he should urter his own (114me). 
(First Brahmana Ends) 
BRAHMANA II . After performing the Agnihotra, he worships (the Agni) in the evening, 
Y 
$ 
H 
TO 
FIL 82 
L 
. 
74 
MS 
"
KĀNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.4.2.1 
- 
HINDWA 
HI. 
- 
माशीर्वाव साशीर्ववेयं तदनेनैवेतत्सर्वं पर्याप्नोति तस्मादनेनैवोपतिष्ठेतैतेन-वावयमुपच राम इति ह स्मासुरिराह ॥ १॥ 
अथ खलु प्रवत्स्यन्गार्हपत्यमेवाग्र उपतिष्ठतेऽथाहवनीय स गार्हपत्यमुपतिष्ठते नैर्य प्रजा मे पाहीति प्रजाया हैष ईष्टे तत्प्रजामेवास्मा एतत्परिददाति गुप्तयेऽथाहवनीयमुपतिष्ठते शस्य पशून्मे पाहीति पशूना हैष ईष्टे तत्पशूनेवास्मा एतत्परिददाति गुप्तये॥२॥ अथ प्र वा व्रजति प्र वा धावयति स यत्र वेलां मन्यते तत्प्राप्य वाचं विसृजतेऽथ प्रोष्य पुनरेत्य यत्र वेलां मन्यते तत्प्राप्य वाचं यच्छति स यद्यप्यन्तरेण राजा स्यान्नैव तमुपेयात्स आहवनीयमेवाग्र उपतिष्ठतेऽथ गार्हपत्यं गृहा वै गार्हपत्यः प्रतिष्ठा वै गृहा गृहेष्वेवैतत्प्रति ठायामन्ततः प्रतितिष्ठति ॥ ३॥ 
स आहवनीयमुपतिष्ठत आगन्म विश्ववेदसमस्मभ्यं वसुवित्तममित्यथोपविश्य तृणा न्यपलुम्पत्यम्ने सम्राळभिद्युम्नमभि सह आयच्छवेत्यथ गार्हपत्यमुपतिष्ठतेऽयमग्निर्गृहप तिर्हिपत्यः प्रजवान्वसुवित्तम इत्यथोपविश्य तृणान्यपलुम्पत्यग्ने गृहपतेऽभि द्युम्नमभि सह आयच्छस्वेतीति नु स उपतिष्ठेत यो मन्त्रेणोपतिष्ठेत ॥४॥ 
सवै तूष्णीमेवोपतिष्ठेत यस्मिन्वाव ब्राह्मणो वा राजा वा मनुष्योन्वेव श्रेय्मन्वसेत्तन्वाव स नार्हति वक्तुमेतन्मम त्वं गोपाय प्राहं वत्स्यामीत्यथैत एतस्मिञ्छेया सो देवा अग्नयो क्सन्ति क उ अर्हत्येतावक्तुमेतन्मम यूयं गोपायत प्राहं वत्स्यामीति तस्मात्तूष्णीमेवोपति ठेत स गार्हपत्यमेवान उपतिष्ठेत ॥ ५॥ - अथाहवनीय स गार्हपत्यमुपतिष्ठते तूष्णीमेव मनो वै देवा मनुष्यस्याजानन्ति तस्य गाई पत्यो मन आजानाति प्रवत्स्यन्मा परिदामुपागादित्यथाहवनीयमुपतिष्ठते तूष्णीमेव तस्वाहवनीयो मन आज्जनाति प्रवस्यन्मा परि दामुपागादिति ॥६॥ 
ST 
N 
SAMM 
E 
- 
- 
ARE 
mamign 
TRA 
m 
PANEENA 
m 
HER 
FUTORE 
क 
PER 
FIR 
14-Page1 
HAPP 
% 
HAPER 
-- 
HERE 
१. 
- 
| 
- 
- 
. 
४. उपाय Ca, AM, Myt se Notes 
न 
.. 
5eA 
1.4.2.6) 
TRANSLATION 
(saying)"Bhuih, Bhuvuḥ, Svah"(the earth, the ether, the sky). By that he enriches his speech with truth. With that (speech) enriched, he invokes blessings (thus). "May I with progeny, become one possessed of good progeny". Thus he hopes (prays) for progeny. He prays for heroic men by saying "(May I become) one possessed of heroes, with heroic inen ".Saying, “(May I become) one possessed of good nourishment, with nourishing things", he prays for nourishment (abundance)"That long fire-worship also is, indeed, a prayer for blessing. This (short) one, too, is indeed that (same) prayer for blessing. Therefore, one gets all this (blessing) even with this (short prayer to Agni). Therefore one may worship verily with this-we serve (Agni) verily with this"-so said Asuri, indeed. 
2. Now when he is about to (go away on a journey) live away (from home), he first worships Garhapatya only and afterwards (he worships) Ahavanin. He worships Gärhapatya (chanting), "Oh one benign to men! please protect my progeny”. For this (Agni) has power over progeny. Therefore he (the sacrificer) now makes over verily his progeny to him (Agri) for protection. Then he worships Ahavaniya (chanting), "Oh one worthy of praise! please protect my cattle". For, this (Agni) has power over cattle. Therefore does he (the sacrificer) now make over verily his cattle to him (Agni) for protection. 
3. Then he either walks off or drives off. Reaching that (place) where he thinks the boundary to be, he lets out speech (breaks his silence). Having lived abroad and returning and reaching that (place) where he considers the boundary to be, he restrains his speech (observes silence). Even if a king should be within this residence), he should not go upto him. He first worships Ahavaniya only and then (only) Gürhapatya. Indeed, the Garlanmalm is the bromle. The home is the (established) residential place, indeed. He vexily thereby texts ultimately in the house itself, (which is the resting place. 
4. He worships the Aharaniwa, (chanting) "We have come to the All-knowing one who is the greatest finder (bestower) of wealth for us " Then having sat down, he removes the blades of grass, saying "Oh Agni, the sovereign lordI give (us) wealth (lustre) and strength". Then he worships the Garhapatya, (saying) "This Agni Garhapatra is the lord of the house. He is possessed of progeny and he is the greatest finder (bestower) of wezih". Then having sat down, he removes the blades of grass (saving) Oh Agnil master of the house! please bestow on us (wealth) lustre and strength". He who would worship with mantras should worship thus. 
5. Indeed, he may worship silently. 
Where there may be a Brāhmin, a king or a noble(laudable, person, it is not proper indeed, for him the head of the house) to say to hin, "You please guard this (house) of mine, I shall be going on a journey. (I shall be living abroad)" And these the superior gods, the Agnis, dwell in this place). Who then is fit to say to them, "You please protect this (house) of mitte. I shall be living abroad, Therefore one may well worship silently. He first verily worships Garkaga. 
6. Then (he worstripe) Aharoniya He worship the Gürkayutyan silently indeed. 
YO. 
Per 
. 
HAUS 
1 
2 
12 
404 
. 
wir 
SE 
2. 
V6 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRĀHMANAM 
[I.4.2.7-- 
A 
Mean 
अथ प्र वा व्रजति प्र वा धावयति स या वेळां मन्यते तत्प्राप्य वाचं विसृजतेऽथ प्रोष्य पुनरेत्य यत्र वेळां मन्यते तत्प्राप्य वाचं यच्छति स यद्यप्यन्तरेण राजा स्यान्नैव तमुपेयात्स आहवनीयमेवाग्र उपतिष्ठतेऽथ गार्हपत्यं गृहा वै गार्हपत्यः प्रतिष्ठा वै गृहा गृहेष्वेवैतत्प्रतिष्ठायामन्ततः प्रतितिष्ठति ॥ ७ ॥ 
स आहवनीयमुपतिष्ठते तूष्णीमेव तूष्णीमेवोपविश्य तृणान्यपलुम्पत्यथ गार्हपत्यमुप तिष्ठते तूष्णीमेव तूष्णीमेवोपविश्य तृणान्यपलुम्पति ॥ ८॥ 
स यद्यप्येता रात्रि- सुक्रुद्ध इव स्थाच एव तद्भूते कुर्याद्वा वदेद्वैतदु ह वै गृहपतेः प्रोषुष आगताद्गृहाः समुत्रस्येव तिष्ठन्ति किमयमिह करिष्यति किं वा वदिष्यतीति स यदिह किश्चित्करोति वा वदति वा तस्य हेश्वरो गृहाः प्रत्रसन्ति तस्य हेश्वरो गृहा विक्षोधोरथ यो न किञ्चन करोति न किञ्चन वदति तस्य गृहा न प्रत्रसन्ति तस्य गृहा न विक्षोभन्त एष उ गृहाणामुपचारः ॥ ९ ॥ __स उपतिष्ठते गुहा मा बिभीत मा वेपध्वमूर्ज बिभ्रत एमसि । ऊर्ज बिभ्रद्वः सुमनाः सुमेधा गृहानैमि मनसा मोदमानः । येषामध्येति प्रवसन्येषु सौमनसो बहुः । गृहानुपह्वया महे तेनो जानन्तु जानतः । उपहूता इह गाव उपहूता अजावयः। अथो अन्नस्य कीलाल उपहूतो गृहेषु न इति ॥ १० ॥ इति द्वितीयं ब्राह्मणम् ॥ 
- 
- 
आगता 
नारा 
ANA 
obs 
anbar 
ress 
A 
BETAIL 
TRPORA 
18-19 
- 
En 
- 
HAPA 
। 
तृतीयं ब्राह्मणम् प्रजापतिई का इदमेक एवास स हेक्षाचक्रे कथं नु प्रजायेयेति सोऽश्राम्यत्स तपोऽतप्यत स प्रजाः ससृजे तम अस्य प्रजाः सृष्टाः परा बभूवुस्तानीमानि वयासि पुरुषो वा अयं नेदिष्ठं प्रजापतेः स द्विपात्तस्माद्विपादो वयासि ॥ १ ॥ 
- 
SAT 
HANP 
MOH 
' 
. 
SSPARONASH 
SURE 
. 
. 
4Free Pा upre) प्रवासीन्द्र in TE. 
See Notes on 1-4-1-5. 
- 
1.4.3.1) 
TRANSLATION 
TA 
. 
For, the gods know the mind of man. The Garhapatya knows his mind and thinks), “This person) who is going to live abroad has approached me the bestower". Then he worships the Ahavaniya verily silently. The Äharanžna knows his mind (and thinks), "(This person) who is going to live abroad has approached me the bestower". 
7. Then he either walks off or drives off, where he considers (it to be) the boundary, reaching that (place) he speaks (breaks his silence). Then having lived abroad and coming back again, reaching that (place) where he considers the boundary to be, he restrains his speech (undertakes silence). If there should be within the house) even a king, he (the householder) should not go uptohim (but) he approaches (worships) first only Ahavaniya and then the Gürhapatra. Indeed the Gārhapatya (Agni) is the home, the home is the established resting place. Thus he ultimately remains firmly established only in the home. 
8. He worships the Ahavanīya silently, sitting only silently, he removes the blades of grass. Then he approaches (worships) the Gärhamata silently, Sitting only silently, he removes the blades of grass. 
9. Though he might be angry, as it were, this night of his return home), only when the morrow has come may he do (anything) or say (anything), for this reason that the house remains afraid, as it were, of the master of the house who had been living away and who has returned the house (thinking), "What is this person going to do here? What is he going to say? Whatever the master does here or says, his house fears, the house gets agitated: for he is the lord. (But) then, the house of that person who does nothing and says nothing does not fear, it does not get agitated. This is verily the observance (approach) with regard to the house. 
10. He worhips (approaches the house saying), "Oh housel don't fear. Don't tremble. We come bearing strength. Bearing strength, with an auspicous mind and auspicous memory, rejoicing with the mind I come to you, the house. We invoke the house which one gets to (after) remaining away and in which are many who have auspicious minds (or, wherein are many gods). May that house understand us who understand it! Here are (invoked) invited the cows. Invited are the goats and sheep and invoked is food and water in our home ** 
(Second Brähmaņa Ends) 
red 
11 
ALL 
$ 
1 
. 
LE 
12 
- 
. 
Cha 
12 
MAT: 
y 
. 
WS 
y 
. 
D 
# 
m 
TO 
AN 
1 
5 
1. Prajapati alone was here, indeed (in the beginning). He verily saw 
2 
. . 
W 
0342 
WLS 
He performed penance. He created the creatures. Those creatures that were 
ed by him languished (went away). They are these birds. Indeed man is the nearest to Prajāpati. He is a biped. Hence birds are tipede. 
Lu 
-1 
102 
KĀNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.4.3.2 
स हेक्षा चक्रे यथा न्वाव पुरैळोऽभूवमेवमु न्वाँ अस्मीति स द्वितीयाः ससृजे ताः परैव बभूवुस्तदिदं क्षुद्र सरीसृपं यदन्यत्सर्पेभ्यस्तृतीयाः ससृजे ताः परैव बभूवुस्ते सर्पा इत्याहुरेता हत्वै द्वयीर्याज्ञवल्क्य उवाच त्र्य्यस्तु पुनर्ऋचा भवन्ति ॥ २ ॥ 
सोऽर्चाम्यन्प्रजापतिः कथं नु मे प्रजाः सृष्टाः पराभवन्तीति स एतदेव ददशनिश्न दतैव परा भवन्तीति स आत्मन्येवाग्रे स्तनयोः पय आप्याययांचक्रेऽथ प्रजाः ससृजे ता 
अस्य प्रजाः सृष्टाः स्तनावेवाभिपद्य ततः संबभूवुस्ता इमा अपराभूताः ॥ ३ ॥ 
तस्मादप्येतदृषिणाभ्यमूक्तं प्रजा ह तिस्रो अत्यायमीयुरिति या अमूः पराभूतान्यन्या अर्कमभितो विविश्र इत्यग्निर्वा अर्कस्तमिमाः प्रजा अभितो निविष्टा या इमा अपराभूता महद्ध तस्थौ भुवनेश्वन्तरिति प्रजापतिमेवैतदभ्यनूक्तं पवमानो हरित आविवेशेति दिशो वै हरितस्ता अयं पवमान आविष्टः सैषर्गेवैतदभ्यनूक्ता तदप्येतर्हि तथैव प्रजाः प्र॒जायन्ते यथा प्रजापतिः प्रजा असृजतेदः हि यदैव स्त्रियाः स्तनावाप्यायेते ऊधः पशूनामथ यज्जायते तज्जायत एवं ग्रे प्रजापतिः प्रजा असृजत ॥४॥ ___ तद्वा आहुः पय एवान्नमित्येतद्ध्यो प्रजापतिरन्नमजनयतेति तद्वा आहुरनमेव प्रजा इतीदर हि यासा पोऽस्ति जाता एव तास्तनावेवाभिपद्यततः संभवन्ति यासु वै पयो नास्ति जातमेव ता अप्यादयन्ति तस्मादाहुरन्नमेव प्रजा इति स य एतेन हविषा प्रजाकामो यजत आत्मानमेवैतद्यज्ञं विधत्ते प्रजापतिं भूतम् ॥ ५॥ - स एष आग्नेयोऽष्टाकपालो भवत्यग्नि देवतानां मुखं प्रजनयिता तस्मादानेयोऽष्टाक 
पालो भवति ॥ ६॥ 
RA 
T 
FLUE 
- 
- 
LOPE 
- 
- 
- 
- 
24 
AHE 
HERE 
Roa... 
: 
THAN 
A 
- 
+ 
TIME 
AL SI-FIVE 
म 
--- 
SARLATE 
4NRA 
मान. 
REAL 
aai 
. 
त 
... 
.... 
....... 
. 
! 
.: 
SIANP 
७. उभयमेवमा कास्मीति TESभवमेवमुन्या अमी P1, P2; भूवमेवमु न्वाहास्मीति M. ८. अनशनतीक TE; अनभदव My; अनशनरतव C; अनवदलव Mp see Notes. 
1.4.3.6) 
IV 
. 
pe 
Art 
yor' 
Yu 
LLKL 
- 
GO 
T 
- 
# 
1 
2. He (Prajāpati) verily looked about (thought), "Even as I was alone formerly, so am I (now) verily (alone) " He created a second batch of living beingsi. "They too verily languished (went away). That is this vile (small) (species) reptile which is different from snakes. He created a third (batch of beings). They too veril¥ languished. They (the people) say,"They are the serpents". Yājñavalkya said, "These are indeed of two kinds”. But according to the Rk, they are of three kinds. 
3. Worshipping and exerting himself, Prajāpati (thought). "How is it that my creatures that were created languish (perish)?" He discovered verily this, They languish (because of) not eating (food)". He provided milk, even at first, in the two breasts in the body itself and afterwards created the creatures. Those creatures of this that had been created came to be found(well){they survived). having taken verily to the breasts. They are these creatures that have not languished (that have not perished). 
4. Therefore too, has this been repeated (said) by the Rsi (Veda) (thus). "Three generations indeed, passed beyond". Those (generations) are those that perished, "The others settled around the Sun (Arka). Surely Agni is Arta. These creatures which have not perished have settled around him (Agni) 'the great one' verily remained within the worlds. This has been said only with regard to Prajāpati. “The blower (purifier) entered into the directions (quarters)". The directions are indeed the quarters (regions). This blower (purifier) (the wind) has entered into them. This Rk itself has been recited with regard to this. It is (so) even now; creatures are born in the same manner as Prajapati created the creatures. It is indeed this; when the two breasts of a woman and the udder of (cows) cattle are filled up (with milk), thereafter is bom,what is born (the creature) (the offspring). It was verily thus that Prajapati created the creatures at first. 
5. About that they (people) say, Verily milk is food", "For Prajapati atated verily this (milk) as food". (People) say about it, “Indeed food tself is the creature (being)". It is this -those (creatures), even as they are born, live (exist) thereafter only resorting to the breasts of those who have milk. Those who have no milk, they too feed the just born (infant) (with other food). Therefore they say, "Food itself is the creature", He who, being desirous of progeny, sacrifices with this oblation, thus makes himself verily this sacrifice which is Prajapati. 
6. This (offering) belonging to Agni is on eight potsherds. Indeed Agni is the mouth of the gods; he is the progenitor (of the gods). Hence is the offering to Agni on eight potsherds. 
it's 
1 
2.4. 
LL 
+ 
152 
9 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRĀHMANAM 
[I.4.3.7 
A 
Hit 
सौम्यश्चरुः सोमो वै रेतस्तदग्नौ प्रजनयितरि सोम रेतः सिञ्चति तत्पुरस्तान्मिथुन प्रजननं क्रियते ॥ ७॥ 
अथ सावित्रो द्वादशकपालो वा भवत्यष्टाकपालो वा सविता वै देवानां प्रसविता प्रजापतिमध्यतः प्रजनयिता तस्मात्सावित्रो द्वादशकपालो वा भवत्यष्टाकपालो वा ॥ ८ ॥ 
सारस्वतश्चरुः पौणश्चर्योषा सरस्वती वृषा पूषा तदु पुनरुपरिष्टान्मिथुनं प्रजननं क्रियत उभयतो ह वै मिथुनात्प्रजापतिः प्रजाः ससृज इतश्चोर्ध्वा इतश्चावाचीस्तथो वा एष एतदुभयतो मिथुनात्प्रजाः सृजत इतश्चोर्ध्वा इतश्चावाचीस्तस्मादेतानि पञ्च हवी षि 
भवन्ति ॥९॥ 
अथातः पयस्याया एवायतनं मारुतस्तु सप्तकपालो भवति स यन्मारुतः सप्तकपालो भवति विशो वै मरुतो देवविशस्ता हेदमनिषिद्धा इव चेरुस्ता ह प्रजापति यजमानमुपेत्यो चुर्यु ते प्रजा मथिष्यामह इति या एतेन हविषा स्रक्ष्यसे न चेन्नोऽत्र भागं कल्पयिष्य सीति ॥१०॥ 
स हेक्षांचक्रे प्रजापतिः परा मे पूर्वाः प्रजा अभूवन्निम उ चेद्वा इमा विमश्नते ततो मे न किञ्चन परिशेक्ष्यत इति तत एभ्य एतं भागमकल्पयत्स स एष मरुतः सप्तकपालः स यत्सप्तकपालो भवति सप्त सप्त हि मारुतो गणः ॥ ११ ॥ 
सखतवद्भयः स्यात्स्वयः हि ते तं भागमकल्पयन्त तदुत याज्यानुवाक्ये स्वतवत्यौ न विन्दति यदि याज्यानुवाक्ये स्वतवत्यौ न विन्देदपि मारुत्यावेव स्याता स एष प्रजानामे बाहिरसायै प्रजाना शान्तये क्रियते तस्मान्मारुतः सप्तकपालो भवति ॥ १२ ॥ 
१ 
HALAMAL 
M 
+ 
A 
dvanta 
. 
4. 
१ 
pasat 
९. प्रचयितर्हि TE, My. १०. देवजिट का Ca, देवविशस्ता in M,D; See Notes. ११. अनिफेडा M; अविषेश Ca; अनिषिद्धा M. १२. जिम्मा छ TE.. 
.... . 
ANP 
. 
. 
. 
1.4.3.12] 
TRANSLATION 
7. Then is offered a caru (boiled rice) dedicated to Soma. Indeed Soma is the seed (semen). He (the sacrificer) pours Soma, that semen, into Agni che progenitor. Thereby is formed at the outset a productive pair. 
8. Then there is the offering of oblation) dedicated to Savits, either on twelve potsherds or on eight potsherds. Indeed, Savits is the begetter of the gods. (He is) Prajāpati (the lord of created beings), the intermediate progenitor. Therefore, the offering to Savitr is either on twelve potsherds or on eight potsherds. 
9. (Then there is offered) a caru (boiled rice offering) to Sarasvati (and there is) a caru for Pūşan. Sarasvati is female, Puşan is male. That again, is made into a later productive couple. Prajāpati indeed, created creatures from the two fold pair (union)-they (the creatures)that were before now and those that are later (in that will be) (they that are (straight) upward from there (the ground) and they that are (bent) downward]. Similarly does this (sacrificer)produce (lxeget) creatures from the two fold pair (union-those that are upward and those that are downward. Therefore are these five offerings (made). 
10. Thereafter verily (comes) the basis of curds: the offering to Maruts is on seven potsherds. (The reason) why (the offering) to Manuts is on seven potsherds (is that) the Maruts are Vis (common subjects), the subjects of the gods. They went about here, indeed, unchecked as it were. Having approached Prajāpati who was performing a sacrifice, they said, "If you do not allot a share to us in this offering in the sacrifice) we shall destroy these, the creatures, which you are going to create with this oblation". 
11. Prajāpati observed, "My former creatures have perished. If these (Maruts) destroy these (creatures to be created), then nothing will be left over for me 
Then he allotted to them this share. This offering to Maruis is on seven potsherds. (The reason) why it is on seven potsherds (is that) inderd the host of Maruts is (in groups of seven and seven (each). .. 
12. That (share ) should be for the self-strong (Manuts); for, they made (got) that share for themselves. But then, they (the priests ) do not find the two (chants) for offering and subsequent address, related to the self-strong (Maruts). If one cannot find the two (chants ) Yand and annudky related to the * Self-possessed, then they (the two chants) may be the two addressed to Maruts (in general). This (offering) is made just for the sake of non-hurt to the 
. 
won 
! 
AL 
I 
3 
10. 
LUI 
. 
. 
LAULA 
1r 
e 
1 
the offering to Maruts become (one) on seven pesherds. 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRĀHMANAM 
[I.4.3.13 
। 
१ 
म 
. 
A 
अथातः पयस्यैव पयसो वै प्रजाः संभूताः पयसः संभवन्ति तद्यत एव संभूता यतस्संभवन्ति तदेवाभ्य एतत्करोति तद्या एभिः पूर्हविर्भिः प्रजाः सृजते ता एतस्मात्पयस एतस्याः पयस्यायाः संभवन्ति तस्यां मिथुनमस्ति योषा पयस्या रेतो वाजिनमेतस्माद्वै मिथुनाद्विश्वमसमितमनु प्र॒जायत स यदस्या विश्वमसंमितमनु प्र॒जायत तस्माद्वैश्व 
देवी ॥ १३ ॥ 
अथ द्यावापृथिव्य एककपाल एतैः पूर्वैर्हविर्भिः प्रजापतिः प्रजापतिः प्रजास्सृष्ट्वा ता द्यावापृथिवीभ्यां परिजग्राह ता इमाः प्रजा आभ्यां द्यावापृथिवीभ्यां परिगृहीतास्तथो वा एष एतद्या एतैः पूर्वैर्हविर्भिः प्रजा सृजते ता द्यावापृथिवीभ्यां परिगृह्णाति तस्मा द्यावा पृथिव्य एककपालः ॥ १४ ॥ __ अथात आवृदेव नोत्तरवेदिमुपकिरति सर्वमसद्विसृष्टमसद्वैश्वदेवमसदिति त्रेधा बर्हिः सन्नद्धं तत्पुनरेकधा भवत्येव हि प्रजननस्य रूपं प्रजनन हीदं त्रेधा विहितर हीदं प्रजननं पिता माता यज्जायते तत्तृतीयं तस्मात्रेधा बर्हिः सन्नद्धं तत्पुनरेकधा भवति प्र स्व उपसनद्धा भवन्ति ताः प्रस्तरं गृह्णाति प्रजनन हीदं प्रजनन हि प्रस्वः ॥१५॥ 
आसाद्य हवी व्यग्निं मन्थत्यग्निः ह वै जायमानमनु प्रजापतेः प्रजा जज्ञिरे तथो वा एतस्याग्निमेव जायमानमनु प्रजा जायन्ते नवप्रयाजं भवति नवानुयाजं दशाक्षरा वै विराट सैषा सम्पत्तामेवैतदुभयतो न्यूनां करोति प्रजननाय न्यूनाद्धीमाः प्रजाः प्रजायन्त उभयतो ह वै न्यूनात्प्रजापतिः प्रजाः ससृज इतश्चोर्ध्वा इतश्चावाचीस्तथो वा एष एतदुभयतो न्यूनात्प्रजाः सृजत इतश्चोर्ध्वा इतश्चावाचीस्तस्मान्नवप्रयाजं भवति नवानुयाजम् ॥ १६ ॥ 
क्रीणि समिष्टयजूषि जुहोति ज्यायो हीद हविर्यज्ञाद्यं नवप्रयाजं नवानुयाजमित्यथो अप्येकमेव जुहुयाद्धविर्यज्ञो ह्येष तस्य प्रथमजो गौदक्षिणायमिव हीदमिति स एतेनेष्ट्वा 
PRA 
R 
MOHALPATTEF 
" 
OPEN 
SHTRA 
PLEASE 
TE 
. 
+ 
POTENAME 
ARTTER 
T 
PAL 
Hinmmm 
HD 
- 
Part 
त 
AAAA 
355P4 
. 
- 
- 
१३. Pl. १४. एतले इविधि, Ca 
1.4.3.16) 
TRANSLATION 
TIP 
13. Now then, (comes the offering of) curds. Verily from milk did the creatures come to be. They exist on account of milk (subsisting on it). Therefore he (the sacrificer) offers to them that very thing from which they have sprung up and wherefore they exist. Thus the creatures which he (the sacrificer) produces with these former offerings they arise from this milk and from these curds. There is a couple in that (in the curds). The curds are female. The whey is the semen. From this pair indeed was then born the 'AN (universe-like). Because the 'all' (universe-like ) was subsequently born of this (these curds), therefore that the curds offering ) is what has the Visvedevas as its deity. 
14. Then there is the offering) to Heaven and Earth, on a single potsherd. Prajāpati, having created the creatures by means of these very oblations, enclosed them (between) with Heaven and Earth. In that (same) manner is that he (the sacrificer) encloses with Heaven and Earth the creatures which he produces by means of these foregoing offerings. Therefore (is this offering made) for Heaven and Earth on a single potsherd. 
15. Then therefore, there is verily this procedure: He (the sacrificer) does not raise (use) the uttaravedi (the northern or extra altar), (He thinks). “Let everything be ( complete); let the offering be (made); let it be sacred to the Viśvedevas ". The sacred grass (barhis) is tied into three (bunches) and that (the three) again becomes one (bigger bunch). Thus is indeed the form of procreation. This is verily procreation. This procreation is indeed made threefold (in three ways). (There is) the father, (there is) the mother, what is born.--that is the third. Therefore (is) sacred grass tied in three ways (into three bunches). That again becomes a single (bigger bunch). They become tied together, in their individual characteristic. He (the sacrificer) takes them up as a prastara (spread around sacred grass). This is verily procreation; procreation is the individual characteristic. 
16. After placing the sacrificial dishes (the things to be offered) (in their respective places), he churns the fire (produces the fire by churning). For, the offspring (creatures) of Prajapati were born (immediately) after Agni as he was being produced (as he was coming into existence). In that very same manner, creatures (offspring) are born following verily the sacrificer's Agni that is born (that is being produced). There is a group of nine foro-offerings, there is) a group of nine subsequent offerings, Viraat (the metre) has indeed ten syllables (per foot). This is the full wealth (fullness). That very thing (Vint) he (the sacrificer) makes deficient (by one) on both sides, for the sake of production, Indeed these creatures arise from the deficient (matcrial). Prajapati created from (material) deficient on both sides, the creatures that are upward (straight) from here and that are downward (bent) from here. In that very sare yanser. 
Kode 
Et 
guy 
NIS 
PT 
OP 
L 
LY 
Y 
WR 12 
phy 
* 
ELE 
ar 
-14 
VW 
LE
10K 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRĀHMANAM 
[I.4.3.17 
प्रजापतिर्येय प्रजापतेः प्रजाति विभूतिस्तद्बभूवैव ह वाव प्र॒जायत एव श्रियं गच्छति य एनेनैवं विद्वान्यजते ॥ १७ ॥ इति तृतीयं ब्राह्मणम्॥ 
इति चतुर्थोऽध्यायः 
1.4.8.17) 
TRANSLATION 
sides-the creatures that are upward (straight) here and that are bent (downward) here. Therefore is it that there is group of nine fore-offerings and a group of nine after-offerings. 
17. He offers three 'Samista Yajus'. That would make the sacrifice well-performed). Because this (ritual) (consists of) a group of nine fore-offerings and a group of nine after-offerings, this is better than a havir. sajña. Yet, one may offer one oblation only (one samista vajus). Indeed this (also) is a havirajña. He who knowing thus, sacrifices with this offering), is bom (i.e. reproduces) verily and attains wealth (splendour), in the same manner, (attains the progeny and wealth) which accrued to Prajapati on his thus performing this sacrifice. 
(Third Brāhmana Ends) 
(Chapter Four ends) 
110 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRĀHMAŅAM 
[I.5.1.1 
F 
पञ्चमोऽध्यायः 
प्रथमं ब्राह्मणम् वैश्वदेवेन ह वै प्रजापतिः प्रजास्ससृजे ता अस्य प्रजाः सृष्टा वरुणस्य यवंजक्षुर्वरुण्यो ह वा अग्रे यवस्तद्यन्वेव वरुणस्य यवं पादस्तस्माद्वरुणप्रघासा नाम ॥ १॥ 
ता ह वरुणो जग्राह ता वरुणगृहीता अनत्य एव प्राणत्यः परिदीर्णाः शिश्यिरे च निषेदुश्च प्राणोदानौ हैवाभ्यो नापचक्रमतुरथ सर्वा अन्या देवता अपचक्रमुस्तयोर्ह हेतोर्न 
पराबभूवुः ॥ २ ॥ __ताः प्रजापतिरेतेन हविषाभिषज्यत्तद्याश्चैवास्य प्रजा जाता याश्चाजातास्ता उभयीवरुण पाशात्प्रामुञ्चत्ता अस्यानमीवा अकिल्बिषाः प्रजाः पाजायन्ताथ यदेष एतेन चतुर्थे मासि यजते नाहैवैतस्य प्रजास्तथा वरुणो गृह्णाति याश्चत्वेवास्य प्रजा जाता याश्चाजातास्ता उभयीरुणपाशात्प्रमुञ्चति ता अस्यानमीवा अकिल्बिषाः प्रजाः प्र॒जायन्ते तस्माद्वा एष एतेन चतुर्थे मासि यजते ॥३॥ __ तवे वेदी वग्नी भवत उभयत एवैतद्वरुणपाशात्प्रजाः प्रमुञ्चतीतश्चोर्ध्वा इतश्चावा चीस्तस्माद्धे वेदी द्वावग्नी भवत उत्तरस्यां वेदा उत्तरवेदिमुपकिरति न दक्षिणस्यां क्षत्रं वै वरुणो विशो मरुतः क्षत्रमेवैतद्विश उत्तरं करोति तस्मात् क्षत्रियमुपर्यासीनमधस्ताद्विश इमाः प्रजा उपासते ॥४॥ 
अर्थतान्येव पञ्चहवी षि भवन्त्येतैर्वै प्रजापतिः प्रजा असृजतैतैवैना एष एतदुभयतो . वरुणपाशात्प्रजाः प्रमुञ्चतीतश्चोर्ध्वा इतश्चावाचीस्तस्मादेतानि पञ्च हवी षि भवन्ति ॥ ५॥ 
अथैष ऐन्द्रानो द्वादशकपालः पुरोळाशो भवति प्राणोदानौ वा इन्द्राग्नी तयोर्वा अस्य हेतोः प्रजा न पराबभूवुः स यथा पुण्यं चक्रुषे पुण्यं कुर्यादेवमेवैतत्प्राणोदानाभ्यामेवैत प्रजा भिषज्यति प्राणोदानावेव प्रजासु दधाति तस्मादेष ऐन्द्रानो भवति ॥ ६॥ 
Haminat 
की 
EL 
M 
- 
माम 
TE 
- 
- 
RAME. 
HAMRODE 
है 
म 
ना 
- 
. 
FEELATE 
MEENA 
HTRA 
. 
M 
| 
LISH 
. १. See Notees. 
.. 
. 
२. स्तवको I. ३. सकुनै TE, My, see Notes. 
1.5.1.6] 
TRANSLATION 
Chapter Five 
BRAHMANAI 1. Indeed,Prajāpati created the creatures (progeny) by means of (an offering to) 'All Gods' (Visvedevas). They, the created beings of this (Prajapati), ate up the barley (corn) of Varuna.Originally, barley verily belonged toVaruņa. Then, because they verily ate the barley of Varuna,thence, indeed they are known as 'Varunapraghasā'. 
2. Varuņa, verily, captured them. Captured by Varuna,they lay down and sat down, merely breathing in and breathing out, having been rent. Only the inhalation and exhalation of breath did not go out of them. Then all other faculties went out. Because of those two (breaths), they did not perish indeed. 
3. Prajāpati treated them with this oblation. He released from Varuna's noose (bondage) both the kinds of creatures of his,-those which had been born and those that were (yet) unborn. His creatures were then born without disease and without evil (blemish). Because this (sacrificer) performs the sacrifice with this (offering) in the fourth month, Varuņa does not seize his progeny at all in that manner. He releases both kinds of progeny from Varuna's noose-those that have already been born and those that are not (yet) born. Those Children of his are born without disease and without blemish. Therefore indeed, does this (sacrificer) perform the sacrifice with this offering) in the fourth month. 
4. At that (sacrifice) there are two altars and two fires. From both sides, indeed, he (the sacrificer) releases the progeny (creatures) from Varuna's excoke. Those that have been born) before and those that are later (those that are straight (upward) here and those that look down-ward (that are bent here). Therefore are there two altars and there are two fires. On the northern altar he sweeps (scatters) the upper (northern) altar, he raises the upper altar and no on the southern (altar). Indeed Varuna is Ksatra (ruler or warrior) and the Maruts are the subjects. He thus makes verily the Kşatı superior (at a higher level) to the common subject. Therefore these (common, people, the subjects, (remaining) below (at a lower level) wait upon the Ksatriya(ruler) who is seated above. . . 
5. Then there are verily these five oblations. Indeed by means of these did Prajāpati create the creatures. By these above does this (Prajapati) release these (creatures), thus from Varuna's noose from both sides those that are before 
now and those that are later. Therefore are there these five oblations. :: 6. Then there is (the offering of) this truroddía, sanctified for ladra and Agni 
(together), on twelve potsherds. Verily the exhaled breath and the innated breath are Indra and Agni. Beacuse of them, indeed, his creatures (progeny did not perish. This (offering to Indra and Agni) is just as one would do good 
2 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRĀHMANAM 
[1.5. 1.7 
Sumi 
उभयत्रैव पयस्य भवतः पयसो वै प्रजाः संभूताः पयसस्सम्भवन्ति तद्यत एव सम्भूता यतः सम्भवन्ति तत एवैना एतदुभयतो वरुणपाशात्प्रजाः प्रमुञ्चतीतश्चोर्ध्वा इतश्चावाचीस्त स्मादुभयत्र पयस्ये भवतः ॥ ७ ॥ 
वारुण्युत्तरा भवति वरुणो वा एना' अगृह्णाद्वरुण्यादेवैतत्प्रत्यक्षं वरुणपाशात्प्रजाः प्रमुञ्चति मारुती दक्षिणाजामितायै न्वेव मारुती जामि हि कुर्याद्यदुभे वारुण्यौ स्यातामत उ ह वै प्रजापतेः प्रजा मरुतो दक्षिणतो जिघासांचकुस्तानेतेन भागेनाशमयत्तस्मान्मारुती दक्षिणा ॥ ८॥ 
तयोरुभयोरेव करीराण्यावपति किं वै प्रजापतिः प्रजाभ्यः करीरैरकुरुत कम्वेवैष एताजाभ्यः कुरुते ॥ ९॥ 
उभयत्रैव शमीपलाशान्यवपति शं वै प्रजापतिः प्रजाभ्यः शमीपलाशैरकुरुत शम्वे वैष एतत्प्रजाभ्यः कुरुते ॥ १०॥ 
काय एककपालो भवति कं वै प्रजापतिः प्रजाभ्यः कायेनैककपालेनाकुरुत कम्वेवैष एतत्प्रजाभ्यः कुरुते ॥ ११ ॥ 
अथ पूर्वेधुरतुषानिव यवान्कृत्वान्वाहार्यपचने मनागिवोपतृप्य यावन्तो गृह्यास्तावन्ति प्रतिपुरुष करंभपात्राणि कुर्वन्त्येकेनातिरिक्तानि ॥ १२ ॥ 
मेषं च वा अपि मेषीं च कुर्वन्ति तयोर्यद्यनळकीर्णा विन्देत्ताः प्रणिज्य निश्लेषये द्यद्यनळकीर्न विन्देदपि कुशोर्णा एव निश्लेषयेत् ॥ १३॥ . 
स यन्मेषी च मेषश्च भवत एष वै प्रत्यक्षं वरुणस्य पशुर्यन्मेषो वरुण्यादेवैतत्प्रत्यक्ष वरुणपाशात्प्रजाः प्रमुञ्चति मिथुनौ भवतो मिथुनादेवैतद्वरुणपाशात्प्रजाः प्रमुञ्चति यवमयौ 
M 
. 
M 
३ 
PRITERA 
" 
R 
। 
४. एचस्पेव भवतः VI, Pa. ५. मन्न श्वोपतष्य M.. ६. ' TE ७.मिश्लेष TE, CI, VI. 
..:.'' 
1.5.1.13] 
TRANSI ATION 
1 
L.. 
1 
i 
TH 
பட்டம் 
&. 
1962 
(in return) to one who has (already) done a good turn. He thus treats the creatures (progeny) verily with exhalation and inhalation. He places (infuses) exhalation and inhalation into the creatures. Therefore is this offering) dedicated to Indra and Agni (together). 
7. In both (fires) there are two (offerings of) curds. Indeed creatures originated from milk; they exist well because of milk. Therefore, where from they came into being and because of which they exist,-with that very thing, he releases these creatures thus on both sides from Varuna's noose-the creatures that are before this and that are will be) after (those that are upright here and those that look downward here). Therefore there are two (offerings of) curds in both (fires). 
8. The northern one (the one offered in the fire in the north) is dedicated to Varuņa. Indeed Varuna captured these (creatures). He (the sacrificer) directly releases the creatures (progeny) thus from Varuna's noose, through, verily, the offering to Varuna. (The offering made in the south (fire) is dedicated to Maruts. (It is) verily for non-repetition (that) the offering to Maruts (is made). 
For, if both (the offerings) were dedicated to Varuna, he (the sacrificer) would indeed be committing a repetition. Moreover, the Maruts wished to kill the creatures of Prajāpati, from the south. (Prajāpati) propitiated them with this share. Hence in the fire in) the south is made) the offering dedicated to Maruts. 
9. Verily, on both of them (curds), he scatters Karira fruits. Prajapati indeed brought about happiness to the creatures with Karira fruits. Thus, this (sacrificer too) verily brings about happiness to the creatures. 
10. On both indeed, he puts Sami leaves. Prajapati verily brought about happiness to the creatures by means of Sami leaves. This (sacrificer too) thus brings about happiness to the creatures. 
11. There is an offering dedicated to Prajāpati, on one potsherd. Indeed, Prajapati brought about happiness to the creatures by means of the offering 
L 
2. 
12 
. 
A 
1 
When 
TE 
brings about happiness to the creatures. 
12. And on the previous day (first day), after husking and slightly roasting barley on the Anvähányapacana (Daksinagni, on which subsequent offerings are cooked) they prepare as many vessels of (Karumkhus) a mixture of flour and 
0 
. 
exceeding by one (and one more vessel). 
13. They also prepare a (barley) ram and a barley) ewe. If one can get the fibres of wool of a sheep other than Edaka", he should attach them to the rain and ewe) after washing (the wool). If he cannot get the fibres of wool) of any 
TRA BÀIn 
O 
. 
rat 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.5.1.16 
F 
- 
A 
IR 
A 
SAPNA 
E 
1 
. 
AAAAAPEOROATM 
A 
अथाध्वयेराहाग्निमन 
FE 
M 
A 
mmam 
प 
भवतो यवर हि जक्षुषीरगृह्णादुत्तरस्यां पयस्यायां मेषीमासादयति दक्षिणस्यां मेषमेव हि मिथुनं कृप्तमुत्तरतो हि स्त्री पुमा समुपशेते ॥ १४ ॥ 
सर्वाणि हवीशष्यध्वर्युरुत्तरस्यां वेदावासादयति मारुतीमेव प्रतिप्रस्थाता दक्षिणस्यामा साद्य हवी षि संमृश्य ॥ १५॥ __ अथाध्वर्युराहाम्रये मथ्य॒मानायानुब्रूहीत्यग्नि मथित्वाहाग्नये समिध्यमानायानुब्रूहीत्युभौ त्वेवेमावभ्याधत्तोऽभ्याधायेध्मौ पूर्वावाधारावाधारयतः ॥ १६ ॥ ___ अथाध्वर्युराहाग्निमग्नीत्संमृड्डीत्यसंमृष्ट एवाग्निर्भवति संप्रेषितोऽथ प्रतिप्रस्थाता प्रतिप रैति स पत्नीमुदानयति तामुदानेष्यन्पृच्छति केन चरसीति वरुण्य ह वा एतत्स्त्री करोति यदन्यस्य सत्यन्येन चरति नेन्मेऽन्तः शल्या जुहवदिति निरुक्तमु ह वा एनः कनीयो भवति सत्य हि भवति सा यदि न प्रतिजानीते ज्ञातिभ्यो हास्या अहितं भवति ॥ १७ ॥ 
तो वाचयति प्रघासिनो हवामहे मरुतश्च रिशादसः । करम्भेण सजोषस इति यथा पुरोऽनुवाक्यैवमेवैतयैवैनानेतस्मै भागाय ह्वयति ॥ १८ ॥ 
तानि प्रतिपुरुषं यावन्तो गृह्यास्तावन्ति भवन्त्येकेनातिरिक्तानि प्रतिपुरुषमेवैतदेकेनैकेन या अस्य प्रजा जातास्ता वरुणपाशात्प्रमुञ्चत्येकेनातिरिक्तानि भवन्ति तद्या एवास्याजाताः प्रजास्ता एव तेन वरुणपाशात्प्रमुञ्चति ॥ १९ ॥ 
पात्राणि भवन्ति पात्रैटशनमश्नन्ति यवमयानि भवन्ति यवर हि जक्षुषीरगृ 
THAT.. म.- - - 
. - " 
FANA 
. 
TRA 
H 
BT 
HATE 
ARP 
- INDI 
4 
140K 
LIFEL 
A 
... 
: 
NA 
। 
म 
JAY 
PLEASE 
wouN 
Fr 
LTA 
Hina 
TE 
SA 
H 
THE 
ut 
4. See Notes. 
1.5.1.21] 
TRANSLATION 
5 
14. That there are a ram and a ewe is because this ram is indeed a visible animal (to be offered) of Varuna (and) thus he (the sacrificer) obviously releases the creatures from Varuna's noose, because of its being dedicated toVaruna. The two are a pair. He releases the creatures from Varuņa's noose, thus by the union (of the pair). The two are made of barley. For, he (Varuna) seized them (creatures) that had eaten barley. He (the sacrificer) places the ewe on the northern curds and the ram on the southern. Thus indeed is a (mating) pair formed. Verily to the north (left) of the man does the woman lie. 
15. The Adhvaryu places all the dishes (oblations to be offered) on the northern altar; the pratiprasthātā (remains) having placed the oblation to the Maruts alone on the southern altar and having touched the dishes (of offerings). 
16. Then the Adhvaryu says, "Speak (recite) for the Agni that is being churned". Having churned (and brought out) Agni, he says, "Recite for Agni who is being kindled". Both of them, indeed place two kindling suicks (firewood), Having placed (each one) the two kindling sticks.(the twoxAdhyartu and Pratiprasthāts) pour out the first two libations (each one). 
17. Then the Adhvaryu says, "Oh Agnīdh! Trim the fire well". (Yet) the fire remains verily despatched untrimmed. Then the Pratiprasthātr(who had been sent) returns. He fetches the wife (of the sacrificer). Before fetching her, he asks, "With whom do you move (sexually)?" That a woman who belongs to a different person moves with another (sexually), she verily commits (a sin) with regard to Varuņa. If not (asked) (Varuna would think), she wrifices to me with a pang within her mind)". Verily, the sin that has been spoken out becomes less (lighter); it becomes the truth. If she does not speak out the truth (does not swear), harm befalls her relatives, indeed. 
18. He then makes her recite, “We invoke the Maruts who are the devourers and eaters of enemies and who are delighted with the porridge (mixture of four and curds)". This (expression) is just (in import) as is the prior invitation. With this, verily, does he invite these (Maruts) for this (their) share. . 
19. They (the dishes) are as many as there are members of the household of the sacrificer); one for each member, exceeding by one. He thereby releases from the noose of Varuņa his children (progeny) (already) born, each individual with one (dish) (for each). They (the vessels) are excessive by one, so that with that he releases from Varuņa'snodse verilythosechildren which are vetsunborn. 
20. There are the vessels, for they eat food with (from) vessels, They (the dishes) are of barley, for he (Varuna) captured them (creatures) that had enten the barley, 
21. (She) makes the offering, with the winnow. For it is with the winnowing 
, 
KÄNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.5.1.22 
पुरा यज्ञात्पुराहुतिभ्यो जुहोत्यहुतादो वै विशो विशो वै मरुतस्तस्मात्पुरा यज्ञात्पुराहु तिभ्यो जुहोति यत्र ह वै तत्प्रजापतेः प्रजाः परिदीर्णाः शिश्यिरे च निषेदुश्च तदासां मरुतः पाप्मानं विमेथिरे तथो वा एतस्य प्रजानां मरुतः पाप्मानं विमश्नते ॥ २२ ॥ 
से जुहोति यदामे यदरण्य इति ग्रामे वा हरण्ये वैनः क्रियते यत्सभायां यदिन्द्रिय इति यन्मानुष इत्येवैतदाह यदाह यत्सभायामिति यदिन्द्रिय इति यद्देवत्रेत्येवैतदाह देवत्रा वा हि मानुषे वैनः क्रियते यदेनश्चकृमा वयमिदं तदवयजामहे स्वाहेति यत्किं च वयमेनश्चक मेदं तस्मात्प्रमुच्यामह इत्येवैतदाह ॥ २३ ॥ 
अथैन्द्रीं मरुत्वती जपति यत्र ह वै तत्प्रजापतेः प्रजानां मरुतः पाप्मानं विमेथिरे तद्धेक्षाचक्रे प्रजापतिरिम उ ह मे प्रजा न विमनीरनिति ॥ २४ ॥ 
स ऐन्द्रीं मरुत्वतीमजपत् क्षत्रं वा इन्द्रो विशो मरुतः क्षत्रं वै विशो निषेद्धा निषिद्धा सन्निति मो ष ण इन्द्रात्र पृत्सु देवैरस्ति हि ष्पा ते शुष्पिन्नवयाः । महश्चिद्यस्य मीळ्हुषो यव्या हविष्मन्तौ मरुतो वन्दते गोरिति ॥ २५॥ ___ अथ वाच्यत्यक्रन्कर्म कर्मकृत इत्यन्हि कर्म कर्मकृतः सह वाचा मयोभुति सह हि वाचाक्रन्देवेभ्यः कर्म कृत्वेति देवेभ्यो हि कर्माक्रन्त्रस्तं प्रेत सचाभुव इति यदन्यत 
ओळ्हया सह भवति तस्मादाह सचाभुव इत्यस्तं प्रेतेति गृहा उ वा अस्तं जघना? वा एष यज्ञस्य यत्पत्नी तामिदं प्राची प्रासीषदद्गृहा उ वा अस्तं तदेनां गृहेष्वेव प्रतिष्ठापयति प्रतिपराणीय प्रतिप्रस्थाता पत्नीमुदाद्रवति संमृजन्त्यग्नी उत्तरावाधारावाधारयतः ॥ २६ ॥ 
AL 
bham 
PINm 
- 
. 
D 
. 
. 
MAN 
ब 
Hiro 
EYI 
HATE 
- 
बर 
- 
EN 
Rela 
१. सा Ca, K PI. P2. १०. अस्सनिति Ca, (perhapas prisatirng error) ११. इलिम मा TE. १२. मुलस्थानी TE. REE NINES...... 
1.5.1.26) 
TRANSLATION 
1 
L 
TD 
+ 
FEEL 
.. 
! 
Thus she releases the children (progeny) from Varuna's roose, verily through the union (pair). 
22. Prior to sacrifice, prior to the oblations, she makes the offering. For, indeed, the common subjects are not consumers of offerings; verily the Maruts are the common subjects (of gods). Therefore she offers before the sacrifice and before the oblations. Where then the creatures of Prajapati lay down and sat themselves having been torn, there did the Maruts destroy their sin (hurt). Similarly, indeed the Maruts destroy the sin (harm) of the children of this (sacrificer). 
23. She offers (saying), "What (sin was) commited in the village, what was committed) in the forest", for sin is commited in the village and in the forest. (She says), "What (was commited) in the hall (in the society among the people) and what was committed) in the senses". She verily says (means)," In the case of men", when she says, "What in the hall (in society)? (By) "What in the senses she verily says (means) this, "Towards the gods". Indeed a sin is committed towards the gods or towards men. (She says) "What sin we have committed here, we do expiate that- svähä". She verily says (means) this, "What sin we have committed here, we are released from that". 
24. He then mutters (the chant) addressed to Indra and referring to the Maruts, “When the Maruts verily destroyed the sin (hurt) of the creatures of Prajāpati", then Prajapati observed, "These indeed, may not destroy my creatures". 
25. He muttered (the chant) addressed to Indra and referring to the Maruts. Indra indeed is the Ksatriya (ruler) the Maruts are the subjects. The ruler is the prohibiter (controller) of the subjects. (Prajapati thought), "May they be prohibited (from hurting my creatures)". "Oh Indra! Let there be no fight for us in battles with gods. Indeed there is a sacrificial share (of oblations, for yoxa, Oh strong one! whose glory of the bounteous one the word (of the sacrificer) adores abundantly. The Maruts (too) have (their share of) oblations (in the sacrifice). 
26. Then he makes (her) recite, "Workers have done the work". Venity have 
V 
12 
T4 
2 
. 
W 
1. 
US 
2. 
W 
Indeed they did work, with expression (speaking), (She rocitos), **Having done the work for the gods". Verily they did the work for the sake of the gode. (She says), “Being together, go home", Wherefore she is now with one who has been brought from elsewhere. She hence says, "Those that are together", Go home, (she says). The house indeed is (the place) where one hides himself (throw himself in) (place of rest). The wife is verily the hind (lowerbase) part of the sacrifice. He has made her sit at the east. Indeed, the house is the resting place, Therefore, he establishes her indeed in the house. The Pratiprasthat comes 
4 
# 
# 
ER 
1026 
0 
27 
LS
118 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRĀHMAŅAM 
[I.5.1.27 
1A 
- 
आश्राव्याध्वर्युोतारं प्रवृणीते सीदति होतोत्तरस्या वेदेझैतृषदने प्रसूतः सुचावादाया तिक्रम्याध्वर्युराश्राव्याह समिधो यजेति यज यजेत्येव चतुर्थे चतुर्थे समानयमानौ नव प्रयाजान्यजतः ॥ २७॥ 
अथाध्वर्युराहाग्नयेऽनुब्रूहीत्याग्नेयमाज्यभागमुभौ त्वेव चतुराज्यस्यावद्यतोऽतिक्रम्या श्राव्याग्निं यजेति वषट्कृते जुहोति ॥ २८ ॥ 
सोमायानुब्रूहीत्याह सौम्याज्यभागमुभौ त्वेव चतुराज्यस्यावद्यतोऽतिक्रम्याश्राव्याह सोमं यजेति वषट्कृते जुहोति ॥ २९॥ ___ स यदिहैवाध्वर्युराश्राव्यतीह वषट्क्रियतेऽथ कृतानुकर एव प्रतिप्रस्थाता क्षत्रं वै वरुणो विशो मरुतः क्षत्रायैवैतद्विशं कृतानुकरामनुवर्मानं करोति यद्धापि प्रतिप्रस्थाताश्रा क्येत्प्रत्युद्यामिनी ह क्षत्रियाय विशं कुर्यात्तदप्रत्युद्यामिनीमेवैतत्क्षत्रियाय विशं करोत्यनुवानं तस्मात्प्रतिप्रस्थाता नाश्रावयत्यथ पाणावेव बिभ्रत्प्रतिप्रस्थाता स्रुचा 
उपास्ते ॥ ३० ॥ - अथैतैर्हविर्भिरध्वर्युः प्रचरत्यैन्द्राग्नेनान्तमेनाथ पयस्याभ्यां प्रचरिष्यन्तौ योऽयं मेषो मारुत्यां भवति तं वारुण्यामवदधाति यो मेषी वारुण्यां भवति तां मारुत्यामव दधाति ॥३१॥ 
स यदेवं विपरिहरन्ति क्षत्रं वै वरुणो वीर्यं पुमान्वीर्यमेवैतत्क्षत्रे दधाति विशो वै मरुतोऽवीर्या वै स्यवीर्यामेवैतद्विशं करोति ॥ ३२ ॥ 
। 
S 
imire 
FREE 
FERE 
R 
१३. या TE, VI; का+ठ-यो. 
1.5.1.32] 
TRANSLATION 
nap 
X2 
. 
fires. The two(Adhvaryu and Pratiprasthātr) pour the two later libations(each, one). 
27. Having called the attention (of Agnidhra), the Adhvaryuchooses the Hotr. The Hotr sits on the Hotr's seat at the northern altar. Having been prompted, the Adhvarvu takes up the two spoons, steps bevond and calls the attention of the Agnidhra) and says (to the hotr), “Offer the Samidhs", (pronounce the offering prayer for the kindling sticks). He says verily, "Offer", (at each offering). The two(Adhvaryu and Pratiprasthātr)bring together (the ghre from the spoons into the pouring spoon) at every fourth (offering). The two offer the nine fore-offerings, 
28. Then the Adhvaryu says, "Speak for (call for) (utter the praver of invitation) Agni" regarding the Agni's share of the gher. Both indeed cut up (ladle out) the ghee four times.(The Adhvaryu)steps beyond, calls attention and then says, "Offer (worship) (utter the prayer of offering for) Agni". When, 
Vaşat has been uttered he makes the offering. 
29. He says, “Make the call for Soma", regarding Soma's share of the ghek. Both verily cut up (ladle out) the ghee four times. He (Adhvaryu) steps bevond, calls attention and then says, "Worship (offer) Soma (utter the praver of offering for Soma)". When Vaşat has been uttered, he makes the offering (pours the libation into the fire). 
30. (The fact) that the Adhvaryu calls attention here itself (and) Varat is uttered here and then pratiprasthätȚ is only an iinitator of what has been done by the Adhvaryu) (is due to this \- Inderd Varuna is Ksatra (ruler), the Maruts are the subjects. Thus he (the sacrificer) makes the subject the imitator and follower er the Kșatra. if the Pratiprasthātr should make the call for attention-one should make the subject go out to receive the ruler-this (call of Pratiprasthätt) makes the subject, the follower, verily as one root going out to receive the naler. Therekre the Pratiprasthātr does not make the call for attention. The Pratiprasthårf, then, merely holding his breath, (remains nearby) waits upon (the Adhvaryu) with his spoon. 
31. Then the Adhvaryu proceeds with this oblation with the one dedicated to indra and Agni (together) being nearesi. (As they are) about to proceed with the two curds (offerings), the two (Adhvaryu and Pratiprasthatr)-one) (the Adhvaryu) places into the(northerry) dish for Varuna and (barley) ram which is in the (southern) dish of the Maruts, and (the other)(Pratiprasthätriplacex into (the curds dish) of Maruts the (barley) ewe which is on (the curds disti) of Varuna, 
32. (The reason) why they transpose (the ram and ewe) thus (is that); indeed Varuna is Kşatra, male is "virility". Thus he puts venly virility into the Ksatra 
** 
. 
. 
. 
140 
KĀNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[1.5.1.39 
Times 
ह 
TOSE 
. 
. 
x 
प्र 
अथाह वरुणायानुब्रूहीति तत्राप्यन्यतरेणावदानेन सह मेषमवदधात्यतिक्रम्याश्राव्याह वरुणं यजेति वषट्कृते जुहोति ॥ ३३॥ ___ अथ प्रतिप्रस्थातुरुत्तरसिचमन्वारभ्याहाध्वर्युर्मरुद्भयोऽनुब्रूहीति तत्राप्यन्यतरेणावदा नेन सह प्रतिप्रस्थाता मेषीमवदधात्यध्वर्युरेवाश्राव्याह मरुतो यजेति वषट्कृते जुहोति ॥ ३४ ॥ ___ अथाध्वर्युः कायेनैककपालेन प्रचरति काये ककपालेन चरित्वाहाग्नये स्विष्टकृतेऽनु 
ब्रूहीति सर्वेषार हविषामध्वर्युरवद्यति मारुत्या एव प्रतिप्रस्थातातिक्रम्याश्राव्याहाग्नि स्विष्टकृतं यजेति वषट्कृते जुहोति ॥ ३५॥ 
सादयित्वा सुचावध्वर्युः प्राशित्रमवद्यति प्राशित्रमवदायेळामवद्यति तदेवापि प्रतिप्र स्थाने सुचं प्रतिगृह्णाति तत्सोऽभ्यवदधात्युपहूयेळां मार्जीयत्वाथाध्वर्युराहाग्नीत्समिधमा धायाग्निः संमृड्डि ब्रह्म अस्थास्याम इति पृषदाज्य स्रुचोरध्वयुर्व्यानयते यदि प्रतिप्रस्थातुः पृषदाज्य स्यात्तत्स व्यानयेत यदि पृषदाज्यं न स्यादपि यदेवोपभृत्याज्यं तत्तर्हि व्यानये तातिक्रम्याश्राव्याह देवान्यजेति यज यजेत्येव चतुर्थे चतुर्थे समानयमानौ नवानुयाजान्य जतः स यन्नवप्रयाजं नवानुयाजमित्युमयत एवैतन्यूनाद्वरुणपाशात्प्रजाः प्रमुञ्चतीतश्चोर्ध्वा इतश्चावाचीस्तस्मान्नवप्रयाजं भवति नवानुयाजम् ॥३६॥ 
A 
- 
'PACHHAM 
ALLPEPh 
PAR 
Mamme 
- 
१४. प्रल्हाति TE.. 
1.5.1.36) 
TRANSLATION 
1 
Rabar 
1 
2 
po 
Indeed the Maruts are the subjects. Verily female is without virility. Thus he indeed makes the subject lacking in virility (strength). 
33. Then he says, “Make the (invitation) call for Varuna" Then he places the (barley) ram (into the offering spoon) along with one of the two cutting up (of the ghee); stepping beyond and calling attention, he says, "Worship (recite the offering prayer for) Varuņa". He offers (pours out the libation) after Vasar has been pronounced. 
34. Then touching the upper hem of (the garment of the Pratiprasthātr the Adhvaryu says, "Make the invitation call for the Maruts". Then the Pratiprasthátt places the (barley) ewe, along with the other cutting up of ghee, (into the offering spoon). (But) Adhvaryu himself calls for attention and says. **Pronounce the offering prayer for the Maruts ( worship of the Maruts)" when Vaşat has been pronunced, he{Pratiprasthätr)pours out the oblation (into the fire). 
35. Then the Adhvaryu proceeds with the oblation, on a single potsherd, dedicated to (ka) Prajāpati. Having performed (offered) with the offering to) ka, on a single potshered, he says) "Make the invitation call for Agni-Suryakıt" The Adhvaryu cuts up (portions) from all the offerings, but the Pratiprastháir (cuts up) only of the one dedicated to the Maruts.(The Adhvaryu)steps beyond, calls attention and says, “Worship (pronounce the offering prayer for) Agri Suistakrt". After the Vaşat has been pronounced he pours out the libation (into the fire). 
36. Placing down the two spoons, the Adhmarwa cuts up the Presira, having cut up the Präsitra, he cuts up lda. Then, indeed, does he hand it over to 14 Pratiprasthātrand hold up in the spoon. He places it down. Having invoked Ida and having washed up,Adhvaryu says, "Oh Agnidh! placing the kindling stick, trim the fire" "Oh Brahmant we are going to start". TheAdhvaryu pours the gkm * mixed with sour milk (clotted ghee) intothe two spoons.If the Pratiprasthäty has clotted ghee he too should put it (into the spoons), If he has no clottedighe, then he should pour verily the ghee that is in the upablyf (secondary spoon). (The Adhvaryu)steps beyond, calls attention and says, "Worship (pronounce the offering prayer for) Gods", and (savs) *Pronounce", "Pronounce" (at every offering). Pouring together (the ghee) at every fourth (offering), the two ofler the nine after-offerings. That there is (a group of) nine fore-offerings and a group of) nine after-offerings is because) he verily on both sides, releases from the noose of Varuņa (the creatures) before now and those after now the creatures upright and the creatures bent down). Hence there is an offering of 
offering 
LIV 
R 
b. 
2 
.1 
LICE 
LILL 
1 
129 
IA 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[1.5.1.37 
NATURTH. 
m 
LE 
. 
RA 
- 
News 
a 
. 
LA 
सादयित्वा सुचो व्यूहतो व्यूह्य सुचः परिधीन्त्समज्य परिधीनभिपद्याध्वर्युराश्राव्या हेषिता दैव्या होतारो भद्रवाच्याय प्रेषितो मानुषाः सूक्तवाकायेति सूक्ता होता प्रतिपद्यत उभावेवेमौ प्रस्तरावाददाते अनुप्रहृत्य प्रस्तरौ तृणे अपगृह्योपासाते अथाग्नीदाहानुपहरेत्यु भावेवानुपहरतः संवदस्वेत्यगादग्नीदगच्छ्वय श्रौषट् स्वगा दैव्या होतृभ्यः स्वस्तिर्मानुषेभ्य इति शंयोर्होता प्रतिपद्यत उभावेवेमौ परिधीननुप्रहृत्य स्रुचः संप्रगृह्य स्फ्ये सादयतः प्रतिपरेत्याध्वर्युः पत्नीः संयाजयत्युदेत्याध्वर्युः ॥ ३७॥ 
त्रीणि समिष्टयजूषि जुहोति तूष्णीमेव प्रतिप्रस्थाता स्रुचं प्रगृह्णात्यथ ये वैश्वदेवेन यजमानयोर्वाससी परिहिते स्यातां ते एवाप्यत्र स्यातामथास्या वारुण्याः पयस्यायाः क्षामकर्षमिश्रमादाय तेनावभृथं यन्ति वरुण्यं वा इदं निर्वरुणतायै तत्र न साम गीयते न पत्र साम्ना कुर्वन्ति तूष्णीमेव परेत्यावभृथ निचुम्पुण निचेरुरसि निचुम्पुण ! अव देवैर्देव कृतमेनोऽयासिषमव मत्यैर्मर्त्यकृतं पुरुराव्णो देव रिषस्पाहीति स्थालीमुपेमारयति स्नात्वान्ये वाससी परिधायोदेतः काम हैते यस्मै कामयेत तस्मै दद्यान्न हि दीक्षितवसने स यथाहिस्त्वचो निर्मुच्येतैवं वरुण्यात्सर्वस्मात्याप्मनो निर्मुच्योदैति केशश्मश्रूप्त्वाग्नी समारोहयत उदवसाय होतेन यजते नरवकल्पते यदुत्तरवेदावग्निहोत्रं जुहुयुगुहानागत्य 
RE 
. 
M 
. 
PPR 
FRE 
PANE 
A 
E 
7 
+ 
BE 
HOM 
LA 
RELil 
H 
ParimixAL 
MH1 
MANAME 
। 
१५. चुमा C १६. समय TE, PI, P2. १७. See Nores. 
Prx 
alternate read! 
S 
1.5.1.981 
TRANSLATION 
TOP 
37. Having placed down the spoons, they (two) separate (them). Having separated the spoons, having anointed the enclosing sticks (with ghee) and having taken up the enclosing sticks and having called attention,the Adhvarvu says, “The divine Hotrs are desired (called upon) for proclaiming success (of the ritual); the human(hot)is called upon (desired) to recite the Suktas (hymns). The Hour takes up (recitation of) the hymns. These two (Adhvarvu and Pratiprasthātr) take up the two(sets of spread out sacred grass. Having thrown the two (sets of) spread out sacred grass (into the fire) and removing two blades of grass (each-one), they (two) wait upon (the fire). Then the Agnidh says, *Throw (into the fire)". Both throw each his blade of grass (into the fire). (Agnidh says), “Talk cordially (to me)"(Adhvaryu asks), "Oh! Agnidh! Has he gone?" (Agnidh says), "He has gone "(Adhvaryu says), "Report (make them hear)-'Srauşat' (hear), “Happy going for the divine Hots: auspiciousness (well-being) to the humans (human Hotrs)"--The Hour pronounces *Sam poh". Both these(Adhvaryuand Pratiprasthātr)having subsequently thrown(offered) the enclosing sticks (into the fire) and having taken up the spoons together, place them on the wooden sword. Having returned (to his place),the Adhvarvu performs the 'Painīsamyājas' (offerings to gods along with their wives). Then the Adhvaryu, having got up. 
38. Performs three Samişta-rajus", The Pratiprasthátr silently takes up the spoon. Now, those two garments that had been worn as they performed the Vaišvadeva offerings,the very same should be (worn) here too (for the sacrificer and his wife). Thereafter, having taken up (the havis-food) mixed with the scanty (dried) scrapings of the curds dedicated to Varuna, they go to the place of) expiatory bath. This (expiatory bath-arabhrta) is related to Varuna (being performed) for release from Varuna. Saman is not sung in it, for they don (perform anything) at this (sacrifice) with Saman (singing of Rks) at all. Having walked silently he throws the vessel into water, uttering, "Ohaadhi Ohswell flow! You glide along on great flow of water! I have removed with the help of gods the sin committed towards the gods; and with the help of) men (have removed the sin committed towards men. Oh Godt protect me from the injury from the fiercely (much): howling (demon)". Haviny bathed and having donned two other cloths, they come up (to the bank). These two (garments worn while bathing) he may verily give to anybody to whom he likes to give). For, they are not the two garments of one who has been initiated (dekusia). He comes out, released from all sins (committed in relation to Varuna, jaist as a snake will be released from (its) slough. Having shaved off his hair and beard (leaving the tuft), he takes up (lifts) (withdraws) the two fires, For, after removing (completing) it he performs with this (other) sacrifice. Indred ét is ko proper that they should perform Agnihotra on the Uttarai (uve northern altar). Having come to the house and having churned (the fireste be performes 
* 
" 
U 
. 
HO 
ES 
BE 
P 
. 
* 
En 
Srint 
KĀNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.5.1.36-- 
निर्मथ्य पौर्णमासेन यजत उत्सन्नो वा अयं यज्ञो यच्चातुर्मास्यानि कृप्तेनैवैतद्यज्ञेनान्ततः 
प्रतितिष्ठति ॥ ३८ ॥ इति प्रथमं ब्राह्मणम् ॥ 
म 
. 
FI 
। 
. 
द्वितीयं ब्राह्मणम् 
Pmy 
Ch"OT 
वरुणप्रघासैर्ह वै प्रजापतिः प्रजा वरुणपाशात्प्रामुञ्चत्ता अस्यानमीवा अकिल्बिषाः प्रजाः प्रजायन्ताथैतैः साकमेधेरैतैर्ह वै देवा वृत्रं जघ्नुरेतैवेव व्यजयन्त येयमेषां विजिति स्तथो वा एष एतैः पाप्मानं द्विषन्तं भ्रातृव्य हन्ति तथो एव विजयते स वै द्यहमन्वहं यजते ॥१॥ 
स पूर्वेचुरग्नयेऽनीकवतेऽष्टाकपालं पुरोळाशं निर्वपत्यग्निः ह वा अनीकं कृत्वा देवा उपप्रेयुः प्रातव॒त्रः हनिष्यन्तः स तेजोऽग्नि व्यथत तथो वा एष पाप्मानं द्विषन्तं भ्रातृ व्यर हनिष्यन्नग्निमेवानीकं कृत्वोपप्रैति तस्मादग्नयेऽनीकवतेऽष्टाकपालं पुरोळाशं निर्वपति ॥ २ ॥ ___ अथ मरुद्भ्यः सान्तपनेभ्यो मध्यंदिने चरुं निर्वपति मरुतो ह वै सान्तपना मध्यंदिने वृत्र सन्तेपुः स सन्तप्तोऽनन्नैव प्राणन्परिदीर्णः शिश्ये तथो वा एतस्य पाप्मानं द्विषन्तं भ्रातृव्यं मरुत एव सान्तपना मध्यंदिने सन्तपन्ति तस्मान्मरुद्भ्यस्सान्तपत्रेभ्यो मध्यंदिने चरं निर्वपति ॥३॥ 
अथ मरुद्भ्यो गृहमेधिभ्योऽपराह्ने पर्णशास्त्रया वत्सानपाकृत्य पवित्रवति संदोह्येतं चरु अषयति सर्वो हि स चरुयंत्र क्व च तण्डुलानावपन्ति मेध ह वा एतं देवा आत्मनि दधिरे प्रातव॒त्रः हनिष्यन्तस्तथो वा एष पाप्मानं द्विषन्तं भ्रातृव्य हनिष्यन्नात्मनि मेधं धत्ते 
प. 
a 
. 
. 
146E: 
P 
. 
. 
NEPAL 
LIKE 
नए 
WHAT 
. 
N 
ERAL 
R 
T 
- 
- 
मेवेतन धमात्मान 
ARE 4G 
"-A 
6. Tantissing in M. २. missing into ३. या शा अाधान - TE,M, My. ४. See Naater. 
. 
. 
. 
.. . 
. 
1.5.2.41 
TRANSLATION 
+ 
CILI 
Saat 
Tu 
$ 
verily perishes). Only with this sacrifice (Full Moon sacrifice), that is regular (properly performed), he (the sacrificer) ultimately gets established. 
(First Brāhamana Ends) 
BRAHAMANA II 1. Prajāpati released the creatures from Varuna's noose indeed by means of Varuna praghasas', Those creatures of his were born without disease and without blemish, Now with these Säkamedhas ---indeed by means of the Säkamedhas did the gods kill Vitra. Verily with these only they attained this victory which victory is theirs. In that manner, indeed, does this (sacrificer) destroy his evil hateful enemy by means of these (Sākamedhas) and verily similarly conquers(becomes glorious). He indeed performs (this sacrifice) every day, for two days. 
2. On the previous day (the first day) he offers an oblation (Purodesa, on eight potsherds to Agni-Anikavat. For the gods who would kill Vitra on the morning (of the morrow) went forward towards Vītra), making Agni a sharp point (of weapon) (of making Agni the leader). That 'effulgence', Agni did not suffer (did not feel any pain). So also, this (sacrificer) too moves forward making Agni himself as a point (of weapon) (or a leader), in order to kill the evil hateful enemy. Therefore he offers a purodäsa on eight potsherds to Ágni Arribazzal. 
3. Then at mid-day he offers a caru (boiled rice) to the MarudiVintapan) (Maruts the scorchers). For indeed the Maruts, being scorchers, scorched Vira. Having been scorched, merely breathing in and breathing outbreathing heavily he lay, torn all over. In the same manner do the scorching Maruts scorch, at midday, the wicked hateful enemy of this sacrificer. Therefore does he offer caru, at midday to the Maruts-Santafrancs. . 
4. Then (he offers a caru)to Maru -Gramedhinas (Maruts the Householders) in the afternoon. Having removed the calves with a leafy turf and having drawn the milk into a vessel that has a purifying (device) (tuft of sacrifical grass), he heats this caru over a fire. All that is indeed a any wherein they put rice grains (for cooking). About to kill Vnra on the (following) noming, the gorts took (consumed) this nourishment within themselves. In that spanner, indeed, this sacrificer (too) who is about to destroy his wicked hateful enemy, takes into himself nourishment in that he has milkfood. Indeed milk is nourishment; nourishment are grains of rice. He (the sacrificer takes into himseif verily this twofold nourishment. 
496 
. 
..+. 
ta 
126 
KĀNVA-SATAPATHABRĀHMANAM 
[L.5.2.5 
- 
- 
TE 
TET 
F 
तस्य द्वय्यांवत्सैव वेदिस्तीर्णा भवति परिधी श्चैव शकलाश्चोपनिदधति स्रुवं चो एंव स्रुचं च सम्माष्ट_थ द्वे पिशीले वा पात्र्यौ वा निर्णिज्य तयोरेतवेधौदनमुद्धरति तयोः सर्पिरासेचनं कृत्वा सर्पिरासिच्य तावादायोदाद्रवति स तामेव वेदिर स्तीर्णामभिमृश्य परिधीन्परिधाय यावतः कामयते शकला स्तावतोऽभ्यादधात्यासादयत्येतावोदनौ सीदति होता होतृषदने स्रुवं च स्रुचं चाभिपद्यमान आह ॥ ५॥ 
अग्नयेऽनुब्रूहीत्याग्नेयमराज्यभागः सोऽस्य दक्षिणस्यौदनस्य चतुराज्यस्यविद्यत्यतिक्र म्याश्राव्याहाग्निं बजेति वषट्कृते जुहोति ॥ ६ ॥ 
सोमायानुबृहीत्याह सौम्याज्यभाग सोऽस्योत्तरस्यौदनस्य चतुराज्यस्यावद्यत्यतिक्र म्याश्राव्याह सोमं यजेति वषट्कृते जुहोति ॥ ७ ॥ 
अथाह मरुभ्यो गृहमेधिभ्योऽनुब्रूहीति सोऽस्य दक्षिणस्यौदनस्य तत एवाज्यमुपस्तृ णीते ततो द्विरवद्यत्यभिधारयति प्रत्यनक्त्यवदाने अतिक्रम्याश्राव्याह मरुतो गृहमेधिनो यजेति वषट्कृते जुहोति ॥ ८ ॥ ___ अथाहाग्नये स्विष्टकृतेऽनुब्रूहीति सोऽस्योत्तरस्यौदनस्य तत एवज्यमुपस्तृणीते ततो द्विरवद्यत्यभिधारयति प्रत्यनक्त्यवदाने अतिक्रम्याश्राव्याहाग्नि स्विष्टकृतं यजेति वषट् कृते जुहोतीळामेवावति न प्राशित्रमेतन्त्वेकमयनम् ॥९॥ . अथ द्वितीय सैव वेदि स्तीर्णा भवति परिधी श्चैव शकला चोपनिदधति स्रुवं चो एव सुचं च सम्माटि तथो एवैतं पवित्रवति सन्दोह्य चरु अपयत्यभ्यर्ध आज्य स्थाल्यामधिश्रयति तं यदा शृतं मन्यतेऽथैनमभिधाोंद्वासयति तमुद्रास्यानक्ति त सोख मेवादायोदाद्रवति स तामेव वेदिर स्तीर्णामभिमृश्य परिधीपरिधाय यावतः कामयते 
Fme 
TE 
. 
. 
L 
SPE: 
#mahakaal 
ERTER - 
V 
EHam 
' 
.. 
D 
mE 
A 
मा 
... 
THEIR 
H 
Hmm. 
RSSMA... 
६. सर्व वस्तु TE. CAN,T. ७. न प्रत्यन... TE, My, K, PL, P2, T, Pa, w, Ne. 2. in any Ms; and always interchanged and have not been 
noted every where 
.. 
. 
1.5.2.10 
TRANSLATION 
YA"" 
1 
1 
I 
ren 
107 
FA 
5. For it there is a twofold method (two methods) of performance. The same altar is strewn with a covering (of sacrificial grass). They place the endkosing sticks and pieces (of wood) near it. He verily wipes clean the dipping spunand the offering spoon. Having washed two small plates or two dishes, he takes this cooked rice in two parts in them. Having made a depression in those CWO (dishes) for pouring gher and having poured ghee and having taken them (the two vessels) up, he rushes to that very altar. Having touched that altar covered (with sacrificial grass) and having placed the enclosing sticks around (the fire), he puts into the fire) as many sticks as he likes. He places the (vessels on IWO rice foods down. The Hotr sits on the Hoirsscat. Taking up the dipping spoon and the offering spoon (The Adhvaryu) says. 
6. “Make the invitation) call for Agni”, with reference to Agni's stiare of the ghee. He cuts up (and takes) four times; of the gruer of the souber rice-food: having stepped beyond and having called attention, he says, “Worship (pronounce the offering prayer for) Agni". When Vasat has been utiered, he pours the libation (into the fire). 
7. He says, "Make the call (of invitation) for Soma, about Sonia's share of the ghee. He cuts up and takes) four times, of the gater of the northern rice-food. Having stepped beyond and having called attention he says. "Worship Somas, When Vaşat has been pronounced, he makes the offering 
8. Then he says, “Make the call (of invitation) for Marul-Gramedhim ". He spreads (covers) the sourthern rice-food with the ghee from itself, makes two cuttings from it, sprinkles it with ghee but does not sinear it over the two cut up (portions). Having stepped across and having called attention, tre says, 
, SE 
& 
$ 
$ 
F 
TA 
3-11 
HA 
23 
1 FLET 
bit 
You 
INN 
TI 
933 
t 
ut. NILI 
1 
A 
14. 
09% 
dhe 
VE 
F 
LE 
pronounced. 
9. Then he says, "Make the invitation) call for Agni-Serigak??". He spreads (covers) the northern rice-food with the ghee from itsell, makes two cuttings from it, sprinkles it with ghee (but) does not smear the two cut up (portions): having stepped beyond and having called attention, he says, Worship on Svistakrt". When Vaşat has been pronounced, he makes the offering. He cuts up. only Ida and not Präsitra. (the fore-portion that belongs to Brakmax). This. indeed, is one way (of performance). 
10. Now the second (mode of performance); 
That very altar becomes covered (with sacrificial grass). They place the enclosing sticks and pieces (of wood) nearby. He wipes clean the dipping SEXNMI and also the offering spoon. In the sazric way (as before) having miked in (a vessel) that has a purifier (bunch of sacred grass), he cooks the case. Nearty he 
012 
SOSYA 
* 
VR 
AN 
f 
! 
CA 
YOU
128 
KĀNVA-SATAPATHABRĀHMANAM 
[1.5.2.10 
। 
शकलास्तावतोऽभ्यादधात्यासादयत्येतरं सोखमेवाभ्यर्ध आज्यमासादयति सीदति होता होतृषदने स्रुवं च स्रुचं चाभिपद्यमान आह ॥ १० ॥ ___ अग्नयेऽनुब्रूहीत्याग्नेयमाज्यभागः सोऽस्याः स्थाल्याश्चतुराज्यस्यावद्यत्यतिक्रम्याश्रा 
व्याहाग्निं यजेति वषट्कृते जुहोति ॥ ११ ॥ 
सोमायानुब्रूहील्याह सौम्याज्यभागः सोऽस्याः स्थाल्याश्चतुराज्यस्यावद्यत्यतिक्रम्या श्राव्याह सोमं यजेति वषट्कृते जुहोति ॥ १२ ॥ - अथाह मरुद्भ्यो गृहमेधिभ्योऽनुब्रूहीत्युपस्तृणीत आज्यमथास्य चरोश्विद्यत्यभिधा रयति प्रत्यनक्त्यवदाने अतिक्रम्याश्राव्याह मरुतो गृहमेधिनो यजेति वषट्कृते 
जुहोति ॥ १३॥ 
अथाहानये स्विष्टकृतेऽनुब्रूहीत्युपस्तृणीत आज्यमथास्य चरोः सकृदयद्यति द्विरभिघा रयति न प्रत्यनक्त्यवदानमतिक्रम्याश्राव्याहाग्नि स्विष्टकृतं यजेति वषट्कृते जुहोतीळामे वावद्यति न प्राशित्रम् ॥ १४ ॥ 
ते यावर्ती गृह्या हविराशाः स्युस्तेऽस्यौदनस्याश्नीयुरथो ऋत्विजोऽथो अन्ये ब्राह्मणा यदि बहु स्यादथेमामनिरशितामेव कुम्भीमपिधाय निदधति प्रातः पूर्णदर्वाय समवन्ति वत्सास्तत्पशव आत्मनि मेधं दधते ॥ १५ ॥ .. . यवाग्वैतार रात्रिमग्निहोत्रं जुहोति निवान्याया वत्सं यमयन्ति प्रातः पितृयज्ञायाथ प्रातर्हते वाहुते वाग्निहोत्रे यतरथा कामयेतास्या अनिरशितायाः कुम्भ्याः पूर्णदर्वमुपहन्ति पूर्णा दर्वि परापत सुपूर्णा पुनरापत । वस्नेव विक्रीणावहा इषमूर्जर शतक्रतविति यथा पुरोऽनुवाक्यैवमेधैतयैवैनमेतस्मै भागाय ह्वयति ॥ १६ ॥ 
४ 
p 
स 
PANTHS 
. . E 
E 
ARTAL 
M 
. 
POANN 
९. न अत्यन TE, My, K, PI, P2, T, Pa, W, N. Ne. १२. सावन्तो TE. ११. See Notes. 
Bitime 
1.5.2.16) 
TRANSLATION 
ghee). Having taken it up along with the salt earth (smeared on the outer underside of the pot), he hastens (towards) the altar. Having touched that very altar that has been covered (with holy grass) and having placed the enclosing sticks around (the altar), he places in the fire) as many pieces (of wood) as he likes. He places down this food with the vessel, with the (smeared) earth (on the outside bottom of the vessel). He places the (pot of) ghee down nearby. The Horr sits on the Hotr's seat.(The Adhvaryu),taking up the dipping spoon and offering spoon, says. 
11. "Make the invitation) call for Agni", with reference to Agni s share of ghee. He cuts up (and takes four times from the ghee in the por. Having stepped beyond and having called attention, he says, “Worship Agni". When Vaşat has been pronounced, he makes the offering. 
12. He says, "Make the call (of invitation) for Soma", regarding Soma's share of the ghee. He cuts up (and takes) four times, of the ghee from the pot. Having stepped beyond and having made the call for attention he says, "Worship Soma". He makes the offering after Vasat has been pronounced. 
13. Then he says, “Make the call (of invitation) for Maru-Grhamedhins”. He spreads ghee (in the offering spoon). Then he cuts up (and takes) two times of the caru. He sprinkles ghee (over it) and smears the two cut up portions (with ghee) (reanoints that part from where the cuttings have been made). Having stepped beyond and having called attention, he says, "Worship the Marut Grhamedhins". After Vaşat has been uttered, he makes the offering. 
14. Then he says, "Make the call (of invitation) for AgwSristaksi". He spreads ghee (in the offering spoon) and cuts up once from the maru , twice he sprinkles ghee (over it) (but) does not smear (docs not anoint the part where from the cutting has been made) the cutting. Having stepped beyond and having called attention he says, “Worship Agni-Svestakyr". When Vand has been pronounced he makes the offering. He cuts uponly the Ida and swt the yüra. 
15. As many members of the household as are (entitled) eaters of the remainder of the sacrificial food, may partake of this food; then the sacrificial priests and then other Brāhmins if there is much (food). Without its being made empty, they put the pot away after having covered it with a lid). In the morning for the Pürradarva' (full-spoon) ritual, they gather the calves together. Thereby the cattle acquire nourishment in themselves (in their body). . 
16. This night he performs Agnihotre with rice griet. In the morning they tic 
- 
16 
1. 
Nur 
. 
1 
U 
T 
. 
7 
tres 
L3 
9 
BUY 
LKY 
V 
TWO 
DAY 
. 
1. 
5 
LL 
1 
th 
LOSBE 
. 
(performning) the offering to the fathers (manes). The Agnihotra has been performed or not, (i.e before or after the potiormance of: Agnihotra), he cuts up a spumful from this unemptied pext, whichever (portion) 
cate 
he plo 
KĀNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.5.2.17-- 
www 
- 
अथर्षभमाह्वयति स यदि रुयात्स वषट्कार एतद्वा इन्द्रस्य रूपं यदृषभस्य स्वेनैवैनमे तद्रूपेणैतस्मै भागायैतेन भागेन वृत्रस्य वधाय ह्वयति स यदि रुयादथ विद्यादा म इन्द्रो यज्ञमगन्सेन्द्रो मे यज्ञ इति यधु न रुयादपि ब्राह्मण एव दक्षिणत आसीनो ब्रूयाज्जुहुधीति सौ एवेन्द्री वाक् ॥ १७ ॥ 
स जुहोति देहि मे ददामि ते नि मे धेहि नि ते दधे । निहारं निहरामि ते निहारं निहरामि मे स्वाहेति ॥ १८ ॥ 
अथ मरुभ्यः क्रीळिभ्यः सप्तकपालं पुरोळाशं निर्वपति मरुतो ह वै क्रीळिन इन्द्र वृत्र हनिष्यन्तमागतमभितो महयन्तः परिचिक्रीळुस्तथों वा एतं पाप्मानं द्विषन्तं भ्रातृव्य हनिष्यन्तं मरुत एव क्रीळिनोऽभितो महयन्तः परिक्रीळन्ति तस्मान्मरुभ्यः क्रीळिभ्यः सप्तकपालं पुरोळाशं निर्वपति स यत्सप्तकपालो भवति सप्त सप्त हि मारुतो गणः ॥ १९ ॥ इति द्वितीयं ब्राह्मणम् ॥ 
TATE 
HIM 
FLACPM 
THAN 
। 
मन 
तृतीयं ब्राह्मणम् __ महाहविषा ह वै देवा वृत्रं जन्नुस्तेनैव व्यजयन्त येयमेषां विजितिस्तथो वा एष एतेन पाप्मानं द्विषन्तं भ्रातृव्य हन्ति तथो एव विजयते ॥१॥ 
M 
HARAT 
A 
Area 
१२. अथ ऋषभ M. १३. पेशैतस्मै TE. १४. मानेन TE. १५. सा FE.. १६. स्काहन्ति TE, FI, P2,8,Pa. १७. मला M. . . 
1.5.3.1) 
TRANSLATION 
1 
(of a hundred sacrifices) let us, (you and me) exchange (sell to each other) sustenance and strength as for price. This is verily just as is the pruronukya (prayer of invitation). With this (call), indeed, he (the sacrificer) invites him (Indra) for this share. 
17. Then they call up a bull. If he should bellow, that (bellowing) is the Vasatkāra (permissive utterance for offering). What is the form of the bull, this verily is the form of Indra. (Thus) he (the sacrificer) calls this (Indra) with his own form for (accepting) this share and for killing Vrtra with this share. If (the bull) should bellow, he (the sacrificer) should understand, “Indra has come to my sacrifice. My sacrifice has Indra (is with Indra) If (the bull) may not bellow, even then a Brāhmin(priest) seated to the south may say, "Perform the Homa", That verily is the expression (voice) of Indra. 
18. He makes the offering (chanting),"Give to me, I give to you. Bestow on me, I bestow on you. I offer to you a present. You give me a present-- Srika". 
19. Then he makes an offering of purodāta on seven potsherds to 'Marut-Krāļirzs" (Maruts-the sporters). Indeed Maruts are sporters, Praising him all around, indeed the Maruts sported around Indra who had come, who was going to kill Vitra. In that same manner, the sportive Maruts praising him, sport around this (sacrificer) who is going to kill his owl hateful enemy, Therefore does he offer a purodaša on seven potsherds to the sportive Maruts. (The reason) why it is on seven potsherds is that the host of Maruts (ts in) groups of seven each. 
(Second Brăhamana Ends) 
BRAHMAŅA III 1. The gods killed Vrtra verily by means of the Malahanks (the great oblation). By that indeed, did they attain this victory which is theirs. In that manner doe this (sacrificer) too kill his wicked hateful enemy by means of this tahes and similarly does he attain victory, 
192 
KĀNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[H.5.3.2 
- 
- 
तस्यावृदुपकिरत्युत्तरबेदिं गृह्णाति पृषदाज्यं मन्थत्यग्निं नव प्रयाजा नवानुयाजास्त्रीणि समिष्टयजू घ्यथैतान्येव पञ्च हवी षि भवन्ति ॥ २ ॥ 
स यदाग्नेयो भवत्यग्निना ह वा एनं तेजसा जघ्नुः स तेजोऽग्निर्नाव्यथत तस्मादाग्ने योऽष्टाकपालो भवति ॥ ३॥ 
सौम्यश्चरुः सोमराजानो ह वा एनं जघ्नुस्तस्मात्सौम्यश्चरुर्भवति ॥ ४ ॥ 
अथ सावित्रो द्वादशकपालो वा भवत्यष्टाकपालो वा सविता वै देवानां प्रसविता सवितृप्रसूता ह वा एनं जघ्नुस्तस्मात्सावित्रो द्वादशकपालो वा भवत्यष्टाकपालो वा ॥ ५ ॥ 
सारस्वतश्चरुर्वाग्वै सरस्वती सा हैनमनुममादाभपर्वख प्रहर जहीति तस्मात्सारस्वत श्चरुः ॥ ६॥ 
पौष्णश्चरुरियं वै पृथिवी पूरैषा हैवैनं प्रतिप्रददौ वधार्यतया हैवैन संपत्तं जघ्नुस्तस्मा त्पौष्णश्चरुः ॥७॥ 
ऐन्द्राग्नो द्वादशकपाल एतेन ह वा एनं जघ्नुर्ब्रह्माग्निः क्षत्रमिन्द्रो ब्रह्म चैवैतत्क्षत्रं च सभ्य ते सयुजौ कृत्वा ताभ्यार हैवैनं जघ्नुर्ब्रह्म चैवैतत्क्षत्रं च सयुजौ करोति तस्माद्ब्रह्म 
च क्षत्रं च सयुजौ ॥ ८ ॥ __ माहेन्द्रश्चरुरिन्द्रो वा एष पुरा वृत्रस्य वधादित्यथ वृत्र जनिवान्यथा महाराजो विजिग्यान एवं महेन्द्र इति तस्मान्माहेन्द्रश्चरुर्महान्तमु चैवैनमेतत्करोति वृत्रस्य वाय ॥ ९ ॥ 
वैश्वकर्मण एककपालो विश्वं वा एतद्देवानां कर्म कृतमासीत्सर्वजित साकमेधैरीजा नानां तथो वा एतस्य विश्वं कर्म कृतं भवति सर्व जितः साकमेधैरीजानस्य त एतेनेष्टा 
- 
army 
pram 
FB 
Mamguptopana • 
M 
ITTEE 
P ag 
Pa 
- 
- 
- 
A 
. 
D 
meen 
म. 
१. दामियान्य TE; दाभिपद्याद दादाभिपवस्व Ca. २. सशकुन 1, 2, H. 
- 
.... 
1.5.3.10] 
TRANSLATION 
U 
& 
E 
LKEH 
2. Its method of performance) --Hespreads the northern altar(with sacred grass). (He binds up the northern altar), He takes up (uses) clolied ghee. He churns the fire. There are in this sacrifice) nine fore-offerings, nine after-offerings and three Samiştu-waju.. Then there are these following) five oblations. 
3. That (the oblation) is one dedicated to Agni (because) they (the gods killed him (Vţtra) with Agni, with sharpness. That sharp Agni did not sufler (did not feel pain). Therefore there is an oblation) dedicated to Agni, on eight potsherds. 
4. (There is) a caru (offering) dedicated to Soma. (The gods), verily having Soma as their king, killed him (Vrtra). Therefore there is a caru (offering) dedicated to Soma. 
5. Then there is (an offering) dedicated to Savitr on twelve potsherds or on eight potsherds. Indeed Savitr is the producer (inspirer) of the gods. Produced (inspired) by Savits, indeed did they kill this (Vrtra). Therefore there is (an offering) dedicated to Savitr, of twelve potsherds or of eight potsherds. 
6. (Then there is offered) a caru dedicated to Sarasvati. Indeed speech is Sarasvatī. She verily cheered him (Indra) up (saying), “Attack, strike, kill", Hence (the offer of) a caru dedicated to Sarasvati. 
7. (Then there is an offering of) a caru dedicated to Püsan. Verily this earth is Puşan (the nourisher). Indeed she surrendered him for killing. They (gods) killed this (VȚtra) who was given up by this (earth). Therefore (is offered)a caru dedicated to Pūşan. 
8. (The oblation) dedicated to Indra and Agni (together) is on twelve potsherds. For indeed by means of that they killed this (Vrtra) Agni is Brahmını (the priest). Indra is Kşatra (ruler). Having excited Brahman and Kşatra and having made them close together, through those two, they (gods) inderd killed this (Vrtra). Thus does he (the sacrificer) make Brahman and Ksaira (be clone) together. Hence are Brahman and Kşatra together. 
9. There (is offered) a caru dedicated to Mahendra (Iretra the Great). This (god) was verily Indra before the killing of Vrtra. Then he killed Vţtra, Just as (a king) (after) conquering (becomes) a great king (Molärtija), so also (Indra became) Mahendra too. Therefore is a caru dedicated to Malandru. Thereby he (the sacrificer) makes this (Indra) great (strong) for killing Vrtra, 
10. (Then, there is an oblation offered) dedicated to Višvakarman, on a single potsherd. This action of gods who performed the Sokumedha sacrifices was made complete (comprehensive), by which all was conquered. So also alwork becomes done and everything (hxccones conquered) for one who performs the 
# 
T 
TO 
SR 
4 
184 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMAŅAM 
[I.5.3.10 
देवा येयं देवानां जितिर्या श्रीस्तद्बभूवुरेव ह वाव जयत्येव श्रियं गच्छति य एनेनैवं विद्वान्यजते ॥ १० ॥ इति तृतीयं ब्राह्मणम् ॥ 
॥ इति पञ्चमोऽध्यायः ॥ 
1.5.3.101 
TRANSLATION 
Sakamedha sacrifice. He who knowing this performs a sacrifice thus with this (Sākamelha), verily conquers and attains splendour, which conquest and what splendour those gods attained after having performed with this (Säkamedha (sacrifice). 
(Third Brāhmana Ends) 
(Chapter Five ends) 
136 
KĀNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.6.1.1 
Samme 
षष्ठोऽध्यायः 
प्रथमं ब्राह्मणम् महाहविषा ह वै देवा वृत्रं जघ्नुस्तेनैव व्यजयन्त येयमेषां विजितिरथ यानेवैषां तस्मिन्त्संग्रामेऽन्न स्तानेव पितृयज्ञेन समैरयन्त पितरो वै त आसस्तस्मात्पितृयज्ञो नाम ॥ १ ॥ __ तद्वसन्तो ग्रीष्मो वर्षा एते ये व्यजयन्ताथ शरद्धेमन्तः शिशिरस्त उ ते यान्पुनः समैरयन्ताथ यदेष एतेन यजते नाहैवैतस्य कंचन घ्नन्तीति देवा अकुर्वन्निति त्वेवैष एतत्करोति तानु च हैवैतदवति यान्देवाः समरयन्त स्वानु च पितृच्छ्रेया सं लोकमु पोन्नयंति यदु वैवास्थात्मनोऽचरणेन हन्यते मीयते तदु चैवैतेन पुनराप्याययति तस्माद्वा एष एतेन यजते ॥२॥ ____ सवै पितृभ्यः सोमवद्भ्यः षट्कपालं पुरोळाशं निर्वपति सोमाय वा पितृमते षड्वा 
ऋतव ऋतवो वै पितरस्तस्मात्षट्कपालो भवति ॥ ३ ॥ __ अथ पितृभ्यो बर्हिषद्भ्यः पूर्वेधुरन्वाहार्यपचने धानाः कुर्वन्ति तासामर्धाः पिषन्त्यर्धा इत्येवापिष्टा भवन्ति ता उ पितृभ्यो बर्हिषद्भ्यः॥४॥ 
अथ पितृभ्योऽग्निवत्तेभ्यो निवा॒न्याया दुग्धे सकृदुपमथित एकशलाकया मन्थो भवति सकृद्धयेव पराञ्चः पितरस्तस्मात्सकृदुपमथितो भवति ॥ ५ ॥ 
ता एव सोमेनेजानास्ते पितरः सोमवन्तोऽथ येऽनीजानाः सोमेन दत्तेनैव पक्वेन लोकं जयन्ति ते बर्हिषदोऽथ ये ततो नान्यतरच्चन यानग्निरेव दहन्त्स्व दयति तेऽग्निष्वात्ता एते वाव त्रयाः पितरः ॥ ६ ॥ 
अथ खलु प्राचीनाववीती भूत्वा जघनेन गार्हपत्यं दक्षिणासीनः सव्यं जान्वाच्यैतर षट्कपालं पुरोळाशं गृह्णाति स तत एव दक्षिणा तिष्ठन्नवहन्ति दक्षिणैव दृषदुपले उपधत्ते १. अयन्ति TE,T. २. वययते M. ३. सवाल शव Co 
deal 
H 
TRN 
m 
PORN 
NPATH 
- 
1.6.1.7) 
TRANSLATION 
Chapter Six 
EL 11 
SAP 
ily 
''. 
VAS 
BRAHMANAI 1. The gods killed Vţtra verily by means of (the offering of Mahnhavę (the great offering). By that, indeed, they attained this victory which is theirs. By means of the Pity-pajña(sacrifice to the fathers), they impelled (brought) back to life among them whom they (the Asuras)had killed in that battle. They became the fathers (Pitrs) indeed. Hence it is known as Pitr-yajia. 
2. Now, spring, summer, the rains. these (seasons) are in which they conquered, autumn, snow and winter-these are those in which they (the gods) impelled (back to life). (The reason) that one performs this sacrifice (is so that the Asuras) do not (may not) kill any one at all related to this (sacrificer). He verily performs it because the gods performed (it). Also he pleases indeed, those whom the gods brought (back to life) and he also leads his own Patys to a higher (better) world. Whatever belonging to him, is destroyed or hurt by his own) non-performance, that also he verily fills up (compensates) by this. Therefore indeed does this (sacrificer) perform this sacrifice. 
3. He verily offers to the Pitr-Somavats (the manes associated with Soma) a prurodāsa on six potsherds or (he does it) for Soma (associated with Purs). Six 
seasons. The seasons are verily the Patrs. Therefore (is offered the purodāša) of six potsherds. 
4. Then on the previous (first) day, they prepare fried (barley) grains on the Anvähäryapacana (Dakşinägr) for (offering to) the Pitr-Barkins (the fathers seated on the holy grass). Half of them, they grind. Only the other half remains unground; they (the unground grains) are verily for the Pur-Barbiyads.' 
5. Then for the Pitt-Agniştātias (the fathers placed in fires) -When the milk of a cow suckling a calf other than its own is once stirred with single splinter, it becomes *mantha' ( the stirred up ). Indeed the Purs passed away only once, Therefore is it stirred up once (only). 
6. There those fathers who have sacrificed with Soma, they are the Pilis associated with Soma (Somuzantah). And those who, without sacrificing with Soma, win the world (of gods) by merely offering cooked (sacrificial food) they are the Pitr-Barhisads (seated on the sacrificial grass). Those who are neither (Somavats nor Barhisads) but whom Agni himself consumes (tastes), burning (them) they are Agnişzxättas (placed in the fires). These are indeed the three kinds of Pirs. 
7. Then, having worn the sacred thread in the Pricine position (over the right shoulder and under the left arm), being seated behind the Birthday and facing south, having bent the left knee, he takes up (the rice for preparing this purodáša (to be sanctified) on six potsherds. From there itself standing faciun 
. 
Met 
24 
w 
'. 
ILA
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.6.1.7 
T 
" 
क 
. . 
: 
दक्षिणार्धे गार्हपत्यस्य षट्कपालान्युपधत्ते स यदेतां दिशः सचन्त एषा हि पितॄणां दिग्दक्षिणेनैवान्वाहार्यपचनं चतुःस्रक्तिं वेदिं करोत्यवान्तरदिशोऽनु सक्तीः करोत्यवान्तर दिशो हि पितरः ॥ ७ ॥ __तन्मध्येऽग्निः समादधाति पुरस्ताद्वै देवाः प्रत्यञ्चौं मनुष्यास्तस्मादेभ्यः प्राङ् तिष्ठन्जु होति सर्वत एव पितरोऽवान्तरदिशो हि पितरः सर्वतो हीमा अवान्तरदिशस्तस्मान्म ध्येऽग्निर समादधाति ततः प्रावस्तम्बयजुर्हरति ॥ ८ ॥ __ अथ पूर्वं परिग्राहं परिगृह्णातीममेवाग्रेऽथेममथेमं लिखति हरति यत्तत्र हर्तव्यं तदुत्तरं परिग्राहं परिगृह्य प्रोक्षणीरासादयतीमाबर्हिरुपसादयन्ति सुचः सम्माष्टिं नात्र पत्नी सन्नह्यति नेत्पत्नीं पितृषु दधानीत्यथाज्यानि ग्रहीष्यन्यज्ञोपवीती भवति ॥ ९ ॥ 
तदाहुर्द्विरुपभृति गृह्णीयावौ ह्यनुयाजाविति तद्वष्टावेव कृत्वो गृह्णीयान्नेद्यज्ञस्य विधाया अयानीत्याज्यानि गृहीत्वा प्रोक्षिष्यन्पुनः प्राचीनाववीती भवति ॥ १० ॥ 
स इध्ममेवाग्रे प्रोक्षत्यथ वेदिमथास्मै बर्हिः प्रयच्छन्ति तदुपमूले दितं भवत्यग्रमिव वै देवानां मध्यमिव मनुष्याणां मूलमिव पितॄणां तस्मादुपमूले दितं भवति तत्प्रोक्ष्योपनि नीय न प्रस्तरं गृह्णाति सकृद्धयेव पराञ्चः पितरः सन्नहनमनुविस्र स्यापसलवि त्रिः परिस्तृणन्पर्येति स तत एवैतावन्मात्राणि प्रस्तरभाजनं परिशिनष्टि तैरु पुनः सह प्रसलवि त्रिः पर्येति स या स्त्रयान्पितॄनन्वति तेभ्य एवैतत्पुनरपोदेतीममभि स्वं लोकं दक्षिणैव परिधीन्परिदधाति दक्षिणेतं प्रस्तरमासादयति नान्तर्गृह्णाति विधृती सकृद्धयेव पराञ्चः पितरः ॥११॥ 
F 
.. 
. 
THRSS 
" 
MAN 
NEHDBAPPA 
- 
ma Pand 
R 
। 
४. agres with पचते... ...... ५. See Nestess मनुष्यार in all Mss. 
EAR. 
மயர் 
TRANSLATION 
YL 
2 
LLL 
N 
" 
ht 
. 
south he thrushes (the rite). He places the Drsad and Uhia (the twostoves used for grinding) on the south itself. He places the six potsherds on the southern portion of the Gärhapatya. That they take to this direction (south) is (because ) this is verily the quarter of the manes. Indeed south of the Anvähänapucanu (Daksināgni, he builds up a square altar. He makes the corners (of the altars) towards the intermediate quarters. For the intermediate quarters are the manes. 
8. In its midst, he lays down the fire. From the cast the gods (come) tomen in the west. Therefore he (man) offers to these (gods), (himself, standing (facing) east. All around in all the directions) (everywhere) are the Pitrs. Indeed the intermediate quarters are the manes. All around on all sides) are there intermediate quarters. Therefore he lays down the fire in the middle. 
Then he takes away (throws) the bunch of stumps of sacred grass to the east. 
9. Then he takes up (makes) the first enclosure of the altar), this (side) first, then this and then this. (He) scratches (draws lines). (He) removes what has to be removed there (the dust), Then taking up (making) the next (second) enclosure, he places (in it) the (vessels of) sprinkling water. They place the firewood (sticks) and barhis (the sacrificial grass) near it. He wipes the spoons clean. Here he does not involve his wife (for the ritual), thinking, "I 1304, I may be placing (her) amidst the Pitrs". He then wcars (changes his sacred thread to) yajñopavita position (over his left shoulder and under his right arm) in order to take up (before taking up) the ghee. 
10. About that, they say, “He should take (ladle out) twice in the manabhrt' lor there are two after-offerings (in this sacrifice), thinking, "If not, I may depart from the procedure of the sacrifice", Having taken up the ghee, he again wears the sacred thread in präcīnīrīta position before sprinkling (water). 
11. First he verily sprinkles the fire wood (with water), then the altar. Then they hand over the sacrificial grass to him. That (turxh of sacrificial grass tuas been cut near the root, for the top verily is of gods, the middleverils for mon and the bottom (root) verily of the mancs. Therefore, it is out near the room. Havik sprinkled it (with water) and having taken it very case. - he does not take hold of the prastara, for the fathers have departed once for all-and having untied the knot, he moves thrice, from right to left (in the apaseura manner (around the altar) spreading (the sacrificial grass) thrice from right to left. Hezexives from that (bunch of sacred grass) itself as much as would serte #$ prasiera bunch with them, he again moves thrice from left to right in the redaksini manner 
E 
2. 
12 
W 
2. 
9:41 
AR 
91 
. 
peri 
4 
* 
4 
* 
3 
ELRY 
DR 
ALIVI! 
. 
A 4 
. 
9 
. 
from them venly he comes towards this, his own world. He laws town the enclosing sticks (with their tops) towards the south only, He places the anatara (with their tips) towards the south. He does not take the two I PRELÉS in between (the darkis and the prestera). For, the fathers have passd away once Bead (ance 
KĀNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.6.1.12 
- 
तज्जुहूमासादयत्यथोपभृतमथ ध्रुवामथ पुरोळाशमथ धाना अथ करम्भमासाद्य हवी षि सम्मृश्य सर्वे यज्ञोपवीतिनो भवन्तीत्थाद्यजमानश्च ब्रह्मा च पश्चात्परीतः पुरस्ता दग्नीत् ॥ १२ ॥ 
तेनोपाशु चरन्ति तिर इव वै पितरस्तिर इवैतद्यदुपाशु परिवृते चरन्ति तिर इव वै पितरस्तिर इवैतद्यत्परिवृतम् ॥ १३॥ 
अथाहाग्नये समिध्यमानायानुब्रूहीति स एतामेका सामिधेनी त्रिरन्वाहोशन्तस्त्वा निधीमह्युशन्तः समिधीमहि । उशन्नुशत आवह पितॄन्हविषे अत्तव इति स यदेकामन्वाह 
सकृद्धयेव पराञ्चः पितरः ॥ १४ ॥ __ अावाहयत्यनिमग्न आवह सोममावह पितॄन्त्सोमवत आवह पितॄन्बर्हिषद आवह पितृनग्निश्वात्तानावह देवा३आज्यपां आवहाग्नि होत्रायावह स्वं महिमानमावहा च वह जातवेदः सुयजा च यजेत्याघारावाघार्याध्वर्युराश्राव्य न होतारं प्रवृणीते नेद्धोतारं पितृषु 
धानीति सीद होतरित्येवाह सीदति होता होतृषदने प्रसूतः स्युचावादायातिक्रम्याध्वर्युरा श्राव्याह समिधो यजेति सोऽपबर्हिषश्चतुरः प्रयाजान्यजति प्रजा वै बहिनेत्प्रजाः पितृषु दधानीति तस्मादपबर्हिषश्चतुरः प्रयाजान्यजत्याज्यभागाभ्यां चरित्वा हविर्भिः प्रचरिष्यन्तः सर्वे प्राचीनाववीतिनो भवन्तीत्थाद्यजमानश्च ब्रह्मा च पुरस्तात्परीतः पश्चादनीत् ॥ १५ ॥ 
तदुताश्रावयन्त्यो ३ स्वधेत्यस्तु स्वधेति प्रत्याश्रावण स्वधा नम इति वषट्कारस्तद्वा सुरिरुवाचाश्रावयेयुरेव प्रत्याश्रावयेयुर्वषट्कुर्युद्यज्ञस्य विधाया अयानीति स द्वे पुरोऽनु वाक्ये अन्वाहैकया वै देवान्प्रच्यावयति द्वाभ्यां पितृन्त्सकृद्धयेव पराञ्चः पितरस्तस्माद्वे पुरोऽनुवाक्ये अन्वाह ॥ १६ ॥ 
land 
to see Notes on pluia. ८. बदस्यो see NetEN CMT pluata. 
1.6.1.16) 
TRANSLATION 
فتبم 
12. Then he lays the juhü', then the 'utabhrt", then the 'dhruā' then the purodāša, then the fried grains and then the mixture of flour and curds (in this order). After thus having placed (them in this order) and after thus having touched the oblations, all wear their sacred threads in the "upavita' position. From here, the Agnidh moves round to the east (of the fire) and the sacrificer and Brahman go round to the west. 
13. Therefore do they perform this, in a low (muffled) voice; for verily the manes are invisible (concealed) as it were. This, viz., what is in a low voice (muffled) is verily, concealed as it were. They perform it in an enclosed space. The Pitys are verily invisible (concealed), as it were. This, what is enclosed, is verily as if concealed (invisible). 
14. Now he says, “Make the invitation) call for Agni who is being kindled". He (Hotr) recites thrice this one Samidheni (kindling chant),"Being Desirous, we place you. Being desirous let us kindle you. Being desirous, bring here the desirous fathers for the oblations, to eat (the oblation)". Why he recites (only) one chant (is because) indeed the fathers have passed away only once force for all). 
15. Then he invokes Agni to convey (the gods and Pitts) (saying), "Oh Agni, fetch Soma, fetch the Pitr:Somavats, fetch the Pitr-Barhşadı, fetch the Patr Agnişzattās, fetch the Gods the consumers of ghee, fetch Agni for the function of Hotr,bring here your own greatness; Oh Jātavedas!(Oh knower of all that is bornl) fetch, do surely fetch here, “The good sacrificer, you please offer the sacrifice". So saying, having sprinkled ghee twice and having called attention the Adhvaryu-he does not ceremoniously choose the Hotr,(as he thinks), **If not,I may be putting the Hotr amidst the Pitrs "-merely says, "Oh Hour please sit down". The Hotř sits on the Hotr's seat. Being permitted (prompted) the Adhvaryu,having taken up the two spoons and having stepped beyond and called attention says, "Worship (utter the offering prayer for) Samiks (kindling sticks)". He makes the four fore-offerings excluding the one to Barhis. “For the Barhis is indeed progeny."If not, I might be putting the progeny (my off-spring) amidst the Pitrs". -(thus he thinks). Therefore does he offer the four fore-offerings omitting the one to Barhus. Having proceeded with the offering of) two ghee-shares, before performing the hau's offerings (as they are going to perform havis offerings to Pits),all put on the rücināvila position of the sacred thread. From here, the Brahma and the sacrificer move round to the east and Agnidh to the west (of the fire). 
16. Moreover, they call attention (Sraugat), as, "Om 3 Souka. The response call is, "Let there be Svadha", (in the place of) Vaşqi utterance, there is "Serca namah" (obeisance). About that Asuri said, "Verily they must call attention, (with frävaya as usual). They must make the response cab-astu peugat as usual)" .They must utter Vasau (they should drink) "If not, I shall be deviating 
KĀŅVA-SATAPATHABRĀHMAŅAM 
"AU BAHAR 
[I.6.1,17 
न 
E 
SHRI 
। 
अथाह पितृभ्यः सोमवद्भ्योऽनुब्रूहीति सोमाय वा पितृमत उपस्तृणीत आज्यमथास्य पुरोळाशस्यविद्यति तेनैव सह धानानां तेन सह करम्भस्य तत्सकृदेवावदधाति द्विरभिघार्य प्रत्यनक्त्यवदानानि नातिक्रमतीत एवोपोत्यायाश्राव्याह पितॄन्त्सोमवतो यजेति वषट्कृते जुहोति ॥ १७॥ 
अथाह पितृभ्यो बर्हिषद्भ्योऽनुब्रूहीत्युपस्तृणीत आज्यमथासां धानानामवद्यति तेनैव सह करम्भस्य तेन सह पुरोळाशस्य तत्सकृदेवावदधाति द्विरभिार्य प्रत्यनक्त्यवदानानि नातिक्रामतीत एवोपोत्थायाश्राव्याह पितॄन्बर्हिषदो यजेति वषट्कृते जुहोति ॥ १८ ॥ __ अथाह पितृभ्योऽग्निवत्तेभ्योऽनुब्रूहीत्युपस्तृणीत आज्यमथास्य करम्भस्यावधति तेनैव सह पुरोळाशस्य तेन सह धानानां तत्सकृदेवावदधाति द्विरभिचार्य प्रत्यनक्त्यवदानानि नातिक्रामतीत एवोपोत्थायाश्राव्याह पितॄनग्निष्वात्तान्यजेति वषट्कृते जुहोति ॥ १९ ॥ __ अथाहा ये कव्यवाहनायानुब्रूहीति तत्स्विष्टकृद्भाजन हव्यवाहनो वै देवानां कव्य वाहनः पितॄणां तस्मादाह कव्यवाहनायानुब्रूहीत्युपस्तृणीत आज्यमथास्य पुरोळाशस्या वद्यति तेनैव सह धानानां तेन सह करम्भस्य तत्सकृदेवावदधाति द्विरभिघार्य न प्रत्यनक्त्यवदानानि नातिक्रामतीत एवोपोत्थायाश्राव्याहाग्निं कव्यवाहनं यजेति वषट्कृते जुहोति ॥ २० ॥ 
- 
MODARA 
१ 
4 
1.6.1.201 
4 
TRANSLATION 
# 
14 
YON 
TIL 
1 
st 
from the procedure for sacrifice. He(the Hotrj recites two prayers of invitation; with one he indeed makes the gods move down and the Patrs with two, Indeed the fathers have passed away only once (once for all). Therefore, indeed, does he recite two invitation- prayers. 
17. Then he(Adhvaryu)says, "Make the call of invitation for the Pitr-Somanats. (Pitrs associated with Soma) or for Soma Pitrmat (Soma associated with Pitrs). He spreads (a layer of) the ghee (on the spoon), then makes a cutting of the murraca and then together with it some of the fried grains and along with it some of the porridge (mixture of flour and curds); thus he puts all at once in the puka). Having sprinkled ghee on it twice, he pours (a little) ghee again (into wherefrom he has taken) into the cut parts of sacrificial food. He does not walk beyond. Here itself. having risen and having made the call for attention, he says, "Worship (recite the offering prayer) Pity-Somanats". He makes the offering after Vaşat has been pronounced. 
18. Then he says, “Make the invitation call for Pitr-Barhisads". He spreads (a little) ghee (in the spoon) and then takes off a portion of these fried grains and then along with it, of the (mixture of flour and curds) porridge and along with that, of the purodāša-he puts all that once (simultaneously) (into the spoon), Having sprinkled it with ghee twice, he anoints the cut off portions of the offerings (remaining in the dishes). He does not move beyond. Getting up here itself and having called attention, he says, "Worship the Pstrs Barkised **. He makes the offering when Vaşat has been uttered. 
19. He then says, “Make the invitation call for Patrs Agnir Ötta-**. He spreads (a little) ghee (in the spoon). Then he makes a cutting of the porridge, along with it, then, of Purodāśa and then along with it of fried grains. That he puts into the spoon) only once. Having sprinkled ghee on it twice, he anoints the cut off parts (of the oblations in the dishes). He does not move beyond. Here itself after getting up and having called attention, he says, “ worship the Pias Armintta-*. When Vaşat has been uttered, he makes the offering. 
20. Then he says, "Make the invitation prayer for Agu Kanakhanc *. That is what takes the place of Svislakrt. For the Gods he is Hatarina (bearer of oblations for gods) (and) for the manes he is Kamohana (bearer of oblations to Pitrs). Hence does he say, "Make the call of invitation far Karamarka *. He 
spreads (a little) ghee (in the spoon). Then he makes a cutting of the da 
· and then along with it, of the fried grains and then with it of the porridge; (al!) 
that he puts (in the spoon) at once (once only). Having sprinkled ghee twice (on it)-he does not anoint with ghee the cut off portions of the oblations in the dishes) and he does not move beyond- and getting up from there itself and 
: 
. 
offering after Vaşat has been pronounced. 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.6.1.21 
ETHAT 
HODI 
R 
स यन्नातिकामति सकृद्धयेव पराञ्चः पितरोऽथ यत्सकृत्सकृदवद्यति सकृद्धयेव पराञ्चः पितरोऽथ यद्यतिषङ्गमवद्यत्य॒तवो वै पितर ऋतूनेवैतद्यतिषजत्यूतून्सन्द धाति ॥ २१॥ __ अथेळा तदुतैतमैव मन्थ होतुः पाणावादधति तर होतोपहूयावजिघ्रति तमग्रीधे प्रयच्छन्ति तमग्नीवजिघ्रति तं ब्रह्मणे प्रयच्छन्ति तं ब्रह्मावजिघ्रति तद्वासुरिरुवाच यथैवेळां प्राशिमितरस्य यज्ञस्यावद्यन्तीत्येवमेव समवद्येयुरवत्वेव जिघ्रयुर्न प्राश्नीयुः प्राश्यं खलु वै तस्य यस्याग्नौ जुह्वतीत्युपहूयेळां मार्जयित्वा ॥ २२ ॥ __ अथ यतरो दास्यन्भवति यद्यध्वर्युर्वा यजमानो वा स उदपात्रमादायापसलवि त्रिरभिषिञ्चन्पयेत्यसाववनेनिक्ष्वेति यजमानस्य पितरमसाववनेनिश्वेति यजमानस्य पिता महमसावनेनिस्वेति यजमानस्य प्रपितामहं यथाशिष्यतोऽवनेजयेदेवमेतत् ॥ २३ ॥ 
अथास्य पुरोळाशस्यावद्यति तत्सव्ये पाणौ कुरुते धानानामवद्यति तत्सव्ये पाणौ कुरुते करम्भस्यावधति तत्सव्ये पाणौ कुरुते स येमामवान्तरदिशमनुस्रक्तिस्तद्ददात्य सावेतत्त इति यजमानस्य पित्रेऽथ येमामवान्तरदिशमनुस्मुक्तिस्तद्ददात्यसावेतत्त इति यजमानस्य पितामहायाथ येामवान्तरदिशमनुस्रक्तिस्तद्ददात्यसावेतत्त इति यजमानस्य प्रपितामहायाथ येमामवान्तरदिशमनुस्त्रक्तिस्तत्पाणी निमृष्टेत्र पितरो मादयध्वं यथाभाग मावृषायध्वमित्यत्र पितरो यथाभागमश्नीतेत्येवैतदाहैतदु स्वान्पितॄनेतस्माद्यज्ञान्नान्तरेत्यु दञ्चो निष्क्रम्य सर्वे यज्ञोपवीतिनो भवन्ति ॥ २४ ॥ 
९. तदुतैतमेव M, Ca, My, Po. १०. प्रयच्छति M. ११. प्रयच्छति ॥ १२. See Notes. 
1.6.1.24] 
TRANSLATION 
5 
me ar 
P 
IOLO 
ON 
CA 
సన 
10 
21. (The reason) that he does not move beyond the fire) is that the fathers have passed away only once (once for all). And the reason that he cuts uponly once each time (from the sacrificial dishes) is that the fathers have passed away only once (once for all). And that he cuts up keeping (them) together is that the seasons are the Pitys thus he keeps together the seasons themselves. He unites the seasons. 
22. Now then (about) Iļā — Then they place this same in the palm of Horr, Having addressed invoked) it, the Hotr smells it. They give it to Agnidh. The Agnidh smells it. They give it to the Brahman. "The Brahman smells il About this Aşuri said, “Just as they cut up Ila and Prüatra of any other sacrifice, in the same manner they should cut up; they should only smell (but) should not consume (it)".Indeed (a part) of that which they offer in the fire is to be consumed. Thus having invoked li and having wiped (it!--. 
23. Now, whoever (of the two)is going to present, whether it is the Adhvaryu or the sacrificer, he, having taken the vessel of water and having moved round (the altar) from right to left, sprinkling (Water),should wash (pour out water for the father of the sacrificer, saying, "(Name of the father in the vocative!) Washi (vourself)", (then) the grandfather of the sacrificer, saving, "(Name of the grandfather in vocative!) Wash yourself" and then the great grandfather of the sacrificer, saying, "(Name of the great grandfather in vocative!) Wash yourself, -This is just in the manner one would pour out water for washing for those (guests) who were going to take food. 
24. Then he cuts up (a part) of the cake that he keeps in his left plam. He cuts up (a portion) of the fried grains; he keeps in his left palm. Heats up a portion of the porridge; that he keeps in his left palm. He presents at there in that intermediate direction towards which is this comer (of the squarish altar) (in the north-western part) (in the fire) to the father of the sacrificer, saying, " (Name of the father in vocative)! This is for you” (And, then he presents in that intermediate direction towards which is this corner (in the south-westem part. to the grandfather of the sacrificer, saying, "(Name of the grandfather in the vocative)! This is for you". And then he presents it there in that intermediate direction towards which is this corner (in the south-eastern part) to the great grandfather of the sacrificer, saving, (Name of the great grandfather in vocative!) This is for you". And then, there towards which is this corner ( north cast) he cleanses his two palms saying, "Oh fathers! Take delight here. Act like bulls towards your particular shares". Here he verily savs (means) "Eat according to your share". This is (done) so that he does not exclude his fathers from this sacrifice. Having gone out of the shed) northward, al wear their 
DAS 
U 
PLUL 
i 
i 
vant 
24 
it 
444 
FT: 
Mla 
NE 
sa 
arm). 
KANTA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.6.1.25 
ombune 
१य 
T 
म 
AAP 
E 
त आहवनीयमुपतिष्ठन्ते देवान्वा एष उपावर्तते य आहिताग्निदर्शपूर्णमासाभ्यां यजतेऽथेदं पितृयज्ञेनांचारिषुः स यानेव देवानुपावृत्तो भवति तेभ्य एवैतन्निद्भुते तस्मादैन्द्री भ्यामुपतिष्ठन्त इन्द्रो ह्याहवनीयोऽक्षन्त्रमीमदन्त व प्रिया अधूषत । अस्तोषत स्वभानवो विप्रा नविष्ठयामती योजान्विन्द्र ते हरी।सुसंदृशं त्वा वयं मघवन्वन्दिषीमहि। प्र नूनं पूर्णबन्धुर स्तुतो यासि वंशां३ अनु योजा न्विन्द्र ते हरी इति ॥ २५॥ __ अथ गार्हपत्यं मनो न्वाहुवामहे नाराश सेन स्तोमेन । पितॄणां च मन्मभिः । आ न एतु मनः पुनः क्रत्वे दक्षाय जीवसे । ज्योक् च सूर्य दृशे । पुनर्नः पितरो मनो ददातु दैव्यो जनः ! जीवं वातर सचेमहीति पितृयज्ञेन वा इदमन्वाचारिपुंस्तत्पुनर्जीवानभिपद्यन्ते 
MOREAD 
more 
meroin 
. 
. 
. 
R 
अथ यतरो ददाति यद्यध्वर्युर्वा यजमानो वा सोऽभिप्रपद्य जपत्यमीमदन्त पितरो यथाभागमावृषायिषतेतित्याशिषुः पितरो यथाभागमित्येवैतदाहाथोदपात्रमादाय पुनः प्रसलवि त्रिरभिषिञ्चपर्येत्यसावनेनिक्ष्वेति यजमानस्य पितरमसाववनेनिक्ष्वेति यजमानस्य पितामहमसाववनेनिश्वेति यजमानस्य प्रपितामहं यथा जक्षुषोऽवनेजयेदेव मेतत्स यत्पुनः प्रसलवि त्रिरभिषिञ्चन्पर्येति स या स्त्रयान्पितॄनन्ववैति तेभ्य एवैतत्पुनरपो देतीममभि स्वं लोकम् ॥ २७ ॥ ___ अथ नीविमुगृह्य नमस्करोति पितृदेवत्या वै नीविर्यज्ञ उ वै नमो यज्ञियानेवैतत्पितृन्क रोति षट्कृत्वो नमस्करोति षड्वा ऋतव ऋतको वै पितर ऋतुष्वेवैतद्यज्ञं प्रतिष्ठापयति 
hto 
अथ 
MITRA 
P 
Ramam PHP 
ए 
- 
कारण 
H 
Arially 
- 
on 
अथ नाविमद्रा 
- 
- 
- 
- 
.. 
HD 
MORAdipogy 
PADमरर 
SITE 
RECE 
prior 
१३. योऽन्यायारिषुः V1, TE,H. १४. बE Cd, Sex Nokes paikuta. 
-- 
Nirat 
HER 
A 
ge 
... 
Voice 
.. 
. 
1.6.1.28) 
TRANSLATION 
25. They stand by (worship) the Aharanīva. Indeed, this person who having established his fires, sacrifices with the New Moon and Full Moon sacrifices, returns to the gods. But then, they have (just now) proceeded with the sacrificer to the manes. He keeps this (concealed) from those gods themselves to whom he returns. Therefore they worship with two (chants) addressed to Indra. Indeed Indra is the Ahavaniya-“(Our) dear persons (friends) have eaten; thev have rejoiced. They have shaken (they shook their dear bodies, (in satisfaction). (They shook off their enemies). The wise, who have their own imagination, have extolled (you) with the newest (praise). Oh Indra! Verily voke your two horses which are (like) thoughts (in speed), “Oh great one! Mat we adore (make obeisance to) you who are very good looking, Praised (thus) do you go forth with your chariot filled (with equipment)-according to our desires. Verily voke your two horses”. 
26. Then (they come to) the Gärhamatya (and worship it) - We invoke the mind indeed with the string of verses of Nārāścznisa (that praise man) and with the hymns of the manes. May the mind come back to us for wisdom, dexterity and life, for us to see the Sun for long! May the divine being, Oh father!Give us out mind again! May we be linked (associated) with the living group. Verily have they performed this with a sacrifice to the manes. From that they again get back to the living beings. Therefore does he say, "May we be associated with living beings". 
27. Then whoever of the two, whether the Adhvaryu or the sacrificet, he, having gone up (towards the fire), mutters, "The fathers have taken delight. They have acted like bulls towards their particular shares". He verily savs (means) this, "The fathers have eaten according to their individual) share". Then having taken up the water-vessel, he moves round (the altar) from left to right thrice, sprinkling water. (Saying) " (Name in vocative)!" "Wash yourself (he pours water for washing) to the sacrificer's father, and to the sacrificer's grandfather saying, “(Name in vocativel) Wash yourself” and to the sacrificer's great grandfather saying, "(Name in vocative!) Wash yourself This is just as one would make those who have eaten,wash (themselves). But that he moves round (the altar) thrice from left to right sprinkling (water) (means, he returns towards this, his own world, from vcrily those three Pitřs whom he has been following 
28. Then loosening the tuck of his garment (at his navel), he performs prostration. For the navel tuck has indeed the manes as its divinity. Indeed the obeisance is sacrifice. Thus he makes the Pitys worthy of sacrifice. He prostrates himself six times. Verily six are the seasons; the seasons are the nanes. He thus establishes this sacrifice; indeed, in the seasons. He says, "Oh fathers Give us homes", This indeed is his prayer for blessing of this ritual. Verily the manes have power over the homes. Therefore does he say, "Oh fathers! Give us
KANVASATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.6.1.28 
गृहान्नः पितरो दत्तेत्याहेषो हैतस्याशीः कर्मणो गृहाणामुह वैपितर ईशते तस्मादाह गृहान्नः पितरो दत्तेत्यथ सर्वे यज्ञोपवीतिनो भवन्तीत्थाद्यजमानश्च ब्रह्मा च पश्चात्परीतः पुरस्तादग्नी 
सीदति होता होतृषदने ॥ २८॥ ___ अथाध्वर्युः संप्रेष्यत्यग्नीत्समधमाधायाग्निसंमृड्डि ब्रह्मन्प्रस्थास्याम इति स्रुचावादाय प्रत्यतिक्रम्याध्वर्युराश्राव्याह देवान्यजेति सोऽपबर्हिषौ द्वावनुयाजौ यजति प्रजा वै बर्हिर्नत्प्रजाः पितृषु दधानीति तस्मादपबर्हिषौ द्वावनुयाजौ यजति ॥ २९ ॥ ___ सादयित्वा सुचौ व्यूहति व्यूह्य सुचौ परिधीन्समज्य परिधीनभिपद्याध्वर्युराश्राव्याहे पिता दैव्या होतारो भद्रवाच्याय प्रेषितो मानुषः सूक्तवाकायेति सूक्ता होता प्रतिपद्यते नायं प्रस्तरमादत्तेऽथाग्नीदाहानुप्रहरेति नायं किञ्चनानुप्रहरति संवदस्वेत्यगादग्नीदगंच्छ्रवेय श्रौषट्स्वगा दैव्या होतृभ्यः स्वस्तिर्मानुषेभ्य इति शं यो.ता प्रतिपद्यत उपस्पृश्याय परिधीन्त्राँचौ संप्रगृह्य स्पये सादयत्यथ बर्हिरनुसमस्यति तत्र हाप्येके हविरुच्छिष्टमनुस मस्यन्ति तदु तथा न कुर्याद्यथोच्छिष्टमनौ जुहुयादेवर ह तत्तस्मात्तदपो वैवाभ्यवहरेयुः प्राश्नीयुर्वैनत् ॥ ३० ॥ इति प्रथमं ब्राह्मणम् ॥ 
द्वितीयं ब्राह्मणम् महाहविषा ह वै देवा वृत्रं जघ्नुस्तेनैव व्यजयन्त येयमेषां विजितिरथ यानेवैषां तस्मिन्संग्राम इषव आर्छ स्तानेवैतच्छल्यान्व्यवृहन्त तान्निरहरन्त यत्त्यम्बकैरयज न्ताथ यदेष एतेन यजते नाहैवैतस्य कंचनेषुज्रच्छतीति देवा अकुर्वन्निति त्वेवैष एतत्करोति या उ चैवास्य प्रजा जाता याश्चाजातास्ता उभयी रुद्रियात्प्रमुञ्चति ता अस्यानमीवा 
अकिल्बिषाः प्रजाः प्रजायन्ते तस्माद्वा एष एतेन यजते ॥ १ ॥ 
m 
wwe 
प्र 
Bom 
HT WORD 
BLEM 
। 
मा 
. 
.. 
. 
teriom 
JIOmes 
१८. व्युहा Ca. १९. दनादव TE, R, PI, FA; SEE Notes. २०, वैवावकह Ca., M, T, VI; वैवाभ्यवह TE. 
१. आर्छ स्त्राने Ca 
MAHO 
. 
1.6.2.1) 
TRANSLATION 
+15* 
homes". Thereafter, all wear their sacred threads in the umvīta position. From here, the sacrificer and the Brahman go round(around the altar) to the west and the Agnidh (moves) (around the altar) to the East. The Hot sits on the Hotr's seat. 
29. Then the Adhvaryu prompts,“Oh Agnidhl putting the kindling sticks (in the fire), trim the fire". "Brahman, we are going to start". Having taken the two spoons, having crossed to the western side and having called attention, the Adhvaryu says, Worship (pronounce the offering prayer for) the gods”. He offers two after-offerings, omitting the Barhis. Indeed progeny is Barkas. (Thinking). “If not, I might be putting the progeny admidst the manes“. Therefore he performs (only) the two after-offerings avoiding the Borhis (offering). 
30. Placing the two spoons, he separates them. Having separated the two spoons, having anointed (with ghee) the enclosing sticks, having taken up the enclosing sticks, and having called attention for Srausas, the Adhvaryu says, "The divine Hotrs have been desired (called upon)to pronounce auspiciousness (welfare). The human(Hotr) has been prompted (desired) for the recitation of hymns"The Hotstakes up (recites) the hymns. This person (the Adhvaryukdoes not take up the prastara' (spread out bunch of sacrificial grass). 
Then the Agnidh says, "Put it into the fire) after". The Adhvaryu does not put anything after. Then the Agnidh (says), "Speak cordially". The Adhvarvu (asks). "Has he gone, Oh Agnīdhl" (Agnidh says) - "He has gone *. (Adhvaryu says) "Make (the gods) hear”. (The Agnidh says) “Sraușat" (may the gods hear). *May there be a good-going to the divine Hotss. May there be well-being for the humans (human Hotrs). The Hotr recites, "Sanyon". The Adhvaryu, having touched the enclosing sticks and gathering together the spoons, places the spoons) on the wooden sword. Then he throws after the sacrifical grass (into the fire). Even there, some throw thereafter, the remaining sacrificial food (100) (into the fire). But one should not do it so.For it is indeed just like one offering the 'left out in the fire. Therefore they may either take this (remaining maks) to (throw it into) the water or they may eat it". 
(First Brāhmaṇa Ends) 
BRAHMAŅA II 1. Indeed the gods killed Vstra by means of Mahahavis (the great oblation), Thereby only, they won this victory which is theirs. Whomsoever among them the arrows (of the Asuras)reached (hit) those very darts they (the gods) uprooted (and) removed them in that they sacrificed with the Trembaka chants. Now, that this (sacrificer) sacrifices with this (Tryambaka chant offering) ke doos Verity (with the thought) that no arrow (trouble) (will) reach any one belonging to him or that the gods performed (it). Whatever progeny of his has been born and 
TEA 
HOR, 
Lda 
At 
. 
TO 
ya 
PLASTY 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[1.6.2.2-- 
AN 
- 
- 
Hin 
-- 
mon 
N 
ते वै रौद्रा भवन्ति रुद्रस्य हीषुरेककपाला भवन्त्येकदेवत्या असन्निति यावन्तो गृह्यास्तावन्तः प्रतिपुरुषं भवन्त्येकेनातिरिक्ताः प्रतिपुरुषमेवैतदेकेनैकेन या अस्य प्रजा जातास्ता रुद्रियात्प्रमुञ्चत्येकेनातिरिक्ता भवन्ति या एवास्याजाताः प्रजास्ता एव तेन रुद्रिया अमुञ्चति ॥२॥ 
अथ खलु यज्ञोपवीती भूत्वा जघनेन गार्हपत्यमुदासीन एतान्गृह्णाति स तत एवोदतिष्ठन्नवहन्त्युदीच्यावेव दृषदुपले उपधत्त उत्तरतो गार्हपत्यस्य कपालान्युपधत्ते स यदेतां दिशः सचन्त एषा हि तस्य देवस्य दिक्तेऽक्ताः स्युरित्याहुरक्त हि हविरिति तद्वनक्ता एव स्युरभिमानको ह रुद्रः पशूत्त्स्याद्यदज्युस्तस्मादनक्ता एव स्युः ॥ ३ ॥ 
तान्त्समुद्रास्यैकस्यां पात्र्यामन्वाहार्यपचनादुल्मुकमादायोदञ्चः परेत्य जुह्वत्येषा हि तस्य देवस्य दिक्पथि जुह्वति पथा ह वै यदेषश्चरति चतुष्पथे यथा ह जांधित प्रज्ञातमव सानमेव हास्य चतुष्पथः पलाशस्य पलाशेन मध्यमेन जुहोति ब्रह्म वै पलाशस्य पलाश मध्यमं ब्रह्मणैव तज्जुहोति स सर्वेषामेव समवद्यत्यतिरिक्तस्यैव नावद्यति ॥४॥ 
स जुहोत्येष ते रुद्रभाग इति सह स्वस्राम्बिकया तं जुषस्व स्वाहेत्यम्बिका ह वै नामास्य स्वसा तया तयास्यैष सह भागः स यदस्यैष स्त्रिया सह भागस्तस्मात्त्यम्बका नामाथ योऽयमतिरिक्तो भवति तमेवमुत्तरत आखुकरीष उपकिरत्येष ते रुद्र भाग आखुस्ते पशुरिति तमस्मा आलुमेव पशुमनुदिशति तमस्यास्ये दधाति तथेतरान्पशून्न हिनस्ति तद्या एवास्याजाताः प्रजास्ता एवैतेन रुद्रियात्प्रमुञ्चति तिर इव वै तद्यदुपकीर्णं तिर इत्व गर्भा अजातास्तस्मादुपकिरति ॥ ५ ॥ 
PM 
PAH 
Re 
फका 
त 
P 
40 
D 
. 
HERA 
.. 
HO 
. 
Popi 
me 
Ro 
-RDHAAR 
न 
R 
न 
manwwwmgopimomdauwonlain 
२. An archaic forms for असन् . ३. मानुयो TE. ४. अ C अधिन VI; sce Notes.. 
1.6.2.5) 
TRANSLATION 
OLT 
those that are (as yet) unborn, both of them be released from Rudra's power. They, his children, are born without disease and without blemish. Therefore indeed does he sacrifice with this. 
2. They (those offerings) are verily dedicated to Rudra-for it was indeed Rudra's arrow (from which they are saved)- They are of a single potsherd (each), for they have a single deity. They are as many as are numbers of the household (of the sacrificer)- one for each member)-exceeding withone. He releases from Rudra's power his children that have been born. Verily individually each with a single (separate) (offering), they (the offerings) are excessive by one. By means of that (extra offering) he delivers verily those children of his that are (as yet) unborn, from the power of Rudra, 
3. Then having become, Yajšopavītán (wearing the sacred thread over his left shoulder and under the right arm), being seated facing north behind the Garhapatya, he takes up these offerings (the rice needed to prepare the offerings). There itself, standing (facing) north, he threshes them. He places (keeps) the two mile-stones verily (towards the) north. To the north of the Gärhapatya does he place the potsherds. That they take to the north is because this is the quarter of that god. "They (the offerings) may be smeared (with ghee)"-they say, for the havis is anointed. But they should verily be unanointed, for, if they anoint (the offerings), Rudra would be insidious towards the cattle (of the sacrificer). Therefore, they should verily be unanointed. . 
4. Having removed them (from the potsherds) into a single vessel, having taken out a firebrand from the 'Anvähärjatacana'and then having walked totho north, they make the offering. For this is the direction of that god. They make the offering on the road; for that god moves about along the road. They offer in the cross road (where four roads radiate), as it is well-known as his congenial resting place. So indeed is the cross road for him. He (the sacrificer) makes the 
. 
09 
Y 
1 
f 
23 
. 
1 
the Palala is Brahman Therefore he offers verily with Brahmanitsch. He mako 
TAL 
3 
RE 
SUS 
ALL 
-A ** 
P 
MW 
15 
ECIT 
WOWY 
A 
. 
LE 
* 
KET 
along with Ambikä your sister-Scho ". Indeed his sister is known as Ambika. This share is his, along with her. As this is a share for him along with a female, therefore is it called Tryambak. Then, the thing (oblation) that is in excess, he scatters (buries) thus in the north, on the mokchill (earth from the mole hili). (chanting), *Oh Rudral This is your share; the mole is your animal"He (the sacrificer) indicates the mole (itself as animal) (victim to be offered) to him (Rudra). He places it in his (Radra's) north. Thereby,he (Rudra) does not harm other animals. Thereby, his those children who are (as vet) taborn, verily them does he release by means of this offering) from the power of Rudra. 
BA 
i 
. 
- 
. 
152 
KĀNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.6.2.6 
अथ पुनरेत्य जपत्यव रुद्रमदीमराव देवं त्र्यम्बकम् । यथा नो वस्यसस्करद्यथा नः श्रेयसस्करद्यथा नो व्यवसाययात् । भेषजमसि भेषजं गवेऽश्वाय पुरुषाय भेषजम् । सुगं मेषाय मेष्या इत्याशिषमेवैतदाशास्ते ॥६॥ 
अथापसलव्यूस्नुपानानाः परियन्ति त्र्यम्बकं यजामहे सुगन्धिं पुष्टिवर्धनम्। उर्वारु कमिव बन्धनान्मृत्योर्मुक्षीयमामृतादित्याशिषमेवैतदाशास्ते तद्धि शमिव यो मृत्योर्मुच्यात नामृतात्तत्रापि कुमार्यः परीयुर्भगस्य भजामहा इति या ह वा अस्य सा स्वाम्बिका सा ह वै भगस्येष्टे तासामु तासां जैपन्यम्बकं यजामहे सुगन्धिं पतिवेदनम्। उर्वारुकमिव बन्धनादितो मुक्षीय मामुत इति ज्ञातिभ्यस्तदाह यदित इति मामुत इति पतिभ्यस्तदाह पतयो हि स्त्रियाः प्रतिष्ठात एतेनैव जपेन पुनः प्रसलवि परियन्ति प्रसलवि नः कर्मानुस न्तिष्ठाता इति ॥ ७ ॥ 
अथेमान्यजमान उदस्यति यावगौनोंदाप्नुयात्तावदात्मभ्य एव तच्छल्यान्निर्मिमते तान्विलिप्सन्त उपस्पृशन्ति भेषजमेव तत्कुर्वतेऽथ द्वयोर्मूतकयोरुपनह्योभयतः कुपस्य वा वेणोर्वा प्रतिषज्य यदि तत्र वृक्ष वा स्थाणु वा वल्मीकं वा विन्देत्तत्प्रतिषजेदेतेन रुद्रावसेन परो मूजवतोऽतीहीत्यवसेन वा अध्वानं यन्ति तदेनमेतेनैवावसेनावर्जति यत्रास्य चरणं तदन्यत्र ह वा अस्य चरणं परो मूजवतस्तस्मादाह परो मूजवतोऽतीहीत्यवततधन्वा पिनाकावस इत्यहि सन्नः शिवः शान्तोऽतीहीत्येवैतदाह कृत्तिवासा इति निष्ठपयत्येवैनं तत्स्वपन्हि न कञ्चन हिनस्ति ते दक्षिणे पार्श्वमन्वावर्तन्ते तेऽनपेक्षमाणा आयन्ति तेऽप 
५. जप Ca.. M, My, VI. ६. निर्मिीत TE, CO, P1, P2. 
. See Notes. 
1.6.2.8) 
TRANSLATION 
feest 
19, 
Cara 
. 
9 
B 
Indeed this thing that is scattered (buried) is as if concealed. Concealed, as it were, are the unborn embryos. Therefore does he scatter (hurv). 
6. Then having returned (to his own seat) he mutters, "We have offered to Rudra and to god Tryambaka, so that he may make us wealthier and that he may make us determined (in our purpose). You are the medicine; medicine for the cow, the horse and medicine for men; welfare for the ram and the ewehe verily prays for this blessing thus. 
7. Then they go round (the altar) from right to left beating their thighs: (saying), "We worship Tryambaka the fragrant one, the increaser of nourishment (prosperity). May I be released from death like the cucumber from its stalk, but let me not be dissociated from inmortality. He verily prays for this blessing. This is verily happiness for one who will be released from death but not from immortality. Even there: maidens may go round saying, "May we resort to (share in) happiness" That Ambika who is the sister of this (Rudra), she verily has power over happiness for them (the maidens). Hence is their muttering "We worship Tryambaka, of fine fragrance, the one who bestows husbands, Maywe be released froin here like the cucumber from the stalk, but not from there", By "from here" she says (mcans) "fron my relatives”. By not from there" she says (means) "from the husbands". Verily the husbands are the çfirm) support for a woman. Therefore, indeed, do they (sacrificer and others) go round (the altar) from left to right again, muttering the same mantras, and saving, "Our ritual may be rightly performed”. 
8. Then the sacrificer throws up these (remnants of the offerings) as far (high) as a cow (the earth) may not get it. From themselves (their own bodies) they forge his (Rudra's darts, (Again) desiring to get them (back), they touch them; they verily make it a medicine. Then, having packed it into two baskets, having attached them on both sides (- a beam (of a balance) or a bamboo, con his going northward), if he finds there a tree, a post or an 2n1 hill, he should fasten them there, (saying), “Oh Rudral With this provision (for journey go beyond the Müjavat mountains). Indeed they (people) po on travel with provisions. Hence, he sends away this (Rudra) verily with this provision, towards where his journey is. Here his (Rudra's) journey is bevond Majavats. Therefore he says, "Go beyond Mūjavats“. “With your bow let loose (unstrung)", Oh bearer of Pināka!" He verily says (means) this, Nox hurting us, being auspicious, tranquil, go away**. "One wearing hide", hier verily nake him (Rudra) fall into sleep, for, one who is sleeping does not hurt any one. They turn to the right side. They come without looking about. They touch water: fox they have performed this (ritual) relating to Rudra. The waters are atatement (of impurity or evil), Verily they are abatements". They reach (back; by the same (way) by which they go out. Having shaved off his hair (leaving the tuft) and 
12 
PER 
OP 
KANVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[1.6.2.8 
उपस्पृशन्ति रुद्रियेण वा इदमचारिषुः शान्तिरापः शान्तय एव ते येनैव निष्क्रान्ति तेन प्रपद्यन्ते केशश्मश्रूप्त्वामी समारोहयत उदवसाय ह्येतेन यजते नह्यवकल्पते यदुत्तरवेदा वग्निहोत्रं जुहुयुहानागत्य निर्मथ्य पौर्णमासेन यजत उत्सन्नो वा अयं यज्ञो यच्चातुर्मास्यानि कृप्तेनैवैतद्यज्ञेनान्ततः प्रतितिष्ठति ॥ ८ ॥ इति द्वितीयं ब्राह्मणम् ॥ 
- 
- 
तृतीयं ब्राह्मणाम् अक्षीर्यः ह वै सुकृतं चातुर्मास्ययाजिनः संवत्सर हि जयति तं वै त्रेधा विभज्य यजते त्रेधा विभज्य प्रजयति सर्वं वै संवत्सरोऽक्षीयं वै सर्वं तेन हास्याक्षीय सुकृतं भवत्यथो हर्तुरेवैतद्भवति स ऋतुर्भूत्वा देवानप्येत्यीयं वै देवानां तेन हैवास्याक्षीय सुकृतं भवति तस्माद्वाव चातुर्मास्यैर्यजते ॥ १॥ 
यच्छुनासीरीयेण यजते या वै श्रीर्देवाना साकमेधैरीजानानां विजिम्यानानामासीत्त च्छुनमथ यः संवत्सरस्य प्रजितस्य रसस्तत्सीर सा याचैव श्रीर्देवाना साकमेधैरीजानानां विजिम्यानानामासीद्यश्च संवत्सरस्य प्रजितस्य रसस्तमुभयं परिगृह्य तमात्मनि कुरुते तस्माद्वाव शुनासीरीयेण यजते ॥ २ ॥ 
CADE 
तस्माद्वाव 
PHOT 
1. 
11 
८. निष्क्रामति TE, B, 
ma.. 
AAM 
. 
archaic form is used for अक्षय्य. २.रोक्ष M... 
४. स्यामान्य M.. * জজং । 
16.9.21 
TRANSLATION 
sacrifice with this (fire). It is not proper that they should perform Agnihotra in the northern altar. Having reached home and having churned (the fires, he sacrifices with the Full Moon offering. The sacrifice, viz. 'the Cäturmäsu (the seasonal sacrifices) is broken up (detached). He (the sacrificer) ultimately remains firm (well established) only by means of this regular (well performed) sacrifice. 
(Second Brähmana Ends) 
P Prad 
BRAHMANA III 1. Indeed, the merit of the person performing the Caturmiswas (the seasonal sacrifices) is imperishable. He conquers the year. He performs that sacrifice, dividing it into three; he conquers, dividing (the vear) into three. The vear verily means "all'. *Al' is imperishable. "Thereby, his merit becomes imperishable. And moreover, by this he verily becomes the season. Having become the season, he merges in the gods. What belongs to the gods is imperishable. By that verily his merit becomes imperishable. Therefore, indeed, does he sacrifice with the seasonal sacrifices. 
2. That he sacrifices with the Sunisīrīva (offerings) is because: the splendour that is of the gods who had performed the sacrifice with the Sakamedha (offerings) and who were victorious, that is (called $xmada). And what is the essence of the conquered year - that is Sira. That splendour which was of the gods who had performed sacrifice with Säkamedha (offerings) and who were victorious and the essence of conquered year - taking up both of them, maka them his own (takes them both into himself). Therefore, indeed, does he sacrifice with Sunäsiriya (offering). 
KĀŅVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
[I.6.3.3.. 
min 
तस्यावृनोत्तरवेदिमुपकिरति न पृषदाज्य गृह्णाति नाग्निं मन्थति पञ्चप्रयाजास्त्रयोऽनु यांजा एक समिष्टयजुः ॥ ३॥ 
अर्थतान्येव पञ्चहवी षि भवन्त्येतैर्दै प्रजापतिः प्रजा असृजतैतै।व वरुणपाशात्प्रामु ञ्चदेतैर्देवा वृत्रमघ्नन्नेनैवैष एतया च श्रीर्देवाना साकमेधैरीजानानां विजिग्यानानामा सीधश्च संवत्सरस्य प्रजितस्य रसस्तमुभयं परिगृह्य तमात्मनि कुरुते तस्मादेतानि पञ्चह वो षि भवन्ति ॥ ४ ॥ 
अथ शुनासीरीयो द्वादशकपालः पुरोळाशो भवति स बन्धुः शुनासीरीयस्य यमवोचा माथ वायव्यं पयो भवति पयो वै प्रजा जाता अभिसञ्जानते विजिग्यानं मा प्रजाः श्रियै यशसेनाद्यायाभिसञ्जानान्ता इति स यद्वायव्यमयं वाव वायुर्योऽयं पवत एष ह वा इदं प्रप्याययति यदिदै वर्षति वृष्टादोषधयो जायन्त ओषधीज॑ग्ध्वापः पीत्वा तस्यैष उभयस्य रसस्सम्भवत्येष हीदं जनयति तस्माद्वायव्यम् ॥ ५ ॥ __ अथ सौर्य एककपालः पुरोळाशो भवत्येष ह वै सूर्य इमाः सर्वाः प्रजा अभिगोपायति साधुना त्वदसाधुना त्वदेष उ एवैना विदधाति साधौ त्वदसाधौ त्वदेषु मा विजिग्यानं प्रीत इति साधुनाभिगोपायात्साधौ विदधदिति तस्मात्सौर्य एककपालः पुरोळाशो भवति ॥ ६॥ 
तस्याश्चः श्वेतो दक्षिणों तस्य रुक्मः पुरस्तात् तद्धयेतस्य रूपं य एष तपति यद्यश्वं न विन्देदपि गौरव श्वेतः स्यात् ॥ ७ ॥ 
स य उत्स्स्रक्ष्यमाणः स्याद्यत्रैव साकमेधैर्यजेत तत एव यदा कामयेताथ शुनासीरीयेण यजते यद्वाव त्रिः संवत्सरस्य यजते तेनैव संवत्सरमाप्नोति रात्रिभिक आपिपयिषन्ति या 
Indane 
vSROD 
HEART 
x 
. 
my 
kmkeoat 
Hindi 
wingaar. 
MANTO 
- 
p 
प 
. 
- 
Nagline 
- 
- 
- 
HTTERT 
६.६ 
24 
- 
. 
.. 
. 
३७. निधे Ca 
6. See Notes ९. यदिदं किं च वर्षति C. M. १०. Ca, TE. १६. दक्षिणा समतस्य in all Mss, except M,S, My: SEE Notes.. 
. 
. 
wher 
*** 
LE 
3. Its mode of performance) - He does not prepare the l'ilatadi (the northern altar). He does not take up clotted gher. He does not churn the fire. There are in the ritual) five fore-offerings, three after-offerings and a single Samista-vajus. 
4. And there are indeed these five (regular) oblations. Verily with these Prajāpati creared the creatures. By means of this, verily, did he release (them) from the noose of Varuna. By means of this, the gods killed Vítra. This (sacrificer) having taken up the two verily by means of his (sacrifice), takes them into himself (makes them his own) - the two,viz., the spelndourwhich was of the gods who had sacrificed with Säkamedha (offerings) and who were victorious and the essence that was of the year that had been won. Therefore, there are these five oblations. 
5. Now, the Sunäsiriya (offering) is a purodaša on twelve potsherds, What we have stated is an explanation of Sundsiriya. There is an offering of milk dedicated to Väyu. It is milk indeed that beings (just) born understand. "May the creatures recognize (understand/take to) me for (their) prosperity, glory and food" -90 (he thinks) (and offers that which is dedicated to Vāvu. This verily is Vāvu who blows (purifies). This Väyu indeed conceals whatever rain falls here. From the rains, plants spring up. (On the cattle) eating plants and drinking water, this (milk) the essence of both, is produced. Verily this (Váyu) produces this. Therefore is (it) (an offering) to Väyu. 
6. Then, there is (an offering of) a trurodata on a single potsherd dedicated to the Sun (Surya). Verily this "Sürya' protects all creatures, by good and by bad (means). He himself puts them under (some) a good thing) and under (some) bad (thing). He (the sacrificer) (thinks), *Being pleased, may (the Sun) protea me with a good (means)-one who has attained victory, may he put me under 
* 
RE 
. Sua 
Y 
. 
*Sürya'. 
A 
18$ 
7. For that (ritual) the fee is a white horse. That verily is the form of this (Sürya) who scorches. If one cannot get a horse, there may be indeed a white bull (as fee). 
TV 
1.
KANVASATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
1.6.3.8 
THAT 
F 
PRAMMम्म्म AFTA. ... . . 
.. S " . 
ET 
NEHTA 
॥ 
. 
. 
. 
"' 
३५ 
रात्रिभिरापिपयिषेद्यदेव पुरस्तात्फाल्गुनस्योद्दृष्टं तदेतेन शुनासीरीयेण यजेत स तत एव दीक्षेत तं नानीजानं फाल्गुनोऽभिपर्येयात्पुनः प्रयोग इव ह स यदेनमनीजानं फाल्गु नोऽभिपयेयादिति नूत्स्स्रक्ष्यमाणस्य ॥ ८ ॥ 
अथाभिप्रयुञ्जानस्य पूर्वेद्युः पौर्णमास्याः शुनासीरीयेण यजेताथ वैश्वदेवेनाथ पौर्णमा सेनेत्युविप्रयुञ्जानस्य ॥ ९॥ 
अथ वा अतो निवर्तनस्यैव सर्वतोमुखो ह वा असावादित्यस्तस्मादेषोऽन्नाद एष ह वा इदं निर्दहति यदिदं किं च शुष्यति सर्वतोमुखोऽयमग्निर्यतोह्येव कुतश्चानावभ्यादधति तत एव दहत्यथायमन्यतोमुखः पुरुषः स एतत्सर्वतोमुखो भवति यन्निवर्तयते स एवमन्नादो भवति यथैतावन्नादौ तदु होवाचासुरिरपि तन्नाद्रियेत यन्निवर्तनमिति किं तत्र मुखस्य यदपि सर्वाणि लोमानि वपेतेति यद्वा एतेन यज्ञेन यजते तेनैव सर्वतोमुखो भवति तेनान्नाद इति ॥ १० ॥ इति तृतीयं ब्राह्मणम् ॥ 
.. 
MPATI 
- HOME 
AHA 
५ 
NAGAR 
04 
HT AND 
E 
E 
व 
1.TO 
A 
U 
PRE 
--- 
चतुर्थ ब्राह्मणम् तर्वदाहुः साकमेधैर्ह वै देवा वृत्रं जनुरिति सई वाव चातुर्मास्यैर्देवा वृत्रं जघ्नुस्सवेव व्यजयन्त येयमेषां विजितिः॥१॥ 
अथ देवाश्च ह वा असुराश्चोभये प्राजापत्या अस्पर्धन्त त एतस्मिन्नेव यज्ञे प्रजापतौ पितर्यस्पर्धन्त संवत्सरोऽस्माकमयः स्यादस्माकमयः स्यादिति ॥ २ ॥ 
. 
- 
. 
GEMES 
ELEE 
स्यादस्माकम 
स 
F 
"--- 
. 
- me 
१२. तमानीजानं TE. 
ES 
AM 
3 
A 
RJEEL 
. 
प. 
.. 
रन्न 
TRANSLATION 
8. He, who is going to discontinue it, he later performs with Sursitiva (offering) when he likes, there itself where he may sacrifice with Säkamedha (offerings). As he sacrifices thrice in a year, - by that itself he secures the year, Some (a few) desire to obtain (the year) by means of the nights. If one should desire to acquire through the nights, he may perform with this Sunuāsīrīva (offering) only when before the Phälguna (before the Full Moon of Phalguna month) (the New Moon) has been seen (up in the skv). He should take up (the vow of) consecration even then. The Phalguna (Full Moon) may pass him by as he is not sacrificing. It will be like a performance (to be) done again if the Phālguna(Full Moon)should pass him by when he is not sacrificing. Such (is the procedure) for one who is going to leave it off (discontinue the seasonal offerings). 
9. Now for one who is performing (the seasonal offerings)---He should perform with Sunāsīrīya offering on the previous day(first day) of the Full Moon and then perform with Vaisvadera (offering to the All-gods") and then with the Full Moon (offering). Thus for one who performs. 
10. Now, verily regarding the shaving off the head of the sacrificer) - 
Indeed the yonder Sun faces all around in every direction). Therefore is he indeed, the consumer of food. Whatever dries up here that this (Sun) verily sucks up. This Agni (also) is one with faces all around, wherefore, he burns up (whatever thing) they put anywhere in the fire in any direction). Now this person (sacrificer) has his face somewhere else (face only in one direction). By this he becomes 'facing everywhere in that he shaves his head (turns his head around in shaving). Thus he becomes a consumer of food, just as these two (the Sun and the fire) are consumers of food. In that matter, Asuri said, "One need not care for (adopt) that shaving (of the head). Even if one may shave all the hair, what does it matter to the face?" "Only by the fact that he sacrifices with 
VIV 
11 
PH 
SETE 
TAP 
1.4 
Do 
es 
P 
1 
T 
: 
VVF 
9. 
FE 
.11 
ZILL 
become) the consumer of food". 
(Third Brāhmana Ends) 
VR 
M 
Ar 
CI 
BRAHMANA IV 1. Regarding what they say, “Indeed the gods killed Vita by means of the Säkamedha (offerings)", verily by means of all the Caturista sacrifices did the gods kill Vítra and by means of all (Cätundu sacrifices), indecd, did they attain this victory which is theirs. 
2. Then (once), the gods and the Asuras, both sprung from Prajapati, contended. They contended for their father Prajápati, in this very sacrifice, 
1 
von 
5 
WE 
24 
1998 
1 . 
Line 
KĀNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
11.6.4.3 
A 
R 
mammy 
। 
' 
मम 
AD 
. 
L 
' 
-- 
"" 
H 
- 
LE 
मम्म्म 
- 
ते होचुर्देवा असुरैस्संयत्ताः केन राज्ञा केनानीकेन योत्स्याम इति स होवाचाग्निर्मयैव राज्ञा मानीकेनेति तेऽग्निनैव राज्ञाग्निनानीकेन चतुरो मासः प्राजय स्तद्ब्रह्मणा च पर्यगृह्णत त्रय्या च विद्यया ॥३॥ 
ते होचुः केनैव राज्ञा केनानीकेन योत्स्याम इति स होवाच वरुणो मयैव राज्ञा मयानीकेनेति ते वरुणेनैव राज्ञा वरुणेनानीकेनापराश्चतुरो मासः प्राजय स्तब्रह्मणा च पर्यगृह्णत त्रय्या च विद्यया ॥४॥ 
ते होचुः केनैव राज्ञा केनानीकेन योत्स्याम इति स होवाचेन्द्रो मयैव राज्ञा मयानीकेनेति त इन्द्रेणैव राजेन्द्रेणानीकेनापराश्चतुरो मासः प्राजय स्तद्ब्रह्मणा च पर्यगृह्णत त्रय्या च विद्यया तमेव सर्व संवत्सर संवृज्य देवा असुराणा साकमिन्द्रेणैधन्त स यत्साक मिन्द्रेणैधन्त तस्मात्साकमेधा नाम ॥ ५॥ ___ स यद्वैश्वदेवेन यजतेऽग्निनैव ताज्ञाग्निनानीकेन चतुरो मासः प्रजयति त्र्येणी शलली भवति लोहः क्षुरस्तेन निवर्तयते त्रय्या विद्याया रूपं त्र्येणी शलली ब्रह्मणो रूपं लोहः क्षुरोऽग्निर्हि ब्रह्म लोहित इव ह्यग्निलोहित इव लोहः क्षुरस्तद्ब्रह्मणा च परिगृह्णीते त्रय्या च विद्यया ॥ ६ ॥ 
अथ यद्गुरुणप्रघासैर्यजते वरुणेनैव तद्राज्ञा वरुणेनानीकेनापराश्चतुरो मासः प्रजयति येणी शलली भवति लोहः क्षुरस्तेन निवर्तयते त्रय्या विद्याया रूपं त्र्येणी शलली ब्रह्मणो रूपं लोहः क्षुरोऽग्निर्हि ब्रह्म लोहित इव ह्यग्निोहित इव लोहःक्षुरस्तद्ब्रह्मणा च परिगृह्णीते त्र्य्या च विद्यया ॥ ७ ॥ 
अथ यत्साकमेधैर्यजत इन्द्रेणैव तद्राजेन्द्रेणानीकेनापराश्चतुरो मासः प्रजयति त्र्येणी शलली भवति लोहःक्षुरस्तेन निवर्तयते त्रय्या विद्याया रूपं त्र्येणी शलली ब्रह्मणो रूपं लोहः क्षुरोऽग्निर्हि ब्रह्म लोहित इव ह्यग्निलोहित इव लोहःक्षुरस्तह्मणा च परिगृह्णीते त्रय्या च विद्यया तमेवर सर्वर संवत्सर संवृज्य साकं देवैरिन्द्रेणैधते ॥ ८ ॥ 
Map 
OFFERS 
- HTTA 
- 
UPSC 
म 
AB 
यद्धरुणप्रधा 
Hindi 
.. 
PATR I. 
. 
HAPE" 
4 
। 
4 
n 
angwat 
- 
SUAL 
:RAHA 
PET 
* 
SAME: 
T 
41 
A 
NE 
HTTEASE 
RA 
H 
ERI 
को 
HTML 
a 
HERE 
कन 
HAL. 
R. 
R 
DA. 
... 
- 
AR 
THE 
12 
. 
- 
L 
. 
H 
- 
S 
. 
HETHEATRE 
H 
momeH 
H 
AMATA 
अते वरूण एव तद्भवति वरुणस्य सायुज्यर सलोकतां जयत्यथ यत्साकमेधैर्यजत इन्द्र 
FFI 
T 
Shoring 
1.6.4.81 
TRANSLATION 
. 
2 
1 
3. They, the gods said, “Engaged in conflict with the Asuras, with whom asking and with whom as leader shall we fight? Agni said, “(You may fight) with me as king and with me as your leader". Forfour months they conquered verily with Agni as king and Agni as leader. They encompassed it with Brahman and the three fold learning (the three Vedas). 
4. (Then) they said, “With whom verily as king and with whom as leadershall we fight?". Varuņa said, ("You will fight) Verily with me as king and with me as leader". They conquered another four months, with verily Varuna the King and Varuna the leader. That they enclosed with Brahman and the threefold learning 
5. (Then) They said, “With whom verily as king and with whom as leacker shall we fight?" Indra said, “(You will fight) verily with me as king and with me as leader". With Indra verily as king and with Indra as leader, they on another four months. That they encompassed with Brahmanand the threefold learning, Having thus appropriated the entire vear of the Asuras,the gods prospered along with Indra. Becasue they prospered along with Indra, hence (the sacrifices) are known as Sākamedhas. 
6. In that he sacrifices with Vaišvadeva, he verily conquers four months with Agni himself as his king and Agni as leader. (In shaving) there is a porcupine's quill with spots in three places. The razor is copper. With that he has the shave The three-spotted quill of the porcupine is the form of the threefold knowledge. The copper razor is the form of Brahman. Indeed Agni is Brahman. Red-like is Agni. The copper razor is red-like. Therefore he (the priest) encompasses him with Brahman and threefold learning. 
7. Then, as he sacrifices with Varunapraghazia (offerings), he wins another four months with verily Varuna as his king and Varuna as the leader. There is the porcupine quill that has three spots; the razor is copper. With that he has the shave. The three-spotted porcupine quill is the fom of the threefold knowledge. The copper razor is the form of Brahman. Verily Ani is Brahman. 
. 
TITI" 
VILI 
9. 
22 
. 
1. 
1 
T 
. 
7 
. 
ha 
LS 
JAWY 
e 
M 
# 
with Brahman and three fold learning. 
8. As he sacrifices with Sakamedha (offerings), he wins the other four months with Indra himself as his king and with Indra as the leader. There is the porcupine quill, having three spots; (there is the) copper razor. With that he has the shave. The three spotted porcupine quill is the forts of the threefold learning. The copper razor is the form of Brahman. Agni verily is Brahman Red-like is Agni. The copper razor is red-like. Thus ke (the priest) etxcompasses with Brahinan and with threefold learning. Having thaus appropriated the 
T* 
S 
CA 
162 
KĀNVA-SATAPATHABRAHMAŅAM 
[I.6.4.9 
R 
desi 
ProgTTTTTगन 
तंदवत 
एव तद्भवतीन्द्रस्य सायुज्य सलोकतां जयत्यथ यच्छुनासीरीयेण यजते वायुरेव तद्भवति वायोः सायुज्य सलोकतां जयति स यस्मिन्नृतौ चातुर्मास्ययाज्यमुं लोकमेति स एनमृतुः परस्मा ऋतवे प्रयच्छति परः परस्मै तमेवमृतवः संप्रदायं परममैव स्थानं परमं लोकं गमयन्ति तस्मादाहुश्चातुर्मास्ययाजिनं नानुविन्दन्तीति परम ह्येव स लोकं परमां जितिं जयतीति ॥ ९ ॥ इति चतुर्थं ब्राह्मणम् ॥ 
. 
. 
॥ इति षष्ठोऽध्यायः ॥ ॥ इति एकपात्काण्डं समाप्तम्॥ 
PDFNRNI-Aies. 
ARE 
२. प्रयति PI, P2, B. ३. परममेव P1, P2,H. ४. गमत PI, P2. 
- 
1.6.4.9] 
TRANSLATION 
9. In that he sacrifices with Vaisadevu (offerings), he thereby verily becomes Agni himself. He wins intimate union with Agni and residence in the same world as Agni; then as he sacrifices with Varunapraghāsa (offerings), thereby he verily becomes Varuņa himself; he wins intimate union with Varuna and residence in the same world as Varuņa. Then, as he sacrifices with Säkamedha (offerings), thereby he verily becomes Indra himself; he wins intimate union with Indra and residence in the same world as Indra. Then, as he sacrifices with Sunāsīrīya (offerings), thereby he becomes Väyu himself; he wins intimate union with Vāyu and residence in the same world as Vāyu. In whatever season the performer of Căturmasya sacrifices goes to the yonder world that season hands him over to another season, that other one to yet anotherone (and so on). Thus the seasons, handing him over (from one to another), make him reach the supreme (highest) status and the supreme (highest) world. Therefore, they say, “They do not find the perforiner of the Caturma.sya sacrifices; for he verily conquers the very highest (supreme) world, the highest (supreme) conquest" 
(Fourth Brāhmaṇa Ends) 
(Chapter Six ends) 
(EKAPĂT KÄNDA ENDS 
PATHAVIMARSA 
N 
1.1.1 TRE means 'By this and that process'.gama meaning "from hither and thither' goes better with chic which comes later and hence preferred. 
1.1.2 The indicating of the pluta svara by adding the numerals' (as in this case 11 3), though relevant for the Sarhitā text need not be given in the Brahmana where Bhāșika svara is used even for Samhitā portions quoted. But true to oral tradition the pluta is being indicated. 
1.1.3 In MD the reading is f-4: PA. Caland's reading fat would involve 37 in the middle and in that case it can be only and not H. The reading : is preferred in the accusative with an instrumental sense. 
1.1.3 Ar though found only in TE is given as an alternative, since it can be justified on the basis of the dictum in , it is preferred. 
1.1.4 3741 is preferred to y since the former justifies the formation of and so 4 though archaic is accepted. 
1.1.7 Caland's reading R4 is untenable since the reference is to w and not to BETT 
1.1.9 If there is sandhi, it should be rain and if not : Since none of the Mss support either, samt en in sandhi is preferred which would be least objectionable. 
1.2.1 5196 an archaic usage for R. M perhaps tried to correct it as 1.2.7 Same as I. 1.1.9. 
1.2.12 Caland's reading 24KG is not acceptable since earlier and later usages like geta are found. Moreover, the root covers both and 4. 
1.2.12 AFHETI given as alternate reading due to the possibility of splitting नक्षत्र-आ-हा-अस्य and the letter आ can go with भवति. 
3 
BALANUL 
* 
in qua. 
does not fit in when there is 
1.3.8 Same as I. 1.1.9.. 
w 
EN 
be सर्वत्यत्वाय. 
1.4.5 37 up is in feminine gender meaing 89094. 1.4.23 45fa-art in the tenth conjugation should become 
in negative sense is rarely found with a root and even then it will have a hard which does not fit in here. Hence we are obliged to amend it on the basis of the MD reading n aald. For translation purpose the text is construed as a 
2.1.9 39100 is archaic, being amaneteda 096 in Brasimind is not 
www. 
BUL 
LG 
parasmaspada, but it does not make sense here. 
RA 
KANVASATAPATHABRÄHMANAM 
A 
L. 
.. 
9 
LP # 
pal 
u 
S 
. 
2.1.12 Fausta is preferred since it can split into förurg-fe-si. In f ata later also this is there. 
2.2.1 fit in the second conjugation meaning disciplining or controlling, is used. Here in the context of $$14the root 4 to squeeze would have been more appropriate, in which case it should be r . We can only presume that ŞIH is used in the sense of ik as roots can have multiple meanings. 
2.2.5 This perhaps means ICMIFT T 3 TERT. 
2.2.8 Though many Mss support the reading 4176141: as adopted by Caland, there is much confusion in respect of gender and hence we amend it as gef471:. 
2.3.14 49 preceded by for should be fel. Here the usage is archaic. 
2.4.4 In MD also it is ओषधय and Savana explains it as ओषं पक्वं कृत्वा धय, SO ओषं is correct. 
3.1.2 The construction is our 37ef7 Format. The prefix 37 governing the accusative in is repeated here with uf, so Caland's preference for 37917 is not acceptable though it is supported by most of the Mss. 
3.1.8 उदन्त means अन्तोन्मुखं यदा भवति. Here it means just before it is fully boiled. 
3.1.10 m itor preferred by Caland would split as 7-3-1-31TRUI, here 3 can be taken to mean 'only'. But I does not serve any purpose. So On TR is accepted. 
3.1.12 Except VI which reads 431 all Mss read 73. The former would have been better since fame is sought after most. For want of support from Mss the VI reading is given as alternative. . 
3.2.1 A sfa means a statement of intention. 'Let me eat-hus saying. poft a positive statement does not need sfd. 
3.2.4 3 4 -37 is in parasmaipada but used in almanepida. It is archaic, 3.2.9 and adopted by Caland has conjunctional difficulties; same case with 
aun in Lwith the added problem of the absence of the upradhmainīya with the following . So fun is accepted as the simplest forın found in M and TE. 
3.2.10 in the seventh case meaning mediation is preferred to PT TIRE meaning peace-maker, since the latter assumes amiga fure in the sence of som, 
3.3.4 for 9 and 99 for me are archaic usages. 
3.4.3 TE and some other Mss read74-0 which does not make sense. Rider supported by My.splits into 74 - Caland's conjectural reading me is not warranted. 
3.4.3 असत्सेन्न- Here असत् means आस. Then we have सा-इत्-नु and नु is used in इव sense as in मगन भीम.. 
3.4.4 - Here it splits as *; used in the sense of al'or' and is a 
... 
QUEL 
TE 
II 
W 
* 
are retained as alternate readings, 
. 
PATHAVIMARSA 
.. 
WT 
is 
AVO 
ty 
*t 
Ne 1 VEL 
8.4.13 In TE reading 3774 aire alone is from the mantra text. In sint, the entire expression is from the mantra part. In the former 399 goes with ea, 
3.4.14 Y a-48-3-ta in view of us the intervening 3 becomes redundant. Still it is better. Alternative 48 G is not acceptable since it should be ver and not disjuncted. __ 4.1.1 एदग्निं----अ-इद्-अग्निं here the prepositions अ and इद् पूo with तिरोभूतम्. The reading af in one Ms can be explained as Quoka . Hence retained as an alternate reading. 
4.1.5.0: is formed by applying the Vedic termination and would mean *will get angry with' yala. 
4.2.1 Hard 40199019 can be split as wila-1-7-371-0-247. Here 37 goes with the following verb उपचराम. व is in the sense of प्रसिद्धि. 
4.2.5 370 though found only in one Ms is preferred because 344 in singular does not fit in with later plural usages upto वसन्ति. 
4.3.3 All the readings have some defect or the other. 396960 in My seems to be least objectionable if 31a + va forming 314a is considered as an archaic sandhi. 
4.3.10 Gai C is the reading in most of the Mss. But the plural 1 is inexpli cable. The MD reading faxrtal: has no such problem since fast is an adjectival noun and qualifies the pronoun : and also fits in with a. 
5.1.3 37496 TT should be the correct form. 36TH is dropped perhaps on the rule that agamas are optional. 
5.1.6 There is no other word in the second person in the context. So preferred to चकृषे. 
5.1.2014: is an accusative plural and goes with :. Subject is understood from अस्याः. 
5.1.26 Here the Pratiprasthätä, Yajamāna and Patni are all engaged in cleaning, So plural is correct. Purt in TE is grammatically untenable. 
5.1.37 The question here is a HIKT (Did he go?). The reply should be 'Yes, he has gone'. Corresponding to the verbal usage in the question the normal reply should be Tic. In all the Mss as well as in MD the reading is So we retain it as an archaic usage. or after 3 is also questionable. In should have been *04. 
5.2.3 B MF-The word FM is by way of explaining the previous word, Otherwise it will be a repetition. 
5.2.15 समवर्जन्ति. The root is वृज् वजने and as such it should be सेवईन्ति, Sincent Ms has a variant reading, it has to be accepted as an archaic usage. 
6.1.8 48 ou found in all Mss. does not go with : nor with the 
which follows. If it were an adverbial usage it should be 404747 In MD 
correct form. 
PEPE 
Sal 
Thank 
ICCI 
* 
D 
* 
1333 
2 
LAW 
PER 
. 
obliged to amend it as 
# 
orti 
168 
KĀŅVA SATAPATHABRAHMANAM 
6.1.24 Sāyana in MD while explaining the word of Flor almost in the same context interprets it as the four-cornered āhavaniya altar. Here 3 e appears in four places. FF has the (TT ) sense of moving. 371 might have been used in the sense of f (proceeding towards) and goes well with fati. Efect: with a visarga (in all Mss.) precludes the sense given by Sāyana; that of a corner. It means here only 7461 as a verbal noun. 
6.2.8 fra may mean 'One doned with Pināka bow, or it may be ! FREE 371974 when frih means High 
6.3.5 FARF : should be the correct accusative plural. Here one 7 is omitted and is perhaps archaic. 
6.3.9 CATHER--sa-3-37là should be rah. It may be a scribal error that has come to stay due to break in oral tradition, 
6.3.9निर्धयति is also possible, निर्दहति is preferred in view of the same दहति coming later.
Dr. C.R. Swaminathan hailing from an orthodox aristrocratic family of Palghat, Kerala, did his M.A, in Sanskrit, in 1950; M. Litt from Madras Vaiversity under the able guidance of Dr. V. Raghavan; Ph.D. from Delhi University; and Acharya from Darbhanga Sanskrit University. . 
He worked as Librarian in the Oriental Manuscripts Library, Madras. He joined Government of India in 1961 24 a Lec turer in Sanskrit. For a brief spell of two years he was on deputation to His Majesty's Government of Nepal as Curator, National Archives, Nepal. He retired 23 Deputy Educational Adviser (Sanskrit) in 1985. After his retirement he worked as Consul tant in IGNCA for four years. . 
Adarsh Sanskrit Malavidyalaya Scheme: ræprinting of court of point Sanskrit works special incentives for preservation of skie on traditioo of Vedic studies and estab. lishment of Rastriya Veda Vidya Prati 
number of Veda Pathanks to varvas 
ST 
. 
.. 
.is 
: 
: 
नशास्त्र कलामूलशास्त्र कलाम स्त्र कलामूलशास्त्र कलामुलश लामूलशास्त्र कलामूलशास्त्र लशास्त्र कलामूलशास्त्र कलाद स्त्र कलामूलशास्त्र कलामूलश लामुलशास्त्र कलामूलशास्त्राव लशास्त्र कलामूलशास्त्र कलाम स्त्र कलामूलशास्त्र कलामूलए लामूलशास्त्र, कलामुलशास्त्र लशास्त्र कलामूलशास्त्र कलाम 
ख कलामूलशास्त्र कलामुलश

