अभंग (abhang) devotional bhajans sung by saints of Maharashtra . (in Marathi.)

अभ्यंग (abhyanga) : abhyaïga Ayurvedic massage; specifically, the application of herbal oils tothe body and its subsequent absorption into the body.

अभ्यन्तर कृमि' (abhyantara krimi) : Internal parasites, germs.

अभ्यन्तर स्नेह (abhyantara sneha) : Internal oleation.

abhysyandis Herbs which block the channel of rasavaha srota, causing congestion.

अद्वैत वेदान्त' (Advaita Vedänta): One of the three systems of thought in Vedanta philosophy popularized by Shankara. It teaches that the manifest creation,the soul, and God are identical and not different. This non-dualist form argues that we are the whole and that parts are simply illusion.

अग्नि (agni) : Fire, energy; the force residing within the body that creates digestion;responsible for the transformation of one substance into another; metabolism. Agni is contained within pitta.

अग्निदोष (agnidosha) : insufficient agni

अग्निसदन (agnisadana) : Herbs which reduce appetite.

अहं ब्रह्मास्मि (aham brahmaasmi) : I am Brahma (in Vedanta philosophy)

अहंकार (ahamkaara) : Sense of self or separateness; loosely translated as ego, arrogance

आहार रस' (ahara rasa) : The elemental form, or essence, of food (the quality of the food as opposed to the food itself).

'आज्ञा (aagnyaa) : Command, order

आज्ञा चक्र' (ajna chakra) : The sixth chakra, located in the region commonly called the"phaalam" where the third eye of Lord Shiva is, between the eyebrows. The "command station" of the body and mind. Contains the qualities of subtle ether.

आकाश (aakaasha) : Sky, Ether; the idea of connectedness or space; the space that exists between all things.

आकृति (aakruti) : The volume and tension of the pulseaksepaka Convulsions.

आलोचक पित्त (aalochaka pitta) : Subdosha of pitta. Digests light/visual impressions. On higher level, related to perception. Resides in eyes (pupils).

आम' ( äma ) : Toxic residue that is left behind as a by-product of poor digestion.

आम वात ( äma väta ) : Rheumatoid arthritis (vata carrying ama into the joints).

आमदोष (aamadoSha) : The vitiation of poorly digested food.

आमाशय' (ämäshaya) : Stomach

अमवातघन (amavataghana) Anti-rheumatic herbs.

amavatham Anti-rheumatic herbs.

अंबू (ambu) Water

अंबुवः स्रोता (ambuvaha srota) The channel that carries water; also called the udakavaha srota; the water metabolism system of the body, consisting of all the metabolic functions that regulate retention and elimination (those functions residing outside of the urinary system including the production of ADH by the pituitary gland, insulin by the pancreas, and the desire for water contained within the palate); it originates in the kloman (pancreas) and the palate.

अम्लamla Sour

अमृत (Sacred nectar); the highest form of ojas; the source of immortality and eternal bliss. Also called soma.

अनाद (anada) änada bliss, absolute joy

anagni sveda Non-direct fire fomentation; therapeutic actions that do not require a formal source of heat, including exercise, wearing heavy clothing, wrapping a patient in blankets, exposure to the sun, and fasting.

anahagna Laxative

anahata chakra anähata chakra The fourth chakra, located at the center of the chest. Contains the qualities of the air element.

ananda änanda Bliss

anandagni änandagni The agni that metabolizes ether, which in this context is pure joy. Faulty metabolism causes diseases that are spiritual in nature such as unhappiness, dissatisfaction and a feeling of separation from God.

anandamaya kosha änandamaya kosha The bliss sheath; it makes up the majority of the causal body; contains the anandagni, which is responsible for metabolizing ether.

ananta An atypical migraine headache (atypical due to the pattern of pain). Ananta is the name of the serpent upon which Lord Vishnu rests; in pictures of the great God, the serpent rises up from the back of Lord Vishnu's head; so does a headache of this type.

2

anga Root meaning "limb, portion", as in Ashtänga Yoga

angamarda-prashamana Anti-rheumatic, analgesic herbs.

anna Food

annagni The agni which metabolizes food. The annagni consists of the jathagni, the dhätu agnis and the bhüta agnis and is responsible for metabolizing the earth element and converting it into the building blocks of the body. Faulty metabolism causes physical disease.

annakitta The remains of food in the large intestine.

annamaya kosha The food sheath or food body; our physical body which is built from the food we eat. The dominant element within its structure is the earth element. Contains the annagni which is responsible for metabolizing the earth element.

annapurna annapürnä " One who gives nourishment", The Goddess of Food.

annavaha srota The channel that carries food; originates in the stomach; the first half of the digestive channel (from the mouth to the end of the small intestine).

antaragni Internal fire; the most important of all the agnis. Also called jatharagni (digestive fire) and antaragni (internal fire).

antarayama See dhanusthambha.

antarmukhi yoni vyapat Severe vaginal pain that is supposedly due to engaging in sex after a heavy meal and/or unusual sexual position.

anubandha That which transmigrates from one body to the next (the subtlest aspect of who we are; our soul).

anuloma Mild laxative, carminative.

anulomana-vilomana Alternate nostril breathing.

anupana The medium used to carry herbs into the body. Examples include water, milk, honey, alcohol, ghee, and sesame oil.

anupasaya See upasaya.

anupasaya Discomfort; also called asatmya.

anuvasana basti Tonifying basti.

apana vayu apäna väyu Subdosha of väta. Downward and outward moving air. Responsible for elimination of waste. Resides in the colon.

apara ojas One of the two types of ojas (the other being para ojas). Dwells in the vessels next to the heart, and when diminished, affects the immune system, resulting in illness.

3

apas äpas Water; the idea of flow and liquidity.

apasmara Epilepsy.

apatanaka See dhanusthambha.

apatantraka See dhanusthambha.

ardhavabhedaka Pain in half the head.

ardita Hemifacial paralysis or facial palsy, a condition caused by injury to cranial nerve VII. It has the appearance of a stroke and may be caused by gross trauma such as a head injury or minor trauma such as sleeping on an uncomfortrable pillow. Also called ekayama. The term can also mean tetanus.

arishta äriñhöha Medicated wine made with a decoction.

arka Water extract prepared from distillation.

arocaka nidana arocaka nidana Diagnosis of anorexia (loss of appetite)

artava ärtava Egg

artavaha srota ärtavaha srota The channel that carries menstrual fluid and ovum; consists of the fallopian tubes, uterus and vaginal canal; originates in the ovaries and uterus (the female reproductive system).

artavajanana ärtavajanana Herbs which promote ovulation/menses.

artha Prosperity

aruci anorexia

asana äsana Posture, the third limb of Yoga. Refers to yoga postures.

asara Non-useful components of metabolism.

Asatmya Discomfort; also called anupasaya.

asava äsava Medicated wine made with freshly pressed herbal juice. A popular example is Kumari Asava, which is useful for reproductive and digestive complaints and liver tonification.

ashaya äshaya Vessel

ashöa The number eight (8). Example: Ashöänga Yoga (the eight limbs of yoga).

Ashtanga Hridayam Ashtänga Hridayam (Añöäïga Hådayam) One of the three most important books in Classical Äyurveda (the other two are the Caraka Samhita and the Sushruta Samhita). Written by Vagbhat in the 7th century AD, Vagbhat may be the same author who wrote Ashtanga Samgraha (although this is uncertain; there may be two Vagbhats).

4

Ashtanga Samgraha Ashtänga Samgraha One of the three supplemental (or "lesser") classical Äyurveda books (the other two are the Madhava Nidanam and the Sarangadhara Saàhitä). Written by Vagbhat in the 7th century AD, this may be the same author who wrote Ashtanga Hridayam (although this is uncertain; there may be two Vagbats).

Ashtanga Yoga Ashtänga Yoga (Añöäìga Yoga) "Eight limbed yoga", The term refers spcifically to Räja - Yoga which contains eight limbs or steps. See Räja Yoga.

ashtapana Corrective enema.

ashya ashöa Prefix meaning eight; e.g. ashtänga means eight limbed

asmari äçmaré Urinary stones.

asmari bheda Lithotrope.

asthi Bone

asthi agni A dhätu agni; helps build asthi (bone); the health of this agni determines the health of asthi. Resides in the purisha dhara

kalä, the membrane that precedes asthi.

asthi dhatu asthi dhätu One of the seven "dhätus" or tissues; consists of bones, nails, teeth, hair. Composed of air and earth; provides framework. Psychological function is to "stand tall", attain stature.

asthi saushiryam Osteoporosis

asthila Prostrate gland; also called paurusha granthi.

asthivaha srota The channel that carries posaka medas or unstable medas prior to becoming asthi dhätu; originates in the fatty tissues of the hips and buttocks; carrier of väta (bone porosity) and kapha (bone element) doshas.

atanka That which makes life miserable.

aticarana yoni vyapat Swelling and pain in the vagina caused by excess intercourse (physical irritation).

atisara atésära Diarrhea

atma vichara The process of dispelling of illusion

atman ätman In Sänkhya philosophy, the aspect of god that resides within each of us; our spirit or soul.

atulygotriya Embrology.

atyagni High agni; when the strength of the digestive fire is too high. Also called tikshnagni.

atyagni Hyperactive agni.

audbhida Salt from the earth

5

aum see Om

avabahu Paralysis.

avagha sveda A treatment in which a person reclines in a bathtub filled with hot water and herbal decoctions. Oils may be added as well.

avalambaka kapha Subdosha of kapha. Protects lungs and respiratory tissues. Related to attachment and holding on to things and to weight gain. Located in chest (heart and lungs).

avaleha Sweet candy, jam or jelly.

avila ävila Cloudy

Ayurveda Äyurveda Knowledge of life; ayus (life) and veda (knowledge).

B

baddhodara Intestinal obstruction.

bahaya krimi External parasites.

bahirayama See dhanusthambha.

bala The strength or force of the pulse.

balya Herbs which increase strength and are tonifying.

basti Basti literally means bladder, and in Äyurveda the term is used to mean enema (a bladder was traditionally used as the device that holds the liquid used in enemas). Enemas fall in two categories, either purifying (niruha basti) or tonifying (anuvasana basti).

basti shodan Herbs which cleanse the bladder.

bayha snehana External oleation

bhagat Native healer.

bhasma An oxide prepared by purifying a substance, usually a metal, then cooking it until it becomes an ash. These are more expensive and powerful than herbs. Most are not allowed in the USA. Not considered a traditional part of Ayurvedic medicine.

bhayaja Fear

bhedana Mild purgative, laxative.

bhedaniya Mild purgative, laxative.

bhrajaka pitta bhräjaka pitta Subdosha of pitta. Digests touch, temperature, pressure, pain. Resides in skin.

bhritya The term for a parent, child caretaker or guide.

bhuta bhüta element, "that which manifests as matter"

6

bhuta agnis bhüta agnis The elemental agnis; there are five, one for each element (akashagni, vayagni, tejagni, jalagni, and prithviagni).

bhutonmada Possession by evil spirits.

bija mantra béja mantra A seed mantra; the essence of all other mantras. Thus, of all mantras, they have the most power. The ancient people of India described chakras as having the shape of a lotus flower. At the center of the lotus is a primary energy that is symbolized by a letter in the Sanskrit alphabet. Chanted, this is called a bija mantra. Chanting a bija mantra increases the rotation of the chakra or the frequency of präna moving through the chakra and enhances and heightens its functions.

bodhaka kapha Subdosha of kapha. Moistens mouth; saliva. Protects mouth from heat of food and roughness of food and chewing. Responsible for aesthetic taste. Located in mouth.

brahaman The combination of unmanifested pure potential and pure consciousness that exists prior to creation

brahmacharya brahmacharya Sexual restraint

brihat panchamula The five great roots; part of the dashmool formula used for niruha basti.

Brihat Treya The three most important books in Classical Äyurveda. Consists of the Caraka Saàhitä, Sushruta Saàhitä, and the Ashtanga Hridayam.

brimhana Make heavy; increases fat and muscle tone; tonifying pancha karma treatment.

brimhana chikitsä Tonification therapy, the purpose of which is to increase the internal strength of the patient.

buddhi Intellect

buddhi smruti prada Herbs which benefit the intellect and memory.

C

Caraka Samhita Caraka Saàhitä Considered the greatest of all the classical texts on Äyurveda. Written by Caraka, it contains the teachings of the sage Agnivesa, who was one of the six students of the great sage Atreya. It is Agnivesa's teachings which makes up the bulk of what is known about classical Äyurveda. Caraka was himself a great physician.

7

catur The number four (4). Example: caturtha ("fourth"; in Vedanta, a technical term referring to the transcendental Self beyond the three states of waking, dreaming and sleep).

chakra Part of the subtle nervous system (the nädis are another part). There are seven charkas, and these chakras serve as an energetic template of the nerve plexuses that function in the physical body. Chakras have the potential to generate two qualities of energy; ordinary subtle energy and a heightened subtle energy.

chakradhara An oil treatment in which oil is poured over the chakras.

chakshushva Herbs that benefit the eyes, promote vision.

chaksu Eyes.

chala Mobile

chardi Herbs that induce vomiting.

chardi-nigrahana Anti-emetic herbs (reduce vomiting)

chedana Herbs that scrape away ama; also an expectorant.

chidrodara A condition of perforation of the intestine resulting in abdominal swelling. Usually caused by the intake of sharp objects, wood, sand, bone or nails. Also called ksatodara.

chikitsa chikitsä Treatment

chinamsuka Piamater (The delicate and highly vascular membrane immediately investing the brain and spinal cord).

chinna Cheyne stokes respiration which occurs in terminal states of illness; a type of breathing that occurs near death. chit Consciousness absolute; the ocean within which we all are connected.

churna (choorna) chürëa (cürëa) Powdered herb; usually a powdered formula of herbs

cikitsa cikitsä see chikitsä

citta Consciousness

çüla Colic pain

D

daha-prashamana Herbs that are refrigerants; cooling to the body.

dahashamaka Herbs which alleviate burning sensations.

dakodara See udakodara.

8

dandaka A condition in which there is gross stiffness of the body; vata and kapha invade all channels and tissues of the body; considered incurable.

darshana Philosophy; observation; looking for signs and symptoms of disease by observation

dasha The number ten (10). Example: dashmula (the ten roots formula).

dasha- daña- prefix meaning 10, e.g. the herbal compound dañamüla (dashamula) "ten roots"

dauhrda The heart-to-heart connection between a mother and her embryo whereby the embryo is able to communicate its desires to the mother through the channels which carry nutrients; in this way the heart of the mother and the heart of the fetus are connected. Also called a Bi-cardiac state.

deha-samshodanas Herbs that induce vomiting.

desa Habitat

dhamini Artery

dhamini See nadi.

dhamini Arteries.

dhammillaka Cerebellum.

dhanustambha Tetanus. Another term sometimes used for tetanus is ardita.

dhanusthambha Sometimes means tetanus, sometimes refers to a type of convulsion. Also called apatantraka or apatanaka. There are two kinds; antarayama, where the body bends forward and bahirayama, where the body bends backward.

dhara dhärä To pour or flow

dharana dhäraëä concentration, the sixth limb of Yoga. The mental contemplation and retention of information into memory.

dhari That aspect of life that keeps the body from decaying

dharma God-given purpose

dhatu dhätu Tissue

dhatu agni dhätu agni Tissue agnis; there are seven, one for each of the major tissues of the body.

dhatu srotas dhätu srotas Channels through which the dhätus move as they are being formed; there are seven in all, and each leads to a kalä (membrane).

dhuma dhüma smoke inhalation therapy

dhyana dhyäna Meditation, the seventh limb of Yoga. Endurance

9

dinacharya Rejuvenation of the mind; daily practices.

dipana (deepana) dépana Digestive stimulant, the action of kindling agni

dosha doñha Three main forces which govern the body (väta, pitta and kapha); literally means faulty or to cause harm, although they only do so when they are functioning abnormally. When functioning normally, they maintain the good health of the body and guide all of the normal bodily functions

draksha drakñha Medicated wine; a fermented decoction or infusion.

drava Liquid

dravya Substance; matter

dravya guna The qualities of a substance. The term is used synonymously with pharmacology, although the principles of dravya guna are the foundation for all sensory treatments, the basic knowledge necessary for treating all imbalances in the body.

dravyagunashastra The branch of knowledge that deals with the dravyas (drugs as well as diet) that help in the maintenance of health and alleviation of diseases in the purush (human body), which is a concomitance of panchamahabhootas and atma (the soul or the consciousness). It also deals with the properties, actions, dose, time of administration and various preparations of these dravyas. Food items, like drugs, are also considered in these dravyas.

dugdha dhara Milk as the base (instead of oil) in shirodhara.

durgandhyanashana Deodorant.

dvi The number two (2). Example: dvipada sirasana (two feet to head yoga pose).

E

eka Prefix one, the singular reality or transcendental Self beyond the multiplicity experienced by the unenlightened ego-bound individual. The number one (1). Example: ekamüla (one root theory).

ekamula ekamüla Literally means "one root". A herbal therapy technique where only one herb is given to the client ("putting all your eggs in one basket"). Haritaki(Terminalia chebula) and Guduchi (Tinospora cordifolia) are often canditates for this technique.

ekayama See ardita.

10

ela elä Cardamom

F

flatus Excessive accumulation of gas in the intestines.

G

galaugha Pharyngitis, laryngitis.

gandha Smell; odor

gandusha The practice of gargling with medicated oil to strengthen the gums and voice.

garbhada Herbs which increase fertility.

garbharoga Diseases of the uterus.

garbhashayya sankochaka Herbs which stimulate labor.

gati The movement of the pulse; a description of its movement based on comparing it to the movements of different animals.

ghana Pill; powder of a dried liquid.

ghee The clarified oil of butter. It is sattvic and has the unique prabhava of raising agni without aggravating pitta. It's easy to digest, benefits all three doshas, and carries into the body whatever it is mixed with.

ghrita A perparation of ghee (clarified butter) in which herbs are infused or boiled into the ghee.

grahani 1. Small intestine disease. 2. Ulcers.

grahi Anti-diarrhea, binds stool.

grishma gréshma The summer season

guhyaroga Diseases of the female reproductive system.

gulma Tumor, lump or diverticulosis.

gulma Abdominal tumor

guna Quality or properties.

gunas Three basic qualities of nature; tamas, rajas, sattva.

guru Teacher; one who removes the darkness of ignorance; one through whom one finds a channel to God; heavy.

guti (gutika) guöi Tablet or pill.

H

hådaya Mind

halimaka Hepatitis C or malignant jaundice

hamsa gati The quality of the pulse is likened to the movement of a swan; the primary description of a kapha pulse.

11

hara (suffix) Reduces as in väta hara, pitta hara, and kapha hara.

haram Pacifies

haridra haridrä Turmeric

haridra meha A type of prameha in which the urine is pungent and yelloworange.

hasta Upper extremity.

hasti meha Vata-type diabetes insipidus; a type of prameha in which the urine is passed continuously, without force, and is mixed with lasika (lymph).

hemanta The winter season

hidhma or hikka hidhmä or hikkä Hiccups

hikkanigrahaka Reduces hiccups.

hima Cold infusion (aka shita kashaya).

hrdroga hådroga Heart disease.

hrdya hrdayam Heart.

hrid roga Heart disease.

hridaya Herbs which aid the heart.

hridaya dhara kala hridaya dhärä kalä The pericardium and endocardium (the membrane which surrounds the heart).

I

ida nadi éda nädi The nädi that runs from the base of the spine (the muladhara chakra) to the left nostril . It is also called the "lunar nädi", as it is associated with the water element. Its energy is cool, and increased movement within it increases the "watery" emotions such as love, attachment, and deep feeling.

ikshü Sugar cane

iksu meha Type 2 diabetes; the urine is very sweet like sugar, typical of kapha-type diabetes mellitus.

Indra An ancient Vedic deity; cosmic prana

J

jala neti See neti

jalodara See udakodara.

jatghni yoni vyapat This is a condition where each baby a woman tries to bear dies at birth or shortly thereafter.

jatharagni jätharagni The digestive fire; the most important of all the agnis. Also called kayagni (bodily fire) and antaragni (internal fire).

12

jatismara Sattvic individuals who can recollect the events of past lives.

jentaka sveda A special hut, built according to specific instructions, with a clay oven inside in which special herbs are burned. A well-oiled patient lies down on a bench in the hut for 20 minutes.

jihva Tongue.

jiva jéva Individual consciousness; sould; a reflection of the Divine.

jivaniya Restorative, vitalizer.

jivanmukta jévanmukta Liberated soul

jivatman jévätman The lower aspect of the soul, connected to the physical plane, according to Mémämsa philosophy.

jivita That which keeps us alive

jnana jïäna Knowledge or wisdom.

jnanendriya jïänendriya In Sänkhya philosophy, the five sense faculties (hearing, touch, vision, taste, smell).

jvara That which torments.

jwara Fever

jwaraghna Reduces fever.

jwarahara Reduces fever.

jyotish Vedic astrology.

K

kala kalä 1) Membrane 2) Time 3) Black

kala meha käla meha A type of prameha in which the urine is like black ink.

kalashanja Chorea; other terms include ardita and tandava.

kalka Herbal paste.

kalpa World cycle, world age

kama käma Pleasure (as a goal, it means the pursuit of pleasure and ecstasy, the primary goal of the senses).

kamala kämala Jaundice or hepatitis A.

kampa vata kampa väta Parkinson's disease; also called vepathu.

kampana Tremors.

kampavata Tremors due to vata; often the term used for Parkinson's disease.

kanda Prolapsed uterus.

kandughna Anti-pruritic.

kanthya Demulcent, aids the throat.

13

kapalabhati A fairly aggressive form of pränayama involving forcibly expelling air from the lungs as the diaphragm and abdominal muscles contract.

kapha The force behind the structure and stability of the body; the elements are water and earth; its qualities are heavy, cold, moist, static, smooth and soft; its root is in the upper stomach. Also a term for mucous.

kaphaja krimi Parasites in the digestive tract. Also called purishaja krimi.

karaìa Method of processing; one of the eight factors determining the utility of food.

karam Aggravates karma 1) The force that binds the soul to the cycle of life and death. 2) The action of a substance.

karmendriya In Sänkhya philosophy, the five faculties of action (speech, grasping, walking, procreation, elimination).

karna purana The practice of placing oil drops in the ear.

karnini yoni vyapat Decreased or absent menses.

karsana Cleansing

kasa käsa Cough

kasa roga käsa roga Bronchitis

kasahara Reduces cough.

kasa-svasahara Expectorant, aids breathing and cough.

kashaya (kashayam) kashäya Astringent taste or decoction.

kathina Hard

kathinya käthinya The consistency of the blood vessel wall.

katti basti The application of an oil pool to the back.

katu Pungent taste.

kayagni Bodily fire; the digestive fire; the most important of all the agnis. Also called jatharagni (digestive fire) and antaragni (internal fire).

keshya Promotes healthy hair.

kha khä Space

khara khära Rough

khavaigunya khävaigunya A weak or defective space within a tissue or organ where a pathological condition is likely to begin; a potential site of relocation.

khya To realize.

14

kitchari, kitcheree kicharé A meal of basmati rice cooked with split yellow mung dal ( 3 : 1

0.25 water:rice:dal). Part of samsarjana karma.
kledaka kapha Subdosha of kapha. Protects lining of stomach against acids. Located in stomach.

klesha The five affliction of humanity (ignorance, egoism, attachment, hatred, clinging to life), according to Vedanta philosophy.

kloman (kloma) Pancreas

komar bhritya Pedriatic Ayurveda; that part of Ayurveda which deals with child rearing, childhood illness and their treatment.

komar, kumar A title by which a child is addressed.

kopana (suffix) Increases, as in väta kopana, pitta kopana, and kapha kopana.

kosha koça Sheath or layer; energetic fields of vibration that correspond to the five elements in their subtle form which are physical manifestations of creation. There are 5 koshas, and each is a layer of our existence; they are annamaya kosha, pränamaya

kosha, manomaya kosha, vijnanamaya kosha, and anandamaya kosha. There are two additional layers, "Sat" and "Chit" which are not physical.

krimi kåmi Parasites

krimighna Anthelmintic, antiparasitic.

krimija-siratapa A type of headache which is due to a parasitic infection which arises due to an overindulgence in unhealthy foods and improper food combining.

ksara meha A type of prameha in which the urine is like alkali (strongly basic and caustic such that there is burning).

ksataja Cough due to chest injury.

ksatodara See chidrodara.

ksaya Consumption; tissue depletion; to diminish; wasting of the body associated with tuberculosis.

kshara Alkali, alkaline extract.

kshaya Decreased dosha.

kshira Plant exudate or resin.

ksudra Heavy breathing.

15

kumbhi sveda A treatment in which a bowl is placed in the ground and filled with a decoction of herbs. The herbs are heated with hot iron balls. A patient sits on a chair or lies in a bed over the bowl. There are openings in the bed or chair to allow heat to penetrate into the body.

kundalini energy kundaliné energy An energetic template of physical sexual energy. At its heightened level, though, it is not sexual but is the force that activates the chakras and causes them to function on a higher level, thereby altering perception and experience. Kundalini moves through the central nädi called the sushumna nädi, upon which the charkas are often stated to be "strung like lotuses".

kushtagna Herb which eliminates skin disease.

kwatha (kwath) kwätha Decoction (made by boiling the hard parts of herbs).

L

laghu Light

laghu panchamula laghu païchamüla The five lesser roots; part of the dashmool formula used for niruha basti.

laghu treya The three supplemental (or "lesser") Classical Äyurveda books, consisting of the Ashtanga Samgraha, Madhava Nidanam and the Sarangadhara Saàhitä.

lagnu (lagu) Light

laksana

lala meha A type of prameha in which there is slimy urine with threads like saliva.

langhana Make light; reduces bulk; purifying pancha karma treatment.

langhana chikitsa laìghana chikitsä Reduction therapy, the purpose of which is to either decrease the quantity of a dhätu or purify a dhätu.

lavaìa Salt

lavana Salty.

lekhana Herbs which reduce fatty tissue and support weight loss.

lepa Body paste; used for strains, sprains and arthritis.

lingum Penis; also called medra.

lohama Iron, as used in a bhasma made of iron.

lohitaksya A condition resulting in ammenorrhea accompanied by burning and emaciation.

M

16

madakaraka Herbs which create sleep.

madakari Narcotic herbs.

madhava nidanam One of the three supplemental (or "lesser") classical books on

Äyurveda (the other two are the Ashtanga Samgraha and the Sarangadhara Saàhitä). Written by Madhavakara, it is considered the major text on pathology and the diagnosis of disease.

madhu Honey

madhu (madhura or mathura) Sweet taste.

madhu meha Vata-type diabetes mellitus (type 1); a type of prameha in which urine resembles honey and is sweet.

madhumeha Diabetes insipidus; juvenile diabetes; glycosuria.

maha- mahä- great

Mahad Intelligence; the cosmic aspect of the intellect which also contains the individual intellect (Buddhi, ego).

mahan mahän "The great dyspnea" (difficulaty breathing); also occurs in terminal illness.

mahasneha A medicated oil consisting of the four fats ghee, sesame oil, muscle fat and bone marrow.

mahat All the cosmic laws that make up the intelligence of the universe according to Sänkhya philosophy.

mahavaha srota mahävaha srota The Great Channel, consisting of the annavaha srota and the purishavaha srota (the entirety of the digestive channel from mouth to anus).

mahayoni vyapat Similar to vatiki yoni vyapat, this is a type of vaginal pain specifically described to be due to a prolapse of the uterus and vaginal muscles.

majja agni majjä agni A dhätu agni; helps build majjä; the health of this agni determines the health of majjä. Resides in the majjä dhara kalä, the membrane that precedes majjä.

majja dhara kala majjä dhärä kalä The membrane that holds bone marrow and the majjä agni.

17

majja dhatu majjä dhätu One of the seven "dhätus" or tissues; consists of the nervous system and anything that fills an empty space within the body, such as the brain, spinal cord, bone marrow. Also includes the sclera of the eyes. Composed of water and earth. Psychological function is fullness, completeness, peacefulness, calm, anxiety, depression, grief.

majja meha A type of prameha in which the urine is mixed with marrow.

majjavaha srota majjävaha srota The channel that carries posaka asthi or unstable asthi prior to becoming majjä dhätu; originates in the bones and joints of the body and supplies the nerves and bone marrow; primary carrier of väta dosha.

mala Waste

mala stambhana Herbs that stop the flow of waste (urine, feces, blood).

mamsa mämsa Muscle

mamsa dhara kala mämsa dhärä kalä The membrane that holds mämsa (muscle) and the mämsagni.

mämsa dhätu mämsa dhätu One of the seven "dhätus" or tissues; consists of muscles, ligaments and skin. Composed mainly of earth and some water and fire. Psychologically, provides courage, fortitude, selfconfidence.

mamsa sarpi Medicated meat soup.

mämsagni mämsagni A dhätu agni; helps build mämsa; the health of this agni determines the health of mämsa. Resides in the mämsa dhara kalä, the membrane that precedes mämsa.

mämsavaha srota mämsavaha srota The channel that carries posaka rakta or the unstable rakta prior to becoming mämsa dhätu; according to Caraka Saàhitä it originates in the ligaments and skin (the upadhätu of mämsa dhätu); according to Sushruta Saàhitä it originates in the nerves, serum and capillaries; a carrier of kapha dosha.

managni The agni which is responsible for the metabolism of fire, which in this context takes the form of sensory impressions; it is constantly metabolizing the energies coming from our environment into our bodies and our mind. Faulty metabolism causes mental disease.

18

manas The limited mind projected by ahamkara. Faculty of cognition and action.

manasika Conditions which originate in the mind. manda 1)slow, dull 2) A meal of drinking only the lukewarm water in which white basmati rice is boiled ( 16:1 water:rice). Part of samsarjana karma.

mandagni Low agni; when the strength of the digestive fire is too low.

manduka gati mandüka gati The feel of the pulse is likened to the movement of a frog; the primary description of the pitta pulse. manipura chakra manipüra chakra The third chakra, located in the region of the solar plexus just above the umbilicus. Its related tissues are the liver, spleen, pancreas and small intestine. Contains the qualities of the fire element.

manjista meha A type of prameha in which the urine smells foul and is slightly red like manjista.

manobuddhivaha srota Channel of understanding.

manomaya kosha The mind sheath; the primary astral body. It contains the managni, which is responsible for metabolizing fire.

manovaha srota The channel that carries thought; refers to the entire mind, so it is the carrier of feelings and emotions as well. Has no physical location; resides within the mind, yet it is subtler. It is the channel through which the body is created; it can be seen as the channel that exists between the physical body and the astral body and through which astral impressions move. According to Caraka Saàhitä, these are the channels that connect the mind to the senses, which has led some authors to include the brain as a part of manovaha srota.

mantha A mixture of flour, sugar, and ghee.

mantra (mantram) A sacred syllable or sequence of syllables (sometimes a name, a word, or a phrase) that is used in meditation, often assigned by one's guru, and believed to tune one into the Divine. One of the most well known is the sacred sound Om (or Aum).

marica Black pepper

19

marma Points on the body where veins, arteries, tendon bone and flesh meet. Also it can be where väta, pitta, kapha, sattva, rajas and tamas meets. There are 108 marma points in our body. These points can be used to heal or to harm. They are strong energy centers and are somewhat similar to acupuncture points. Massaging these points helps to remove energy and toxic blocks from the body, also improving the function of internal organs.

mastiska, matulungua Brain and cerebrum.

mastulunga avarnana

kala Meninges.

medagni A dhätu agni; helps build medas (fat); the health of this agni determines the health of medas. Resides in the medo dhara kalä, the membrane that precedes medas.

medas Fat; the fatty tissues of the body.

medas dhatu medas dhätu One of the seven "dhätus" or tissues; consists of fat (composed primarily of water). Lubricates tissues of body through oiliness. Psychological function is the ability to love and receive love.

medhya Herbs which promote intellect.

medhya rasayana Herbs which are rejuvenatives for the mind.

medo dhara kala medo dhärä kalä The membrane that holds fat and the medagni.

medohara Reduces blood lipids.

medovaha srota The channel that carries posaka mämsa or unstable mämsa prior to becoming medas dhätu; originates in the kidneys and adipose tissues of the body; carier of kapha dosha.

medra Penis; also called lingum.

Mimamsa Mémämsa One of the six orthodox doctrines of philosophy (shad darshan) of Hinduism, founded by Jaimini. It can be seen as the ritualistic path of Vedic knowledge.

moksha Liberation of the soul from the cycle of life and death; the goal of our higher nature.

mridu Soft.

mrudu Soft

mudhagarbham Malposition of the baby in utero.

mudra mudrä A gesture or arrangement of the fingers used in meditation for communication between body, mind and consciousness.

20

mukka paka Ulcer

mula müla Root

muladhara chakra mülädhära chakra The first, or root, chakra. Located at the base of the spine, it creates the foundation for a person's psycho-spiritual development. Contains the qualities of the earth element.

mutra mütra Urine.

mutra jathara The habitual holding of urine which causes vata to move upwards causing severe pain and distention.

mutraghäta müträghäta Urinary retention syndromes.

mutragranthi mütragranthi A tumor occurring inside the bladder which produces symptoms similar to a urinary stone.

mutra-jnana mütra-jnana Herbs which increase urine formation.

mutrakåcchra mütrakåcchra Dysuria or painful urinination.

mutrakrichra mütrakrichra Dysuria, difficulty passing urine.

mutraksaya Diminished urine in the aged, debilitated, and dehydrated.

mutrala mütrala Diuretic.

mutrasada Thick, non-unctuous (non-sticky) urine.

mutra-samgrahaniya mütrasamgrahaniya

Urinary astringent; reduces urination.

mutrashaya müträshaya The urinary bladder.

mutrashukra The mixing of urine and semen in those who engage in sexual intercourse whle having the urge to urinate.

mutratita Mild pain in the bladder due to the holding of urine.

mutratsanga Residual urine left in the bladder, urethra, or penis causing the penis to feel heavy.

mutravaha srota mütravaha srota The channel that carries urine; consists of the kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra; according to the Sushruta Saàhitä, it originates in the bladder and penis, although it is commonly understood to originate in the bladder and urethra; carries water (kapha) out of the body.

mutra-virechaniva mütra-virechaniva Strong diuretic, urinary purgative.

mutra-vishodana mütra-vishodana Urinary antiseptic.

N

21

nadi nädi Part of the subtle nervous sytem (charkas are another part).

nädis are subtle nerve channels; an energetic template of the nerves through which präna (subtle energies) flow. These channels permeate the entire subtle body. The mind is the sum total of all the nädis. Classical yogic texts state that there are 72,000 nädis. Nadi bears different meanings in different texts; it is commonly translated to mean nerve, but can also mean subtle channels or channels in general. Other terms used synomously with nadi include dhamini, sira and srota.

nadi dhatu Some texts refer to the brain, spinal cord and nerves as a separate dhatu.

nadi pariksha nädi pariksha Pulse diagnosis.

nadi svedana nädi svedana A special type of steam therapy in which steam is applied through a hose connected to a pressure cooker while the patient is either lying on a massage table or sitting in an upright positon.

nadi vijnanam nädi vijïänam The reading of the pulse; used to detect existing or potential states of health and disease in a person's body, mind or spirit.

nasa Nose.

nashta rakta Amenorrhea (lack of bleeding)

nasya Nasal drops; clears nasal passages and sinuses. Alleviates all the doshas from the neck up, maximizes absorption of präna, treats diseases of the head, sinuses and nasal passages.

nava The number nine (9). Example: nava karna dravya (the nine causative factors of the universe in the Vasisheshika school of philosophy).

néla néla Blue

neti Cleansing of the nose with warm salty water using a special neti pot.

netra basti The application of an oil pool over the eyes.

netrahita Herbs which aid the eyes.

nidana Cause; similar to Western term etiology; understanding the causitive factors of a condition.

nidanam Diagnosis

nidrajnana Hypnotic

22

nidrakara Herbal sedatives; brings on sleep.

nila meha A type of prameha in which the urine is blue.

nirama Without ama

niruha basti Purifying basti.

nirvana nirväna State of pure existence; no-mind state

nisarika Arachnoid membrane.

niyama Observances, the second limb of Yoga

Nyaya Nyäya One of the six orthodox doctrines of philosophy (shad darshan) of Hinduism, founded by Gautama. It means arugment or analyiss. It outlines four methods of arriving at the truth (pramänas) which are direct perception, inference, analogy and testimony.

O

odona A meal of plain basmati rice ( 2:1 water:rice). Part of samsarjana karma.

ojas The subtle immune system; the essence that gives the tissues and the mind strength and endurance; the force that keeps the tissues healthy. Composed primarily of earth and water (qualities similar to kapha). Produced from the essence of shukra. When strong, no disease can affect the body. The energetic template of kapha.

Om (aum) The primal sound; the sound or vibration from which the entire universe emanates. According to the Vedas, "om" is the most sacred of all words. Used by Hindu yogis to represent the vibration which pervades the entire universe; the same sound as the one heard internally as a result of practicing yoga.

P

pachaka pitta pächaka pitta Subdosha of pitta. Most important fire. Converts food to the form that can be absorbed; the fire of digestion. Regulates body temperature. Resides in the small intestines and lower half of stomach (the home of pitta).

pachanas Herbs which digest ama.

pada Lower extremity.

padadaha The sensation of burning in the toes.

padaharsa The sensation of pins-and-needles in the feet due to a vata and kapha disturbance.

23

padma gati The pulse of enlightenment, felt under the kapha finger.

païca The number five (5). Example: païca karma (the five actions).

paka päka prefix meaning five, e.g. païcha karma

pakvashaya shula pakväshaya shüla The five sense organs

pancha païcha Also called Shodhana. Strong reduction therapy; the single most powerful healing therapy utilized in Äyurveda. Used only on strong patients; eliminates ama and excess doshas, then rebuilds internal strength (ojas). There are three components to the process; purva karma, pradhana karma, and prashat krama.

pancha jnanendriya païcha jïänendriya The five potentials for action (potential organs for motor experience); the five associated organs are the anus, penis, feet, hands and mouth; other texts state the five sense organs.

pancha karma païcha karma Five primary preparations of herbs including swarasa (fresh juices), phanta (hot infusions), hima (cold infusions), kwatha (decoctions) and kalka (moist bolus or paste).

pancha karmendriyas Five motor organs.

pancha karmendryani païcha karmendryani The five great elements: ether, air, fire, water & earth.

pancha kasayas païcha kasayas Digestion

pancha maha bhutus païcha maha bhütus Colic

pantha Passage

papma That which is born from sinful acts. para beyond

para ojas One of the two types of ojas (the other being apara ojas). This is the superior type; it dwells in the heart, and is the container of life itself. Any diminishment in volume would result in instantaneous death.

paramatman The higher aspect of the soul, connected to purusha, according to Mémämsa philosophy.

paravak The speech of eternal wisdom.

parinama Transformation and decay due to time and motion.

paripluta A condition in which the vagina becomes swollen and painful, with a yellow or blue discharge.

24

pariseka sveda A shower of medicated decoctions used after an oil massage. The decoction is poured through a hose or a can with many small holes above the patient's head.

pashat krama Rejuvenation; see rasayana.

Patanjali Pätaïjali Name of the celebrated sage who created The Yoga Sutras.

pattiki yoni vyapat This is a condition of burning and ulceration in the wall of the vagina. This is most likely a vaginal infection that has become systemic resulting in fever. Herpes simplex is a form of pattiki yoni vyapat.

paurusha granthi Prostrate gland; also called asthila.

payu Rectum.

peya peyä A meal of drinking thin rice liquid ( 8:1 water:rice). Part of samsarjana karma.

phanta phäëöa Hot infusion.

picchila Oily, sticky.

pinda sveda The local application of a pinda or bolus (small round mass) which is warm.

pingala nadi pingalä nädi The nädi that begins at the base of the spine within the muladhara chakra and ends at the right nostril. It is also called the "solar nädi" and is associated with the fire element. Its energy is warm, and stimulation of this nädi increases the fire of the intellect increasing reason, perception, and discrimination. pista meha A type of prameha in which the urine is thick like corn flour and white in color.

pitta pitta The force in the body that is responsible for digestion and metabolism; its elements are fire along with a small amount of water; its principal quality is heat, although it is also light, slightly oily, unstable and sharp.

pitta dhara kala pitta dhärä kalä The membrane that holds pitta and the raktagni.

pittaka pittodara

pizzichilli An oil treatment in which oil is poured onto the body through a hose and massaged into the body. This is the heaviest oil treatment and therefore the most nourishing.

pliha pléhä Spleen

pliodara Splenic (pléhä) enlargement.

posaka dhatu posaka dhätu The unstable portion of ahara rasa

25

posya dhatu posya dhätu The stable portion of ahara rasa

prabhava prabhäva (prabhäv) Special action of a substance, an action not easily explained by its qualities; gives substances unique healing capabilities.

pradara Leukorrhea; a white discharge from the vagina.

pradarahara Herbs which aid menstrual and vaginal disorders.

pradhan karma The five classical actions of pancha karma (vamana, virechana, basti, nasya and rakta mokshana).

prajashatapana Herbs that promote conception, reduce miscarriage.

prajnaparadha Intellectual blasphemy; the failure of the intellect; crimes against wisdom

prakarana yoni vyapat Pain following intercourse in the back, calves, and thighs ocurring in girls too young for intercourse.

prakriti prakåiti Pure potential for matter (unmanifested potential); the soul's guna (sattva, rajas or tamas) in its seed form.

prakruti The inherent ideal balance of the three doshas within an individual; this is determined at conception and does not change throughout a person's lifetime.

pramanas pramänas Literally means "proof". The four methods of arriving at truth as outlined in the Nyäya philosophy; these include direct perception, inference, analogy and testimony.

pramanthi Herbs that remove excess doshas at a cellular level; considered a prabhava of some herbs.

prameha Polyuria (excessive urinary volume) and diabetes. There are 20 types of prameha. Not all types of prameha are diabetes, but diabetes is a type of prameha.

pramehaghna Herbs that reduce blood sugar.

prana präna 1) Life-force energy 2) One of the subdoshas of väta 3) Breath 4) One of the energies controlling the functioning of the subtle body (the other two are tejas and ojas); the energetic template of väta responsible for circulation within the subtle energy field and for the movement of the subtle body through the subtle universe.

prana vaha srota präna vaha srota Respiratory system.

26

prana vayu präna väyu Subdosha of väta; inward moving air. Original or primary väyu because life force energy (präna) must first come into the body. Associated with movement of thought and intake of emotions. Resides in the brain and moves downward into the chest.

pranagni pränagni The agni which metabolizes water (water is the container that präna is held within when it is confined to the body). Faulty metabolism disturbs the präna and causes physical and mental disease.

pranamaya kosha pränamaya kosha The breath sheath; the bridge between the physical body (annamaya kosha) and the astral body (manomaya kosha). It contains the pränagni, which is responsible for metabolizing water.

pranavaha srota pränavaha srota The channel that carries präna; usually refers to the respiratory system (nasal passages, sinuses, bronchi and lungs); also relates to the colon which, through the process of digestion, also extracts and absorbs a large amount of präna; originates in the heart.

pranayama pränäyäma Culivation of breath, the fourth limb of Yoga. Breathing practices such as alternate nostril breathing, lunar pränäyäma, solar pränäyäma, kapalbhati.

prasada The useful components of metabolism.

praschat krama Rasayana; rejuvenation following pancha karma.

prastara sveda A special bed in which a patient lies after oleation. The bed is made with warming grains and leaves combined with spices and herbs.

pratyahara pratyähära Withdrawl of the senses, the fifth limb of Yoga

pratysyaya pratyçyäya Common cold

pravahikahara Herbs which manage dysentery.

prevepana Excessive shaking.

prithvi prithvé Earth; the idea of solidity and mobility

püjä püjä Ritualistic meditation, done with devotion and affection; a Hindu ritual worship designed to concentrate on God.

purisha dhara kala purisha dhärä kalä The membrane that holds feces and bone; it is where asthiagni resides; it is where väta is metabolized.

purishaja krimi See kaphaja krimi.

27

purishavaha srota The channel that carries feces; consists of the large intestine and rectum, which together make up the excretory system and is the second half of the mahavaha srota; the home of väta dosha.

Purusha Pure potential for consciousness (unmanifested potential); God.

purva karma pürva karma Preparatory techniques for pancha karma; brings ama and any excess doshas present in the body back to their sites of origin in the digestive tract so that they can be removed by the procedures of pradhan karma.

purva rupa pürvarüpa Early signs and symptoms of a condition; in Western terminology this is called the prodrome.

Q

R

Raja - Yoga Räja - Yoga "The royal yoga", one of the four most important yogic paths towards union with God; its system is presented by Pataïjali as described in the Yoga-Sütra. The path contins the following eight steps: yama (restraint), niyama (observance), asana (posture), präëäyäma(cultivation of breath), pratyahära (sense withdrawal), dhäraëä (concentration), dhyäna(meditation), samädhi (integration)

rajah Menstruation

rajas Action, turbulence, distraction; one of the three gunas, or basic qualities of nature. Applied to the mind, rajas is the state of mind dominated by lots of activity, which distracts people from their true nature as spirit.

rajata Silver, as used in a bhasma made of silver.

rajayaksmadi räjayakñma Tuberculosis. Also called rogarat, sosa, or ksaya.

rajoni vriti, rajonivrit Menopause.

rakta Blood

rakta bhrisaranas Emmenagogue (promotes menstruation).

rakta capa vriddhi Hypertension (high blood pressure).

rakta dhatu rakta dhätu One of the seven "dhätus" or tissues; consists of blood/ red blood cells. Also involves blood vessels, liver and spleen. Contains the fire element; invigorates tissues and the mind.

rakta meha A type of prameha in which the urine is blood red.

rakta mokshana Bloodletting. The purpose is to remove toxic blood from the body and stimulate new blood formation.

28

rakta pradhara Abnormal menstrual bleeding.

rakta prasadana Blood purifying, alterative herbs.

rakta rodaka Hemostatic herbs (astringent herbs that stop bleeding).

rakta samgrahaka Hemostatic herbs (astringent herbs that stop bleeding).

rakta shodaka Blood purifying, alterative herbs.

rakta shodana Blood purifying, alterative herbs.

rakta stambhana Hemostats; astringent herbs that stop bleeding.

rakta stambhana Hemostat (stops the flow of blood).

rakta vardhana Herbs that increase blood, aid anemia.

raktagni A dhätu agni; helps build rakta; the health of this agni determines the health of rakta. Resides in pitta dhara kalä, the membrane that precedes rakta.

raktaja krimi Systemic parasites that travel through the blood.

raktasthivi sanniat Pneumonia

raktasthivi sanniat Pneumonia

raktavaha srota The channel that carries posaka rasa (the unstable portion of rasa prior to becoming rakta). Also called rudhira or that which carriers the red blood cells and hemoglobin; often used synonymously with blood vessels; originates in the liver and spleen; primary carrier of pitta dosha.

ranjaka pitta raïjaka pitta Subdosha of pitta. Imparts color. Resides in liver, gall bladder, spleen, blood.

rasa (rasam) 1) Taste; 2) bodily fluid; "the juice of life"; plasma (the watery component of blood). It can also mean sap, mercury or vitality. In the subtle body, rasa is the substance that provides satisfaction.

rasa dhatu rasa dhätu One of the seven "dhätus" or tissues; consists of all bodily fluids (plasma, lymph, chyle, breast milk, menses). In the subtle body, provides a sense of satisfaction.

rasa shastra Medicinal use of metals

rasa vidya The application of alchemy toward healing.

rasagni A dhätu agni; helps build rasa; the health of this agni determines the health of rasa. Resides in the sleshma dhara kalä, the membrane that precedes rasa.

rasavaha srota rasavaha srota The channel through which ahara rasa flows; originates in the heart and blood vessels and includes lymphatic vessels; primary carrier of kapha dosha.

rasavahini Capillary

29

rasayana rasäyana Rejuvenative tonic; nourishes all dhätus and builds ojas. A specialized form of tonification that follows purification such as pancha karma; a special term meaning "that which promotes longevity by preventing aging and by making the body young again". Also called pashat krama.

rasayani Lymphatic

rasi Quantity

rechana Strong purgative.

rishi A seer; an enlightened Vedic sage.

rochana Herbs which stimulate appetite or a flavoring agent.

roga Pain; that which gives rise to pain or disease. The terms tapa and shula are also used synonymously for pain.

rogarat That which overpowers.

roma kupa roma küpa Sweat glands; one of the openings of the ambu vaha srotas

roma sanjanana Herbs that promote hair growth.

roma-satana Depilatories.

roopana Vulnerary (firms tissues and organs)

ruchya Herbs that stimulate taste.

rudhira See rakatavaha srota.

ruksha (ruksham) rüksha Rough quality, dry.

rukshana Roughening.

rupa rüpa Signs and symptoms; clinical manifestation of disease; sight

rutu The seasons of the year.

rutu Season or time of the month.

S

sadhaka pitta sädhaka pitta Subdosha of pitta. Digests and makes sense of sensory input; burns illusions away from truth. Fire of sädhaka pitta gives off light and heat; heat provides passion, courage, anger and the light provides wisdom and clarity. Resides in the mind, brain.

sadhana The process of making action sacred (for example, food sadhana is the action of making the consumption of food sacred).

sadhyasadhyata Prognosis. 30 sahasra padma chakra The seventh chakra, located at the crown of the head (also called the crown chakra). It's meaning is "thousand petaled lotus". Contains causal ether, the subtlest ether of all, the ether of the ocean of consciousness itself.

saindhava Rock salt

sakara Urinary gravel (pieces of stone passing through the urine that may cause mild pain and blocked flow).

sama 1. With ama 2. Balanced.

sama prakruti The ideal, tridoshic, balanced prakruti. A balanced state of body, mind and consciousness.

samadhi samädhi integration, the eight limb of Yoga. Absorption and pure awareness; a balanced state of supreme intelligence.

samagni Normal (balanced) agni

samana vayu samäna väyu Subdosha of väta; moves from periphery to center. Balancing air. Carries sensory impressions to the brain, venous blood to the heart, nutrients and oxygen into the bloodstream. Governs absorption. In the mind, balances and stabilizes the other väyus. Resides in small intestine; it's the "air that stokes the fire".

samanya Purvarupaare symptoms which disappear at the onset of the actual disease. samjna-stapana Resuscitative.

samjnavaha srota Channel of consciousness.

samprapti sampräpti Pathogenisis of disease; the disease process from its earliest causal stages until complete manifestation.

samsarjana karma Graduated re-administration of diet; rekindling of agni. Usually used after pradhan karma (the five actions) of PK.

samskaras Generated by karma, they set the stage for our life, giving us our tendencies and creating our basic reactions to the world; they lie deep within our personality and affect our deepest belief systems.

sämudra Sea salt

samyoga Combination, as in food combining.

san Truth

sanair meha A type of prameha in which the urine passes slowly with little effort.

31

sandha yoni vyapat In the ancient texts it was observed that some women, as they grew to maturity, did not like men. The condition was considered incurable, and could be an observation made of lesbian women.

sandhaniya Healing.

sandhi vata sandhi väta Osteoarthritis

sandra Dense

sandra meha A type of prameha in which the urine is thick when kept overnight, with no sugar present.

sangya sthapana Herbs that restore consciousness.

sankhaka Temporal headache.

Sankhya Sänkhya One of the six orthodox doctrines of philosophy (shad darshan) of Hinduism, founded by the sage Käpila. As a dualistic philosophy, it teaches that the univers arises throught the union of prakriti and purusha. Literally means "enumeration".

sannipatika (sannipata) Tri-dosha (all three doshas are involved)

sannipatika yoni vyapat This condition, which is the result of all three doshas becoming vitiated, results in menorrhagia (painful menstruation); leads to infertility.

sannipatikodara

santosh Contentment; the cultivation of satisfaction.

sapta The number seven (7). Example: sapta dhätus (the seven tissues).

sara sära Healthy essence

sarangadhara saàhitä One of the three supplemental (or "lesser") classical books on Äyurveda (the other two are the Ashtanga Samgraha and the Madhava Nidanam). Written by Sarangadhara sometime between 1200-1500 AD, it is famous for its reference to pulse diagnosis and is the first to bring mention to this art.

sarkara çarkarä Urinary gravel (pieces of stone passing through the urine that may cause mild pain and blocked flow).

sarpa gati The feel of the pulse is likened to the movement of a cobra; the main description of the vata pulse.

sarva general

sarvaroga nidanam The general understanding or diagnosis of pain or disease.

32

sat All-encompassing, absolute truth; it is what exists beyond the illusion of creation.

sat-chit-ananda sat-chit-änanda Where the distant edge of the anandamaya kosha (the subtlest aspect of human creation) blends with the final two layers of existence (sat and chit), these three layers make up the threefold reality of Purusha itself. Sat-chit-ananda is literally absolute existence-pure consciousness-perfect bliss (on lower levels, in the subtle body, this corresponds to präna-tejas-ojas, and in the physical body, to väta-pitta-kapha).

satmya Comfort; see upasaya.

satsang The company of the wise; the support of others on our journey.

sattva Clarity, purity. One of the three gunas, or basic qualities of nature. Applied to the mind, sattva is the state of mind that is clear, pure, absent of any distraction, turbulence, ignorance; a transcendent state of mind immersed in the perfection of creation.

satva Sun-dried paste prepared from a cold infusion which is set in the sun until all the water has evaporated and the concentrated herbs become solid.

shabdha Sound

shad prefix meaning six, e.g. shad darshan

shad The number six (6). Example: shad darsana (the six philosophical systems).

Shad Darshan The six philosophies of life: Sänkhya, Nyäya, Vasisheshika, Mémämsa, Yoga and Vedänta

shamana (samana) Make balanced; palliation therapy (tonifying while purifying); pacifies doshas without expelling them.

shamana chikitsa shamana chikitsä Palliation therapy; a mild reduction therapy which is generally performed on a patient who is not strong enough for pancha karma procedures. Its overall effect is that of a gentle cleanse.

shankhaka A type of headache precipitated by a pitta-provoking lifestyle and low ojas.

shanti Peace of mind; the cultivation of bliss.

sharada The autumn season.

sharbata Syrup

33

shastra Science

sheeta (seetha) shéta Cold

sheetali A form of pranayama.

shirah shula Headache; also called shiro roga or shiro tapa.

shiro çhiro head

shiro Head.

shiro roga Headache; also called shirah shula or shiro tapa.

shiro tapa Headache; also called shiro roga or shirah shula.

shirobasti çhirobasti A head oil application where oil is held on top of the head for some time.

shirodhara çhirodhärä Warm oil poured onto the forehead.

shishira Medicated oil applied to the shaved head.

shita kashaya The application of warm medicated oil to the forehead over the sixth chakra.

shita purva jvara shéta pürva jvara The late winter season.

shita virya shita vérya Cold infusion (aka hima).

shitali shétalé 1) Cooling virya. 2) A type of pranayama that is cooling to the system; inhalation is through a curled tongue.

shlakshna Slimy, smooth. shlesma To hug

shodana Purifying.

shodhana Make go away; reducing; includes main practices of P.K.

shodhana chikitsa shodhana chikitsä See pancha karma.

shonitasthapana Hemostat; promotes clotting.

shoolahara Pain-relieving herb. shotha Swelling in both feet.

shothaghna Herbs that reduce swelling; anti-inflammatory.

shothahara (sothahara) Herbs that reduce swelling; anti-inflammatory.

shramsanas (sramsanas) Laxatives; expel feces prior to complete digestion.

shuddha Pure

shukra Reproductive tissue; the most refined of the seven dhatus, containing the essence of all other dhatus.

shukra agni A dhätu agni; helps build shukra; the health of this agni determines the health of shukra. Resides in the shukra dhara kalä, the membrane that precedes shukra.

34

shukra dhara kala shukra dhärä kalä The membrane that holds semen and creative potential. Contains that shukra agni.

shukra dhatu shukra dhätu One of the seven "dhätus" or tissues; consists of reproductive tissue, sperm, semen, prostrate fluids, seminal vesicles, prostate gland, ovum, ovaries. Composed of highly refined water; contains the essence of all other dhätus. Psychologically, the ability to sustain creativity (sexually and creative projects).

shukrala A Sanskrit term for an herb that increases sperm count, a category of herb specific to Äyurveda.

shukra-shodana Purifies the semen.

shukrasmari çukräçmari Seminal types of asmari (urinary stones).

shukravaha srota The channel that carries posaka majjä or unstable majjä dhätu prior to becoming shukra dhätu; according to the Caraka Saàhitä it originates in the testes and pudendum, according to the Sushruta Saàhitä it originates in the testes and breasts, and according to David Frawley it originates in the testes and uterus; the path that sperm travels from the testes until ejaculated by the penis; carrier of kapha dhätu.

shukravridhikara Herbs which increase sperm count.

shula Pain; the terms roga and tapa are also used synonymously for pain.

shula prasamana Intestinal antispasmodic.

shünya The number zero (0). Example: shünyatä, the emptiness or void; a central notion of Buddhism.

siddha dugdha Medicated milk.

siddha ghrita Medicated ghee

siddha tailam Medicated oil

siddhas Mystical powers

sikita meha A type of prameha in which the urine contains sand-like particles.

sira Vein; head. Also see nadi.

sirakampa Head tremor. sirasakta, siroroga Head disease.

sirsa jala Cerebrospinal fluid.

sisa Lead, as used in a bhasma made of lead.

sita Cold

35

sita meha A type of prameha in which the urine is sweet and very cold.

slaishmika yoni vyapat Itching in the vagina accompanied by the discharge of pale,

slimy blood (mucous mixed with blood).

sleshaka kapha Subdosha of kapha. Provides lubrication in joints, allows for "fluid" motion, provides joint stability. Located in joints.

sleshma Mucous or phlegm; synonymous with kapha.

sleshma dhara kalä The membrane that holds kapha and the rasagni.

smriti Loss of memory.

sneha medicated ghee and oil

snehana 1) Oleation or fat; the term for oil therapy 2) Love

snigdha Unctuous, oily.

so-hum so-hum A mantra used in harmony with inhalation and expiration to enter into meditation; "I am that".

sokaja Grief

soma See amrit.

soma roga Endometriosis

sonita sthapaha Hemostat

sosa That which causes drying up and loss of tissue

spandin Quivering.

sparsha Touch

sramahara Energy compensator, stimulant.

srota Channels in the body; some are gross and some are subtle. In some texts, srota is used synonymously with nadi. The ears are also called srota.

srotämsi Bodily channels; plural for "srotas" (bodily systems or channels).

stambhana Obstruction; restrains or stops flow; astringent.

stanya vaha srota The channel that carries breast milk; consists of the lactation ducts within the breast, but has its origins in the wall of the uterus (so there is a direct connection between the breasts and the uterus and both should be treated when there is a problem with milk production).

stanya-jnana Lactagogue; increases milk.

stanya-shodana Purifies mother's milk.

sthira Static

sthula sthüla Gross

sucimuki yoni vyapat This is a condition where the vaginal canal is narrowed.

36

sukra meha Considered the second most important book in Äyurveda (the first is the Caraka Saàhitä). Written by Çushrut, it is best known for its expositions on surgery. It also contains much information on anatomy and physiology and on philosophy. It is the only classical text to list the names and locations of the marma points.

sukshma (sookshma) sükshma A type of prameha in which the urine is mixed with sperm.

sundara Subtle, penetrating quality; permeates small spaces.

sura meha Beautiful, beauty

surya sürya 1) A type of prameha in which the urine looks like beer with a clear head and thicker bottom part. 2) Sun.

suryavarta süryävarta 1) Headache following exposure to the sun. 2) The sun, the sun god.

suryavarta A headache which is worse with exposure to the sun.

sushka yoni vyapat Vaginal dryness leading to pain.

sushruta samhita suçruta saàhitä A migraine headache.

sushumna kanda Spinal cord.

sushumna nädi sushumnä nädi Arises from the first chakra (muladhara chakra) and is the energetic template of the spinal canal. Its significance is given the highest importance as all of the charkas are understood to be strung upon it like lotuses. Awakened kundalini energy flows through the sushumna nädi. As it does, it interacts with the chakras resulting in the transformation of consciousness.

sushumna sirsaka Medulla oblongata.

sva Self

svadhishtana chakra The second chakra, located in the region just above the pubic bone. Contains the qualities of the water element.

svarabheda nidana svarabheda nidana Diagnosis of hoarseness of voice.

svasa çväsa Dyspnea (difficulty breathing). Also can refer to asthma.

svastha Perfect health, "established in the self" - "sva" means self and "stha" means established.

svedana chikitsä svedana chikitsä Heat therapy; increases body temperature, causing an increase in circulation.

svedavaha srota The channel that carries sweat; the sebaceous system of the body consisting of hair follicles and skin pores; originates in the adipose tissue of the body.

37

swarasa Fresh juice.

swarya Herbs that are beneficial to the voice.

swasahara Herbs that make breathing easy.

swedana (svedana) Herbs that induce sweating; diaphoretic; fomentation.

swedanajnana Herbs that induce sweating; diaphoretic; fomentation.

swedu Sweet taste.

T

taila Oil

takra Indian buttermilk; watered down yogurt, usually mixed with spices.

takra dhara Indian buttermilk as the base (instead of oil) in shirodhara.

tala täla Rhythm ( as with pulse diagnosis).

tamaka /tamaka svasa tamaka /tamaka

çväsa Bronchial asthma

tamas Inertia, darkness, ignorance; one of the three gunas, or basic qualities of nature. Applied to the mind, tamas is a state of mind where there is little activity; the mind is dull and ignorant of its connection to God.

tamogunas Herbs that dull the mind.

tamra Copper, as used in a bhasma made of copper.

tandava Chorea; other terms include ardita and kalashanja.

tanmatras tanmätras The potential for sensory experience on the subtlest level; root energies for sensory experience; sound (shabdha; the guna of ether), touch (sparsha; the guna of air), sight (rupa; the guna of fire), taste (rasa; the guna of water) and smell (gandha; the guna of earth).

tapa Pain; the terms shula and roga are also used synonymously for pain.

tapa sveda The use of dry sources of heat such as bricks or sand to apply fomentation (best for kapha).

tapamana tapamäna The temperature of the pulse.

tarpaka kapha Subdosha of kapha. Protects (lubricates) mind, brain, nerves from heat generated by critical thinking and heated emotion and from movement of thought and nerve impulses. Resides in head/brain.

tarpana An oil treatment in which an oily cotton ball is inserted into the ears, vagina, or over the eyes, using medicated oils.

tat twam asi Thou are that (Vedanta philosophy)

38

tattvas "Truth, true being, fundamental principle", Principles upon which all of creation rests. Every Indian philosopy contains a certain number of tattvas as the basis of its system of thought. In Sänkhya, there are twenty-five tattvas or fundamental principles.

tejas 1) Fire 2)The idea of light, heat and transformation 3) One of the energies controlling the functioning the subtle body (the other two are präna and ojas); the energetic template of pitta. Tejas is responsible for metabolizing psychic or subtle impressions.

tikshna tékshna Sharp, irritant.

tikshnagni tékshnagni High agni; when the strength of the digestive fire is too high. Also called atyagni.

tikta Bitter

tikta ghrita Bitter ghee; a special Ayurvedic preparation of ghee and bitter herbs.

til sesame

trataka träöaka Candle gazing; the focal point is a ghee lamp placed one arm's length away.

tri The number three (3); prefix three. Example: tridosha (the three doshas).

tridosharam (tridosha) Alleviates all three doshas.

trisna tåiñëä Thirst

trisna-nigrahana Reduces thirst.

twachaya Herbs that aid the skin.

twak Skin.

U

udakä Water

udaka meha Kapha-type diabetes insipidus; a large volume of urine that is cold, white or clear, odorless, not sweet, and has a possible slight sliminess and turbidity.

udakavaha srota See ambuvaha srota.

udakodara A condition of ascites or a fluid-filled abdominal cavity. Also called jalodara or dakodara.

udana udäna Pushes upward.

39

udana vayu udäna väyu Subdosha of väta. Upward and outward moving air. Energy that motivates action; motivates expressions through the use of the muscles and voice. Resides in the throat and chest.

udara roga Abdominal pain; a generalized term for a wide variety of problems that might occur in the digestive system.

udarda-prasamana Anti-allergy; reduces hives.

udavarta Belching, "upward moving air".

udvritta yoni vyapat Frothy menstrual blood caused by the suppression of natural urges.

unmada unmäda Mental disorder; psychotic disease; insanity.

upadhatu upadhätu Secondary tissues.

upadravya Complications

upanaha Poultice. A hot herbal decoction or infusion is added to flour. The paste is then applied hot to the skin or joint.

upanaha sveda The local application of a poultice used to bandage an affected limb.

upasaya Literally, "that which gives comfort to the patient". An attempt to verify the diagnosis through the proper administration of treatment. If successful (upasaya), the diagnosis is confirmed. If unsuccessful (anupasaya), additional information has been gained through the trial, which is useful for altering the treatment plan. Trial and error. Also called satmya.

upashta Genital organs.

upayogasamstha Rules of intake (guidelines for healthy eating).

upayoktra Responsibility

urdhva Prolonged expiration and an inability to exhale.

urdhva jatru granthi ürdhva jatru granthi Hyperthyroidism.

urdhvarga amlapitta Gastritis; hyperacidity.

urustambha Paraplegia

ushma svedana Sweatbox or steam tent.

ushnodaka Regular intake of hot water throughout the day; a general väta alleviating measure suggested for Raynaud's Disease.

usna (ushna) Hot; also anger, digestion, cleansing, judgement.

usna virya usna vérya Warming virya.

usnavata Hot vata.

40

usnisaka Pons (a rounded eminence off the ventral surface of the brainstem. The origins of cranial nerves V, VI, VII and VIII are at the border of the pons).

uttara basti 1. Urinary enema. 2. A basti applied to the vagina (vaginal douching).

V

vacate gana A group of herbs used in a similar fashion to the vataskadi group of herbs. These herbs are similar to calamus in their qualitiesand include ginger and turmeric. They are known to correct kapha, fat, stiffness of the thighs, and breast milk disorders.

vaidya Ayurvedic physician Vaisheshika One of the six orthodox doctrines of philosophy (shad darshan) of Hinduism, founded by Kanäda. It means "difference" and organizes the world into nine dravyas or substances.

vajikarana Reproductive tonic; aphrodisiac (literally, "the sexual power of a horse").

vajikarana therapy Tonification with herbs and formulations usually used in rasayana therapy but not applied after purification; very strong tonification, however, the extent of the nourishment ends at the shukra dhätu (when tonification is applied without prior purification, ojas is generally not produced in great quantities).

vajra Diamond; Indra's flash of lightning or his "thunderbolt," said to have been made from th bones of the seer Dadhéchi.

vak Speech.

våkkä Kidney

valaya Sore throat.

vamana Vomit; also a category of herbs that induce vomiting.

vamini yoni vyapat This is a condtion where semen is discharged from the vagina a week after intercourse.

vanga Tin, as used in a bhasma made of tin.

varasika Dura mater (the outermost, toughest and most fibrous of the three membranes (meninges) covering the brain and spinal cord).

varnya Herbs that aid the complexion.

varsha varshä The rainy season or monsoon season.

41

Varuna Someone who is sattvic, loving, compassionate.

vasa Muscle fat.

vasa meha A type of pramena in which the urine is mixed with muscle fat.

vasanta The spring season.

vata väta The force within the body responsible for all motion; its elements are air and ether; its qualities are light, cold, dry, mobile, subtle and rough; its root is the large intestine.

vata asthila väta asthila A condition whereby a tumor forms between the rectum and bladder which blocks urination.

vata basti väta basti Difficulty urinating due to the habit of suppressing the urge to urinate.

vata gulma väta gulma Diverticulosis

vata slaishmika jwara väta slaishmika jwara Influenza.

vata vyadhi Diseases of the nervous system.

vatakantaka Sprained or strained ankle.

vatakundalika Circular movement of urine in the bladder.

vataskadi A group of herbs that pacify vata, pitta and kapha. Includes kutki, black pepper, calamus, and vidanga; good for abdominal tumors, rhinitis, fever, colic and hemorrhoids.

vati vaöi Pill

vatiki yoni vyapat This is a condition where there is a pricking pain in the vagina along with the expulsion of gas and a discharge of frothy menstrual blood that is red or blackish.

vayasthapana Herbs that promote longevity.

Vayavya Väyavya A rajasic personality type.

vayu väyu Air; the idea of motion

veda Knowledge; teaching

vedanasthapana Herbs that reduce pain; analgesic.

Vedanta Vedänta One of the six orthodox doctrines of philosophy (shad darshan) of Hinduism, founded by Bädaräyana. It is the basis of Jïäna Yoga or the Yoga of Knowledge.

vedas India's ancient books of wisdom

vega vega Rate (as with pulse diagnois).

vepathu vepathu Parkinson's disease or tremors; also called kampa väta.

vepathu Shaking as in being off track or out of alignment.

42

vidahi Potency or action (warming or cooling). Virya has two meanings depending on context; the other is strength, although this is a less common definition. Sweet, bitter and astringent rasas (tastes) have a cool virya and generally pacify pitta and decrease agni. Pungent, sour and salty rasas have a warm virya and generally pacify väta and kapha and increase agni.

vidaryadi gana A group of herbs that is nourishing and alleviates vata and pitta; useful for tumors, weight loss, body aches and coughs.

Vidari kand is an example of this group.

vijnagni Gastric irritant.

vijnamaya kosha The agni responsible for metabolizing air (air in this context is knowledge and its organization in the mind). Faulty metabolism results in confusion, disorganization and poor discrimination.

vikasi vikäsi The intelligence sheath; the bridge between the astral and causal bodies. Contains the vijnagni which is responsible for the metabolism of air. The buddhi (intellect) resides within this sheath, which provides the capacity to reason, deduce, discriminate, and discern.

vikruti Expansive

vikruti vikåuti current doñha imbalance (as differentiated from prakåiti or life constitution)

vilepi vélepé A meal of drinking thick rice soup ( 4:1 water:rice). Part of samsarjana karma.

vipaka (vipakam) vipäka Doshic imbalance

vipluta yoni Dysmenorrhea (painful menstruation)

vipluta yoni vyapat Vaginal itching likely caused by a mild and sometimes chronic vaginal infection.

virechena Post digestive effect. Comes from the root "paka", meaning digestion. This is the long-term action that a substance will have on the body after it is digested. There are three long-term actions noted in Äyurveda; nourishing (sweet taste), digestionincreasing (sour taste) and purifying (pungent taste).

virya (veerya, veeryam) vérya Purgation; forceful elimination of feces.

visaghna Anti-poison.

vishada Clear

43

vishmagni viñhmägni Variable agni; sometimes the agni is high, sometimes low.

vishuddha chakra viñhuddha chakra The fifth chakra, located in the region of the throat. Contains the qualities of the ether element.

vishva Universe; a synonym for the pulse.

visista Purvarupa which do not disappear at the onset of the actual disease.

visphota Herpes zoster or shingles.

vistambhi Anti-carminative

vranarupana Herbs that aid the healing of wounds; vulnerary.

vrata Vows, an ancient Vedic spiritual tradition of women.

vrata katha Vow stories, told to pass cultural and spiritual knowledge from generation to generation.

vriddhi Increased dosha.

vrikka shotha Nephritis (inflammation of the kidney).

vrishya Herbs that increase virility; aphrodisiac.

vrittis våttis Disturbances within the mind.

vyaasthambhana Herbs that reduce pain; analgesic.

vyadhikshamatva Forgiveness, literally forgiveness of disease; immunity.

vyana vayu vyäna väyu Subdosha of väta. Moves from center to periphery. "Diffusing air". Major role in circulation (arterial circulation, nerve energy, movement of thought, carries sweat to outside of body). Force the moves the joints. Resides in the heart (center of circulation).

vyavis Herbs that act rapidly.

W

XYZ

yakrdhalayudara Liver (yakrit) enlargement.

yakrit Liver.

yakrtottejaka Liver stimulant, cholegogue.

yakrut The liver.

yakrut roga Liver disorders.

yaksma Symptom complex or syndrome.

yama restraint, the first limb of Yoga

Yama The name of the god of death.

yatra Holy journey.

yava Barley

44

yoga 1) Union or balance; a holistic system of refining the body, the mind, and the spirit in unison. Ultimately, it is well-being, peace and bliss. 2) "Combination" when used in reference to herbs.

Yoga One of the six orthodox doctrines of philosophy (shad darshan) of Hinduism, propounded by Pätaïjali. It outlines an eight fold path that includes: yama (restraint), niyama (observance), asana (posture), präëäyäma(cultivation of breath), pratyahära (sense withdrawal), dhäraëä (concentration), dhyäna(meditation), samädhi (integration)

yogi One who is enlightened, blissful. One who practices yoga.

yoni Vagina.

yoni vyaapat Disorders of the genitourinary tract, specifically of the vagina.

yonivyad Diseases of the female genital tract.

yusha yuñha A meal of rice and split yellow mung dal soup. Part ofsamsarjana karma.

अकालजरोगः ( akālajarogaḥ )

Natural diseases of untimely occurrence
Diseases and conditions that manifest in the body before their natural time of occurrence owing to improper dietetics and erratic lifestyles, e.g. premature ageing.
अकालधूमपानः ( akāladhūmapānaḥ )

Condition due to untimely application of medicated smoke therapy
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: giddiness or dizziness; syncope or swooning; headache; disturbed function or injury of nose; disturbed function or injury of ears; disturbed function or injury of eyes; disturbed function or injury of tongue; bleeding disorder; deafness/hearing impairment; blindness; thirst; dumbness/ aphasia; intoxication.
अकालशयनम् ( akālaśayanam )

Disorder due to untimely sleeping
Untimely sleeping habits causing specific disorders characterized by confusion/delirium; fever; sensation of being covered with a wet cloth; cold catarrh; headache; oedema; nausea; obstruction in srotas; diminution of agni.
अकृतयूषः ( akṛtayūṣaḥ )

Non-processed soup of vegetables
A type of food preparation in which a soup of vegetables and/or pulses is prepared by adding 16 parts water without processing with oil or ghee, and spices.
अकृत्रिमविषम् ( akṛtrimaviṣam )

Poison of natural origin
A poison from a natural source or unmodified natural poison.
अक्षः, अक्षकः, अक्षकास्थि, कीलकः, कोष्टकम्, कोष्ठकास्थि ( akṣaḥ, akṣakaḥ, akṣakāsthi, kīlakaḥ,koṣṭhakam, koṣṭhakāsthi )

Clavicle
अक्षप्रसादनम् ( akṣaprasādanam )

Substance clearing the sense organs
अक्षरलेखनसंस्कारः ( akṣaralekhanasaṁskāraḥ )

Writing ceremony
A ceremony in which the child inscribes the various syllables signifying the initiation of writing skills at five years of age.
अक्षिकूटः , कोटरः ( akṣikūṭaḥ, koṭaraḥ )

Orbit
अक्षिपाकः ( akṣipākaḥ )

Reddish colouration of eye
अक्षिमलः ( akṣimalaḥ )

Rheum
अक्षीणबलमांसस्य रक्तपित्तस्तम्भनम् ( akṣīṇabalamāṃsasya raktapittastambhanam )

Condition of forceful haemostasis of haemorrhage in overnourished
अगदः ( agadaḥ )

Antidote
अगदतन्त्रम् ( agadatantram )

Toxicology
The science that deals with the study of poisons and their actions, methods of detection and treatment.
अग्निः ( agniḥ )

Digestive, metabolic factors
The collective term for the various factors governing digestion and metabolism or food transformation which are basic element fire -predominant.
अग्नि-अतिदग्धः ( agni-atidagdhaḥ )

Condition due to excessive burns due to therapeutic cautery
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: māṃsa persisting at burn site; loosening of body parts; excessive injury to blood vessels/loss of blood vessles; excessive injury to tendons/loss of tendons; excessive injury to joints/loss of joints; excessive injury to bones/loss of bones; fever; burning sensation; thirst; syncope or swooning; delayed wound healing; discoloured scar of healed wound; severe pain; smoky sensation; deep wounds; vomiting; heavy bleeding; complications due to heavy blood loss such as emaciation; tremors; convulsive body movements; contractions of māṃsa; death.
अग्निकर्म ( agnikarma )

Thermal cauterization
A type of parasurgical procedure in which thermal cauterization of tissue or a body part is carried out by a method resembling moxibustion.
अग्निकर्म (विषोपक्रमः) ( agnikarma (viṣopakramaḥ) )

Application of heat, thermal cautery for detoxification
Applying heat or thermal cautery to remove poison.
अग्निकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( agnikarma (vraṇacikitsā) )

Thermal cauterization for wound management
A thermal treatment to promote wound healing.
अग्निकर्म-अपचारः ( agnikarma-apacāraḥ )

Condition due to due to improper application of thermal cautery
अग्निरोहिणी ( agnirohiṇī )

Vesicles in the axilla
A disorder characterized by blisters with internal burning sensation; blisters in axilla; fever; blisters resembling a blazing fire; blisters burrowing into muscle.
अग्निविभ्रमः ( agnivibhramaḥ )

Condition due to due to improper application of thermal cautery
अग्निविसर्पः/ वातपित्तजविसर्पः/ अग्निदाहजविसर्पः ( agnivisarpaḥ/ vātapittajavisarpaḥ/ agnidāhajavisarpaḥ )

Erysipelas, spreading cellulitis due to vitiated vata and pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: vomiting; diarrhoea; syncope or swooning; burning sensation; confusion/delirium; fever; respiratory distress; loss of taste; breaking/splitting type of bone pains; breaking/splitting pain in joints; feeling as if burnt with heated charcoal; thirst; the affected area appears coal-black or red in colour; blisters resembling a thermal burn; rapidly; associated with or progressing towards vital points.
अग्निसिद्धः ( agnisiddhaḥ )

Processed by heating
The process of cooking by direct or indirect contact with fire or heat.
अग्निस्वेदः ( agnisvedaḥ )

Sweating induced by direct or indirect contact with fire
A sudation therapy which induces diaphoresis by means of direct heat or indirect heat from a fire.
अग्न्याशयः ( agnyāśayaḥ )

Pancreas
अग्रपर्व ( agraparva )

Distal part of the finger
अग्रोपहरणीयः ( agropaharaṇīyaḥ )

Checklist for preoperative preparation
The list of objects to be kept ready or at hand before any operative procedure.
अग्र्यसङ्ग्रहः ( Examples: cow’s milk in the category “milks”, green gram in the category “pulses”, grapes in the category “fruits”, etc.agryasaṅgrahaḥ )

Top-of-the-list entities such as medicine, food, health practices and habits
अङ्गः ( aṅgaḥ )

Body part
अङ्गार्तिबस्तिव्यापत् ( aṅgārtibastivyāpat )

Condition of body aches due to faulty enema therapy
A condition characterized by pains affecting the body; cramps; pricking type of pain; breaking type of pain; pulsating sensation; yawning.
अङ्गुलः ( aṅgulaḥ )

Length equal to thickness of 8 barley seeds
Measure of length equal to the distance traversed through the centre of 8 barley grains placed next to each other, equivalent to 3/4 inch or 1.94 cm (on average although this measure may differ in every individual).
अङ्गुलास्थि ( aṅgulāsthi )

Phalanx
अङ्गुलिः ( aṅguliḥ )

Digits
अङ्गुलिग्रन्थिः ( aṅguligranthiḥ )

Knuckle
अङ्गुलिपर्व ( aṅguliparva )

Interphalangeal joint
अङ्गुल्यग्रम् ( aṅgulyagram )

Tip of the finger
अङ्गुष्टः ( aṅguṣṭhaḥ )

Thumb
Also denotes great toe.
अङ्गुष्टमूलम् ( aṅguṣṭhamūlam )

Base of the thumb or great toe
अङ्गुष्टोदरम् ( aṅguṣṭhodaram )

Thumb pad
अचेतन-द्रव्यम्/ निरिन्द्रियः ( acetana-dravyam/ nirindriyaḥ )

Insentient material
A non-living, inanimate substance lacking all consciousness, e.g. minerals.
अच्छस्नेहः ( acchasnehaḥ )

Intake of processed ghee or oily substance alone
The discrete intake of processed ghee or oily substance (without it being mixed with any other substance).
अजका ( ajakā )

Prolapsed iris or anterior staphyloma
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a mass resembling goat’s stool; painful mass in cornea; reddish tinge in cornea; reddish slimy secretion; bulging out of the cornea; coppery-coloured tears; slimy lacrimation.
अजगल्लिका ( ajagallikā )

Nodular skin disease of children
A disorder characterized by hard nodules/papular lesions; painless nodule; nodule resembling green gram in size; skin-coloured nodule; waxy/unctuous nodule.
अजगल्लिका ( ajagallikā )

Papules in children resembling green gram
A disorder characterized by hard nodular/papular lesions; painless nodule; nodule of green gram size; skin-coloured nodule; waxy/unctuous lesion.
अजीर्ण-विरेचनव्यापत् ( ajīrṇa-virecanavyāpat )

Condition caused by purgation therapy administered to person with indigestion
अजीर्ण; अतिस्निग्ध; पीतस्नेहानां आस्थापनस्य व्यापदः ( ajīrṇa; atisnigdha; pītasnehānāṃ āsthāpanasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition caused by medicated decoction enema administered to person with indigestion
A condition characterized by clinical features of dūṣyodara; syncope or swooning; oedema.
अजीर्ण; भुक्त भक्ते नस्य व्यापदः ( ajīrṇa; bhukta bhakte nasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition due to A condition characterized by some or all the following signs inhalation therapy and symptoms: cough; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; administered to vomiting; cold catarrh. person with indigestion and full stomach
अजीर्णम् ( ajīrṇam )

Indigestion
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: constipation/abdominal fullness; exhaustion; headache; syncope or swooning; giddiness or dizziness; stiffness of back; stiffness of lower back; yawning; generalized body aches; thirst; fever; vomiting; straining at defecation; loss of taste; indigestion; burning sensation; diseases of the mouth; amlapitta; signs of rājayakṣma; cold catarrh; frequent and excessive micturition; constipation; excessive defecation; fatigued mind and body; suppression of intra-abdominal gas movements; heaviness.
अञ्जन-अपचारः ( añjana-apacāraḥ )

Condition due to improper application of collyrium
अञ्जननामिका ( añjananāmikā )

Stye
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: burning boils in eyelids; boils with pricking pain; copper-red boils in lid margin; soft eruption; mildly painful; minute eruptions; occurring in mid-eyelid; occurring near lid margin; itching; burning sensation with sweating and restlessness; firm; green gram-sized.
अञ्जनमिथ्यायोगः ( añjanamithyāyogaḥ )

Condition of improper application of collyrium
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: redness/congestion/inflammation; lacrimation; pain; turbidity/dirtiness; burning sensation with sweating and restlessness; redness/congestion; rheum; pricking type of pain; difficulty in opening the eyelids; swelling; morbid affection of the iris; change of colour; ulceration and imperfect vision; errors of refraction/partial blindness.
अञ्जनम् ( añjanam )

Antimony trisulfide; collyrium
Sb2S3. Duly processed anjanam is employed as a standalone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
अञ्जनम् ( añjanam )

Collyrium
The administration of medications (collyrium) into the lower conjunctival fornices, moving from the inner to outer canthus and vice versa, using an applicator.
अञ्जनम् (विषोपक्रमः) ( añjanam (viṣopakramaḥ) )

Collyrium for detoxification
Applying collyrium or medication over the lower eyelid to counter the penetration of poisons.
अञ्जनातियोगः ( añjanātiyogaḥ )

Condition of excessive application of collyrium
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: burning sensation; pricking type of pain; intermittent pain; loss of movement; rubbing friction; lacrimation; difficulty in opening the lids; lids becoming hard and causing crepitus; headache; debility of vision.
अणुत्व, परमाणु ( aṇutva, paramāṇu )

Atomicity
Having the dimension of an atom , the smallest possible or minute entity (cf. atomism).
अण्डजः ( aṇḍajaḥ )

Oviparous animals
An animal species which undergoes oviparous birth, e.g. reptiles, birds or fish.
अण्वस्थि ( aṇvasthi )

Short bones
Minor bones such as the carpal and tarsal bones.
अण्वस्थि ( aṇvasthi )

Small bone
Small bones such as the carpal, tarsal and metacarpal bones.
अतिकॄ शस्य आस्थापनस्य व्यापदः ( atikṝśasya āsthāpanasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition caused by medicated decoction enema administered to person who is excessively lean
A condition characterized by its giving rise to greater emaciation.
अतिदग्ध-अर्शः ( atidagdha-arśaḥ )

Condition due to excessive cautery of haemorrhoids
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: anal fissure; burning sensation; syncope or swooning; fever; thirst; complications due to heavy blood loss.
अतिदग्ध-गुदः ( atidagdha-gudaḥ )

Condition due to excessive cautery of anus
अतिदुर्बल; क्षुतार्त त्तॄष्णार्त; श्रमार्तानां आस्थापनस्य व्यापदः ( atidurbala; kṣutārta ttṝṣṇārta; śramārtānāM āsthāpanasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition caused by medicated decoction enema administered to person who is extremely emaciated and weak
A condition characterized by instantaneous emaciation of body.
अतिदेशः ( atideśaḥ )

Extending the scope or inclusiveness of a rule
An authorial annotation enabling an item of useful knowledge from an external source to be incorporated in the text.
अतिपिच्छिलशुक्रदोषः ( atipicchilaśukradoṣaḥ )

Increased viscosity of semen
Excessively slimy and viscous semen.
अतिप्रवृत्तरक्तः ( atipravṛttaraktaḥ )

Condition of improper repair of punctured ear causing excessive bleeding
A condition characterized by discoloration; oedema.
अतिप्रवृत्तिः ( atipravṛttiḥ )

Body channel dysfunction involving excess activity
Excessive activity with increase and overflow of contents in the body channels.
अतिमात्राहारः/ आहारतियोगः ( atimātrāhāraḥ/āhāratiyogaḥ )

Disorder due to excessive or supraoptimal food intake
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: syncope or swooning; diarrhoea; vomiting; thirst; colicky pain in abdomen; giddiness or dizziness; cramps; yawning; generalized body aches; dryness of mouth; excessive talking/irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; sunken eyes; severe headache; severe pain in cardiac region; contraction of blood vessels; stiffening of vessels; stasis of flow; impairment of agni; stiffness of sides of chest; stiffness of back; stiffness of lower back; burning sensation; discoloration; insanity; tremors; pain in precordial region/angina pectoris; headache; borborygmi with distension; rigidity/stiffness; fever; feeling of heaviness in body; impediment of speech/dysphasia; spitting/ excessive expectoration; loss of taste; excessive salivation; bodily exhaustion or tiredness/inability to perform physical activities; indigestion; fever with chills; lethargy.
अतियोगबस्तिव्यापत् ( atiyogabastivyāpat )

Condition due to excessive; administration of enema therapy
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: the same symptoms as atiyoga in emetic and purgation therapy, i.e. thirst; confusion/delirium; syncope or swooning; clinical features of vāta prakopa; insomnia; loss of physical strength or weakness; diseases due to diminution of kapha rakta and pitta; numbness; generalized body aches; exhaustion without exertion; shivering/tremors; feeling of entering into darkness; insanity; hiccups.
अतिरुक्ष-विरेचनव्यापत् ( atirukṣa-virecanavyāpat )

Condition caused by purgation therapy administered to person who has undergone excessive drying therapy
A condition characterized by spasticity of the limbs.
अतिरूक्षव्रणवर्ति-उपयोगः ( atirūkṣavraṇavartiupayogaḥ )

Condition due to usage of very dry wick for treating wound(s)
अतिवाहिक-शरीरम्/ सूक्ष्मशरीरम् / लिङ्ग शरीरम् ( ativāhika-śarīram/ sūkṣmaśarīram/ liṅgaśarīram )

Subtle body, causal body
The subtle body which consists of mind or psyche (manas), sense organs (indriya) and soul (atma) and is devoid of gross body; it is sometimes referred as the causal body or subtle body.
अतिवृद्ध-आमवातः ( ativṛddha-āmavātaḥ )

Advanced stage of polyarthritis due to ama
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pain in hand joints; pain in foot joints; pain in head joints; pain in ankle joints; pain in sacroiliac region joints; pain in knee joints; pain in hip joints; swelling in hand joints; swelling in foot joints; swelling in head joints; swelling in ankle joints; swelling in sacroiliac region joints; swelling in knee joints; swelling in hip joints; pain resembling scorpion bite; diminution of agni; excessive salivation; loss of taste; heaviness of body; lack of enthusiasm; altered taste sensation; burning sensation; frequent excessive micturition; hardness of abdomen; colicky pain in abdomen; altered sleep; thirst; vomiting; giddiness or dizziness; syncope or swooning; stiffness of cardiac region; constipation; dullness/ frigidity/inactivity; borborygmi/gurgling intestinal sounds;
अतिव्यायामः/ व्यायामतियोगः ( ativyāyāmaḥ/ vyāyāmatiyogaḥ )

Disorder due to excessive physical exercise
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: exhaustion/fatigue; exhaustion without exertion; consumption/tuberculosis; thirst; bleeding disorder; forms of dyspnoea; cough; fever; vomiting.
अतिशीतअश्च्योतनः ( atiśīta-aścyotanaḥ )

Condition due to application of very cold eyedrops
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pricking type of pain; fixedness of eye; pain; lacrimation; rubbing friction.
अतिसार ( atisāra )

Diarrhoea
Diarrhoea is defined as the passage of three or more loose or liquid stools per day (or more frequent passage than is normal for the individual). Frequent passage of formed stools or loose “pasty” stools by breastfed babies do not qualify as diarrhoea.
अतिसारपूर्वरूपम् ( atisārapūrvarūpam )

Prodromal symptoms of diarrhoea
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: needling pain in heart; needling pain in umbilicus; needling pain in anus; needling pain in abdomen/sides; needing pain in abdominal organs; bodily exhaustion or tiredness; suppression of flatus; retention of faeces; abdominal distension; indigestion.
अतिस्निग्ध-विरेचनव्यापत् ( atisnigdhavirecanavyāpat )

Condition caused by purgation therapy administered to overunctuous person.
अतिस्निग्धव्रणवर्ति-उपयोगः ( atisnigdhavraṇavartiupayogaḥ )

Condition due to usage of very unctuous wick for treating wound(s)
A condition characterized by increased moistness due to unctuous wicks.
अतीतावेक्षणम् ( atītāvekṣaṇam )

Retrospective crossreferencing
A reference to previous statements or sections of a text that are relevant to the topic being discussed.
अत्यग्निः / भस्मकः ( atyagniḥ/ bhasmakaḥ )

Excessive digestive, metabolic factors
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: rapid digestion of food of varied quantity and quality.
अत्यन्ताभावः ( atyantābhāvaḥ )

Absolute nonexistence
Absolute nonexistence, without beginning or end.
अत्युष्णतीक्ष्ण-आश्च्योतनः ( atyuṣṇatīkṣṇaāścyotanaḥ )

Condition due to application of very hot and irritating eyedrops
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pain; redness/congestion; loss of vision; burning sensation; inflammation/suppuration; debility of vision.
अदृष्टम् ( adṛṣṭam )

Invisible, unforeseen
Not experienced, unobserved, unknown, the invisible result of works done in former states of embodied existence; unseen consequences of an act.
अद्रव्यभूतचिकित्सा ( adravyabhūtacikitsā )

Treatment not using material substances
Treatment without substances having physical form such as fasting and incantations.
अधःकायः ( adhaḥkāyaḥ )

Lower half of the body
The lower half of the body, below the waist.
अधःपातनम् ( adhaḥpātanam )

Downward distillation of mercury
अधरः, अधरौष्ठः ( adharaḥ, adharauṣṭhaḥ )

Lower lip
अधरगुदम् ( adharagudam )

Anal canal
अधरत्रिकम् ( adharatrikam )

Sacral region, sacrum
अधरमार्गः ( adharamārgaḥ )

Lower passages
The common term for the anal, urethral and vaginal passages.
अधःस्रोतः ( adhaḥsrotaḥ )

Anal or urethral passage
Passages in the lower part of the body leading to the exterior.
अधारणीयवेगः ( adhāraṇīya-vegaḥ )

Non-suppressible urges
The natural urges of the body which should not be curbed or inhibited, i.e. passage of urine, stools, semen, vomiting, sneezing, burping, yawning, hunger, thirst, tears, sleep and breath. Their inhibition results in a multitude of disorders.
अधिकरणम् ( adhikaraṇam )

Topic or subject of discussion
The topic of a subject, chapter or section being discussed.
अधिजिह्वा ( adhijihvā )

Swelling at base of tongue
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a swelling developing under the root of the tongue; burning sensation; redness/congestion; inflammation/ suppuration; oedema at frenula of tongue; swelling resembling tongue tip developing under tongue root; studded with sprouts; excessive salivation; burning sensation in tongue; loss of movement; rough on touch; pain in tongue; itching; obstruction to speech; obstruction to swallowing.
अधिजिह्विका ( adhijihvikā )

Epiglottis, adenoids
अधिपतिः (मर्म) ( adhipatiḥ (marma)

Vulnerable location(s) located near the vertex
Injury to this vulnerable location leads to sudden death when injured.
अधिमन्थः ( adhimanthaḥ )

Glaucoma
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: feeling as if the eye is being extracted; feeling as if eye is being churned; feeling as if half the head is being extracted; feeling as if half the head is being churned; severe pain in eyes; numerous large boils; burst in the middle; horripilation; pain.
अधिमांसः ( adhimāṃsaḥ )

Impacted tooth; wisdom tooth.
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a large hard swelling in jaw behind last molar; severe pain in jaw behind last molar; salivation; pain in lower jaw or chin; otalgia; obstructed swallowing/obstruction to passage of food.
अधिमांसजार्म ( adhimāṃsajārma )

Papilloma
A disorder characterized by a spreading muscular growth; soft muscular growth; large muscular growth; muscular growth resembling liver tissue; blackish muscular growth; muscular growth resembling dry coagulated blood; spreading soft tissue.
अधोग-अम्लपित्तम् ( adhoga-amlapittam )

Type of hyperacidity with major symptoms manifesting below umbilical region
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: thirst; burning sensation; syncope or swooning; giddiness or dizziness; confusion/delirium; elimination of varying types of stools; nausea; wheal-like skin eruptions; depressed digestive power/diminution of agni; horripilation; perspiration; yellowish discoloration of body.
अधोगरक्तपित्तविरेचनव्यापत् ( adhogaraktapittavirecanavyāpat )

Condition caused by purgation therapy administered to person bleeding from lower orifices
अधोवातवेगरोधः ( adhovātavegarodhaḥ )

Disorder due to withholding of flatus
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: retention of faeces; obstruction to passage of urine/retention; retention of vata/flatus; abdominal distension; pain; exhaustion without exertion; vāta diseases of abdomen; colicky pain in abdomen; feeling of obstruction/tightness in the precordial region; headache; increased respiration/ dyspnoea; hiccups; cough; cold catarrh; choking sensation in throat; spread of kapha and pitta; decreased amount of stools; elimination of faeces through mouth; palpable glandular enlargement in abdomen/abdominal lump; upward movement of vāta; lack of sight; loss of digestive power/agni.
अध्यर्बुदः ( adhyarbudaḥ )

Superimposed tumour
Development of a new tumour at the site of an existing one, or over the site of an old tumour which has been treated and resolved.
अध्रुषः ( adhruṣaḥ )

Acute inflammation of soft palate
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a stable swelling in the palate region; reddish swelling in palate region; fever; severe pain; soft red swelling; reddish swelling.
अध्वजन्यराजयक्ष्मा ( adhvajanyarājayakṣmā )

Consumption due to excessive travel
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: flaccidity/laxity; harsh/rough appearance; numbness of limbs, throat and face.
अननुयोज्यम् ( ananuyojyam )

Unquestionable statement
A statement which has exhausted the scope for further questioning.
अनन्तवातः ( anantavātaḥ )

Trigeminal neuralgia
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pain in the neck region; pain in nape of neck; pain residing at eyes; pain residing at eyebrows; pain residing at temporal region; pulsating sensation at zygomatic region; eye diseases; lockjaw/catching sensation over jaw; pain in neck; severe pain in nape of neck; pain in eyes; pain in eyebrows; pain in temporal region; pulsating sensation in zygomatic region; lockjaw/catching sensation over jaw; other eye diseases.
अनम्लसूपः ( anamlasūpaḥ )

Soup without added sour substances
A soup prepared without adding any sour substance.
अनवबद्धशल्यम् ( anavabaddhaśalyam )

Loosely lodged foreign body
A foreign body which is loosely impacted or hanging in the body.
अनवबद्धशल्योद्धरणपन्छदेशहेतुः ( anavabaddhaśalyoddharaṇapanchadeshahetuḥ )

Procedures for removal of loosely impacted foreign body
Fifteen extraction measures for removal of a loosely impacted foreign body
अनागतवेक्षणम् ( anāgatavekṣaṇam )

Prospective crossreferencing
A prospective reference to statements from forthcoming chapters or sections of a text that are relevant to the topic being discussed.
अनादि ( anādi )

Without beginning
A process or state whose beginning cannot be ascertained.
अनामिका ( anāmikā )

Ring finger
Also denotes fourth toe.
अनायुष्यम् ( anāyuṣyam )

Life span-reducing
Life span-limiting substances.
अनित्यम् ( anityam )

Transient, perishable
Not everlasting, transient, occasional, incidental.
अनिन्दितशलाका ( aninditaśalākā )

Ideal probe
The ideal type of probe for management of diseases of the head and neck region.
अनिमित्तजन्य-दृष्टिगतरोगः ( animittajanyadṛṣṭigatarogaḥ )

Eye disorder with no particular cause; unknown cause
A disorder characterized by blindness; unclear vision; colour of eye resembling a cat’s-eye gem; occasional normal vision; fixed gaze; impairment of vision; bright-looking.
अनिर्देश्यरसः ( anirdeśyarasaḥ )

Indistinct taste
अनिलायनम् ( anilāyanam )

Air passages
Passages for air inside the body.
अनुपक्रम, प्रत्याख्येयरोग ( anupakrama, pratyākhyeyaroga )

Terminal disease
A terminal disease or condition with no further treatment options, other than palliative care.
अनुपशयः ( anupaśayaḥ )

Differential diagnosis upheld by negative treatment response
Signs and symptoms of aggravation signifying ineffective intervention of diet and medicines.; one of the diagnostic tools when a disease or condition cannot be interpreted merely by its clinical features.
अनुपानम् ( anupānam )

Substance taken with or after medicine or food
A substance, usually liquid, which is taken with or after intake of a medicine or food.
अनुबन्धः ( anubandhaḥ )

Consequence, longterm effect
Continuity of effect or long-term outcome, which includes the achievement of healthy longevity.
अनुबन्धः ( anubandhaḥ )

Secondary or dependent disease
A disease or condition which does not have an independent existence or line of treatment.
अनुबन्ध्यः ( anubandhyaḥ )

Primary or independent An independent disease or condition which has its own set of disease symptoms and classical line of treatment.
अनुमतः ( anumataḥ )

Acceptance by not refuting
Acceptance of another viewpoint in a text by stating and not refuting it.
अनुमानम् ( anumānam )

Inference based on observations
The process of inference, in which a new conclusion is reached from direct observation by applying reason.
अनुमितिः ( anumitiḥ )

Inferential knowledge
A conclusion reached from stated premises.
अनुयोगः ( anuyogaḥ )

Question
A question or query raised to challenge the expressive power and scope of a statement and to clarify any ambiguity.
अनुयोज्यम् ( anuyojyam )

Questionable statement
A statement which is beset with syntactical defects and requires clarification.
अनुरसः ( anurasaḥ )

Secondary taste
अनुलोमनम् ( anulōmanam )

Normal course of movement
A therapeutic action which helps in the proper formation of excreta and relieves any obstruction to their downward movement; it also indicates the direction of stroke employed in a regular therapeutic oil massage.
अनुवासन/स्नेह बस्ति कर्म चिकित्सापचार, स्नेहबस्ति व्यापद ( anuvāsana/ sneha basti karma cikitsāpacāra, sneha basti vyāpad )

Condition due to improper medicated oily enema
अनुवासनबस्तिः ( anuvāsanabastiḥ )

Half-dose therapeutic ghee or oily enema
A form of medicated ghee or oily enema, the dose of which is half that of therapeutic ghee or oily enema.
अनुवासनमित्ययोग ( anuvāsanamityayoga )

Condition of improper administration medicated oily enema
अनुवासनवस्त्ययोग/ स्नेहवस्तिअयोग ( anuvāsanavastyayoga/ snehavastiayoga )

Condition caused by inadequate or subnormal administration of medicated oily enema
अनुवासनातियोग/ स्नेहवस्तिअतियोग ( anuvāsanātiyoga/ snehavastiatiyoga )

Condition caused by excessive administration of medicated oily enema
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: nausea; confusion/delirium; exhaustion without exertion; bodily exhaustion or tiredness; syncope or swooning; gripping pain; burning sensation; continuous discharge; creates pain/distress.
अनुवासितस्य नस्य व्यापदः ( anuvāsitasya nasya vyāpadaḥ )

Complications caused by inhalation therapy administered to person who has taken unctuous enema
A condition characterized by heaviness of the head.
अनुवेल्लितबन्धः ( anuvellitabandhaḥ )

Spiral bandage
A type of bandage applied to the extremities in a spiral shape.
अनुशयी ( anuśayī )

Deep-rooted abscess in foot
A disorder characterized by a less inflamed nodule; deeprooted lesion; lesion with tendency to suppurate internally; skin-coloured nodule; located in scalp/head.
अनुशस्त्रम् ( anuśastram )

Materials and tools for parasurgical procedures
The adjunctive or complementary devices or objects used to perform parasurgical or auxiliary procedures.
अनुशस्त्रविस्रावणम् ( anuśastravisrāvaṇam )

Bloodletting with adjuvants as an alternative to surgical instruments
Bloodletting by means of horn leech or bottle-gourd
अनृतौ दुर्दिने नस्य व्यापदः ( anṛtau durdine nasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition due to inhalation therapy administered in inappropriate season or on a cloudy day
अनेकान्तः ( anekāntaḥ )

Acceptance of multiple conclusions
Listing multiple conclusions without refuting any of them.
अनौजस्यम् ( anaujasyam )

Unwholesome to ojas
अन्तः ( antaḥ )

Canthus
A term which denotes the junction between the eyelashes and lids, the sclerocorneal junction, pupillary margins and medial and lateral canthi.
अन्तःकरणम् ( antaḥkaraṇam )

Inner cognitive faculty
The four-tiered inner system: intellect (buddhi), mind (manas), self-awareness (ahamkara) and the storehouse of moods and memories (citta) which facilitate perception, cognition and consciousness.
अन्तःकुक्षिः ( antaḥkukṣiḥ )

Abdominal cavity
अन्तरभक्तम् ( antarabhaktam )

Administration of medicine between meals
अन्तराधिः ( antarādhiḥ )

Trunk
अन्तर्गलः ( antargalaḥ )

Oropharyngeal isthmus
अन्तर्बहिर्विभागः ( antarbahirvibhāgaḥ )

Internal-external division
An arbitrary division of the body into interior and exterior parts for descriptive purposes.
अन्तर्मुखशस्त्रम् ( antarmukhaśastram )

Curved knife with sharp inner edge (bistory knife)
A type of curved surgical knife with an inner sharp edge used for excision, extraction or drainage.
अन्तर्मुखस्रोतः ( antarmukhasrotaḥ )

Internal channel
Internal tracts, channels, tubes and ducts.
अन्तर्वेगज्वरः ( antarvegajvaraḥ )

Fever in which dosha and symptoms are located in viscera, vulnerable locations, joints and connective tissue
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a burning sensation inside the body excessive thirst; excessive talking/irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; giddiness or dizziness; pain in joints; bone pains; anhidrosis/lack of sweating; suppression of dosha; suppression of stools; high-grade fever; pronounced symptoms of jvara; internal burning sensation; constipation.
अन्तश्चेतन ( antaścetana )

Introverted consciousness
Living beings with internal consciousness, i.e. their consciousness is not externally manifested (plants).
अन्त्र-वृद्धिः, ब्रध्न ( antra-vṛddhiḥ, bradhna )

Hernia
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: frequent entry of the intestines from the abdomen into scrotum and their exit (through inguinal canal); may be associated with fever; burning sensation; dryness/ wasting/emaciation.
अन्त्राशयः ( antrāśayaḥ )

Intestinal lumen
अन्धपूतनाग्रहः ( andhapūtanāgrahaḥ )

Diarrhoea, fever, insomnia, emaciation complex due to external invisible factors
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: diarrhoea; cough; vomiting; fever; thirst; odour of animal fat; aversion to breast milk; abnormal colour of body; constant downward gaze; sour smell; insufficient sleep; altered stools/loose motions; discoloration of body; bad odour; emaciation; tired eyes; severe pain in eyes; itching of eyes; stye; swelling of eyes; hiccups; agitation; harsh voice; shivering/tremors; fishy smell from body.
अन्नजाहिक्का ( annajāhikkā )

Hiccup due to improper A disorder characterized by hiccups unrelated to any activity swallowing of food associated with sneezing; hiccups reduced with drinking or eating; hiccups decreased with wholesome and suitable foods or liquids; hiccups traversing upwards; painless; with little sound.
अन्नद्रवशूलः ( annadravaśūlaḥ )

Persistent, continuous abdominal pain
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pain occurring before food has been digested; pain occurring after food has been digested; pain not subsiding despite consuming food; pain not subsiding on an empty stomach.
अन्नप्राशनसंस्कारः ( annaprāśanasaṁskāraḥ )

Weaning ceremony
A ceremony performed during the period of infancy (6 to 10 months) in which the first intake of semi-solid or solid food is initiated.
अन्नमार्गः ( annamārgaḥ )

Oesophagus
अन्नलेपन ( annalepana )

Application of paste prepared with shastika rice
An application of medicated paste prepared with rice cooked in milk.
अन्नवहस्रोतः ( annavahasrotaḥ )

Digestive tract
The pathway for food in the process of digestion.
अन्नवहस्रोतोदुष्टिः ( annavahasrotoduṣṭiḥ )

Vitiation of channels carrying food
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: an aversion to food; loss of taste; indigestion; vomiting.
अन्नवहस्रोतोविद्धः ( annavahasrotoviddhaḥ )

Injury to the gastrointestinal tract
A disorder characterized by abdominal distension; aversion to food; vomiting; blindness; pain; thirst; death.
अन्नादः/अन्नाशी ( annādaḥ/ annāśī )

Child consuming solid food
A child depending predominantly on solid food for its nourishment.
अन्यतोवातः ( anyatovātaḥ )

Referred pain in eye
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pain in the eyebrows; pain in eyes; severe pain; lack of sliminess; absence of redness; absence of swelling; absence of tears.
अन्यधातूपहितशुक्रदोषः ( anyadhātūpahitaśukradoṣaḥ )

Semen contaminated with other body elements
A disorder characterised by blood or other tissues mixed with semen.
अन्येद्युष्कविषमज्वरः ( anyedyuṣkaviṣamajvaraḥ )

Intermittent fever spiking once daily
A disorder characterized by a fever spike once every twenty-four hours.
अन्योन्याभावः ( anyonyābhāvaḥ )

Mutual nonexistence
Nonexistence of a substance in the form of another substance. It refers to the difference of one thing from another thing. e.g. a table is not the chair, denoting the mutual exclusiveness of table and chair and the independent existence of one with respect to the existence or non-existence of the other.
अपकर्षणम् ( apakarṣaṇam )

Uprooting the cause of the disease
Removal of the dosha or other harmful substances.
अपची ( apacī )

Cervical and axillary lymphadenitis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: stable/immobile swelling; round swelling; elongated prominent swelling; smooth glandular swelling; swelling with mild pain; Amalaka-sized swellings; swelling resembling fish egg; accumulation of same colour; numerous; itching; mild pain; reaching the suppuration stage; undergoing destruction over time; becoming chronic.
अपतन्त्रकः ( apatantrakaḥ )

Convulsive fit
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: the body bending like a bow, convulsive movements of body; confusion/delirium; difficulty in expiration/ laborious breathing; fixed/staring eyes; shutting eyes; cooing like a pigeon; frequent fainting/unconsciousness; pain in temporal region of head/temples; pain in head/headache; pain in precordial region/angina pectoris; loss of movement; sunken eyes/downward gaze.
अपतर्पणकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( apatarpaṇakarma (vraṇacikitsā) )

Therapeutic abstinence from food for wound management
Therapeutic abstinence from food which is the foremost management strategy for wounds.
अपतर्पणम् ( apatarpaṇam )

Depleting therapy
A procedure of disease alleviation by depletion of bodily tissues.
अपतानकः ( apatānakaḥ )

Orthotonus
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: fixed eyes/gaze; loss of consciousness; cooing sound from throat; repeated fainting; regaining consciousness after a while in recovery; offering water to the ancestral souls/ritual arrangements for sacrifice to the spirits of dead persons.
अपथ्यम् ( apathyam )

Unwholesome
Dietary items, activities and behavioural regimens that are not beneficial for the body channels or systems. These are subject to individual variations. Antonym of pathya.
अपदेशः ( apadeśaḥ )

Supporting a proposed hypothesis
Justifying a proposed hypothesis by providing a presumptive cause or rationale.
अपरत्वम् ( aparatvam )

Relatively inferior, further from the cause
Inferiority of substance in relation to other substances.
अपरा, अमरा ( aparā, amarā )

Placenta
अपरिक्लिन्नवर्त्म/ क्लिष्ट-वर्त्म ( apariklinnavartma/ kliṣṭa-vartma )

Mucopurulent conjunctivitis
A disorder characterized by the eyelids repeatedly sticking together even after recurrent cleansing; absence of suppuration.
अपलापः (मर्म) ( apalāpaḥ (marma) )

Vulnerable location(s) on the chest
Two in number (one on either side of the chest) and leads to death due to pus formation when injured.
अपवर्गः ( apavargaḥ )

Statement of exception
A statement which indicates or includes an exception to a general rule.
अपस्तम्भः (मर्म) ( apastambhaḥ (marma) )

Vulnerable location(s) on the chest
Two in number (one on either side of the chest) and leads to death due to cough and difficulty in breathing due to air in the chest cavity when injured.
अपस्मारः ( apasmāraḥ )

Epilepsy
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: perversion of memory; perversion of intellect; perversion of cognitive psychic faculties; possessing transient/episodic abnormal activities; feeling as if entering into darkness; confusion; seeing unreal scenes or nonexistent things; falling down/fumbling; flickering tongue; fluttering eyes; fluttering eyebrows; excessive salivation; jerking hand; jerking leg; abnormal tongue movements; abnormal frowning; unstable eyeball movements; teeth-grinding; frothy vomiting; dilated and widened eyes; regaining consciousness after a time/abnormal movements or behaviour after a subsequent time; redness/congestion/inflammation.
अपाङ्गः, अपाङ्गसन्धिः ( apāṅgaḥ, apāṅgasandhiḥ )

Outer canthus
अपाङ्गदेशः ( apāṅgadeśaḥ )

Part of the outer canthus
अपानः ( apānaḥ )

Descending vata
Subtype of vata seated in the pelvic region and its vicinity. It exerts a downward force. It controls functions like defecation, micturition, parturition, menstruation and ejaculation.
अपानवातकोपः ( apānavātakopaḥ )

Aggravation of descending vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: diseases of distal gastrointestinal tract; disorders of urinary system; disorders of semen; haemorrhoids; rectal prolapse.
अपीनसः ( apīnasaḥ )

Chronic rhinitis (allergic)
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: obstruction of the nasal passage; smoky sensation in nose; sliminess in nose; dryness of nose; inability to recognise smell; inability to identify taste; infection with organisms; respiration with ghurghur sound; producing more distress than pīnasa roga; discharge from nose resembling a sheep; continuous discharge; slimy discharge; yellowish discharge; discharge of suppurated nasal excreta; discharge of thick nasal discharge.
अपूपः ( apūpaḥ )

Flour cake, a type of bread
A type of food preparation made from rice, barley, or wheat flour.
अप्रहर्षणम् ( apraharṣaṇam )

Reduced or absent sexual desire or satisfaction
The inability to perform coitus due to lack of interest in the female partner or lack of orgasm or pleasure if intercourse takes place.
अबुध्नव्रणः ( abudhnavraṇaḥ )

Superficial wound
A condition characterized by inflammation/suppuration in which bandaging is contraindicated.
अब्रह्मचर्यम् ( abrahmacharyam )

Non-celibacy
Appropriate indulgence in sensual pleasures including sexual activity (in moderation).
अभक्तम्, अनन्नम् ( abhaktam, anannam )

Administration of medicine on empty stomach
अभावः ( abhāvaḥ )

Nonexistence
Absence, negation or nonexistence: there are four kinds.
अभिघात-विरेचनव्यापत् ( abhighāta-virecanavyāpat )

Condition caused by purgation therapy administered to person with bodily injury
A condition characterized by its life-endangering risk.
अभिघातज-अरोचकः ( abhighātaja-arocakaḥ )

Anorexia due to injury
अभिघातज-ओष्ठप्रकोपः/ क्षतज-ओष्ठप्रकोपः ( abhighātajaoṣṭhaprakopaḥ/ kṣatajaoṣṭhaprakopaḥ )

Traumatic lip
A disorder characterized by its traumatic nature; cracking of lips; fissuring of lips; nodular swelling of lips; itching associated with lips.
अभिघातज-लिङ्गनाशः ( abhighātaja-liṅganāśaḥ )

Mature cataract due to trauma
A disorder characterized by a cracked cornea; weakness of eyes; loss of vision; fatigued mind and body.
अभिघातजव्रणशोफः ( abhighātajavraṇaśophaḥ )

Pre-ulcerative inflammation due to trauma
A condition characterized by suppuration without delay; yellowish-coloured swelling; black-coloured swelling; bloody red-coloured swelling; soft oedema; reddish swelling; burning sensation; severe burning sensation; intensely blackcoloured swelling.
अभिघातजशोफः/ क्षतजशोफः ( abhighātajaśophaḥ/ kṣatajaśophaḥ )

Oedema due to trauma
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: severe heat; reddish-coloured oedema/ haematoma; generally clinical features of pittaja type; soft oedema; with odour; blackish oedema; yellowish oedema; oedema with redness; rapidly spreading/rapidly remitting; symptoms such as burning sensation with sweating and restlessness; coppery hairs; occurring first in mid-part of body; severe burning sensation.
अभिष्यन्दः ( abhiṣyandaḥ )

Conjunctivitis
अभिष्यन्दि ( abhiṣyandi )

Substance inducing body secretions and clogging of channels
Substances blocking the channels that transport primary circulating nutrient fluid and producing heaviness in the body.
अभुक्तभक्तस्य अनुवासनस्य व्यापदः ( abhukta bhaktasya anuvāsanasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition caused by A condition characterized by an oily enema medicated oily enema spreading upwards. administered to person who has not eaten
अभुक्ते च प्रणीतस्य स्नेह बस्ति व्यापद् ( abhukte ca praṇītasya sneha basti vyāpad )

Condition due to administration of enema on empty stomach
A condition characterized by enema fluid moving upwards and emerging from the throat or orifices in the upper part of body.
अभेषजम् ( abheṣajam )

Hazardous substance
A substance which has a deleterious or adverse effect on health. Antonym of medicine or medication.
अभ्यङ्गः ( abhyaṅgaḥ )

Application of oil to body
Procedure to induce oleation carried out by external application of an unctuous substance for therapeutic purposes and healthy well-being.
अभ्यङ्गकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( abhyaṅgakarma (vraṇacikitsā) )

Therapeutic massage Therapeutic application of annointment and massage for for wound management wound healing.
अभ्यनुज्ञा ( abhyanujñā )

Unquestioning acceptance
Unconditional acceptance of different positions, including those which are inconclusive.
अभ्यवहरणशक्तिः ( abhyavaharaṇa-śaktiḥ )

Ingestive power, food intake capacity
The capacity to ingest food, the amount of food which does not disturb an individual’s physiological functions. It differs from person to person and from time to time, being directly dependent on the individual’s digestive fire and psychological status.
अभ्यासः ( The quality of being able to repeat an action or procedure to abhyāsaḥ acquire expertise, as exemplified by the saying “practice makes perfect”: an important quality for physicians and pharmacists. )

Practice
अभ्रकम् ( abhrakam )

Mica
Biotite [iron mica (black) or ferro-magnesium mica: (HK)2(MgFe)2(AlFe)2(SiO4)3]. In calcinated form abhrakam is used as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral formulations.
अमूर्तद्रव्यम् ( amūrtadravyam )

Unmanifest, without form
An entity that has not settled into any fixed shape or form, and is not embodied.
अमृतीकरणम् ( amṛtīkaraṇam )

Removing residual impurities, toxicity
A process adopted for the exclusion of remnant impurities or toxicity
अम्बु/आपः ( ambu/āpaḥ )

Water
अम्बुवर्गः/जलवर्गः ( ambuvargaḥ/jalavargaḥ )

Group of various types of processed and unprocessed water
The group of various types of processed and unprocessed water such as rainwater, water from wells, lakes and rivers, coconut water and boiled water.
अम्ल-रसः ( amla-rasaḥ )

Sour taste
अम्लपित्तम् ( amlapittam )

Hyperacidity
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: indigestion; exhaustion without exertion; nausea/provocation of dosha; bitter belchings/eructations; sour belchings/eructations; heaviness; burning sensation in precordial/cardiac region; burning sensation in throat; loss of taste.
अम्लमेहः ( amlamehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with urine smelling and tasting like acidic substance
A disorder characterized by sour-smelling urine; sourtasting urine.
अम्लरसातियोगः ( amlarasātiyogaḥ )

Disorder due to excessive intake of sour substances
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: sensitive teeth/dental hyperaesthesia; shutting of eyes; blistering; melting of kapha/mucus; increased pitta; vitiation of rakta; burning sensation in māṃsa/ inflammation in māṃsa; laxity of body; generalised swelling in thin/emaciated persons; swelling in weak; suppuration of wound; suppuration of beaten wounds; suppuration of bite wounds; suppuration of burnt wounds; suppuration of fracture wounds; suppuration of oedema; suppuration of lesion contaminated with excreta of poisonous animals; suppuration of lesions contaminated with urine of poisonous animals; suppuration of lesion contaminated with poisonous animals; suppuration of bruises/crush injuries; suppuration of cuts/ open wounds; suppuration of pierced wounds; suppuration of dislocated lesions; suppuration of raised wounds; suppuration of crushed wounds; burning sensation in kaṇṭha/throat; burning sensation in chest; burning sensation in cardiac region; itching; pallor; impaired vision; spreading of wounds; bleeding tendency; excessive thirst; oedema in emaciated; giddiness or dizziness; errors of refraction/partial blindness; oedema; blisters; fever.
अम्लसूपः ( amlasūpaḥ )

Sour soup
A soup prepared by adding a sour substance.
अम्लस्कन्धः ( amlaskandhaḥ )

Group of sour substances
अम्लाध्युषितः/अम्लोषितः ( amlādhyuṣitaḥ/ amloṣitaḥ )

Chemosis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: oedema; redness of eyes; bluish discoloration of eyes; blackish discoloration of eyes; burning sensation of eyes; inflammation/suppuration; tear secretion; sudden onset of blurred vision.
अम्लावस्थापाकः ( amla avasthāpākaḥ )

Sour predominant stage of digestion
During the second and intermediate stage of digestion in the gastrointestinal tract the ingested food is transformed to a predominantly sour state. This results in the generation of pitta-dosha.
अयनम् ( ayanam )

Time equivalent to six months
Time equal to 6 lunar months or 180 days.
अयस्कान्तः ( ayaskāntaḥ )

Removal of foreign body magnetically
The removal of a loosely impacted foreign body by means of a magnet.
अयुतसिद्धत्वम् ( ayutasiddhatvam )

Inseparable coexistence
What is inseparable, inherent and essentially unified, e.g. an organic body.
अयोगबस्तिव्यापत् ( ayogabastivyāpat )

Condition due to subnormal or inadequate administration of enema therapy
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: heaviness in the gastrointestinal tract; retention of flatus; obstruction to passage of urine/retention; obstruction/retention of faeces; pain in umblical region; pain in urinary bladder or basti; burning sensation; sensation of heart being attached to sticky material; oedema in the rectum; itching; nodular swelling; discoloration; loss of taste; weaking of agni.
अरत्निः ( aratniḥ )

Distance between elbow and tip of little finger
Measure of length equal to the distance between the elbow and the tip of the little finger: 16.5 inches or 41.91 cm, approximately equivalent to 22 aṅgula.
अरिष्ट-बन्धनम् (विषोपक्रमः) ( ariṣṭa-bandhanam (viṣopakramaḥ) )

Tourniquet and ligature accompanied or not by chanting
Application of a tourniquet to stop the spread of poison which may or may not be accompanied by chanting of a specific mantra.
अरिष्टलक्षणम् ( ariṣṭalakṣaṇam )

Sign or symptom of impending death
The presence of ominous signs and symptoms indicative of a poor prognosis or impending death.
अरुणसिरा ( aruṇa-sirā )

Small arterial branches
अरूंशिका ( arūṃṣikā )

Furunculosis
A disorder characterized by wet papules on scalp; scalp lesions with multiple openings; lesions resembling mustard seeds in shape and size; lesion resembling black oil plant or jyotishmati (Celestrus paniculatus) seeds in shape and size.
अरोचकः ( arocakaḥ )

Anorexia
अरोचकार्तस्य अनुवासनस्य व्यापदः ( arocakārtasya anuvāsanasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition caused by A condition characterized by an impaired desire for food. medicated oily enema administered to person with anorexia
अर्क यन्त्रम् ( arkayantram )

Distillation apparatus
अर्जुनः ( arjunaḥ )

Subconjunctival haemorrhage of haemangioma
A disorder characterized by a dot resembling rabbit’s blood; painless; glossy.
अर्थः, वैशेषिकगुणाः ( arthaḥ, vaiśeṣikaguṇāḥ )

Objects of special senses
The five objects of sensory perception: touch, smell, sight, taste and sound.
अर्थप्राप्तिः ( arthaprāptiḥ )

Implied meaning
A statement whose derived meaning allows for another interpretation.
अर्थान्तरम् ( arthāntaram )

Varying meaning or shifting the topic
A statement that is not relevant or applicable to its context.
अर्थापत्तिः ( arthāpattiḥ )

Implied or inferred meaning
Making statements in such a way to allow room for different inferences or presumptions.
अर्थाश्रयः ( arthāśrayaḥ )

Source of meaning
The word or part of a sentence which encapsulates the actual meaning.
अर्दितः ( arditaḥ )

Facial paralysis
A disorder characterized by localized paralysis of one half of the face with or without involvement of the body.
अर्धकपाटसन्धिक: ( ardhakapāṭasandhika )

Lobuloplasty type 10
A type of lobuloplasty indicated when the outer division of the earlobe is long and the inner one short.
अर्धचन्द्रमण्डलवत्-छेदः ( ardhacandramaṇḍalavatchedaḥ )

Semicircular incision
A type of semicircular incision indicated for surgical procedures.
अर्धधारशस्त्रम् ( ardhadhāraśastram )

Half-edged knife
A sharp knife with a half-edged blade used for incision or excision.
अर्धावभेदकः ( ardhāvabhedakaḥ )

Headache in half of head (hemicrania)
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: severe pain in the neck resembling that caused by a sharp weapon; severe pain in neck resembling a sting; severe pain in eyebrows resembling that caused by sharp weapon; severe pain in eyebrows resembling a sting; severe pain in temporal region resembling that caused by sharp weapon; severe pain in temporal region resembling a sting; severe pain in ear resembling that caused by sharp weapon; severe pain in ear resembling a sting; severe pain in eyes resembling that caused by sharp weapon; severe pain in eyes resembling a sting; severe pain in one half of forehead resembling that caused by sharp weapon; severe pain in one half of forehead resembling a sting; disease progression giving rise to eye damage; disease progression giving rise to ear damage; severe breaking pain in upper part of body/head; severe pricking pain in upper part of body/head; severe giddiness; severe pain in head/upper part of body; sudden headache; fortnightly headache; headache developing about every 10 days; burning sensation in one half of head; pain developing within a month; self-limiting pain.
अर्बुदः ( arbudaḥ )

Tumour
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: deep-rooted elevation of muscle; slowly growing and nonsuppurating swelling; slightly painful swelling; broad and deep-rooted swelling; round swelling; fixed swelling.
अर्शः ( arśaḥ )

Haemorrhoids
Vitiated dosha affecting the skin, flesh and fat and causing sprout-like growths of flesh in various patterns in the anal region.
अर्शसस्य अनुवासनस्य व्यापदः ( arśasasya anuvāsanasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition caused by A condition characterized by stickiness of haemorrhoids medicated oily enema leading to abdominal distension. administered to person with piles
अर्शोवर्त्म ( arśovartma )

Papillary form of trachoma
A disorder characterized by projections resembling eravaruka seeds appearing in the eyelids; mild pain; minute eruptions; rough boils; glossy.
अलजी ( alajī )

Phlyctenular keratoconjuctivitis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a swelling originating in the limbus region; coppery-coloured swelling; large swelling; swelling with burning sensation; swelling with pain; rounded swelling; situated in medial canthus; similar to lesions of the same name; hard eruption; red eruptions; white-coloured eruption; boil full of blisters; pain in interdigital space of feet; itching in interdigital space of foot; rotting in interdigital space of foot; burning in interdigital space of foot.
अलजी-प्रमेहपिडका ( alajī-pramehapiḍakā )

Carbuncle characterized by reddish white blisters
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a raised boil with burning skin; excessive thirst; confusion/delirium; fever; uninterrupted spread/spreads more at night; pain resembles being burnt with fire; severely painful; spreading in nature; reddish eruptions; blackish; with blisters; burning sensation; hard boil or piḍaka; white-colour on eruption.
अलजीशूकरोगः ( alajīśūkarogaḥ )

Reddish-white blisters on the penis
A disease of the penis characterized by red eruptions; whitecoloured eruption; blister; hard boil.
अलर्क विषः ( alarkaviṣaḥ )

Poisoning due to rabid dog bite
Poisoning characterized by numbness; blackish bleeding; precordial pain/cardiac pain; headache; fever; rigidity/ stiffness; thirst; syncope or swooning.
अलसः ( alasaḥ )

Lesion of interdigital clefts of feet
A disorder characterized by pain in the interdigital areas of feet; itching in interdigital areas of feet; sticky moistness of interdigital areas of feet; burning sensation of interdigital areas of feet.
अलसक-अजीर्णम् ( alasaka-ajīrṇam )

Intumescence of abdomen with constipation and flatus; delayed and obstructive digestive process
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: marked abdominal distension; a sinking feeling; borborygmi; obstructed flatus leading to reversed peristalsis; obstruction of faeces; suppression of thirst; suppression of eructations; colicky pain in abdomen; borborygmi with distension; generalized body aches; dryness of mouth; syncope or swooning; giddiness or dizziness; impairment of agni; stiffness of sides of chest; stiffness of back; contraction movement of sira; rigidity of sira; tremors; rigidity/stiffness; fever; burning sensation inside the body; thirst; intoxication; giddiness or dizziness; excessive talking/ irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; loss of taste; indigestion; fever with chills; lethargy; heaviness of body parts; impediment of speech/dysphasia; spitting/excessive expectoration.
अलसक; विसूचिक; आम प्रजात; आमातिसारिणाम आस्थापनस्यव्यापदः ( alasaka; visūcika; āma prajāta; āmātisāriṇāma āsthāpanasyavyāpadaḥ )

Condition caused by medicated decoction enema administered to person with intumescence of abdomen with constipation and flatus
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: clinical features of āma. Alasaka is a type of indigestion caused by vitiation of vata which is obstructed by kapha and is characterized by constipation; abdominal colic and flatulence.
अलसककुष्ठः/अलसकुष्ठः ( alasakakuṣṭhaḥ/ alasakuṣṭhaḥ )

Skin disease with nodular skin lesions
A skin disease characterized by lesions associated with itching sensation; reddish nodules.
अलाबू-अवचरणम् ( alābū-avacaraṇam )

Bloodletting using bottle gourd
Bloodletting by means of the bottle gourd (alābu) in a procedure which resembles cupping.
अलासः ( alāsaḥ )

Sublingual cyst; abscess
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a firm swelling at the base of the tongue; fixing of the tongue; severe suppuration/inflammation at root of tongue; smell resembling a fish; erosion of soft tissue.
अलोभः ( alobhaḥ )

Contentment
A state of mind unaffected by greed, freedom from undue desire, disinterestedness.
अल्पप्रवृत्तरक्तः ( alpapravṛttaraktaḥ )

Condition due to scanty bleeding condition
अल्पशुक्रता ( alpaśukratā )

Reduced semen
A decrease in the amount of seminal fluid or decreased sperm count.
अवक्षिप्त-सन्धिमुक्तम्/ अधःक्षिप्त-सन्धिमुक्तम् ( avakṣipta-sandhimuktam/ adhaḥkṣiptasandhimuktam )

Dislocation with downward displacement
A dislocation characterized by loosening or dislocation of joints; severe joint pain.
अवगाहः (विषोपक्रमः) ( avagāhaḥ (viṣopakramaḥ) )

Detoxifying immersion therapy
Immersing an affected part in specific medicated decoctions or oils to treat poisoning.
अवगाहस्वेदः ( avagāhasvedaḥ )

Sweating induced by immersion in prewarmed liquid
Sudation achieved by immersion: sitting in a prewarmed liquid such as a medicated oil or decoction.
अवचूर्णनम् (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( avacūrṇanam (vraṇacikitsā) )

Topical dusting for wound management
Therapeutic dusting of medicated powder over a wound.
अवटुः, घाता ( avaṭuḥ, ghāṭā )

Nape of the neck
अवपीडकः ( avapīḍakaḥ )

Preputial tear
A disorder characterized by fissuring or cracking of the preputial skin.
अवपीडनम् ( avapīḍanam )

Intranasal therapy with expressed juice from paste
Therapeutic intranasal instillation of the freshly expressed juice of herbal drugs.
अवबद्धशल्यम् ( avabaddhaśalyam )

Firmly lodged foreign body
A foreign body which is strongly impacted or stuck in the body.
अवबाहुकः ( avabāhukaḥ )

Painful conditions of shoulder joints with severely affected or restricted movements
A disorder characterized by atrophy of structures binding the shoulder joints/wasting of shoulder region; ligamentous contractions; inhibition of upper limb movements.
अवभासिनी, उदकधरा ( avabhāsinī, udakadharā )

First layer of skin
अवमन्थः ( avamanthaḥ )

Multiple large boils on the penis
A disease of the penis characterized by the appearance of large boils; multiple boils; pitted in centre of boil; painful; causing hyperaesthesia/horripilation.
अवयवः, शरीरावयवः ( avayavaḥ, śarīrāvayavaḥ )

A body part or organ
अवर/हीनशुद्धिः ( avara/hīnaśuddhiḥ )

Insufficient cleansing
Achievement of a lesser or mild degree of dosha evacuation during cleansing therapy.
अवलम्बककफः ( avalambaka-kaphaḥ )

Supporting kapha
Subtype of kapha seated in the chest region which supports and sustains the heart and other sites of kapha.
अवसादनम् ( avasādanam )

Hypergranulation reduction
Application of a medicated paste to reduce wound hypergranulation.
अवसादीशुक्रदोषः ( avasādīśukradoṣaḥ )

Semen with dull flow
An increase in the specific gravity of semen with reduced motility.
अवसेचनकर्म ( avasecanakarma )

Bloodletting
The process of bloodletting with leeches.
अवस्थापाक ( avasthāpākaḥ )

Digestion at gastrointestinal tract level
अवस्थापाकः ( avasthāpākaḥ )

Initial phase of digestion
The initial phase of digestion which involves the action of transformative factors on food in the gastrointestinal tract , which has three sequential stages resulting in the production of kapha, pitta and vata respectively.
अविनाभावसंबन्धः ( avinābhāvasaṃbandhaḥ )

Invariable concomitance, sensitivity
The level of sensitivity between cause (hetu) and sign (linga). When the sign is invariably present with the cause (when the symptom is always seen associated with the pathological condition), this is referred to as invariable concomitance or sensitivity.
अव्यभिचारित्व ( avyabhicāritva )

Non-deviation, specificity
The level of specificity between cause (hetu) and sign (linga). When the sign is coterminous with the cause and no other entity (when the symptom is seen only with a particular pathological condition) this is referred to as non-deviation or specificity.
अव्ययः ( avyayaḥ )

Immutable
Not liable to change; imperishable , undecaying.
अव्यापन्नर्तुकृतरोगः ( avyāpannartukṛtarogaḥ )

Diseases resulting from regular climatic changes
Diseases and conditions resulting from poor adaptation to the seasons.
अव्यायामः ( avyāyāmaḥ )

Disorder due to lack of physical exercise
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: obesity, gasping for air, excessive thirst, snoring, exhaustion, lack of physical strength,and endurance.
अव्रणशुक्रः ( avraṇaśukraḥ )

Corneal opacity
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a white spot appearing in the black spot of the eye caused by abhisyanda and not associated with excessive pain or lacrimation; associated with discharge; absence of severe pain; scanty watering of eyes; resembling a white cloud in the sky/thin cloud in the sky; sucking type of pain; resembling the moon; resembling indu; resembling a conch.
अशस्त्रकृत्-रोगः ( aśastrakṛt-rogaḥ )

Eye disorders in which surgery is contraindicated
Eye diseases which can be managed without a surgical procedure.
अशितम् ( aśitam )

Eatables
Solid food items such as rice, bread, and pancakes which are to be chewed when consumed.
अशुद्धरक्तस्तम्भनम् ( aśuddharaktastambhanam )

Condition of hoaemostasis of vitiated blood
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: choking sensation in throat; pus discharge from the nose; syncope or swooning; loss of taste; fever; palpable glandular enlargement in abdomen/abdominal lump; enlargement of plīha; borborygmi with distension; a type of skin disease; dysuria; skin diseases; haemorrhoids; erysipelas; loss of complexion; anal fistula; inhibition of sense function; obstruction of sense organ functioning.
अशोफपाकः ( aśophapākaḥ )

Non-inflammatory atrophy of the globe
A disorder characterized by having all the features of sasopha netrapaka except for swelling; less swelling.
अश्मघनस्वेदः ( aśmaghanasvedaḥ )

Sweating induced on prewarmed stone bed
A type of sudation therapy in which diaphoresis is achieved by lying down on a prewarmed stone bed.
अश्मनोःसंघटट्नंकर्णयोर्मूले ( aśmanoḥsaṃghaṭṭanaṃk arṇayormūle )

Striking stones close to the ear
A step in neonatal resuscitation in which a sound stimulus is produced by striking two stones together close to the baby’s ear.
अश्मरी ( aśmarī )

Urinary calculus
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: obstructed passage of urine; pain in urinary bladder region or basti; pain in perineal raphe; penile pain; scattering of urinary stream/split-stream urination; rubbing of penis due to pain; frequent passing of stools; frequent urination; passage of urine mixed with blood; pain in umbilical region; severe pain; urine resembling gomedaka stone/pale yellow; excessively turbid urine; gravel in urine; headache; comfortable passage of clear urine when stone is evacuated.
अश्मरी-पूर्वरूपम् ( aśmarī-pūrvarūpam )

Prodromal symptoms of urinary calculus
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: fever; loss of taste; dysuria; pain in urinary bladder; headache; pain in scrotum; pain in penis; weakness in body associated with discomfort; urine smelling of goat; increased urinary density; turbid urine; bloating of urinary bladder or basti; severe pain around urinary bladder.
अश्मरीजमूत्रकृच्छ्रम् ( aśmarījamūtrakṛcchram )

Difficulty in urination due to calculi
अश्रुः ( aśru )

Lacrimal fluid (tears)
अश्रुनिग्रहज-उदावर्तः ( aśrunigrahaja-udāvartaḥ )

Disorders of reversed or altered visceral movement due to suppression of tears
A disorder characterized by heaviness of head; severe diseases of the eye; cold catarrh.
अश्रुमार्गः ( aśrumārgaḥ )

Lacrimal apparatus
अश्रुवाहिनी ( aśruvāhinī )

Lacrimal canaliculi
अश्रुवेगरोधः/बाष्पवेगरोधः ( aśruvegarodhaḥ/ bāṣpavegarodhaḥ )

Disorder due to withholding of tears
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: cold catarrh; diseases of eyes; heart diseases; loss of taste; giddiness or dizziness; heaviness of head/headache; cold catarrh; torticollis/stiffness of neck; palpable glandular enlargement in abdomen/abdominal lump.
अष्टममासगर्भ: ( aṣṭamamāsa-garbha: )

Eighth month of pregnancy
This month is characterized by frequent joyfulness of the pregnant woman; frequent exhaustion of the pregnant woman; intermittent foetal movements in the womb; intermittent absence of foetal movements in the womb.
अष्टविधशस्त्रकर्म ( aṣṭavidhaśastrakarma )

Eight types of surgical procedure
Eight types of principal surgical procedures.
अष्टस्थानपरीक्षा ( aṣṭasthānaparīkṣā )

Eight methods of clinical examination
Clinical examination of eight domains: 1. pulse ; 2. urine; 3. excreta; 4. tongue; 5. voice and other body-sounds such as breathing and heart; 6. tactile examination; 7. eyes and eyesight; 8. build and appearance.
अष्टाङ्गायुर्वेदः ( aṣṭāṅgāyurvedaḥ )

Eight clinical specialities of Ayurveda
अष्ठीलिका ( aṣṭhīlikā )

Hard boils with uneven margins on the penis
A disease of the penis characterized by margins which are irregular/uneven; hard in nature; cracked/broken.
अंसः, स्कन्धः ( aṃsaḥ, skandhaḥ )

Shoulder
अंसकू टः ( aṃsakūṭaḥ )

Acromion
अंसदेशः ( aṃsadeśaḥ )

Shoulder region
अंसपिण्डः, अंसपिण्डिका ( aṃsapiṇḍaḥ, aṃsapiṇḍikā )

Deltoid prominence of the shoulder
अंसपिण्डिका ( aṃsapiṇḍikā )

Deltoid prominence of the shoulder
अंसपीठम् ( aṃsapīṭham )

Glenoid cavity
अंसफलकः ( aṃsaphalakaḥ )

Scapula
अंसफलकम् (मर्म) ( aṃsaphalakam (marma)

Vulnerable location(s) near the midpoint of the scapula
Two in number (one on each side) which when injured leads to loss of sensation and wasting of arms.
अंसबन्धनम् ( aṃsabandhanam )

Supporting structures of the shoulder joint
असमवायि-कारणम् ( asamavāyi-kāraṇam )

Non-inherent cause
This type of cause includes only qualities (including relational qualities) that inhere in the causal substrate and are causally relevant to the effect, e.g. coloured threads in the appearance of a piece of cloth.
अंसमूलम्, बाहुशिरः, बाहुशीर्षः ( aṃsamūlam, bāhuśiraḥ, bāhuśīrṣaḥ )

Area around the apex of scapula
अंसशोषः ( aṃsaśoṣaḥ )

Muscle wasting around shoulder joint
A disorder characterized by atrophy of structures binding the shoulder joints/wasting of shoulder region.
अंससन्धिः, बाहुशिरसन्धिः ( aṃsasandhiḥ, bāhuśirasandhiḥ )

Shoulder joint
असात्म्येन्द्रियार्थसंयोगः ( asātmyendriyārthasamyogaḥ )

Improper engagement of the senses
One of the three primary causes of a disease owing to misuse (underuse, overuse and abuse) of the senses.
असाध्य-कोष्ठभेदः ( asādhya-koṣṭhabhedaḥ )

Irremediable internal visceral injury
A disorder characterized by expiration of cold air; internal bleeding; cold legs; cold hands; cold face; reddishcoloured eyes.
असाध्य-सव्रणशुक्रः ( asādhya-savraṇaśukraḥ )

Irremediable corneal ulcer
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: perforation of the mid-eye; covered by granulation tissue; migrating from place to place; full of blood vessels; obstructing vision; two layers involved; reddish at the periphery; of long duration; discharge of hot tears; boils resembling green gram; lesions resembling tittiri bird feathers; severe pricking type of pain; blackishness resembling needle puncture.
असाध्यरोगः ( asādhyarogaḥ )

Diseases that are incurable
Diseases which are incurable owing to the implication of all dosha, multiple structural components and channels.
असृग्गतवातः/रक्तगतवातः ( asṛggatavātaḥ/ raktagatavātaḥ )

Aggravation of vata in blood
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: acute pain with a burning sensation; discoloration; emaciation; loss of taste; appearance of rash/ scabs on the body; stiffness of body after taking food; sleepiness/numbness; redness/congestion; indigestion; giddiness or dizziness; wound/ulcer/sore.
असृग्दरः/रक्तप्रदरः ( asṛgdaraḥ/ raktapradaraḥ )

Dysfunctional uterine bleeding
A gynaecological disorder characterized by quantitative vitiation of blood; generalized body aches; pain; weakness; giddiness or dizziness; syncope or swooning; black-outs; thirst; burning sensation; excessive talking/irrelevant speech/ incoherent speech; pallor; drowsiness/lassitude; diseases of vata; intoxication.
असृग्वहा ( asṛgvahā )

Blood vessels
असृजपूर्णकोष्ठदाहः ( asṛjapūrṇakoṣṭhadāhaḥ )

Generalized burning sensation due to internal bleeding
A disorder characterized by the abdomen filling up with blood.
अस्थि ( asthi )

Bone
अस्थिक्षयः ( asthikṣayaḥ )

Diminution of bone
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: scalp hair loss/thinning; body hair loss/ thinning; nail fall/thinning; beard/moustache loss/thinning; tooth loss/decay; exhaustion/fatigue; joint dislocation/laxity; bone pains; cracked teeth; cracked nails; dryness; roughness/ dryness; pricking type of bone pains; desire to eat bony meat.
अस्थिखण्डः ( asthikhaṇḍaḥ )

Part of bone
अस्थिगत-शल्यः ( asthigata-śalyaḥ )

Foreign body in the bones
A disorder due to presence of foreign body in the bones; characterized by a feeling of fullness; various types of pain; oedema.
अस्थिगतमसूरिका ( asthigatamasūrikā )

Lentil-shaped pox disease localized in bone
Lentil-shaped eruptive disorder is characterized by eruptions which are small in size; colour of eruptions similar to skin; dry eruptions; flat eruptions; slightly raised eruptions; marked confusion; pain; severe distress/discontent/restlessness; damaging the vital parts or marmasthāna; causing sudden death; pain in bones as if stung by bee.
अस्थिगतवातः ( asthigatavātaḥ )

Aggravation of vata in bone
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: cracking type of pain in bone and small joints; extreme wasting of muscles/diminution of muscle mass; loss of physical strength or weakness; insomnia/sleeplessness; constant pain; pain in thighs; pain in joints; severe loss of physical strength; diminution of asthi/osteopenia/ osteoporosis.
अस्थिजालम् ( asthijālam )

Network of bones
अस्थिधातुः ( asthi-dhātuḥ )

Bone
The fifth of the seven fundamental structural components. Its function is to provide bodily stability. It is composed predominantly of the basic elements earth and space. It refers to bone tissue.
अस्थिधातुगतज्वरः ( asthidhātugatajvaraḥ )

Fever due to vitiated bone
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: purgation and emesis; breaking/splitting type of bone pains; cooing like a pigeon; convulsive movements of limbs; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; purging; vomiting; upward and downward expulsion of dosha.
अस्थिधात्वग्निः ( asthidhātvagniḥ )

Metabolic factors located in bone
The transformative factor which converts fat to bone
अस्थिपञ्जरः ( asthipañjaraḥ )

Skeleton
The bony framework of the body.
अस्थिमर्म ( asthimarma )

Vulnerable location(s) in which the main structural component is bone
Marma where bone/skeletal tissue is structurally prominent. .
अस्थिवहस्रोतः ( asthivahasrotaḥ )

Channel carrying bone
The pathway for bone. Entities related to this channel are fat and the hip region.
अस्थिवहस्रोतोदुष्टिः ( asthivahasrotoduṣṭiḥ )

Vitiation of channels carrying bone
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: hypertrophy of bones and teeth or atrophy, pain in the teeth, bones discoloration of the hair, head, body, face, and nails.
अस्थिवहस्रोतोविद्धः ( asthivahasrotoviddhaḥ )

Injury to the channels that nourish bone
अस्थिविवरम् ( asthivivaram )

Medullary canal
The cavity within the bone containing marrow.
अस्थिवृद्धिः ( asthivṛddhiḥ )

Morbid increase of bone
A disorder characterized by excessive growth of bones/ overlapping bones; excessive growth of teeth/redundant overlapping teeth.
अस्थिवैषम्यम् ( asthivaiṣamyam )

Disproportion of bone
Changes in the normal quantity and quality of osseous tissue.
अस्थिसङ्घातः, सङ्घातः ( asthisaṅghātaḥ, saṅghātaḥ )

Conglomeration of bones
A site at which more than two bones articulate or come together.
अस्थिसारः ( asthi-sāraḥ )

Person with predominance or essence of bone
Characterized by features such as having large heels, ankles, knees, forearms, clavicles, chin, head, joints, bones, nails, teeth; having great enthusiasm; dynamism; ability to tolerate suffering; having firmness of body and longevity.
अस्थ्याश्रितंपटलम् ( asthyāśritaṃpaṭalam )

Nuclear part of lens
The fourth layer of the eye.
अहङ्कारः ( ahaṅkāraḥ )

Ego
A term for ego in the possessive or prideful sense; also, a principle in the cosmic development of individuality or selfconsciousness.
अहर्षणम् ( aharṣaṇam )

Absent arousal or desire for intercourse
Lack of sexual arousal or desire to engage in intercourse.
अहितायुः ( ahitāyuḥ )

Unsalutary life
A mode of life that is disadvantageous for oneself and generally detrimental.
अहितेभ्योऽर्थेभ्योमनोनिग्रह ( ahitebhyoarthebhyomanonigraha )

Restraining the mind from unwholesome desires
The key method of satvavajaya-cikitsā is to restrain the mind from unwholesome desires and unnecessary engagement with sensory objects.
अहिपूतन ( ahipūtana )

Napkin rash
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: itching; sudden appearance of blisters; secretion from vesicles on itching; worsening of lesion on merging. A disorder that is generally due to unhygienic conditions or napkin allergy.
अहिपूतनकः ( ahipūtanakaḥ )

Napkin rash
A disorder characterized by itching in the anal region; sudden appearance of blisters; secretion from vesicles on scratching; dreadful lesion when coalescent.
अहृद्यम् ( ahṛdyam )

Substance reducing health and functioning of the heart, minddispleasing
अहेतुः ( ahetuḥ )

Fallacious reason
An argument which appears to be fallacious.
अहोरात्रः ( ahorātraḥ )

Time equivalent to 24 hours
Time equal to a complete day and night.
आकस्मिकरोगः ( ākasmikarogaḥ )

Idiopathic diseases
Diseases and conditions which manifest suddenly in the body without any apparent cause.
आकाशः ( ākāśaḥ )

Space element
Characterized by non-obstruction and responsible for the space occupied by all substances. It is the substratum of sound, perceived by the ears.
आक्षेपकः ( ākṣepakaḥ )

Convulsions
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: abrupt movements of limbs; wasting of hands; wasting of feet; wasting of blood vessels; wasting of muscles; wasting of tendons.
आगन्तुकशल्यम् ( āgantukaśalyam )

Obstruction caused by exogenous factors, foreign body
Any exogenous substance blocking normal functioning after it enters the body.
आगन्तुक्षवथुः ( āgantukṣavathuḥ )

Sneezing due to exogenous factors
आगन्तुजछर्दिः ( āgantujachardiḥ )

Vomiting due to extrinsic causes
आगन्तुजज्वरः ( āgantujajvaraḥ )

Fever due to external factors/reasons
Fever caused by exogenous factors such as trauma and infection and mental factors.
आगन्तुजव्रणः ( āgantujavraṇaḥ )

Traumatic wound
Various types of ulcers caused by external injury or trauma.
आग्नेयरसः ( āgneyarasaḥ )

Taste exerting heating effect
Taste exerting a heating effect due to the predominance of fire element.
आग्नेयरोगः ( āgneyarogaḥ )

Diseases caused by pitta
A disease caused by vitiation of pitta dosha in the body such as dyspepsia, bleeding tendency or jaundice.
आचाररसायनम् ( ācārarasāyanam )

Code and conduct
A cognitive and behavioural regimen to enhance well-being and quality of life.
आचाररसायनम् ( ācārarasāyanam )

Rejuvenation therapy through behaviour and practices
Rejuvenation therapy which promotes rejuvenation through the adoption of a prescribed code of conduct.
आचूषणकर्म ( ācūṣaṇakarma )

Removal of foreign body by sucking
The removal of a loosely impacted foreign body by sucking.
आचूषणकर्म ( ācūṣaṇakarma )

Suction
A procedure in which body fluids or foreign bodies are removed using a suction force.
आजस्रिकरसायनम् ( ājasrikarasāyanam )

Rejuvenation therapy for daily use
Rejuvenation therapy based on a specific diet to promote body immunity (daily intake of milk, ghee and similar substances).
आञ्छनकर्म ( āñchanakarma )

Traction
A procedure in which traction is applied, e.g. approximation of fractured bones and dislocated joints.
आटीमुखशस्त्रम् ( āṭīmukhaśastram )

Angular sharp instrument (curved scissors)
An angular sharp instrument, named after the “ati” bird (Bank myna, Turdus ginginianus), which is used for bloodletting and drainage.
आढकम् ( āḍhakam )

Measure of weight approximately equal to 3 kg and 72 g
Measure of weight equal to 256 karsha or 4 prastha.
आणि (मर्म) ( āṇi (marma) )

Vulnerable location(s) above the cubital fossa in upper limb and popliteal fossa in lower limb
Four in number (one in each limb) which when injured causes swelling and paralysis.
आतपः ( ātapaḥ )

Sweating induced by exposure to sun
A type of sudation therapy in which diaphoresis is achieved by exposure to the hot sun.
आतपः ( ātapaḥ )

Therapeutic exposure to sunlight
The process of exposing a person to sunlight as a therapeutic measure.
आतुरनिमित्तजः ( āturanimittajaḥ )

Patient-related adverse event
An adverse event due to insufficient adherence to the treatment regimen by the patient.
आत्मगुणः ( ātmaguṇaḥ )

Qualities of the self
The six attributes of the self (atma)
intelligence (buddhi), pleasure (sukha), sorrow (duḥkha), desire (iccha), aversion (dvesha) and effort (prayatna).
आत्मा ( ātmā )

Self
Soul, the principle of life and sensation, the individual self, the conscious element in the human body.
आदिबलप्रवृत्तरोगः ( ādibalapravṛttarogaḥ )

Hereditary diseases
A disease resulting from morbid sperm or ovum including all hereditary diseases.
आधारः ( ādhāraḥ )

Base, substratum
आधिदैविकरोगः ( ādhidaivikarogaḥ )

Diseases beyond human control
Diseases and conditions that arise from disturbances in nature such as natural calamities, seasonal or climatic variations, or following turbulent divine interventions such as floods, epidemics or droughts.
आधिभौतिकरोगः ( ādhibhautikarogaḥ )

Extrinsic, exogenous diseases
Diseases caused in the body due to exogenous or traumatic causes such as accidental injuries and falls or resulting from animal bites or poisons.
आध्मात-विरेचनव्यापत् ( ādhmāta-virecanavyāpat )

Condition caused by A condition characterized by severe flatulance; death. purgation therapy administered to person with abdominal distension
आध्मानबस्तिव्यापत् ( ādhmānabastivyāpat )

Condition of flatulence due to faulty enema therapy
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: abdominal distension; severe flatulance as if marma is afflicted; internal burning sensation; heaviness of gastrointestinal tract; scrotal pain; pain in groin region; cardiac pain; wandering character.
आध्मानम्-वमनव्यापत् ( ādhmānamvamanavyāpat )

Condition of abdominal distension due to faulty emetic therapy
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: distension in the umbilical region; pain in back; pain in sides of chest/flanks; headache; severe obstruction to passage of breath; severe obstruction to passage of stool; severe obstruction to passage of urine; severe obstruction to passage of flatus.
आध्मानविरेचनव्यापत् ( ādhmānavirecanavyāpat )

Condition of abdominal A condition characterized by some or all the following signs distension due to faulty and symptoms: distension in the umblical region; pain in purgative therapy back; pain in sides of chest/flanks; headache; obstruction to passage of breath; severe obstruction to passage of stool; severe obstruction to passage of urine; severe obstruction to passage of flatus.
आध्यात्मिक ( ādhyātmika )

Relating to self
Relating to the soul as the presiding entity over the body.
आध्यात्मिकरोगः ( ādhyātmikarogaḥ )

Intrinsic or endogenous diseases
A disease resulting from affliction of the psyche and body including all psychosomatic diseases.
आननम् ( ānanam )

Face, mouth
आनाहः/आध्मानम् ( ānāhaḥ/ ādhmānam )

Constipation and abdominal distension
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: gurgling intestinal sounds/borborygmi; excessive pain; abdominal distension; obstruction of flatus.
आनाहः/आध्मानम् ( ānāhaḥ/ ādhmānam )

Constipation and abdominal distension
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: gurgling intestinal sounds/borborygmi; excessive pain; abdominal distension; obstruction of flatus.
आन्तरिक्ष-जलम्/आन्तरिक्षउदकम्/ गङ्गाम्बु ( āntarikṣa-jalam/āntarikṣaudakam / gaṅgāmbu / )

Rainwater before reaching the earth’s surface
Rainwater collected directly before it touches the earth’s surface and considered the best of all types of water.
आन्त्रम्, अन्त्रम् ( āntram, antram )

Intestines
आन्त्रालजी ( āntrālajī )

Raised papule without opening
A disorder characterized by a lesion with small amount of pus or tending not to suppurate; lesion without punctum; raised circular lesion; thick and firm lesion; lesion resembling unripe fig fruit.
आप्तोपदेशः ( āptopadeśaḥ )

Codified knowledge, expert opinion
Statement of an authority or expert in a particular field.
आभ्यन्तर-कृमिः ( ābhyantara-kṛmiḥ )

Internal worm infestation
आभ्यन्तरस्नेहः, स्नेहपान ( ābhyantarasnehaḥ, snehapāna )

Internal oleation
The therapeutic administration of the appropriate dose of processed ghee, oil or any other unctuous substance internally to achieve oleation.
आभ्यन्तरहेतुः ( ābhyantarahetuḥ )

Intrinsic cause
Internal factors such as dosha and affected structural components in the body which act as prime causes of disease manifestation when they deviate from the normal stage of equilibrium.
आम, आमावस्था ( āma , āmāvastha )

Ama, a state of incomplete digestion, transformation or metabolism
A transient state of the body wherein the digestive, metabolic processes come to a standstill and do not further transform to end products, by-products or waste products. This standstill leads to various changes in the body such as blockade of channels, excess secretions, unusual accumulation of waste materials, slowing down of movements and catabolic processes. It presents with the following generic symptoms: loss of strength, heaviness, laziness, tastelessness or altered taste, and exhaustion even without physical or mental exertion. The ama phase is an initial stage of almost all disorders, e.g. fever or diarrhoea, which arises due to vitiation of endogenous factors: dosha, fundamental structural components and excretory products. Physiologically, the ama phase denotes early digestion of food in the stomach.
आमजज्वरः ( āmajajvaraḥ )

Fever due to ama, initial stage of fever, ama stage of fever
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: loss of taste; indigestion; heaviness of abdomen; a feeling of precordial fullness; drowsiness/lassitude; lethargy; nonsubsiding fever; hyperpyrexia; suppression of faeces and urine; excessive salivation; nausea; loss of appetite; unpleasant taste in mouth; stiffness of body parts; numbness of limbs; heaviness of body parts; frequent excessive micturition; improperly formed faecal matter; absence of muscle wasting; feeling as if the heart is wrapped; constipation; anhidrosis/lack of sweating; distress/discontent/restlessness; sleepiness; diminution of agni; poor oral hygiene; severe obstruction; exacerbated complications of fever.
आमजतृष्णा/त्रिदोषजतृष्णा ( āmajatṛṣṇā/ tridoṣajatṛṣṇā )

Morbid thirst due to ama
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: abdominal distension; loss of taste; mucus discharge through mouth; spitting; bodily exhaustion or tiredness; pain in cardiac region.
आमपक्वाशयः ( āmapakvāśayaḥ )

Gastrointestinal tract
आमवातः ( āmavātaḥ )

Polyarthitis due to ama
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: generalized body aches; loss of taste; thirst; lethargy; heaviness; fever; indigestion; oedema; heaviness of heart region; weakness; stiffness of whole body. The condition also describes rheumatic fever.
आमशूलः ( āmaśūlaḥ )

Abdominal colic due to āma
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: gurgling intestinal sounds/borborygmi; nausea; vomiting; heaviness; sensation of being wrapped in a wet cloth; borborygmi with distension; excessive salivation; features of kaphaja śula.
आमशोफः ( āmaśophaḥ )

Unripe swelling, pre-pus formation stage.
A disorder characterized by reduced swelling; induration; normal skin coloration; mild pain; hypothermia/mild warmth or cold swelling; stable oedema.
आमाजीर्णम्/कफजाजीर्णम् ( āmājīrṇam/ kaphajājīrṇam )

Indigestion due to sluggish gut motility, vitiation of kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: swelling around the eyes; swelling in the cheek; eructations appear to be of same nature as food; eructations appearing as if had just eaten; excessive salivation; nausea/provocation of dosha; heaviness; non-sour eructations.
आमातिसारः ( āmātisāraḥ )

Diarrhoea due to ama
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: stools of various colours; pain during defecation; stools sink in water; very foul-smelling stool; gurgling intestinal sounds/borborygmi; constipation/abdominal fullness; pain; excessive salivation; split/broken/unformed stools; stools with mucus.
आमातिसारसङ्ग्रहः ( āmātisārasaṅgrahaḥ )

Condition of administering constipating drugs in ama condition of diarrhoea
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: rod-like stiffness; clinical features of alasaka; abdominal distension; grahaṇī; haemorrhoids; oedema; clinical features of pāṇḍu; plīha; skin diseases; palpable glandular enlargement in abdomen/abdominal lump; udara; fever.
आमाशयः, अन्नसंपुटम्, अन्नाशयः ( āmāśayaḥ, annasampuṭam, annāśayaḥ )

Stomach
The primary functional area of kapha and pitta.
आमाशयगतवातः ( āmāśayagatavātaḥ )

Aggravation of vata in stomach
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pain in precordial region/angina pectoris; pain in umbilical region; pain in sides of chest/flanks; pain in abdomen; thirst; eructations; loose motions and vomiting caused by ama; cough; dryness in throat; dryness in mouth; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; vomiting; choking sensation/obstruction of throat; diseases above the umbilicus or nabhi.
आमाशयसमुत्थरोगः ( āmāśayasamuttharogaḥ )

Diseases of the upper gastrointestinal tract
Diseases and conditions which have their origin in the gastroduodenal tract such as dyspepsia and vomiting.
आमाशयस्थ-रुधिरः ( āmāśayastha-rudhiraḥ )

Accumulation of blood in the stomach due to injury
A disorder characterized by vomiting blood/haemetemesis; severe bloating; severe exquisite sharp pain/colic.
आयुः ; धारि ; जीवितम् ; नित्यग ; अनुबन्धः ( āyuḥ; dhāri; jīvitam; nityaga; anubandhaḥ )

Life process, cycle or span
The coalescence of body, sense organs, mind and self that dynamically supports, nourishes and propagates itself despite its eventual disintegration. Ayurveda uses several terms as synonyms for life, based on the different perspectives under which they are understood: 1. Coalescence of body, sense organs, mind, and self; 2. Self-supporting, holding, ability of life to support and preserve itself; 3. Self-sustaining, self-nourishing, journey (of life), duration (of life), ability of life to nourish and sustain itself; 4. Ever moving forward, life’s ability to resist premature death and destruction through dynamic self-adaptation; 5. Uninterrupted succession, sequence, consequence, result, continuing link between past and future life.
आयुर्वेदः ( Āyurvedaḥ )

Ayurveda
Ayurveda is a traditional system of medicine and health care which originated in the Indian subcontinent. The term Ayurveda denotes “knowledge of life”. It is a compound of two words, “ayu” (life) and “veda” (knowledge). The discipline encompasses the physical, psychological, spiritual and social dimensions of life, deals with dynamic concepts of well-being, harmony, health promotion and longevity, and concerns itself with healthy, beneficial and advantageous aspects of human life as well as its unhealthy, deleterious and disadvantageous aspects.
आयुष्यम् ( āyuṣyam )

Lifespan-enhancing
Substances which are beneficial for enhancement of the life span.
आराशस्त्रम् ( ārāśastram )

Sharp-pointed instrument (awl)
A sharp-tipped instrument with a notch at the tip used for piercing.
आर्तवक्षयः ( ārtavakṣayaḥ )

Diminution of menstrual flow; or scanty menstruation
A disorder characterized by irregular menstruation/ metrorrhagia; scanty menstrual flow; pain in vagina.
आर्तवजननम् ( ārtavajananam )

Substance restoring menstrual flow
आर्तवम्, पुष्पम्, अन्तःपुष्पम्, शोणितम्, आर्तवशोणितम्, रज, रजस्रावः ( ārtavam, puṣpam, antaḥpuṣpam, śoṇitam, ārtavaśoṇitam, raja, rajasrāvaḥ )

Menstrual blood
Supportive structural component of primary circulating nutrient fluid (rasa).
आर्तववहस्रोतः ( ārtavavaha-srotaḥ )

Female reproductive system
All channels which are physiologically important in the regulation of the menstrual cycle.
आर्तववहस्रोतोदुष्टिः ( ārtavavahasrotoduṣṭiḥ )

Vitiation of channels carrying menstrual flow
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: excessive or decreased or irregular menstrual flow, uterine prolapse, abortion, infertility.
आर्तववृद्धिः ( ārtavavṛddhiḥ )

Morbid increase of menstrual flow
A disorder characterized by generalized body aches, excessive menstrual bleeding/menorrhagia, bad odour of menses.
आर्तववैषम्यम् ( ārtavavaiṣamyam )

Disorders of menstrual flow
Changes in the quantity and quality of menstruation.
आर्तस्यरोगनुत् ( ārtasyaroganut )

Curative medicine
A medicine which alleviates a patient’s ailments.
आर्त्तववहस्रोतोविद्धः ( ārtavavahasrotoviddhaḥ )

Injury to the channels of the menstrual system
A disorder characterized by sterility; dyspareunia; absence of menstruation.
आलेपः ( ālepaḥ )

External application of paste of moderate thickness
A type of moderately thick ointment or lepa.
आलेपकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( ālepakarma (vraṇacikitsā) )

Therapeutic application Therapeutic application of medicinal pastes depending on the of medicated paste for vitiated dosha. wound management
आलोचकपित्तम् ( ālocaka-pittam )

Pitta for vision
Subtype of pitta seated in the eye which is responsible for visual perception.
आवर्तः (मर्म) ( āvartaḥ (marma) )

Vulnerable location(s) above the eyebrows
Two in number (one on each side) which when injured leads to blindness or impaired vision.
आशयः ( āśayaḥ )

Receptacle
Any organ or group of organs which acts as a container.
आशयापकर्षः ( āśayāpakarṣaḥ )

Displacement of dosha A specific term which represents a pathological phenomenon from its natural seat when vitiated vata dosha forcefully shifts another dosha from its normal seat to another site and gives rise to symptoms.
आशुकारिचिकित्सा ( āśukāricikitsā )

Fast-acting treatment
A rapidly acting treatment such as therapeutic cautery.
आशुकारी ( āśukārī )

Rapidly acting
आश्च्योतन-अपचारः ( āścyotana-apacāraḥ )

Condition due to improper application of eyedrops
आश्च्योतन-अयोगः ( āścyotana-ayogaḥ )

Condition due to suboptimal application of eyedrops
A condition leading to aggravation of the disease.
आश्च्योतनम् ( āścyotanam )

Instillation of eye drops
The instillation of liquid medications in the eye (conjunctival sac).
आश्च्योतनातियोगः ( āścyotanātiyogaḥ )

Condition due to excessive use of eyedrops
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: eyelids becoming hard and causing crepitus; rubbing friction; difficulty in opening the eyelids; contraction of eyelids; pulsating sensation; winking of eyelids; inability to tolerate wind.
आसङ्गिम: ( āsaṅgima )

Lobuloplasty type 4
A type of lobuloplasty indicated when the inner flap of the divided earlobe is long, and the outer flap is almost negligible.
आसन्नप्रसवा ( āsannaprasavaḥ )

Woman nearing the delivery period
The characteristics of this state are excessive salivation and pain.
आसुरकायः ( āsurakāyaḥ )

Person with brave, cruel temperament
The characteristics of the person with a brave, cruel temperament are attaining prosperity, fearfulness or violence, courageousness, angriness, jealousy of others’ progress, eating alone and voraciously.
आसेक्यः ( āsekyaḥ )

Capable of intercourse only after consuming semen
A man who experiences an erection and indulges in coitus after tasting the ejaculatory fluid or semen of another man.
आस्थापनबस्तिः/ निरूहबस्तिः ( āsthāpanabastiḥ/ nirūhabastiḥ )

Therapeutic decoction enema
The therapeutic procedure of administering a medication predominantly by means of a decoction enema.
आस्थापनापचारः/ निरूहबस्त्यपचारः ( āsthāpanāpacāraḥ/ nirūhabastyapacāraḥ )

Condition due to improper administration of decoction enema
आस्यमलः ( āsyamalaḥ )

Mucus of the oral cavity
आहरणकर्म ( āharaṇakarma )

Extraction
An extractive procedure, e.g. for a foreign body.
आहरणकर्म ( āharaṇakarma )

Therapeutic extraction
Therapeutic extraction for wound healing.
आहरणम् ( āharaṇam )

Extraction
The procedure of extracting a foreign body.
आहवः/युध्दः ( āhavaḥ/yudhdaḥ )

Sweating induced by engaging in combat
A type of sudation therapy in which diaphoresis is achieved by fighting or wrestling.
आहारः ( āhāraḥ )

Food
Any substance which is consumed for the purpose of nutrition and energy. It includes all types of food items whether eatable, biteable, drinkable, lickable or chewable.
आहारः ( āhāraḥ )

Food
Food is a substance taken to sustain life and is broadly classified into liquids and solids. Liquids include water, milk, oils, juices and honey; solid foods are classified into cereals, legumes, meat, fruits, vegetables, spices and condiments.
आहारः (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( āhāraḥ (vraṇacikitsā) )

Dietary regime for wound management
Therapeutic dietery regimen prescribed for all patients with wounds (vraṇita).
आहारकल्पना ( āhārakalpanā )

Preparation of food and beverages
आहारद्रव्ययोजनम् ( āhāradravyayojanam )

Administration of foods
Administration of a proper diet for the management of diseases.
आहारपरिणामकरभावः ( The six factors facilitating digestion and their attributes are: āhāra pariṇāma 1. heat which digests; 2.air which absorbs; 3. moisture which karabhāvaḥ loosens; 4. unctuousness which softens; 5. time which brings sufficiency; and 6. balanced use of the eight factors for selecting wholesome food in order to maintain equilibrium of structural components and factors supporting the body (tissue). )

Factors facilitating digestion
आहारमिथ्यायोगः ( āhāramithyāyogaḥ )

Disorder due to abnormal food intake
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: syncope or swooning; diarrhoea; vomiting; thirst; colicky pain in abdomen; giddiness or dizziness; cramps; yawning; generalized body aches; dryness of mouth; excessive talking/irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; sunken eyes; severe headache; severe pain in cardiac region; contraction of blood vessels; stiffening of vessels; stasis of flow; impairment of agni; stiffness of sides of chest; stiffness of back; stiffness of lower back; burning sensation; discoloration; insanity; tremors; pain in precordial region/ angina pectoris; headache; borborygmi with distension; rigidity/stiffness; fever; feeling of heaviness in body; impediment of speech/dysphasia; spitting/excessive expectoration; loss of taste; excessive salivation; bodily exhaustion or tiredness/inability to perform physical activities; indigestion; fever with chills; lethargy.
आहारयोगिवर्गः ( āhārayogivargaḥ )

Group of food adjuvants
The group of food adjuvants such as types of oil, dry ginger, long pepper (pippali), asafoetida or rock salt.
आहाररसः ( āhārarasaḥ )

Chyle
The nourishing part of food which forms the primary circulating nutrient fluid (primary product of digestion), under the action of transformative factors in the gastrointestinal tract following digestion.
आहारवर्गः ( āhāravargaḥ )

Categories of food
आहारविधिविशेषायतनम् ( āhāravidhiviśeṣāyatanam )

Eight factors for selecting wholesome foods
The eight factors for selecting wholesome food are: nature of the food item, processing, combination, amount, region, season and age, rules for consumption and the person consuming the food.
आहारवैषम्यम् ( āhāravaiṣamyam )

Disorders due to unwholesome diet
आहारस्वरूपभेदः ( āhārasvarūpabhedaḥ )

Varieties of food
Classification of food items based on their mode of eating or consumption.
आहार्य: ( āhārya )

Lobuloplasty type 6
A type of lobuloplasty indicated when both flaps of the divided earlobe are absent and the whole lobule is reconstructed.
इक्षुवर्गः ( ikṣuvargaḥ )

Group of sugarcane derivatives
The group of substances derived from sugarcane such as sugarcane juice, jaggery and sugar.
इक्षुवालिकामेहः ( ikṣuvālikāmehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with urine resembling sugar-cane juice (glycosuria)
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: excessive sweet urination; elimination of cold urine; elimination of slightly sticky urine; turbid urination; elimination of urine resembling sugarcane juice.
इच्छा ( icchā )

Desire, craving
The direct cause of action that seeks pleasure.
इन्द्रबस्तिः (मर्म) ( indrabastiḥ (marma) )

Vulnerable location(s) in the calf muscles
Four in number (one in each limb) which when injured causes severe bleeding leading to death.
इन्द्रलुप्तः, रुह्या ( indraluptaḥ/ rūhyā )

Morbid baldness affecting scalp hair
A disorder characterized by hair loss; absence of hair regrowth in same area.
इन्द्रविद्धा ( indraviddhā )

Skin lesions with many small central vesicles resembling lotus fruit seeds
A disorder characterized by a conglomeration of numerous papular lesions resembling the carpellary, receptacle and seed capsules of lotus flower.
इन्द्रियम्, अक्षम् ( indriyam, akṣam )

The motor or sensory faculty
A term that usually refers to the sense organs.
इन्द्रियान्तर-सञ्चारः ( indriyāntara-sañcāraḥ )

Trans-sense migration
The rapid conjugation of mind with the sensory or motor organs.
इरिवेल्लिका ( irivellikā )

Round skin lesions on scalp
A disorder characterized by occurrence of a lesion associated with fever; popular lesion in supraclavicular region; circular lesion; papular lesion associated with severe pain.
ईर्ष्याभिरति/ईर्ष्यकः ( īrṣyābhirati/īrṣyakaḥ )

Scopophilia or voyeurism
An individual who derives sexual gratification from observing the sexual activities of others.
उखा ( ukhā )

Infraclavicular fossa
उच्छ्वासः ( ucchvāsaḥ )

Expiration
उच्छ्वासमार्गः ( ucchvāsamārgaḥ )

Respiratory tract
The pathway for inhaled and exhaled air which extends from the external nares to the alveoli.
उण्डुकः, पोट्टलकः ( uṇḍukaḥ, poṭṭalakaḥ )

Caecum
उत्कर्तनम् (विषोपक्रमः) ( utkartanam (viṣopakramaḥ)

Incision above poisoned site
A small incision made proximal to the bite site to evacuate poisoned blood and prevent further spreading of the poison.
उत्कारिकाकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( utkārikākarma (vraṇacikitsā) )

Application of therapeutic warm poultice for wound management
A therapeutic warm poultice resembling a sweet dumpling.
उत्क्लिष्टदोष; मन्दाग्नेर आस्थापनस्य व्यापदः ( utkliṣṭadoṣa; mandāgnera āsthāpanasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition caused by medicated decoction enema administered to person with aggravated dosha
A condition characterized by a severe type of anorexia.
उत्क्षेपः (मर्म) ( utkṣepaḥ (marma) )

Vulnerable location(s) above the temples
Two in number which when injured by a foreign body may lead to death if it is removed.
उत्तमशुद्धिः ( uttamaśuddhiḥ )

Optimal cleansing
Achievement of an adequate degree of dosha evacuation during cleansing therapy.
उत्तमा ( uttamā )

Red boil resembling green gram or black gram in size on the penis
A disease of the penis characterized by a lesion resembling māṣa; lesion resembling mudga; reddish-coloured eruptions.
उत्तरगुदम् ( uttaragudam )

Rectum
उत्तरदन्तः, ऊर्ध्वदन्तपङ्क्तिः ( uttaradantaḥ, ūrdhvadantapaṅktiḥ )

Teeth in the upper jaw
उत्तरबस्ति ( uttarabasti )

Intrauterine instillation of medicated liquids
The procedure of controlled, slow instillation of medicated liquids into the uterine cavity.
उत्तरबस्तिः ( uttarabastiḥ )

Administration of therapeutic fluid via vaginal or urethral route
A procedure in which medicated oil, ghee or a decoction is administered via the vaginal or urethral route.
उत्तरबस्तिकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( uttarabastikarma (vraṇacikitsā) )

Intraurethral douching Intraurethral administration of a decoction or oily emulsion for for wound management urethral and bladder wound management.
उत्तरम् ( uttaram )

Rejoinder
The response or reply to a challenge or objection.
उत्तराधरविभागः ( uttarādhara-vibhāgaḥ )

Superior-inferior division
An arbitrary division of the body into superior (cranial) and inferior (caudal) parts for descriptive purposes.
उत्तरौष्ठः ( uttarauṣṭhaḥ )

Upper lip
उत्तान-वातरक्तम् ( uttāna-vātaraktam )

Superficial polyarthritis due to vitiated vata and blood
Multiple joint pain, itching; burning sensation; feeling of stretching; pricking pain; pulsating sensation; contraction; brownish black discoloration of skin; coppery discoloration on exterior of skin; reddish discoloration of skin.
उत्थापनम् ( utthāpanam )

Reviving of mercury
उत्पलभेदकः ( utpalabhedakaḥ )

Lobuloplasty type 2
A type of lobuloplasty indicated when both flaps of the divided earlobe are circular, wide and equal.
उत्पलशस्त्रम् ( utpalaśastram )

Lotus petal-shaped scalpel
A surgical instrument with a blade resembling a lotus petal.
उत्पातः ( utpātaḥ )

Inflammation of ear lobule
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: inflammation; burning sensation; inflammation/suppuration; painful; swelling over ear lobe; vesicular eruptions on ear lobe; papules/eruptions on karṇapāli; redness of ear lobe; burning sensation in ear lobe; sodden appearance of ear lobe; bluish-black swelling over ear lobe; pain in ear lobe; burning sensation in ear lobe; suppuration of ear lobe.
उत्पादकहेतुः ( utpādakahetuḥ )

Originating cause of disease
An etiological factor that acts as the direct cause in the initiation of a disease by promoting the accumulation of the respective dosha.
उत्पिष्ट-सन्धिमुक्तम् ( utpiṣṭa-sandhimuktam )

Fracture- dislocation
Fracture with dislocation is characterized by swelling around the joints; pain increasing at night; swelling on both sides; onset of various types of pain at night.
उत्सङ्गिनी ( utsaṅginī )

Hordeolum internum (stye)
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: an inward-pointing boil; external swellling; occurring under eyelid; reddish papules/eruptions; covered with similar boils; hard; mild pain; discharge similar to spilled contents of chicken egg; large, raised boil on the outer surface of eyelid with itching; coppery red boil on the outer surface of eyelid but opening inwards.
उत्सादनकर्म ( utsādanakarma )

Granulationpromoting measures
Procedure for promoting granulation tissue in a wound.
उत्सादनम् ( utsādanam )

Therapeutic powderoil massage
A procedure characterized by rubbing a mixture prepared from coarse powder and oil (or other unctuous liquid substances).
उत्साहः ( utsāhaḥ )

Enthusiasm
उदककुम्भस्थापन ( udakakumbhasthāpana )

Placing a water pot (near head)
A ceremony in the care of a newborn baby in which a pot filled with water is kept near the baby’s head.
उदकपायना ( udakapāyanā )

Tempering of sharp surgical instruments with water
The tempering of surgical instruments in water.
उदकमेहः ( udakamehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with urine resembling water (hydruria)
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: transparent clear urination; profuse urination; whitish/colourless urination; cold urination; painless micturition; occasionally turbid or sticky urine.
उदकवहस्रोतः,अम्बुवहस्रोतः, अम्बुमार्गः ( Udakavahasrotaḥ, ambuvahasrotaḥ, ambumārgaḥ )

Channel, pathway for fluid circulation
Pathways which refer to water balance in the body.
उदकवहस्रोतोदुष्टिः ( udakavahasrotoduṣṭiḥ )

Vitiation of channels carrying water
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: dryness of tongue; palate; lips; throat; and kloma region and excess thirst (udakavahasrotoduṣṭiḥ).
उदकवहस्रोतोविद्धः ( udakavahasrotoviddhaḥ )

Injury to the watercarrying channels
उदरपार्श्वम् ( udarapārśvam )

Sides of abdomen
उदरमर्म, कोष्ठमर्म ( Udaramarma, koṣṭhamarma )

Vulnerable location(s) in the abdomen
Marma located in the abdomen.
उदरम्, कुक्षिः, जठरम् ( udaram, kukṣiḥ, jaṭharam )

Abdomen
उदररोगः ( udararogaḥ )

Generalized abdominal enlargement due to ascites or other localized reason
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: bodily exhaustion or tiredness/inability to perform physical activities; abdominal distension; inability to walk; drowsiness/lassitude; burning sensation; diminution of agni; sluggish passage of faeces; weakness; retention of flatus; oedema; gurgling intestinal sounds/borborygmi; pedal oedema; oedema in hands; diminution of agni; shiny and glossy cheeks; dryness of palate; dryness of lips; inability to do physical work; loss of strength; inability to take/digest food; emaciated/thin/malnourished; swollen abdomen; person resembling a dead body.
उदरोरःसन्धानम् ( udaroraḥsandhānam )

Thoracoabdominal junction
उदर्दः ( udardaḥ )

Kapha-predominant urticaria
A skin disease characterized by lesions resembling an insect/ wasp sting; itching; severe pricking type of pain; vomiting; fever; internal burning sensation; oedematous lesions appearing on the skin; dominance of kapha dosha; raised lesions; redness/congestion; itching; circular patches; internal burning sensation.
उदश्वित् ( udaśvit )

Thick buttermilk
A type of buttermilk prepared by churning curd with half the amount of water.
उदानः ( udānaḥ )

Ascending vata
Subtype of vata seated in the chest region which extends from the umbilical region to the neck or throat. Its functions include effort, strength, governing the voice and speech production.
उदानवातकोपः ( udānavātakopaḥ )

Aggravation of ascending vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: symptoms of throat obstruction (choking or difficulty in speaking); mental disturbance; vomiting; loss of taste; cold catarrh; glandular swelling in the jaw, neck or throat region or goitre; diseases of body above the collar bone or head and neck.
उदावर्तः ( udāvartaḥ )

Disorders of reversed or altered visceral movement
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: retention of faeces; retention of flatus or vata; obstruction to passage of urine/retention; pain in bladder; precordial pain/cardiac pain; pain in abdomen/lumbar- hypogastric region; pain in sides of chest/flanks; abdominal distension; nausea; cutting type of pain in anal region; pricking pain; indigestion; oedema in urinary bladder region; constipation; lump/nodule in abdomen; upward movement of eructations or vata; painful or hurt anus; painful ejaculation; delayed ejaculation; body becoming harsh/rough; becoming dry; becoming cold; fever; dysuria; dysentery; heart diseases; disorders of lower gastrointestinal tract; vomiting; blindness; deafness/hearing impairment; burning sensation in head; bloating of abdomen; hypertrophy of prostate gland; mental disorders/diseases of manas; thirst; bleeding disorders; loss of taste; palpable glandular enlargement in abdomen/ abdominal lump; cough; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; cold catarrh; facial paralysis; pain in sides of chest/flanks; dreadful diseases of vāta.
उदावर्ता वमनस्य व्यापदः ( udāvartā vamanasya vyapadaḥ )

Condition caused by A condition characterized by suppression of natural urges; emetic therapy quicker death of patient. administered to person with abnormal peristalsis
उदाहरणम् ( udāharaṇam )

Categorical examples
An illustration or example which can be understood by both expert and lay person.
उदुम्बरकुष्ठः/पैत्तिककुष्ठः ( udumbarakuṣṭhaḥ/ paittikakuṣṭhaḥ )

Skin disease with lesions resembling fig fruit
A skin disease characterized by coppery-coloured lesions; copper-coloured nails; covered with copper-coloured hairs; copious discharges; excessive pus discharge; excessive bloody discharge; excessive watery discharge; thick pus discharge; thick bloody discharge; thick watery discharge; itching; moistening/soddening; wheal-like skin eruptions; burning sensation; inflammation/suppuration; rapidly spreading; rapid onset; sudden onset of complications; associated with heat; associated with infection/infestations; resembling ripe udumbaraḥ fruit; with whitish veins; painful; sudden opening/bursting of lesion/wound; redness/ congestion; tawny brownish-coloured hairs.
उद्गारग्रहः ( udgāragrahaḥ )

Disorder due to suppression of belching
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: hiccups; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; loss of taste; tremors; choking sensation of heart; choking sensation in chest; abdominal distension; cough; diseases of vāta.
उद्गारनिग्रहज-उदावर्तः ( udgāranigrahaja-udāvartaḥ )

Disorders of reversed or altered visceral movement due to suppression of eructation
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: severe diseases due to vata; feeling of fullness in throat; severe pricking pain; feeling of fullness in mouth; gurgling intestinal sounds; cessation of passage of vata.
उद्घर्षणम् ( udgharṣaṇam )

Manual massage in specified direction with coarse powder
A massage procedure involving application of a coarse medicinal powder against the direction of body hair.
उद्देशः ( uddeśaḥ )

Concise statement
A concise statement or summary account of a specific topic.
उद्धरणकर्म ( uddharaṇakarma )

Extraction of foreign body
An extraction procedure to remove a foreign body
उद्धारः ( uddhāraḥ )

Consolidating an opinion by refuting other hypotheses
Reaffirming a statement by refuting contrary views from other sources.
उद्भिजः ( udbhijaḥ )

Telluric creatures
Smaller creatures which sprout from the earth or dwell underneath mud, e.g. frogs.
उद्वर्तनम् ( udvartanam )

Massage with medicated herbal powder
A therapeutic massage procedure using powders.
उन्नमनकर्म ( unnmanakarma )

Elevation
A therapeutic measure in which recessed parts are lifted upwards.
उन्मथकः ( unmathakaḥ )

Painless oedema of ear lobule
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: its association with itching; rigid swelling; painless swelling.
उन्मथनकर्म ( unmathanakarma )

Extraction by twisting or stirring
An extraction procedure to remove an impacted foreign body.
उन्मर्दनम् ( unmardanam )

Manual massage in ascending direction
A therapeutic massage of the body parts with gentle strokes applied in the ascending direction with the masseur’s palms.
उन्मादः ( unmādaḥ )

Psychosis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a confused state of mind; altered state of judgement; altered consiousness/peripheral sensations; altered memory; altered desire/likings; impaired character; agitated activities; impaired behaviour; confused intellect; fickleness of mind; perplexed appearance; restlessness; incoherent speech; loneliness/lack of alertness; feeling of pain in body; feeling of happiness in body; undertaking activities without any forethought; sudden lack of happiness; sudden lack of sorrow; sudden loss of righteous things; sudden loss of nonrighteous things; wandering abruptly.
उन्मार्गगामीभगन्दरः/ शल्यजन्यभगन्दरः/ क्षतजभगन्दरः ( unmārgagāmībhagandaraḥ/ śalyajanyabhagandaraḥ/ kṣatajabhagandaraḥ )

Anal fistula formed due to foreign body
A fistula characterized by putrefaction of muscle associated with pus and blood; resembling worms generated in moist soil; microorganisms damaging soft tissue of anal region; gases; urine; faeces and semen emanating from the tracts created by microorganisms.
उन्मेषः ( unmeṣaḥ )

Opening of eyelid
उन्मेषिणीसिरा ( Unmeṣiṇīsirā )

Nerves involved in eyelid opening
उपकुशः ( upakuśaḥ )

Suppurative gingivitis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a burning sensation in gums; suppuration of gums; loosening of teeth; discharge of blood on forceful touching; dull aching pain; swelling in gums with blood oozing; foul smell in mouth; reddish/inflamed gums; itching in gums; bleeding from gums; swollen gums after bleeding.
उपक्रमः ( upakramaḥ )

Treatment protocol
The therapeutic measures taken to counter the disease state. Synonym of treatment.
उपचयः ( upacayaḥ )

Anabolism
Effect of a substance which acts as anabolic and promotes growth.
उपजिह्विका ( upajihvikā )

Palatine tonsil
उपजिह्विका ( upajihvikā )

Ranula or cystic swelling of tongue
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a swelling on the upper surface of the tongue; burning sensation; inflammation/suppuration; redness/ congestion; swelling at tip of tongue; elevation of tongue; causing excessive salivation; associated with itching; burning sensation; suddenly generating oedema at base of tongue.
उपदंशः ( upadaṃśaḥ )

Sexually transmitted penile inflammation
A disorder characterized by painful or burning micturition, discharge of pus in urine, also associated with urethral swelling e.g. gonorrhoea.
उपदेशः ( upadeśaḥ )

Authoritative instruction
An instruction or injunction from a reliable and reputed authority in the field.
उपद्रवः ( upadravaḥ )

Complication
A factor, event or condition complicating a disease or condition.
उपद्रवरोग ( upadravaroga )

Disease complication(s)
The consequences or complications of a disease or condition.
उपद्रवविरेचनव्यापत् ( upadravavirecanavyāpat )

Condition due to faulty purgative therapy
A condition characterized by a serious form of stiffness; severe pains all over the body; loss of consciousness.
उपधातुः ( upadhātuḥ )

Supportive structural component
Supportive structural components; formed from the fundamental structural components; they do not undergo further transformation: breast milk, menstrual blood, tendons, tubular structures of the body, muscle fat, skin and sinews.
उपधानम् (विषोपक्रमः) ( upadhānam (viṣopakramaḥ) )

Scalp incision to remove poison
Incision on scalp for removing poison.
उपनखम् ( upanakham )

Nail fold
उपनयः ( upanayaḥ )

Application of proof
Applying the logic of the proposed example to arrive at a definite conclusion.
उपनासिकासिरा, औपनासिक्यसिरा ( upanāsikā-sirā, aupanāsikya-sirā )

Angular vein
उपनाहः ( upanāhaḥ )

Marginal chalazion, lacrimal cyst
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a swelling in dṛṣṭisandhiḥ; large swelling; nonsuppurative swelling; associated with itching; painless; sharp-tipped swelling; resembling bubble of alkali; broadbased swelling; smooth/unctuous/oily; body-coloured swelling; soft swelling; slimy swelling; excessive swelling.
उपनाहकर्म ( upanāhakarma )

Application of poultice
Therapeutic application of a poultice over the wound.
उपनाहकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( upanāhakarma (vraṇacikitsā) )

Poultice application
Application of a poultice prepared with medications to treat inflammatory swellings or cellulitis.
उपमानः ( upamānaḥ )

Analogy
A Sanskrit term which literally means “comparison”; the fourth of the five means (pramaṇa) by which valid cognition of the world is possible.
उपयन्त्रम् ( upayantram )

Accessory surgical instruments
Instruments and objects used as accessories or adjuncts for prescribed surgical instruments.
उपरत्नम् ( uparatnam )

Subsidiary gems
Group of subsidiary gems, precious stones for medicinal usage.
उपरसः ( uparasaḥ )

Group of subsidiary substances used in the processing of mercury
A group of subsidiary substances of mineral and plant origin (subsidiary to the superior minerals) which are complementary to the superior elements in the processing of mercury: gandhaka, gairika, kasisa, kamkshi/sphatika, haritalam, manahshila, anjanam and kankushtam.
उपवासः ( upavāsaḥ )

Mindful restriction of food intake
A type of therapeutic ritual: treatment of a disease by adhering to therapeutic mindful or intermittent fasting.
उपविषम् ( upaviṣam )

Mild-potency poison
A group of poisonous substances of mild potency such as Strychnos nux-vomica L.
उपवेशनसंस्कारः ( upaveśanasaṁskāraḥ )

Sitting ceremony for child
A ceremony usually performed in the fifth or sixth month in which the baby sits for the first time
उपशयः ( upaśayaḥ )

Differential diagnosis upheld by positive treatment response
Signs and symptoms of improvement signifying alleviation of the disease or condition.
उपशयभेदः ( upaśayabhedaḥ )

Types of therapeutic diagnosis
Different categories of alleviating factor used in the trial-anderror method of diagnosis.
उपस्थाता ( upasthātā )

Attendants, paramedics
An attendant or paramedic is expected to have the following qualities: to be kind-hearted (anurakta), pure in mind, thoughts and action (shuci), skilled (daksha) and intelligent (buddhiman).
उपस्थितगर्भा ( upasthitagarbhaḥ )

First phase of pregnancy
The characteristic of this state is pain.
उपस्थितप्रसवा ( upasthitaprasavaḥ )

Woman about to give birth
The characteristics of this state are pain in the entire back region; frequent defecation; urination; a frothy vaginal discharge.
उपहारः ( upahāraḥ )

Offerings to deity including animal sacrifice
A type of therapeutic ritual: treatment of a disease whereby an animal is offered to the deity to cure the ailment.
उपाङ्गः ( upāṅgaḥ )

A subsidiary body part
उपायः ( upāyaḥ )

Ailment-countering stratagem, means of action
A word meaning excellence, goodness or skilfulness: it is often applied to the physician and the justness of any chosen therapy or means of action.
उपालम्भः ( upālambhaḥ )

Abusive argument
Arguing with the sole intention of finding fault with an opponent’s statement.
उभयहेतुः ( ubhayahetuḥ )

Causes which aggravate dosha and disease-specific causes
Factors which not only aggravate a particular dosha but also give rise to a particular disease or condition; causes affecting both mind and body.
उभयार्थकारिचिकित्सा ( ubhayārthakāricikitsā )

Treatment antagonistic to cause and disease
One of the threefold classifications of treatment antagonist to both the cause and disease.
उरः, वक्षः ( uraḥ, vakṣaḥ )

Chest
उरःकोष्ठः ( uraḥkoṣṭhaḥ )

Thoracic cavity
उरःक्षतजन्यराजयक्ष्मा ( uraḥkṣatajanyarājayakṣmā )

Consumption due to chest trauma
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: blood discharge from traumatic chest or pulmonary trauma; pus discharge from traumatic chest or pulmonary trauma; mucus discharge from traumatic chest/ pulmonary trauma; yellowish expectoration while coughing; expectoration of blood while coughing; blackish expectorant while coughing; reddish brown-coloured expectorant while coughing; chest feeling warm/hot; fainting due to excessive pain; foul odour from mouth/hallitosis; foul odour from breath; altered colour/complexion of body; hoarseness of voice.
उरःफलकः ( uraḥphalakaḥ )

Sternum
उरोग्रीवम् ( urogrīvam )

Thorax and neck
उरोमर्म ( Uromarma )

Vulnerable location(s) in the chest
Marma located in the chest.
उलूखलसन्धिः ( ulūkhalasandhiḥ )

Ball and socket joint
उल्वम् ( ulvam )

Birthing custard, vernix caseosa
उष्ट्रग्रीवभगन्दरः/ पित्तजभगन्दरः ( uṣṭragrīvabhagandaraḥ/ pittajabhagandaraḥ )

Anal fistula with orifice resembling a camel’s neck, transsphincteric fistula
A fistula in the anal tissues characterized by a red-coloured nodule; small nodule; raised nodule; sucking type of pain; excessive burning in wound (resembling a fire); burning sensation similar to chemical cautery; foul smell; discharge which is not cold; flatus; urine; faeces and semen oozing from openings if left untreated; red eruptions in the anal region; rapidly suppurating; warm and foul-smelling discharge.
उष्णः ( uṣṇaḥ )

Hotness
The quality of a substance which is responsible for promoting sweating, softening or ripening (paka).
उष्णजल-शिरःस्नानः ( uṣṇajala-śiraḥsnānaḥ )

Disorder due to head bath with hot water
A disorder characterized by loss of hair strength; loss of eye strength.
उष्णवातः, उष्णमारुतः ( uṣṇavātaḥ, uṣṇamārutaḥ )

Dysuria due to heat exhaustion
A disorder characterized by diminution of urine quantity, difficulty in micturition; pain; burning sensation; reddish urine; burning sensation in the urinary bladder; burning sensation in the penile region; burning sensation in anus; yellowish discoloration of urine; haematuria; urine consisting of frank blood; passing urine with difficulty; passing urine repeatedly/ frequent micturition.
उष्णवीर्य-द्रव्यातियोगः / आग्नेय-द्रव्यातियोगः ( uṣṇavīrya-dravyātiyogaḥ / āgneya-dravyātiyogaḥ )

Disorder due to excess intake of food able to increase heat in body or increase pitta
उष्णसदनम् ( uṣṇasadanam )

Sweating induced by sitting in a warm room
A type of sudation therapy in which diaphoresis is achieved by sitting in a warm room.
ऊरु ( ūru )

Thigh
ऊरुपिण्डिका ( ūrupiṇḍikā )

Quadricipital prominence
ऊरुमूलम् ( ūrumūlam )

Inguinal region
That part of thigh just below the inguinal region.
ऊरुमूलम् ( ūrumūlam )

Inguinal region
That part of thigh just below the inguinal region.
ऊरुस्तम्भः ( ūrustambhaḥ )

Stiff thighs with loss of sensation
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: severe tiredness of calf muscles; severe tiredness of thighs; slight burning; slight pain; pain on stepping; inability to perceive cold touch; inability to stand; inability to tolerate pressure; inability/difficulty in walking; inability to move; feeling as if thighs are broken; feeling as if legs are broken; stiffness of thigh; loss of sensation in thigh; thigh feeling as if it belongs to someone else; heaviness of thigh; severe frequent pain; insensibility/meditatitve appearance; generalized body aches; sensation of being covered with a wet cloth; drowsiness/lassitude; vomiting; loss of taste; fever; feeling of weakness of feet/legs; difficulty in raising/lifting legs; numbness.
ऊर्जस्करः ( ūrjaskaraḥ )

Health-promoting, immune enhancer
Therapies or medicines which promote excellence of the body tissues in a healthy person.
ऊर्ध्वकायः ( ūrdhvakāyaḥ )

Upper half of the body
The upper half of the body, above the waist.
ऊर्ध्वग-अम्लपित्तम् ( ūrdhvaga-amlapittam )

Type of hyperacidity with major symptoms manifesting above umbilical region
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: green-coloured vomitus; yellow-coloured vomitus; blue-coloured vomitus; black-coloured vomitus; vomitus mixed with blood; vomitus looking like blood; very sour vomitus; vomitus resembling meat washings; excessively slimy vomitus; watery/clear vomitus; vomitus with various tastes; acrid and sour vomitus during the digestion of food;/ with indigestion; acrid and sour vomitus on empty stomach; acrid and sour eructations; burning sensation in throat; burning sensation in precordial/cardiac region; burning sensation in epigastrium/abdomen; headache; burning sensation in palm; burning sensation in sole; warmth; excessive anorexia/loss of taste; fever; itching all over body; circular eruptions all over body; papular rash all over body; diseases all over the body.
ऊर्ध्वगक्तपित्त वमनस्य व्यपदः ( ūrdhvagaraktapitta vamanasya vyapadaḥ )

Condition caused by emetic therapy administered to person with epistaxis, haematemesis
ऊर्ध्वजत्रु ( ūrdhvajatru )

Head and neck
That part of the body above the clavicle.
ऊर्ध्वताबस्तिव्यापत् ( ūrdhvatābastivyāpat )

Condition of excessive upward movement of gas due to faulty enema therapy
ऊर्ध्वत्रिकम् ( ūrdhvatrikam )

Shoulder girdle
The area formed by the neck and both shoulders; the point at which the appendicular skeletal elements of the upper body meet the axial skeleton.
ऊर्ध्वपातनम् ( ūrdhvapātanam )

Sublimation of mercury
ऊर्ध्ववातः ( ūrdhvavātaḥ )

Upward movement of vata
A disorder characterized by excessive belchings/eructations.
ऊर्ध्ववातास्थापितानुवासित वमनस्य व्यपदः ( ūrdhvavātāsthāpitānuvāsita vamanasya vyapadaḥ )

Condition caused by emetic therapy administered to person with upward movement of vata
A condition characterized by excessive upward movement of vata.
ऊर्ध्वश्वासः ( ūrdhvaśvāsaḥ )

Shallow breathing
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: not being able to breathe deeply with shallow breathing only; eyes turning upwards/upward gaze; eyerolling in all directions; fainting; severe pain; dryness of mouth/whitishness of mouth; severe distress/discontent/ restlessness; deep breathing hampered due to shortness of breath; distress leading to death; obstructed/suffocated voice.
ऊर्ध्वाङ्गम् ( ūrdhvāṅgam )

Head
ऊर्वस्थि, ऊरुनालकम् ( ūrvasthi, ūrunalakam )

Femur
ऊर्वी (मर्म) ( ūrvī (marma)

Vulnerable location(s) in the femoral vessels near mid-thigh
Four in number (one in each limb) which when injured causes wasting of limb due to bleeding.
ऊर्वीसिरा ( ūrvīsirā )

Femoral vessels
ऊहः ( ūhaḥ )

Conjecture
The process of speculating about the possible or likely occurrence of an event.
ऊह्यम् ( ūhyam )

Extrapolation
An inference about a conjectured situation through reasoning and by analysis of statements.
ऋजुग्रन्थिः ( ṛjugranthiḥ )

Interrupted suture
A simple individual suture, opposite of a continuous suture.
ऋजूकरणकर्म ( ṛjūkaraṇakarma )

Straightening
A therapeutic procedure aimed at rectifying a deviated fracture.
ऋतुः ( ṛtuḥ )

Time equivalent to two months
Time equal to 2 lunar months or 60 days.
ऋतुकालचर्या-वैषम्यम् ( ṛtukālacaryā-vaiṣamyam )

Disorder due to an improper seasonal regimen
ऋतुचर्या ( ṛtucaryā )

Seasonal routine
Routine pertaining to diet, daily activities and periodical cleansing which is customized for each season of the year.
ऋतुमतिः ( ṛtumatiḥ )

Women during optimum period for conception
The characteristics of this state are an enlarged, bulky face; pleasant face; pleasant state of mind; moist face or mouth; moist teeth; desire for male companionship; fondness for stories or chatting; relaxed or loose abdomen; relaxed eyes; relaxed mind; flickering of arms; quivering of breasts; quivering in pelvis; quivering in umbilical region; quivering in thighs; quivering in pelvic region; quivering in hips; excitement; curiosity; emaciated face.
ऋतुशोधनम् ( ṛtuśodhanam )

Seasonal cleansing
ऋतुसन्धिः ( ṛtusandhiḥ )

Transition period between two seasons
The transitional period between two seasons; it includes the last week of the ending season and first week of the beginning season. The regimen of the ending season has to be discontinued gradually even as the regimen of the new season is introduced gradually.
ऋषिकायः ( ṛṣikāyaḥ )

Person with scholarly, religious temperament
The characteristics of the person with a scholarly, religious temperament are performing and mentally repeating a sacred name and fasting, observing vows, practising celibacy, performing oblations, studying extensively, possessing knowledge and erudition.
ऋष्यजिह्वकः ( ṛṣyajihvakaḥ )

Skin disease with lesions resembling the tongue of an antelope
A skin disease characterized by lesions resembling an antelope tongue; rough/dry; slightly reddish-coloured; blackish inside-out; bluish tinge; yellowish tinge; coppery tinge; rapidly spreading; rapid onset; minimal itching; minimal discharge from lesion; minimal infections/infestations; excessive burning sensation; severe splitting type of pain; excessive pricking pain; pain as if pierced with bristles; raised mid-part of lesion; thin margins; covered with rough eruptions; large circular patch; rough.
एककुष्ठः ( ekakuṣṭhaḥ )

Skin disease with lesions resembling fish scales
A skin disease characterized by anhidrosis/lack of sweating; broad-based; resembling the scales of a fish.
एकत्व ( ekatva )

Singularity
Oneness or singularity (monism), in which no other entity can supplant the role of mind or psyche (manas) in the body.
एकवृन्दः ( ekavṛndaḥ )

Cystic growth in throat
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a rounded swelling; raised swelling; burning sensation; itching and swelling inside the throat; nonsuppurating; soft swelling in throat; heavy swelling in throat.
एकशेफक्षीरपानम् ( ekaśephakṣīrapānam )

Disorder due to excess intake of milk from single-hoofed animals (horse, donkey, etc.)
A disorder characterized by extreme heat; dullness/frigidity/ inactivity; light in nature; relives vāta in śākha; salty and sour.
एकान्तः ( ekāntaḥ )

Definite conclusion
A statement which is absolute and not modified by its context.
एषणकर्म ( eṣaṇakarma )

Probing
A procedure to determine the direction, extent and branchings of a sinus or fistula.
एषणकर्म ( eṣaṇakarma )

Probing
The procedure of exploring a tract for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes.
एषणकर्म ( eṣaṇakarma )

Probing procedure
Therapeutic or diagnostic procedure of probing.
एषणीशस्त्रम् ( eṣaṇīśastram )

Sharp probe
A pointed sharp instrument used for probing or draining.
ओजक्षयः ( ojakṣayaḥ )

Diminution of ojas
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: fear; loss of physical strength or weakness; constant thinking; distressed sense organs/sense organs not able to perform properly; diminished complexion; lack of mental strength; dryness; feeling wasted/dried up/emaciated; syncope or swooning; extreme wasting of muscles/diminution of muscle mass; confusion/delirium; excessive talking/ irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; death.
ओजस् ( ojas )

Ojas
The essence of seven fundamental structural components: vital for life, providing strength and resistance to disease and supporting mental function.
ओजोविस्रंसः ( ojovisramsaḥ )

Dislodgement of ojas
A disorder characterized by loosening/dislocation of joints; bodily exhaustion or tiredness; depletion of dosha; diminished activities of both body and mind.
ओजोवृद्धिः ( ojovṛddhiḥ )

Excess formation of ojas
ओजोवैषम्यम् ( ojovaiṣamyam )

Disproportion of ojas
ओजोव्यापत् ( ojovyāpat )

Derangement of ojas
A disorder characterized by stiffness of body; heaviness of limbs; swelling caused by vāta; discoloration of skin; fatigued mind and body; drowsiness/lassitude; sleep.
ओदनम् ( odanam )

Cooked rice
It is prepared with 5 parts water to one part rice and boiling until the rice becomes soft.
ओषधिः ( oṣadhiḥ )

Herb
ओषधी ( oṣadhī )

A plant which withers after fructification
A plant which perishes after bearing fruit or being harvested such as annual herbs like paddy, pulses, wheat or maize.
ओष्ठः, दशनच्छदौ ( oṣṭhaḥ, daśanacchadau )

Lip
ओष्ठकण्ठजिह्वाप्रमार्जनम् ( oṣṭhakaṇṭhajihvāpramārjanam )

Clearing of lips, buccal cavity and throat
Cleaning and unblocking of the oral cavity and throat in neonatal resuscitation and general care.
ओष्ठरोगः ( oṣṭharogaḥ )

Disorders of lips
ओष्ठसन्धानविधिः ( oṣṭhasandhānavidhiḥ )

Cleft lip repair
The surgical correction of cleft lip.
औद्भिदजलम् ( audbhidajalam )

Spring water
Water which arises naturally from the earth.
औद्भिदम् ( audbhidam )

Drugs of plant origin
औद्भिदलवणम् ( audbhidalavaṇam )

Reh or earthen salt
औपसर्गिकतृष्णा ( aupasargikatṛṣṇā )

Morbid thirst as a complication of another disease
Morbid thirst as a complication of another disease such as fever or consumption. A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: timidity or apathy; timid voice; loss of consciousness; dehydrated throat; dehydrated palate; dehydrated mouth.
औपाधिक ( aupādhika )

Conditional effect
Relating to or depending on special qualities, limited by particular conditions, valid only under certain suppositions.
औषधकल्पना ( auṣadhakalpanā )

Preparation of medicines
औषधद्रव्ययोजनम् ( auṣadhadravyayojanam )

Administration of medicines
Administration of medicines for the management of diseases.
औषधम् ( auṣadham )

Medication
Therapeutic measures by which a disease is cured, and health restored. Synonym of treatment.
औषधम् ( auṣadham )

Medicine
औषधम् (विषोपक्रमः) ( auṣadham (viṣopakramaḥ)

Medication for detoxification
Medications for the treatment of poisoning.
कक्षः, कक्षा ( kakṣaḥ, kakṣā )

Axilla, armpit
कक्षधरः (मर्म), कक्षाधरः (मर्म) ( kakṣadharaḥ (marma), kakṣādharaḥ (marma)

Vulnerable location(s) in the axilla
Two in number (one on each side) which when injured leads to paralysis of one half of the body.
कक्षाः ( kakṣāḥ )

Black skin lesions on arm, lateral chest wall, shoulder and axilla
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: vesicular lesions on upper arm; vesicular lesions in and around flanks; vesicular lesions in periaxillary region; vesicular lesions on shoulder; black-coloured vesicular lesions; painful vesicles; minute papular/vesicular lesions; lesions resembling parched paddy; thick and dense lesions.
कक्षाभागः ( kakṣābhāgaḥ )

Axillary region
कङ्कुष्ठम् ( kaṅkuṣṭham )

Exudates of Mysore gamboge tree
Bark exudate of Mysore gamboge tree (Garcinia morella (Gaertn.) Desr.).
कचः ( kacaḥ )

Hair
कचान्तः ( kacāntaḥ )

Hairline
The boundary marking the growth of hair on the head, especially over the forehead and temple.
कच्छपः (कच्छपी) ( kacchapaḥ (kacchapī) )

Hard palatal protrusion, A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs torus palatinus and symptoms: a swelling resembling a tortoise back or tortoise-shaped swelling; slowly growing swelling; painless; slowly developing.
कच्छपिका ( kacchapikā )

Skin lesions resembling A disorder characterized by hard nodular swellings; tortoise tortoise shell shell-like swelling raised in the middle; five or six in number.
कच्छपिका-प्रमेहपिडका ( kacchapikāpramehapiḍakā )

Carbuncle resembling tortoise shell
कज्जली ( kajjalī )

Black sulfide of mercury
Black sulfide of mercury is prepared by sulfur trituration.
कटि ( kaṭī )

Hip
कटिकपालः, जघनकपालः ( kaṭikapālaḥ, jaghanakapālaḥ )

Hip bone
कटिप्रदेशः ( kaṭīpradeśaḥ )

Hip region
कटिबस्तिः ( kaṭibastiḥ )

Therapeutic retention of oil over lumbosacral region
A procedure which involves holding medicated oil over the lumbosacral region for a specific duration.
कटिसन्धिः, वंक्षणसन्धिः, ऊरुसन्धिः ( kaṭisandhiḥ, vaṅkṣaṇasandhiḥ, ūrusandhiḥ )

Hip joint
कटीकतरुणम् (मर्म) ( kaṭīkataruṇam (marma)

Vulnerable location(s) on the back near the pelvis
Two in number which when injured causes severe bleeding leading to paleness and death.
कटु-अवस्थापाकः ( kaṭuavasthāpākaḥ )

Pungent predominant stage of digestion
During the third and final stage of digestion in the gastrointestinal tract the ingested food is transformed to a predominantly pungent state. This results in the generation of vata-dosha.
कटु-रसः, ऊषणः ( kaṭu-rasaḥ, ūṣaṇaḥ )

Pungent taste
कटुकस्कन्धः, कटुस्कन्धः ( kaṭukaskandhaḥ, kaṭuskandhaḥ )

Group of pungent substances
कटुरसातियोगः ( kaṭurasātiyogaḥ )

Disorder due to excessive intake of pungent substances
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: impotence/loss of sexual vigour; confusion/ delirium; fatigued mind and body; bodily exhaustion or tiredness; emaciation; syncope or swooning; bending of body; black-outs; giddiness or dizziness; burning sensation in throat or kaṇṭha; burning sensation in body; loss of physical strength or weakness; excessive thirst; burning sensation of eyes; pricking pain; breaking type of pain; intoxication; dryness in throat; dryness of palate; dryness of lips; burning sensation; hotness; tremors; diminution of semen; contraction of body parts; low back pain; vāta diseases of hands/pain due to increased vāta; vāta diseases of legs/pain due to increased vāta; vāta diseases of arms; vāta diseases of sides of chest/ flanks; vāta diseases of back/severe back pain.
कट्वरम् ( kaṭvaram )

Whey
The supernatant liquid portion after the formation of curd or buttermilk, mixed with large amount of water.
कठिनः ( kaṭhinaḥ )

Hardness
The quality of a substance which is responsible for firmness or hardness.
कण्ठः ( kaṇṭhaḥ )

Anterior portion of the neck
A term which also denotes the larynx.
कण्ठगतरोगः ( kaṇṭhagatarogaḥ )

Disorders of throat
कण्ठनाडी, हृदयनाडिका, गलनलकम्, श्वसना, श्वासवहानाडी ( kaṇṭhanāḍī, hṛdayanāḍikā, galanalakam, śvasanā, śvāsavahānāḍī )

Trachea
कण्ठशालूकः ( kaṇṭhaśālūkaḥ )

Adenoids
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a nodular swelling of kola size; sensation in throat resembling thorn pricks; throat filled with barley awn; rough and fixed nodular swelling; stable/immobile swelling; excisable swelling/swelling can be treated by surgery only; kola-shaped swelling; raised swelling.
कण्ठसिरा ( kaṇṭhasirā )

Vessels of the neck
कण्ठ्यम् ( kaṇṭhyam )

Substance promoting health and functioning of the throat
कण्डरा ( kaṇḍarā )

Tendon
Supportive structural component of blood
कण्डूघ्नः, कण्डुहरः, कण्डू प्रशमनः ( kaṇḍūghnaḥ, kaṇḍūharaḥ, kaṇḍūpraśamanaḥ )

Anti-pruritic
कदरः ( kadaraḥ )

Corns, callosities
A disorder characterized by a swelling resembling an Indian jujube or kola in size and shape; swelling resembling a nail.
कनिष्टिका ( kaniṣṭhikā )

Little finger
Also denotes fifth toe.
कनीनिका, कनीनसन्धिः, अक्षिकनीनिका ( Kanīnikā, kanīnasandhiḥ, akṣikanīnikā )

Inner canthus
कपर्दकः ( kapardakaḥ )

Marine or cowrie shell
Duly processed kapardaka is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbomineral pharmaceutical formulations.
कपाटसन्धिक: ( kapāṭasandhika )

Lobuloplasty type 9
A type of lobuloplasty indicated when the inner division of the earlobe is long and the outer one short.
कपालः ( kapālaḥ )

Skull
कपालः/अरुणकुष्ठः/ वातिककुष्ठः ( kapālaḥ/ aruṇakuṣṭhaḥ/ vātikakuṣṭhaḥ )

Skin disease with lesions resembling black claypot fragments, reddish patches
A skin disease characterized by dryness; reddish colour of skin; rough/dry skin; unevenly spread; rough margins; thin; raised outer margins; severe loss of touch sensation; covered with raised hairs; excessive pricking pain; mild itching; mild burning sensation; reduced pus discharge; reduced watery discharge; rapidly spreading; rapid onset; sudden onset of complications; blackish discoloration; slightly reddish discoloration; discoloration similar to that of earthen vessels; sudden spreading nature.
कपालास्थि, कर्परम् ( kapālāsthi, karparam )

Flat bone
कपालिका ( kapālikā )

Deterioration of tooth enamel
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: damage to tooth enamel by small particles; destruction of teeth; tartar disintegrating with tooth fragments; scaling if ignored gradually disrupting tooth enamel.
कपोतपुटः ( kapotapuṭaḥ )

Traditional oven using eight cow-dung cakes
A traditional oven using eight cow-dung cakes to produce heat for the calcination or incineration (bhasma) of mercury, gold, silver and other metals.
कपोलः, गण्डः, गल्लः ( kapolaḥ, gaṇḍaḥ, gallaḥ )

Cheek
कफकर्म ( kapha-karma )

Functions of kapha
A combined term for the functions of kapha such as physical and mental strength, forgiveness .
कफक्षयः ( kaphakṣayaḥ )

Diminution of kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms dryness; burning sensation inside the body; feeling of emptiness/vacuity in all the seats of śleśma especially the stomach or amaśaya; joint dislocation/laxity; thirst; weakness; sleeplessness/insomnia; giddiness or dizziness; cramps; generalized body aches; completely dried up; pricking pain; heat/fever; burning sensation; bursting type of pain; shivering/tremors; smoky/fuming sensation; heart palpitations.
कफज-अतिसारः ( kaphaja-atisāraḥ )

Diarrhoea due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: defecation of greasy/unctuous stools; whitish faeces; slimy faeces; faeces with fibres/threads; faeces with ama/unformed stools; heavy stools; foul odour; faeces mixed with mucus; associated with pain; scanty stools; frequent defecation; defecation with straining; heaviness in abdomen; heaviness in anus; heaviness in urinary bladder or basti; heaviness in groin region; feeling of incomplete defecation; horripilation; nausea/provocation of dosha; sleepiness; exhaustion; person with aversion to food; drowsiness/lassitude; loose stools; viscid faeces without sound; thick stools; formed stools; defecation of faeces of cold nature.
कफज-अधिमन्थः ( kaphaja-adhimanthaḥ )

Glaucoma due to vitiated kapha, chronic glaucoma
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: inflammation of the eye without excessive congestion; discharge; itching; coldness; heaviness; sliminess; rheum; horripilation; seeing with difficulty; eye dirty as if full of dust; turbid eyes; feeling of tension in nose and headache; depressed cornea; raised sclera; excessive salivation.
कफज-अपस्मारः ( kaphaja-apasmāraḥ )

Epilepsy due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: seizures with long duration; slow seizures; regaining consciousness after a longer time; falling down; not much abnormal behaviour; salivation; white nails; whitish discoloration of eyes; whitish discoloration of face; whitish skin; seeing things as whitish; seeing things in large size; seeing things as unctuous; whitish discoloration of froth; whitish discoloration of any body part; horripilation in body; heaviness of body; cold; nausea; sleep; falling down on floor; vomiting mucus secretions; feeling of being chased by black horrifying object/person; total disturbance of mind; agony/ pain; excessive talking/irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; cooing sound from throat; fewer movements.
कफज-अम्लपित्तम्/ श्लेष्मपित्तम् ( kaphaja-amlapittam/ śleṣmapittam )

Type of hyperacidity due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: mucoid expectoration; heaviness; dullness/ frigidity/inactivity; loss of taste; feeling of cold/chills; bodily exhaustion or tiredness; vomiting; stickiness; weak digestion; loss of strength; itching; sleep.
कफज-अरोचकः ( kaphaja-arocakaḥ )

Anorexia due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a sweet taste in mouth; sliminess of the oral cavity; heaviness in the mouth; coldness in the mouth; stiffness and tightness of mouth; itching; secretion of mucus; bodily exhaustion or tiredness; drowsiness/lassitude; saltish taste in the mouth.
कफज-अश्मरी ( kaphaja-aśmarī )

Urinary calculus due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: obstruction to passage of urine; disintegrating/cracking sensation in bladder; penetrating/ perforating sensation in bladder; pinprick-like sensation in vesical region; heaviness of bladder; coldness of bladder; white-coloured stone; stone unctuous to touch; large stone; stone resembling chicken egg; stone colour resembling madhūkapuṣpa; honey-coloured stone; glossy stone.
कफज-आमवातः ( kaphaja-āmavātaḥ )

Kapha-predominant polyarthritis due to ama
A disorder characterized by the feeling of being covered with a wet cloth; heaviness; itching.
कफज-उदररोगः ( kaphaja-udararogaḥ )

Abdominal enlargement due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: numbness; heaviness; loss of taste; indigestion; generalized body aches; oedema/swelling in hands; oedema/swelling in legs; scrotal oedema; swelling in thighs; nausea/provocation of dosha; sleep; breathlessness/ difficulty in breathing; cough; white discoloration of nails; white discoloration of eyes; white discoloration of body; white discoloration of urine; white discoloration of faeces; whitishcoloured veins spread across the abdomen; abdominal area cold to touch; heaviness of abdomen; steady swelling; unctuous in nature; huge swelling; with body pain; increasing over a long time; generalized oedema; feeling of being wrapped in a wet cloth; smooth to touch; huge swelling; hard swelling.
कफज-उपदंशः ( kaphaja-upadaṃśaḥ )

Sexually transmitted penile inflammation due to vitiated kapha
A disease characterized by a swelling with itching; hard swelling; unctuous swelling; dull aching pain; cold swelling; heavy swelling; copious white dense discharge.
कफज-ओष्ठप्रकोपः ( kaphaja-oṣṭhaprakopaḥ )

Disorders of lip due to vitiated kapha, subacute herpes labialis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: itching; heaviness of lips; whitish lip; moist; unctuous lip; loss of taste; rigidity of lips; mucoid salivation; nausea/provocation of dosha; less rapid digestive capacity; confused state; mild pain; lesion similar to lip colour; painless eruptions in lips; lips becoming slimy; lips becoming cold; heaviness of lips; intolerant of cold; oedematous lips.
कफज-प्रतिश्यायः ( kaphaja-pratiśyāyaḥ )

Rhinitis due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: copious cold mucus discharge from nose; intermittent discharge of white mucus; whitish appearance of body; whitish-coloured eyes; heaviness of head; excessive itching in throat; excessive itching in palate; excessive itching in lips; excessive itching in head; cough; loss of taste; vomiting; heaviness of body parts; sweet taste in mouth; unctuous mucus discharge; swelling in orbital region.
कफज-योनिरोगः ( kaphaja-yonirogaḥ )

Vaginal disease due to predominant kapha
A gynaecological disorder characterized by sliminess of the female genital organs; coldness of female genital organs; itching in female genital organs; mild pain; pale-coloured female genital organs; paleness of menstrual blood; slimy menstrual flow; painless; discharge according to affected dosha.
कफज-वृद्धिः ( kaphaja-vṛddhiḥ )

Hydrocoele due to kapha predominance
A disorder characterized by being associated with a burning sensation; swelling with itching; hard swelling; unctuous swelling; dull aching pain; cold swelling.
कफज-शिरोरोगः ( kaphaja-śirorogaḥ )

Headache due to vitiated kapha
Headache characterized by mild headache; numbness in head; numbness and heaviness in head; heaviness of head; drowsiness/lassitude; lethargy; loss of taste; periorbital swelling; oedema of face; cold; feeling of being wrapped in a wet cloth; veins not pulsating; mild pain in daytime; more pain at night; itching in ear; vomiting; affected with kapha; stiffness of head; head becoming cold.
कफजकर्णरोगः ( kaphajakarṇarogaḥ )

Ear disorders due to vitiated kapha, chronic otalgia
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: abnormal hearing; itching; fixed swelling; whitish discharge; unctuous discharge; mild pain; heaviness of head; heaviness in neck region; heaviness over mandibular region; mild pain; itching inside ear; swelling around ear; preference for hot things; discharge of thick white fluid if suppuration occurs.
कफजकासः ( kaphajakāsaḥ )

Cough due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: diminution of agni; loss of taste/loss of appetite; vomiting; cold catarrh; nausea/provocation of dosha; horripilation; sweetness in mouth; moistening/soddening; fatigue; cough with profuse phlegm; sweet-tasting phlegm; unctuous phlegm; thick phlegm; whitish phlegm; little or no pain on coughing; feeling as if whole chest is filled with phlegm; stickiness of oral cavity; headache; feeling as if body is filled with phlegm; thick compact phlegm; heaviness of head; feeling of coating over throat; feeling as if heart is wrapped in a wet cloth; itching.
कफजकृमिः [अन्त्रादः, उदरादः, हृदयचरः, चुरवः, दर्भपुष्पः, सौगन्धिकः, महागुदा] ( kaphajakṛmiḥ )

Worm or parasite arising from vitiated kapha; residing in stomach and small intestine
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: loss of taste; indigestion; borborygmi with distension; salivation; emaciation; sneezing; vomiting; fever; cold catarrh; syncope or swooning; nausea; yawning; generalized body aches; roughness/dryness.
कफजक्षीरदोषः ( kaphajakṣīradoṣaḥ )

Breast milk vitiated by kapha
A disorder characterized by breast milk which is thick/dense; slimy; sinking in water; slightly salty in taste; thick.
कफजगलगण्डः ( kaphaja-galagaṇḍaḥ )

Goitre due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: fixed swelling; swelling of normally coloured skin; heavy swelling in throat; associated with severe itching; cold swelling; very big swelling; suppurating after a long time; mild pain; sweetness in mouth; palate feeling as if coated; throat feeling as if coated.
कफजगुल्मः ( kaphajagulmaḥ )

Lumps or growths due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: fever with chills; loss of taste; indigestion; generalized body aches; horripilation; heart disease; vomiting; sleep; lethargy; sensation of being covered with a wet cloth; heaviness; burning sensation in head; stable gulma; heavy gulma; hardness deepening; numb/immobile; cough (severe); severe breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; cold catarrh (severe); fulminant rājayakṣmā; whitish discoloration of skin; whitish discoloration of eyes; whitish discoloration of face; light/whitish-coloured urine; light/whitish-coloured stool; bodily exhaustion or tiredness/inability to perform physical activities; excessive salivation; sweet taste in mouth; signs of kapha; cold catarrh; nausea; coldness; mild pain; raised gulma.
कफजग्रन्थिः ( kaphajagranthiḥ )

Nodular swelling, cyst due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: cold swelling; goat-coloured swelling; swelling with mild pain; swelling with excessive itching; swelling of stony consistency; increasing over a long period of time; discharging thick white pus on bursting; painless micturition; body-coloured swelling.
कफजग्रहणीरोग ( kaphajagrahaṇīroga )

Chronic diarrhoea with malabsorption of nutrients. due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: difficulty in digesting food; nausea; vomiting; loss of taste; sticky feeling in mouth; sweetness in mouth; cough; spitting/excess expectoration; cold/catarrh; feeling as if cardiac region/heart distended; motionless abdomen; heavy abdomen; unpleasant eructations; sweet eructations; exhaustion; not interested in sexual indulgence with women; passage of unformed faeces; defecation of stools with mucus; defecation of bulky/heavy stools; weakness despite lack of emaciation; lethargy; heaviness.
कफजचतुर्थकज्वरः ( kaphajacaturthakajvaraḥ )

Intermittent fiver recurring every fourth day due to predominance of kapha
A disorder characterized by initial affliction of pain in calf muscles.
कफजछर्दिः ( kaphajachardiḥ )

Vomiting due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: drowsiness/lassitude; sweetness in mouth; mucoid salivation; sense of satiety/contentment; sleep; loss of taste; heaviness; unctuous vomitus; thick vomitus; sweetish vomitus; clear vomitus; horripilation; vomitus with mild pain; vomiting in large quantity; vomitus white in colour; vomitus cold in nature; vomitus predominent with kapha; pain in empty stomach; exhaustion; vomitus with thready appearance; vomitus salty in taste; frequent/forceful vomiting; continuous vomiting; facial oedema; nausea; cough.
कफजज्वरः ( kaphajajvaraḥ )

Fever due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: onset of fever in whole body at once; rise in fever in whole body at once; onset of fever after food; rise in fever after food; onset of fever in early morning; rise in fever in early morning; onset of fever in the first part of night; rise in fever in first part of night; onset of fever in spring or vasanta ṛtu; rise in fever in spring or vasanta ṛtu; sweet taste in mouth; heaviness; aversion to food; salivation/kapha oozing out; nausea; feeling as if heart is coated/wrapped; sensation of dampness/feeling of being wrapped in a wet cloth; vomiting; diminution of agni; excessive sleep; rigidity/stiffness; drowsiness/lassitude; cough; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; cold catarrh; coldness; whitishness of nails; whitishness of eyes; whitishness of face/mouth; light/whitishcoloured urine; light/whitish-coloured stool; whitish-coloured skin; excessive cold papules on body; lack of warmth; aggravation with usage of nidāna and relief with upaśaya; nausea/provocation of dosha; horripilation; obstruction in srotas; mild pain; not excessively raised temperature of body; bodily exhaustion or tiredness/inability to perform physical activities; indigestion; loss of taste; dullness/frigidity/inactivity; obstruction in srotas; fever with low spike; cold catarrh; nausea; rigidity/stiffness; cold papules on body; raised circular patches on body/urticaria; low-grade rise of fever; lethargy; satiety; nausea/provocation of dosha; saltish taste in the mouth; excessive salivation.
कफजतृष्णा ( kaphajatṛṣṇā )

Morbid thirst due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: heaviness of body; suffering from excessive thirst; sleep; sweet taste in the mouth; excessive dehydration; feeling of coated throat; slimy and sticky feeling inside mouth; fever with chills; vomiting; loss of taste; heaviness of body; oedema of extremities; body orifices feeling as if coated with slush and then dried; body orifices feeling dried with kapha; feeling as if throat covered by thorns; abdominal distension; heaviness of head; sensation of being covered with a wet cloth; lethargy; indigestion.
कफजदन्तनाडी ( kaphajadantanāḍī )

Alveolar sinus due to vitiated kapha, chronic alveolar sinus
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: excessive discharge; thick discharge; whitishcoloured discharge; slimy discharge; discharge at night; feeling of being wrapped in a wet cloth; pain; hard; severe itching.
कफजनाडीव्रणः ( kaphajanāḍīvraṇaḥ )

Deep ulcer with fistula formation due to vitiated kapha
A sinus ulcer characterized by an excessive/copious discharge; thick/dense discharge; whitish-coloured discharge; slimy discharge; discharge at night; associated with mild pain; hard in nature; associated with itching; stiffness; excessive soddening during the night.
कफजनासार्शः ( kaphajanāsārśaḥ )

Nasal polyp due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: the presenting part being whitish; broadbased; fixed; rounded; smooth; pale white; resembling a karīra sprout; resembling a jackfruit or panasa kernel; resembling a cow’s udder; not burst or discharging; causing excessive itching.
कफजपरिणामशूलः ( kaphajapariṇāmaśūlaḥ )

Abdominal colic occurring during digestion of food due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: vomiting; nausea; unconsciousness/ confusion; mild pain; pain persistent for a long time; pain relieved by taking pungent substances; pain relieved by taking bitter substances.
कफजपाण्डुरोगः ( kaphajapāṇḍurogaḥ )

Anaemic syndrome due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: heaviness; drowsiness/lassitude; vomiting; whitish discoloration of body; whitish discoloration of eyes; covered with whitish veins; whitish discoloration of faeces; whitish discoloration of urine; whitish discoloration of nails; whitish discoloration of face; excessive salivation; horripilation; bodily exhaustion or tiredness; syncope or swooning; giddiness or dizziness; exhaustion without exertion; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; cough; lethargy; loss of taste; obstructed speech; obstructed voice; desire for pungent taste; desire for dryness; desire for heat; oedema; sweet taste in the mouth; salty taste in the mouth; diminution of voice/loss of voice; whitish discoloration of skin.
कफजप्रमेहः ( kaphajapramehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder due to vitiated kapha
कफजमसूरिका ( kaphajamasūrikā )

Lentil-shaped pox disease due to vitiated kapha
Lentil-shaped eruptive disorder is characterized by salivation; sensation of being covered with a wet cloth; headache; heaviness of the limbs; nausea; loss of taste; sleep; drowsiness/lassitude; lethargy; white; unctuous apprearance of eruptions; large eruptions; associated with an itching sensation; mild pain; taking a long time to suppurate.
कफजमूत्रकृच्छ्रम् ( kaphajamūtrakṛcchram )

Difficulty in urination due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: heaviness in the urinary bladder or basti; swelling in urinary bladder; slimy urine; heaviness in penis; penile oedema; urinary retention; unctuous urine; whitishcoloured urine; urine not too hot; horripilation; heaviness in scrotum.
कफजमूर्च्छा ( kaphajamūrcchā )

Syncope due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: becoming unconscious while seeing a cloudy sky; becoming unconscious while seeing a dark cloudy sky; regaining consciousness after a long time; heaviness of body; feeling of body parts covered with moist leather; salivation; nausea; syncope or swooning.
कफजयोनिकन्दः ( kaphajayonikandaḥ )

Round-shaped abscess in vagina due to vitiated kapha
A gynaecological disorder characterized by swelling resembling nila puṣpa; itching in external genital organs.
कफजरक्तपित्तम् ( kaphajaraktapittam )

Haemorrhage due to predominance of kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: discharge of viscous blood; pale blood; oily blood; slimy blood; and mucoid blood.
कफजरोहिणी ( kaphajarohiṇī )

Diphtheria due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: slimy membranes; pale; originating from blood; associated with eruptions or vesicles; obstructing the throat channels; localized immobile muscular projection;
कफजविद्रधिः ( kaphajavidradhiḥ )

Abscess due to vitiated kapha
A type of abscess characterized by a swelling resembling an earthen saucer; pallor; cold; stiffness; mild pain; develops slowly and suppurates after a long time; whitish discharge; slimy discharge; profuse discharge; excessive/copious discharge; itching; yawning; nausea/provocation of dosha; loss of taste; heaviness.
कफजविसर्पः ( kaphajavisarpaḥ )

Erysipelas, spreading cellulitis due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: chills; fever with chills; heaviness; sleep; drowsiness/lassitude; loss of taste; sweet taste in mouth; sticky feeling in mouth; sputum/expectoration; vomiting; lethargy; sensation of being covered with a wet cloth; loss of digestive power; weakness; swelling over affected area of body; pallor over affected area of body; not much redness over affected area of body; unctuousness over affected area of body; numbness over affected area of body; stiffness over affected area of body; heaviness over affected area of body; mild pain over affected area of body; eruption ripening with difficulty; late-ripening eruption; eruption covered with thick skin; whitish-coloured eruption; blisters with pallor; whitish discharge after bursting of abscess/eruption; fibrous discharge after bursting of abscess/eruption; thick discharge after bursting of abscess/eruption; clotted discharge after bursting of abscess/eruption; unctuous discharge after bursting of abscess/eruption; thick and heavy-netted covering over upper body; thick and unctuous skin covering; chronic in nature; white nails; white eyes; whitish face; whitish skin; whitish urine; whitish stool; slow (forward) movement; mild pain; excessive itching; associated with itching; smooth/ unctuous/oily; constitutional features as in kaphaja fever; kapha-dominant wound formation in ripened and ruptured abscess.
कफजविस्फोटकः ( kaphajavisphoṭakaḥ )

Bullous eruptions due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by loss of taste; painless; itching; hardness; taking a long time to suppurate; vomiting; dullness/ frigidity/inactivity; pallor.
कफजव्रणशोफः ( kaphajavraṇaśophaḥ )

Pre-ulcerative inflammation due to vitiated kapha
A condition characterized by a pale swelling; hard swelling; cold swelling; unctuous swelling; delayed onset of suppuration; itching; heaviness; numbness.
कफजशूलः ( kaphajaśūlaḥ )

Abdominal colic due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: nausea; severe abdominal fullness; heaviness of body; cough; exhaustion; loss of taste; excessive salivation; stillness of stomach as if amaśaya wrapped in a wet cloth; heaviness of abdomen; heaviness of head; pain increasing on eating; pain increasing at sunrise; pain increasing in śiśira ṛtu; pain increasing in spring.
कफजशोफः ( kaphajaśophaḥ )

Oedema due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: massive oedema; firm oedema; whitish in colour; loss of taste; excessive salivation; sleep; vomiting; diminution of agni; prolonged onset and subsiding with difficulty; pitting on pressure and not quickly refilling; more prominent at night; itching; whitish hairs; hard oedema; cold in nature; oily appearance; soft oedema; thick/dense swelling; no bleeding on incision; oozing of serous fluid for a long time after incision; desire to touch at site; desire for heat; slowly spreading.
कफजश्लीपदः ( kaphajaślīpadaḥ )

Filariasis due to vitiated kapha
Filariasis characterized by a whitish-coloured swelling; glossy swelling; mild pain; heavy in nature; huge swelling; associated with thorn-like projections; heavy swelling in the inguinal region and foot; associated with muscular growths; pale swelling in the inguinal region and foot; heavy swelling; hard swelling in the inguinal region and foot.
कफजस्वरभेदः ( kaphajasvarabhedaḥ )

Hoarse voice, altered voice due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: hoarseness of voice; obstructed/suffocated voice; rattling sound; voice emerging with difficulty; throat always choked with secretions; speaking little and slowly; voice distinct during the daytime; feeling as if throat smeared with phlegm.
कफजहृद्रोगः ( kaphajahṛdrogaḥ )

Heart disease due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: feeling as if the heart is numb; feeling as if the heart is wrapped in a wet cloth; feeling of heaviness in the heart; drowsiness/lassitude; loss of taste; feeling as if the heart is stony hard; heaviness; secretion of mucus; loss of taste; rigidity/stiffness; diminution of digestive power; sweetness in mouth; lassitude; feeling as if the heart is stiff and rigid; cough; spitting; sleep; lethargy; fever.
कफजार्शः ( kaphajārśaḥ )

Haemorrhoids due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: proportionate polyps; heaped anal sprouts; nonsensitive to touch; whitish anal sprouts; pale anal sprouts; noncompressible haemorrhoids; heavy; haemorrhoids appear as if wrapped in a wet cloth; numb sensation; fixed swelling; intense itching; heavy dishcarge from deeply rooted haemorrhoidal mass; continuous discharge; coppery brown discharge from haemorrhoidal mass; whitish discharge; blood discharge; slimy discharge; heavy urination; heavy thick stools; turbid urine; slimy faeces; whitish urine; whitish faeces; improved with dry mode of treatment; improved with hot mode of treatment; dysentery; excessive enlargement; distension in groin region; cutting type of pain; spitting of sputum; haemorrhoids with broad pedicle; condensed peduncle in anal region; haemorrhoids with mild pain; haemorrhoids white in colour; raised; heaped; unctuous haemorrhoids; noncompressible haemorrhoids; round haemorrhoids; heavy haemorrhoids; fixed haemorrhoids; slimy haemorrhoidal mass; haemorrhoids appear as if wrapped in a wet cloth; glossy haemorrhoidal mass; intense itching; improved by touch; thorny appearance; haemorrhoidal mass resembling a panasa; haemorrhoidal mass resembling a cow’s udder; swelling in the inguinal region; stretching sensation in the anal region; stretching sensation in the urinary bladder region or basti; stretching sensation in the umbilical region; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; cough; nausea; excessive salivation; loss of taste; chronic rhinitis; frequent and excessive micturition; dysuria; heaviness in the head; heaviness; dysuria; dryness/wasting/emaciation; oedema; pallor/pale; urolithiasis; mutiple gravely particles in urine; feeling as if heart is coated/wrapped; feeling as if sense organs are coated; sweetness in mouth; excessive urination; chronic nature; excessive diminution of agni; excessive impotency; whitish nails; whitish eyes; whitish face; whitish discoloration of skin; whitish urine; whitish faeces; whitish teeth; fever with rigors; inability to perform sexual act/ impotence; diminution of agni; vomiting; leading to amavikara; faeces with fat-like appearance; faeces mixed with kapha; faeces passed with tenesmus; no discharge; no bursting; pallor; pale nails; pale faeces; pale urine; pallor in eyes; pale face; unctuous skin; unctuous nails; unctuous faeces; unctuous urine; unctuous eyes; unctuous face; faeces resembling raw meat washings; loose stool in large quantity; indigestion; heaviness of head.
कफजोन्मादः ( kaphajonmādaḥ )

Psychosis due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a person confined to one area; sitting alone silently; travelling less; excessive salivation; nasal discharge; aversion to food; wanting secrecy/privacy; sickening; aversion to cleanliness; dreaming daily; facial oedema; whitish eyes; feeling as if eyes are wrapped in wet cloth; rheumy eyes; slow speech; sluggishness in body activities; loss of taste; liking for women; liking for solitude; excessive sleep; vomiting; symptoms provoked by eating; whitish discoloration of nails; diminution of agni; exhaustion; cough; reduced intellect; eating less; desire for heat; aggravation of disease at night; desire for sex with female; sleep; facial oedema; turbid eyes.
कफज्वरपूर्वरूपम् ( Kaphajvarapūrvarūpam )

Prodromal symptoms of fever due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by aversion to food as presenting complaint.
कफदुष्टरक्तः ( kaphaduṣṭaraktaḥ )

Condition of improper repair of punctured ear causing kaphavitiated blood
A condition characterized by stiffness; itching.
कफदोषावस्था ( kaphadoṣāvasthā )

Morbid state of kapha
कफपित्तजज्वरः ( kaphapittajajvaraḥ )

Fever due to vitiated kapha and pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a fluctuating feeling of burning and coldness; fluctuating sweating and feeling of stiffness; suppression of sweating; confusion/delirium; cough; loss of taste; thirst; spitting of kapha; spitting of pitta; stickiness in the mouth; a bitter taste in the mouth; drowsiness/lassitude; no specific order of chills/cold; no specific order of stiffness; no specific order of sweating; no specific order of burning sensation.
कफपित्ततृतीयकज्वरः ( kaphapittatṛtīyakajvaraḥ )

Intermittent fever recurring every third day due to predominance of kapha and pitta
A disorder characterized by stiffness of sacroiliac region.
कफप्रकृतिः ( kaphaprakṛtiḥ )

Body constitution with a predominance of kapha
The characters of a kapha predominant person are greatly influenced by its qualities: oiliness, smoothness, softness, density, firmness, heaviness, cold, slowness, stability, viscousness and clarity. Accordingly, the person will have inherent characteristics such as being well built and well formed, with a firm, compact, heavy, steady and pleasant body; with compact joints, and an oily, smooth and soft skin without moles, freckles or dryness; a stable gait; with less hunger and thirst; slow eating habits; an increased amount of semen and sexual desire; slow in action and speech; soft voiced; reduced sweating; with slow and often delayed initiation of action; a cheerful and pleasant appearance, with a calm and easy-going attitude.
कफप्रकोपः ( kaphaprakopaḥ )

Aggravation of kapha
A disorder characterized by aversion to food; nausea.
कफप्रसरः ( kaphaprasaraḥ )

Spreading of kapha
A disorder characterized by loss of taste; indigestion; bodily exhaustion or tiredness/inability to perform physical activities; vomiting.
कफवहा ( Kaphavahā )

Vein carrying kapha
कफवातजज्वरः ( kaphavātajajvaraḥ )

Fever due to vitiated kapha- vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: feeling of cold/chills; heaviness; drowsiness/ lassitude; sensation of being covered with a wet cloth; pain in small joints; stiffness of head; cold catarrh; cough; absence of perspiration; moderate rise of temperature; sleep; decrease in temperature; loss of taste; headache; cold catarrh; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; constipation; dullness/ frigidity/inactivity; black-outs; giddiness or dizziness.
कफवातप्रकृतिः ( kaphavātaprakṛtiḥ )

Body constitution with a predominance of kapha and vāta
A body constitution with predominantly mixed features of kapha and vata.
कफविदग्धदृष्टिः/रात्र्यान्ध्यम् ( kaphavidagdhadṛṣṭiḥ/ rātryāndhyam )

Night blindness
A disorder characterized by all objects being perceived as white; night blindness; eyes favoured by the sun during daytime when objects can be seen.
कफसञ्चयः ( kaphasañcayaḥ )

Accumulation of kapha
A disorder characterized by heaviness; lethargy.
कफाभिष्यन्दः ( kaphābhiṣyandaḥ )

Conjunctivitis due to A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs vitiated kapha, purulent and symptoms: lack of warmth; heaviness of eyes; swelling of conjunctivitis eyes; itching; stickiness in eyes; whiteness; excessive coldness; frequent discharge; slimy discharge; inactivity of eyes; excessive swelling; sleep; lack of desire for food; discharge of thick rheum; discharge of unctuous rheum; excessive secretion of rheum; secretion of whitish rheum; rheum appears slimy; thick tear secretion; unctuous tear secretion; excessive tear secretion; whitish tear secretion; slimy tear secretion.
कफाशयः, श्लेष्माशयः ( kaphāśayaḥ, śleṣmāśayaḥ )

Receptacle for kapha
The most prominent site of kapha: chest, stomach (upper abdomen) and head.
कम्पः/वेपथुः ( kampaḥ/ vepathuḥ )

Morbid tremor
A disorder characterized by involuntary movements of all body parts/shaking movement of whole body.
कम्पिल्लकः ( kampillakaḥ )

Kamala or kumkum tree fruit powder
The red coloured powder covering the fruit of the kamala or kumkum tree [Mallotus philippensis (Lam.) Müll.Arg.].
करणम् ( karaṇam )

Sensory, motor and intellectual faculties
Altogether there are thirteen of these faculties.
करणम् ( karaṇam )

Tool, instrument
The tool or instrument used for treatment, i.e. a medicine or procedure.
करपत्रशस्त्रम् ( karapatraśastram )

Bone saw
A type of saw-like instrument used to cut bone.
करालः ( karālaḥ )

Improper eruption of teeth, irregular teeth
A disorder characterized by improperly erupted teeth; eruption of teeth with disagreeable appearance.
कर्ण-अर्बुदः ( karṇa-arbudaḥ )

Tumours of ear
कर्ण-अर्शः ( karṇa-arśaḥ )

Auricular polyp
कर्ण-कण्डूः ( karṇa-kaṇḍūḥ )

Auricular pruritis
A disorder characterized by severe itching sensation in the ear canal
कर्ण-क्ष्वेडः ( karṇa-kṣveḍaḥ )

Abnormal perception of sounds, tinnitus due to excess excertion, depletion of structural components.
A disorder characterized by hearing whistling or high-pitched sounds; hearing a flute-like sound.
कर्ण-गूथकः ( karṇa-gūthakaḥ )

Impacted wax
A disorder characterized by the presence of dried śleṣma in the ear.
कर्ण-नादः ( karṇa-nādaḥ )

Abnormal perception of sounds, tinnitus due to mechanical reasons
A disorder characterized by hearing various kinds of sound in the ear, e.g. bugle, drum or mṛdaṅga, conch.
कर्ण-पाकः ( karṇa-pākaḥ )

Otitis externa
A disorder characterized by putrefaction inside ear/ suppuration; manifestation of moistness inside ear.
कर्ण-प्रतिनाहः ( karṇa-pratināhaḥ )

Tympanic perforation
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: liquified wax emerging through the nose; hemicranial pain; earache; heaviness in ear; feeling of obstruction in ear; coating of liquified earwax inside ear; causing varying kinds of head disease.
कर्ण-विद्रधिः ( karṇa-vidradhiḥ )

Ear abscess
कर्ण-शोफः/कर्णशोथः ( karṇa-śophaḥ/ karṇaśothaḥ )

Oedema of ear
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: abnormal hearing; itching; fixed swelling; whitish discharge; unctuous discharge; mild pain; heaviness of head; heaviness in neck region; heaviness over mandibular region; mild pain; itching inside ear; swelling around ear; preference for hot things; discharge of thick white fluid as in perichondritis if suppuration occurs.
कर्ण-स्रावः ( karṇa-srāvaḥ )

Otorrhoea
A disorder characterized by pus discharge from the ears.
कर्णः, श्रोत्रम्, श्रवणम् ( karṇaḥ, śrotram, śravaṇam )

Ear
कर्णधूपनम् ( karṇadhūpanam )

Medicated fumigation of ear
The procedure of fumigation therapy in ear diseases.
कर्णनाडी ( karṇanāḍī )

External auditory canal
कर्णपालिरोगः ( karṇapālirogaḥ )

Disorders of ear lobule
कर्णपाली-अभिवर्धनअभ्यङ्गः ( karṇapālī-abhivardhanaabhyaṅgaḥ )

Massage for elongation of ear lobule
A post-lobuloplasty procedure for strengthening and elongating the earlobe.
कर्णपाली, कर्णलतिका ( karṇapālī, karṇalatikā )

Lobe of the ear
कर्णपीठम् ( karṇapīṭham )

Base of the ear, pinna
कर्णपुत्रकः ( karṇaputrakaḥ )

External ear, tragus
कर्णपूरणम् ( karṇapūraṇam )

Retention of medications in ear canal
The procedure of instilling lukewarm oils or herbal juices into the ear and retaining them for a specific time.
कर्णपृष्ठम् ( karṇapṛṣṭham )

Mastoid region
कर्णप्रक्षालनम् ( karṇaprakṣālanam )

Ear canal wash
The procedure of cleaning the ear canal using a medicated liquid.
कर्णप्रमार्जनम् ( karṇapramārjanam )

Ear canal cleaning
The procedure of cleaning the ear canal.
कर्णमलः ( karṇamalaḥ )

Ear wax
कर्णमूलम् ( karṇamūlam )

Parotid region
कर्णरोगः ( karṇarogaḥ )

Disorders of ear
कर्णरोगचिकित्सा ( karṇarogacikitsā )

Management of diseases of the ear
Treatment of diseases related to the ear.
कर्णवेधनसंस्कारः ( karṇavedhanasaṁskāraḥ )

Ear-piercing ceremony
A ceremony performed during the period of infancy (6 to 8 months) in which the earlobes are pierced.
कर्णव्यधजन्यरोगः ( karṇavyadhajanyarogaḥ )

Condition due to improper piercing of ear lobule or pinna
कर्णव्यधनसन्धान-अयोगः ( karṇavyadhanasandhānaayogaḥ )

Condition of improper repair of punctured ear
कर्णशष्कुलिका ( karṇaśaṣkulikā )

External ear
कर्णशूलः ( karṇaśūlaḥ )

Ear pain; otalgia
कर्णस्रोतः ( karṇa-srotaḥ )

External auditory meatus
कर्णस्वेदनम् ( Karṇasvedanam )

Sudation therapy of ear
The procedure of achieve sudation therapy of the ear by nāḍīsveda (applying a jet of steam through a tube) and piṇḍāsveda (applying a poultice).
कर्णावटुः ( karṇāvaṭuḥ )

Concha of the ear
कर्णास्थि ( karṇāsthi )

Bones of the ear
कर्ता ( kartā )

The doer, the executing agent
A word which also denotes soul, but may be used figuratively to denote author or physician.
कर्दमविसर्पः/ पित्तकफजविसर्पः ( kardamavisarpaḥ/ pittakaphajavisarpaḥ )

Erysipelas, spreading cellulitis due to vitiated pitta and kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: fever with chills; heaviness of head; burning sensation; sensation of being covered with a wet cloth; fatigue; sleep; drowsiness/lassitude; confusion/delirium; aversion to food; excessive talking/irrelevant speech/ incoherent speech; loss of agni weakness; breaking/splitting type of bone pain; syncope or swooning; thirst; feeling as if body channels are covered with sticky material; dullness/ inactivity/sluggishness of sense organs; occasional defecation; convulsive movements of body; generalized body aches; distress/discontent/restlessness; anxious curiosity; predominantly in āmāśaya region; affecting specific organ/ region/body part; area of red nodules; area of yellowish nodules; area of whitish nodules; area of mecaka (resembling the ocelli in a peacock’s tail) nodules; area of blackish nodules; misty/unclean area; unctuous area; area with excessive heat; heaviness; heavy and wet feeling with pain; oedematous; deep-seated suppuration; without any discharge; getting moist very quickly; soft tissue and muscles with sweat; soft tissue and muscles with moisture; skin with sweat; moist skin; putrefaction of mamsa; putrid smell; gradual mild pain; breaking down on touch and feeling muddy or slushy; breaking down after suppuration; foul smelling and moist soft tissue; visible blood vessels and soft tissue/ muscles; cadaveric smell; loss of consciousness; dementia; rigidity/stiffness; loss of taste; giddiness or dizziness; dulling of senses; defecation with ama; friable on touch because sodden; resembling mud owing to muscle decay; exposed ligaments; tendons and vascular bundles;
कर्परपाचनम् ( karparapācanam )

Cooking on pan
The method of cooking on a hot pan which is usually made of clay.
कर्म ( karma )

Action
Activity, one of the six ontological categories of an object. It refers to pharmacological, nutritional and action in the context of medical practice.
कर्म ( karma )

Pharmacological activity
Defined as the action inherent in the substance. Covers a wide range of pharmaco-therapeutic actions and nutritional effects.
कर्म-विशेषः ( karma-viśeṣaḥ )

Dissimilarity at the level of action
An activity which causes depletion or reduction, e.g. physical exercise reducing kapha, which otherwise would increase with inactivity.
कर्म-सामान्यम् ( karma-sāmānyam )

Similarity at the level of action
Action or physical movement which may lead to an increase in a specific element. e.g. sleep increasing kapha.
कर्मबस्तिः ( karmabastiḥ )

Course of thirty combined therapeutic enemas
A type of therapeutic enema based on a course of thirty enemas which includes eighteen half-dose therapeutic ghee or oily enemas and twelve therapeutic decoction enemas, , administered in a particular sequence.
कर्मभाराध्वह्तोपवासमैथुना ध्ययनव्यायामचिन्ताप्रसक्त ( karmabhārādhvahtopavāsamaithunādhyayanavyāyāmacintāprasakta )

Condition caused by emetic therapy administered to person indulging in excessive physical activity, fasting, sex, loud reading of books and excessive thinking
A condition characterized by fear of aggravation of vata; haemorrhage or injury to lungs; haemorrhage or injury to lungs.
कर्मेन्द्रियम् ( karmendriyam )

Motor faculty
The five faculties of action: speech faculty (vak), hands (pani),,legs (padaḥ), anus (payu) and genitalia (upastha).
कर्शनम् ( karśanam )

Weight-reducing
A related term to emaciating substance.
कर्षः, तोला ( karṣaḥ, tolā )

Measure of weight approximately equal to 12 g
Measure of weight equal to 12 masha.
कर्षूस्वेदः ( karṣūsvedaḥ )

Sweating induced in a pit filled with embers
A type of sudation therapy in which diaphoresis is achieved by lying down on or sitting over a bed placed above a pit filled with the embers of prescribed substances.
कललम् ( kalalam )

Stage of fetal development resembling the morula
कला ( kalā )

Boundary between tissues
The general name given to the seven bodily membranes, e.g. fasciae or septae.
कला ( kalā )

Time equivalent to approximately 71.64 seconds
Time equal to 30 kashtha.
कलायखञ्जः ( kalāyakhañjaḥ )

Kesari palsy
A disorder characterized by trembling on walking; dragging walking/lameness; loss of joint control/loose joint ligaments.
कलाविका ( kalāvikā )

Area four fingerbreadths proximal to the wrist
कल्कः ( kalkaḥ )

Paste
कल्कः (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( kalkaḥ (vraṇacikitsā)

Application of medicated paste for wound management
Topical application of medicated paste to a wound.
कल्पना ( kalpanā )

Concept, hypothesis
A conceptual construction, the work of the imagination.
कवलः ( kavalaḥ )

Mouth gargle
A therapeutic procedure in which medicated decoctions, oils or other suitable liquids are retained under constant movement in the oral cavity for a specific time.
कवल-अतियोगः ( kavala-atiyogaḥ )

Condition due to excessive use of gargling therapy
A condition characterized by loss of taste; stomatitis; thirst.
कवलचिकित्सापचारः ( kavalacikitsāpacāraḥ )

Condition due to improper gargling therapy
कवलधारणम् (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( kavaladhāraṇam (vraṇacikitsā)

Therapeutic gargling for wound management
Therapeutic gargling (kavala) for removal of dosha, alleviation of pain and burning, and cleansing of oral cavity wounds.
कवलहीनयोगः ( kavalahīnayogaḥ )

Condition due to suboptimal use of gargling therapy
A condition characterized by dullness/frigidity/inactivity; nausea with mucus; ageusia.
कशेरुका, कशेरुः ( kaśerukā, kaśeruḥ )

Vertebra
कषायः (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( kaṣāyaḥ (vraṇacikitsā)

Application of medicated decoction for wound management
Therapeutic wound cleansing or debridement with a medicated decoction.
कषाय-रसः , तुवरः ( kaṣāya-rasaḥ, tuvaraḥ )

Astringent taste
कषायधारा ( kaṣāyadhārā )

Controlled pouring of medicated decoction over body
A procedure in which a therapeutic medicated decoction is poured in a stream all over the body.
कषायरस-मिथ्यायोगः ( kaṣāyarasa-mithyāyogaḥ )

Condition due to improper intake of astringent substances.
कषायरसातियोगः ( kaṣāyarasātiyogaḥ )

Disorder due to excessive intake of astringent substances
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: dryness in mouth; pain in precordial region; abdominal distension; choked voice; obstruction to flow of srotas; brownish discoloration; impotence/loss of sexual vigour; early ageing; obstuction to flow of vata; urinary retention; constipation; obstruction to flow of semen; emaciation; fatigued mind and body; thirst; stiffness; hemiplegia/hemiparesis; rigidity; spasmodic contractions/ convulsions of body; facial paralysis; precordial pain/cardiac pain; torticollis/stiffness of neck; flickering/twitching in various parts of body; skin irritation as if application of mustard paste; contractions; convulsions; obstruction to flow of semen; constipation/abdominal fullness; constipation.
कषायस्कन्धः ( kaṣāyaskandhaḥ )

Group of astringent substances
काकणकः ( kākaṇakaḥ )

Skin disease with lesions resembling Abrus precatorius seed
A skin disease characterized by lesions coloured like a kakanantika; exhibiting symptoms of all the kuṣṭha; dark-red in colour; dark-black in colour; severe burning sensation; severe pain.
काकलम्, काकलकम्, गलमणिः, गलशुण्डिका, घण्टिका, तालुमूलम् ( kākalam, kākalakam, galamaṇiḥ, galaśuṇḍikā, ghaṇṭikā, tālumūlam )

Uvula
काकौष्ठक: ( kākauṣṭhaka )

Lobuloplasty type 15
A type of lobuloplasty indicated when the flaps of the split ear are lacking musculature, have split ends and insignificant blood supply.
कांक्षी/स्फटिका ( kāṃkṣī/sphaṭikā )

Potash alum
K2SO4.Al2(SO4)3.24H2O. Duly processed kankshi is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
काञ्जिकम् ( kāñjikam )

Sour rice gruel
काञ्जिकम्/काञ्जी ( kāñjikam/kāñjī )

Sour gruel
A gruel prepared using cereals and pulses (rice and horse gram) which is fermented until it becomes sour.
काण्डम् ( kāṇḍam )

Diaphysis
Shaft or central portion of a long bone.
कामः ( kāmaḥ )

Desire, lust
Lust or desire for sensual pleasure; also, one of the four goals of life (puruṣartha).
कामला ( kāmalā )

Jaundice
Excessive secretion of bile or obstruction to bile resulting in jaundice.
कामसिरा ( kāmasirā )

Vein responsible for sexual arousal
कामादिव्यग्रमनसोविरेचनव्यापत् ( kāmādivyagramanasovirecanavyāpat )

Condition caused by A condition characterized by absence of defecation; purgation therapy defecation with difficulty; improper expulsion of dosha. administered to person whose mind is agitated by passion
काम्बलिकः ( kāmbalikaḥ )

Beverage prepared from roots and sesame
A type of beverage prepared from roots and sesame.
काम्यरसायनम् ( kāmyarasāyanam )

Rejuvenation therapy administered for specific individual needs
Rejuvenation therapy to prolong the lifespan and increase the cognitive and physical abilities.
कायः ( kāyaḥ )

Body or internal fire, denoting all metabolic factors of the body
All factors responsible for digestion and metabolism or transformation.
कायः, मानसप्रकृति ( kāyaḥ, mānasaprakṛti )

Specific mental and physical personality type
Mental and physical personality type characterized by specific qualities. The basic tendencies of the mind, intellect and behaviour are a result of the dominance of the three primordial psychophysical attributes of nature: tranquillity, harmony (satva), agitation, activity (rajas) and inertia (tamas). Although difficult, it is possible that the specific mental and physical personality type may be influenced and refined by education and the inculcation of spiritual values.
कायचिकित्सा ( kāyacikitsā )

General medicine
The clinical speciality of Ayurveda dealing with the entire physical body and mind. The term kaya indicates the capacity of the organism to digest and metabolize food.
कायचिकित्सा ( kāyacikitsā )

General medicine
One of the eight clinical branches of Ayurveda:it deals with the management of generalized systemic diseases.
कायच्छिद्रम् ( kāyacchidram )

Apertures of the body
The external and internal openings of the body.
कायसेकः ( kāyasekaḥ )

Controlled pouring of liquids over body
A procedure in which oil or any medicated liquid is poured in a stream all over the body.
कायाग्निः ( kāyāgniḥ )

Metabolic factors of the body
Factors responsible for digestion and metabolism or food transformation.
कारणद्रव्यम् ( kāraṇadravyam )

Causal material
A group of nine elementary causal substances that underlie the manifestation of all other substances, namely five basic elements (space, air, fire, water and earth), self (atma), mind (manas), time (kala) and direction (dik).
कारणम् ( kāraṇam )

Causative agent
The agent which initiates action independently; also denoted as cause (hetu) or doer (karma). It may be of three types: inherent cause (samavayikarana), non-inherent cause (asamavayi-karaṇa) and efficient cause (nimitta-karana).
कारणम् ( kāraṇam )

Principal agent
The means by which an action is effectuated, the idea expressed by instrumental cause: in the medical context may often refer to the physician, who is instrumental in maintaining fundamental bodily equilibrium.
कारम् ( kāram )

Water derived from hailstones
Water obtained by melting hailstones
कार्मुकबीजः ( kārmukabījaḥ )

Healthy sperm
Normal, healthy and effective spermatocytes.
कार्मुकबीजम् ( kārmuka-bījam )

Healthy sperm, ovum
Normal, healthy and potential sperm or ovum.
कार्यः ( kāryaḥ )

Treatment protocol
The process undertaken to attain health or the fundamental bodily equilibrium (dhatusamya), i.e. the treatment process.
कार्यद्रव्यम् ( kāryadravyam )

An applicable or effective substance that is a manifestation of the nine causal substances.
कार्यफलम् ( kāryaphalam )

Immediate outcome, primary endpoint
The aim of treatment: to bring mind, intellect, the sense organs and the body into equilibrium and attain a state of healthiness or happiness.
कार्ययोनिः ( kāryayoniḥ )

Substratum of treatment
The intimate cause of illness, i.e. a disturbance of the fundamental bodily equilibrium.
कालः ( kālaḥ )

Time
Time in general including the seasons, the point when something occurs (which may refer to diseases).
कालः ( kālaḥ )

Time as a continuum, one of the nine elementary causal substances (karanadravya).
कालजबलम् ( kālaja-balam )

Seasonal strength
Strength attained by virtue of a favourable season or age, i.e. winter season, youth.
कालजरोगः ( kālajarogaḥ )

Natural diseases of timely occurrence
Diseases and conditions that manifest in the body due to the natural effect of time and physiological changes such as hunger and thirst as well as the ageing process, e.g. greying of hair in old age.
कालप्रकर्षः ( kālaprakarṣaḥ )

Processing by retaining for long duration
A type of food processing which involves keeping food articles for long periods in order to obtain a beneficial modulation of their properties.
कालप्रतीक्षा ( kālapratīkṣā )

Waiting period for appropriate treatment time
Understanding the stage of the disease condition and waiting for the appropriate time to initiate treatment, e.g. incision of an abscess only after it begins to suppurate.
कालबलप्रवृत्तरोगः ( kālabalapravṛttarogaḥ )

Diseases caused by diurnal and seasonal variations
Diseases and conditions that manifest in the body due to abnormal climatic variations such as excessive rain, heat or cold, and include conditions such as heatstroke or frost bite.
कालबस्तिः ( kālabastiḥ )

Course of sixteen therapeutic enemas
A type of therapeutic enema based on a course of sixteen enemas which includes ten half-dose therapeutic ghee or oily enemas and six therapeutic decoction enemas, administered in a particular sequence.
कालमानः ( kālamānaḥ )

Measurements of time
कालमेहः/कृष्णमेहः ( kālamehaḥ/ kṛṣṇamehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with urine resembling black ink
A disorder characterized by the passage of urine resembling black ink; profuse urination; elimination of urine which is hot in nature.
कालसम्प्राप्तिः ( kālasamprāptiḥ )

Time-specific pathogenesis
A pathogenesis subclassification based on the time of occurrence or aggravation of the disease or condition.
कालान्तरप्राणहरमर्म ( kālāntaraprāṇaharamarma )

Vulnerable location(s) leading to delayed death
Marma which if injured may lead to death within a period of thirty days.
कालिका ( kālikā )

Condition of fever, swelling due to improper piercing of child’s ear
A condition characterized by fever; burning sensation; swelling; pain.
कालिका ( Kālikā )

Vein located in the ear
काष्ठा ( kāṣṭhā )

Time equivalent to approximately 2.38 seconds
Time equal to 15 nimesha.
कासः ( kāsaḥ )

Cough
कासघ्नधूमपानम् ( kāsaghnadhūmapānam )

Medicated smoking with antitussive activity
The procedure of medicated smoking to relieve cough.
कासीसः ( kāsīsaḥ )

Ferrous sulfate
(FeSO4).7H2O. Duly processed kasisa is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
कांस्यम् ( kāṃsyam )

Bronze
An alloy of copper and tin. Duly processed kansya is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
किटिभः ( kiṭibhaḥ )

Skin disease with rough-surfaced, scar-like lesions
A skin disease characterized by bluish black-coloured lesions; rough to touch; rough/dry; itching sensation; blackish discoloration.
किट्टम् ( kiṭṭam )

Waste product
The by-products of either digestion or metabolism which are to be eliminated from the body.
किलाटम् ( kilāṭam )

Inspissated milk
The solid part of milk obtained through curdling.
कीटविषः ( kīṭaviṣaḥ )

Poisoning due to contact with an insect
Poisoning characterized by the formation of round protuberance; oedema; fever; itching; loss of taste.
कीलकः ( kīlakaḥ )

Obstructed fetal presentation with both hands, feet and head wedged upwards
Abnormal fetal presentation characterized by fetus seen presenting at vagina with both hands; feet and head wedged upwards; a category of compound fetal presentation. Ayurvedic literature describes this as obstructed fetal presentation resembling a wedge blocking the vagina.
कुकुटाण्डत्वक् ( kukkutandatvak )

Hen’s eggshell
Duly processed kukkutanda tvak is employed as a standalone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
कुकुन्दरः (मर्म) ( kukundaraḥ (marma) )

Vulnerable location(s) on either side of back near the ischial tuberosity
Two in number (one on each side) which when injured leads to paralysis and loss of sensation in the lower half of the body.
कुकू णकः ( kukūṇaka )

Ophthalmia neonatorum
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: swelling of the eyes; coppery redness of eyes; inability to see; pain in eyelids; stickiness of eyelids; rubbing of ears; rubbing of eyes; rubbing of nose; frontal headache; pain in eyes; irritation in nose; photophobia; difficulty in opening eyes.
कुकूलपाचनम् ( kukūlapācanam )

Cooking with steam
The process of cooking with the aid of steam.
कुञ्चनः ( kuñcanaḥ )

Constriction of eyelids
कुटकास्थि, श्रोणिकाण्डम्, श्रोणिकाण्डास्थि, मयूरास्थि ( kuṭakāsthi, śroṇīkāṇḍam, śroṇikāṇḍāsthi, mayūrāsthi )

Sacrum, sacrum and coccyx
कुटीप्रावेशिकरसयनम् ( kuṭīprāveśikarasāyanam )

Rejuvenation therapy withlimited exposure to wind and sunlight
A rejuvenation therapy in which the patient is kept indoors in a specially designed hut and follows a specific regimen.
कुटीस्वेदः ( kuṭīsvedaḥ )

Sweating induced by sitting in a heated hut or cottage
A type of sudation therapy in which diaphoresis is achieved by sitting in a specially designed cottage with a heat source outside the cottage.
कुठारिकाशस्त्रम् ( kuṭhārikāśastram )

Surgical blade resembling an axe or chisel
A sharp instrument used for bloodletting or excision.
कुडवः ( kuḍavaḥ )

Measure of weight approximately equal to 192 g
Measure of weight equal to 16 karsha or 2 prasriti.
कुण्डलम् ( kuṇḍalam )

Colon
The coiled or looped appearance of the intestinal folds.
कुनखः ( kunakhaḥ )

Paronychia
A disorder characterized by the rough appearance and texture of nails; blackish-coloured nails; dry nails.
कुमारतन्त्रम्/कौमारभृत्यम्/ बालतन्त्रम्/ बालचिकित्सा ( kumāratantram/ kaumārabhṛtyam/ bālatantram/ bālacikitsā )

Paediatrics
One of the eight branches of Ayurveda deals with the health of the child and the mother; covers pre-, peri- and postnatal care and general pediatric conditions.
कुमारागारम् ( kumārāgāram )

Nursery
A specially constructed abode for the child in accord to its seasonal needs, equipped with well-defined divisions between the water source, urinal, lavatory, bathroom and kitchen.
कुम्भकामला ( kumbhakāmalā )

Advanced stage of jaundice with painful, swollen joints
A disorder characterized by excessive swelling; breaking type of pain in small joints; yellowish black stools, generalized oedema, bloody face, eyes, blood mixed vomitus, urine, tremors, burning sensation, excess thirst. constipation, loss of consciousness, loss of digestive and metabolic capacity.
कुम्भिका ( kumbhikā )

Black boil resembling black plum in size on the penis
A disease of the penis characterized by a lesion resembling a jambu seed; rapidly spreading.
कुम्भीकः ( kumbhīkaḥ )

Capable of intercourse only after being sodomized by another person
An abnormal condition in which a man gets an erection and indulges in coitus only after receiving anal intercourse from another male.
कुम्भीका ( kumbhīkā )

Multiple styes
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: boils resembling kumbhīka seeds; enlarging even after puncture; black-coloured boils; multiple boils; situated inside eyelid; tense boils on lid margin; boils bursting on lid margin; discharging boils.
कुम्भीस्वेदः ( kumbhīsvedaḥ )

Sweating induced over a buried pot filled with decoctions
A type of sudation therapy in which diaphoresis is achieved by lying down on or sitting over a bed placed above a buried pot filled with a hot decoction or liquid.
कुल्माषः ( kulmāṣaḥ )

Type of gruel made from barley
A gruel made from barley flour soaked in hot water followed by boiling.
कुशपत्रशस्त्रम् ( kuśapatraśastram )

Long-pointed sharp knife
A long-pointed sharp knife (Paget’s knife) generally used for drainage.
कुष्ठः ( kuṣṭhaḥ )

Multiple dermatological diseases
कू पस्वेदः ( kūpasvedaḥ )

Sweating induced over a well
A type of sudation therapy in which diaphoresis is achieved by lying down on or sitting over a bed placed above a shallow well containing the embers of various substances.
कू र्चः ( kūrcaḥ )

Brush-shaped structures
Brush-shaped branching network of tissues, six in number.
कू र्चिका ( kūrcikā )

Solid part of milk boiled with buttermilk or curd
The solid portion obtained when milk is boiled with buttermilk or curd.
कू र्परः, कफोणिः, कुहणिका ( kūrparaḥ, kaphoṇiḥ, kuhaṇikā )

Elbow
कू र्परसन्धिः, बाहुसन्धिः ( kūrparasandhiḥ. bāhusandhiḥ )

Elbow joint
कू र्परास्थि ( Kūrparāsthi )

Olecranon process
कूटः ( kūṭaḥ )

Cavity
कूपीपाकः ( kūpīpākaḥ )

Processing by heating medicines in a glass flask or bottle
कूर्चः (मर्म) ( kūrcaḥ (marma)

Vulnerable location(s) near the wrist and ankle
Four in number (one in each limb) which when injured causes shivering and bending of the limb.
कूर्चशिरः (मर्म) ( kūrcaśiraḥ (marma) )

Vulnerable location(s) on the wrist and ankle
Four in number (one on each limb) which when injured leads to pain and swelling of the affected part.
कृकलासदष्टः ( kṛkalāsadaṣṭaḥ )

Reaction due to lizard bite
Poisoning characterized by brownish discoloration; blackish discoloration of body; variegated coloration; confusion/ delirium; altered bowels/loose motions.
कृकाटिका (मर्म) ( kṛkāṭikā (marma) )

Vulnerable location(s) at the junction of head and neck
Two in number (one on each side) which when injured leads to involuntary movements of head.
कृच्छ्रसाध्यरोगः ( kṛcchrasādhyarogaḥ )

Diseases that are difficult to treat or cure
Diseases and conditions that are curable with difficulty owing to various factors such as multiple etiological factors, depleted strength and functional imbalances.
कृतयूषः ( kṛtayūṣaḥ )

Processed soup of vegetables and / or pulses
A type of food preparation in which a soup of vegetables and/ or pulses is prepared by adding 16 parts water and processed with oil or ghee, and spices.
कृतरसः ( kṛtarasaḥ )

Processed meat soup
A meat soup processed with oil or ghee, and spices.
कृतान्नवर्गः ( kṛtānnavargaḥ )

Group of processed food items
A group of processed food items such as thin gruel of rice (peya), and boiled rice (odana).
कृत्रिमम् ( kṛtrimam )

Synthetic substances
Any artificial or synthesized substance.
कृत्रिमविषम्/संयोगजविषम् ( kṛtrimaviṣam/ saṁyogajaviṣam )

Artificial poison
A poison made artificially or a modified combination of various poisons.
कृमिकर्णकः ( kṛmikarṇakaḥ )

Maggots in ear
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: worm infestation; burning sensation in head; exudation of worms from ears; severe pain.
कृमिग्रन्थिः ( kṛmigranthiḥ )

Chronic blepharitis, pedicularis palpebrae
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: itching of the eyelids; itching of eyelashes; worms originating from the canthus; occurrence of different types of worms; vitiation of eyes; itching of lateral canthus; itching of medial canthus; burning sensation of lateral canthus; burning sensation of medial canthus; eyelashes sticking together; pus discharge; worm-infested swelling; painful swelling; itching of eyelid margins; damaging inner parts of eye.
कृमिज-शिरोरोगः ( kṛmija-śirorogaḥ )

Headache due to kṛmi (worm infestation)
Headache characterized by penetrating type of pain; cutting type of pain; pain/headache; itching; oedema; diseased gait; worm manifestation; foul smell from head; pricking pain in head; severe pricking type of pain in head; pain resembling insect sting; breaking pain from inside; pulsating sensation from inside; watery blood-stained rhinorrhoea; watery rhinorrhoea with pus; severe pain; mind-disturbing pain; fever; cough; loss of strength; dryness; burning sensation; pulsating sensation; putrid smell; itching in forehead; itching in palate; itching in head; dryness/wasting/emaciation; shutting eyes; coppery nasal crust; clear nasal crust; tinnitus.
कृमिजछर्दिः ( kṛmijachardiḥ )

Vomiting due to worm infestation
कृमिजहृद्रोगः ( kṛmijahṛdrogaḥ )

Heart disease due to infection or infestation
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: glandular swellings; increased moistness in heart; feeling as if the heart is pierced by needles; feeling as if the heart has been cut with a knife; itching; severe pain; severe form; nausea/provocation of dosha; spitting/excessive expectoration; pricking pain; colicky pain in abdomen; nausea; black-outs; loss of taste; dryness/wasting/emaciation; dark brown discoloration of eyes; feeling of entering into darkness; salivation of kapha; feeling as if the heart is constantly being sawed; severe distress; nausea/provocation of dosha; swelling/oedema.
कृमिदन्तकः ( kṛmidantakaḥ )

Dental caries
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: black cavities; loose tooth in socket; discharge from around tooth; dental inflammation; severe pain in teeth; pain appearing without cause; porous tooth filled with food debris; formation of small maggots; severe pain subsiding without treatment; blackish teeth; pus discharge from cut; bleeding from cut.
कृशरा ( kṛśarā )

Porridge
A food preparation made with rice, green gram, salt, ginger, and asafoetida in appropriate amounts and boiled until the rice becomes soft.
कृष्णकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( kṛṣṇakarma (vraṇacikitsā) )

Blackening, pigmentation- A therapeutic measure to induce pigmentation in scar tissue to inducing measures match the surrounding normal skin colour.
कृष्णतारका, तारका ( kṛṣṇa-tārakā, tārakā )

Iris
कृष्णदृष्टिसन्धिः ( kṛṣṇa-dṛṣṭi-sandhiḥ )

Pupillary margin
कृष्णमण्डलम् ( kṛṣṇa-maṇḍalam )

Comea and Iris
The part of the eyeball which is black or coloured (in contrast to the white sclera).
कॄ तनस्त: कर्मणो आस्थापनं ( kṝtanastah karmaṇo āsthāpanaṃ )

Condition caused by medicated decoction enema administered to person who has just taken errhine therapy
A condition characterized by obstruction of circulation channels leading to impairment of senses.
कॄ द्धभीत आस्थापनस्य व्यापदः ( kṝddhabhīta āsthāpanasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition caused by medicated decoction enema administered to person who is angry or fearful
कॄ मिघ्नकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( kṝmighnakarma (vraṇacikitsā)

Disinfection and disinfestation for wound management
The therapeutic procedure of wound disinfection and disinfestation.
केदारीकुल्यन्यायः ( kedārīkulyānyāyaḥ )

Theory of serial distribution
A theory to explain the nourishment of fundamental structural components: it states that primary circulating nutrient fluid (primary product of digestion) is supplied to all seven structural components through channels for their nourishment, just as tributary canals subdivide and distribute irrigation water to every part of a paddy field.
केवलव्यतिरेकि-अनुमानम् ( kevalavyatirekianumānam )

Negative correlation
A type of inference in which perception is obtained by negative concomitance (erroneous congruence between two premises).
केवलान्वयि-अनुमानम् ( kevalānvayi-anumānam )

Positive correlation
A type of inference in which perception is obtained by positive concomitance (veridical congruence between two premises).
केशः, मस्तकबालः ( keśaḥ, mastakabālaḥ )

Scalp hair
केशभूमिः ( keśabhūmiḥ )

Scalp
The area of skin from which hairs develop.
केशरञ्जनम् ( keśarañjanam )

Hair colorant
केशवर्धनम् ( keśavardhanam )

Trichogenic
Substances promoting hair growth
केश्यम्, रोमसञ्जननम् ( keśyam, romasañjananam )

Substance beneficial to hair
कोठः ( koṭhaḥ )

Transient large circular A skin disease characterized by a reddish circular rash; skin eruptions multiple circular lesions or rashes; lesions associated with excessive itching. (A transient condition occurring due to improper administration of emesis therapy or forceful suppression of vomiting.
कोपनम् [वातकोपनम्, पित्तकोपनम्, कफकोपनम्] ( kōpanam [vātakōpanam, pittakōpanam, kaphakōpanam] )

Vitiating action
Substances with the ability to destabilize health by vitiating one or several doshas, i.e. vata-vitiating, pitta-vitiating and kapha-vitiating .
कोरसन्धिः ( korasandhiḥ )

Condyloid and hinge joint
कोशबन्धः ( kośabandhaḥ )

Finger bandage
A type of bandage used for thumb and fingers.
कोष्ठः ( koṣṭhaḥ )

Bowel habit
Depending on the predominant dosha, the bowel habit of an individual can be classified physiologically as normal bowel, soft bowel or costive bowel. The term koshta also denotes abdomen.
कोष्ठ-अभिघातः/भिन्नः ( koṣṭhaabhighātaḥ/ bhinnaḥ )

Injury of visceral organs
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: kośta which become filled with blood; fever; burning sensation; urethral bleeding; rectal bleeding; haematemesis/haemoptysis; epistaxis; syncope or swooning; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; thirst; abdominal distension; aversion to food; faecal retention; obstruction to passage of urine/retention; retention of vata/flatus; loss of perspiration; redness of eyes; metallic odour from the mouth; foul body smell; precordial/cardiac region pain; pain in sides of chest/flanks; fever.
कोष्ठगत-शल्यः ( koṣṭhagata-śalyaḥ )

Foreign body in the alimentary canal
A disorder due to presence of foreign body in the alimentary canal; characterized by borborygmi with distension; gurgling intestinal sounds/borborygmi; appearance of food at the wound opening; appearance of faeces at the wound opening; appearance of urine at the wound opening.
कोष्ठाङ्गम् ( koṣṭhāṅgam )

Viscera, splanchnic organs
कोष्ठाश्रितकामला ( koṣṭhāśritakāmalā )

Jaundice affecting predominantly the organs in the major inner cavity of the body
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: excessively yellow-coloured eyes; yellowcoloured skin; yellow-coloured nails; turmeric yellow discoloration of face; reddish faeces; reddish urine; yellowish faeces; body colour resembling a toad in colour; loss of sensory and motor organ functioning; burning sensations; indigestion; weakness; exhaustion; loss of taste; whitishness of face; extreme weakness of sensory organs; yellowish discoloration of urine; thirst;
कोष्ठाश्रितवातकोपः ( koṣṭhāśritavātakopaḥ )

Aggravation of vata in abdominal and thoracic cavity and organs in the cavity
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: haemorrhoids; palpable glandular enlargement in abdomen/abdominal lump; pain in sides of chest/flanks; inguinal swelling/herniation; retention of urine; retention of faeces; diseases of heart.
कौपम् ( kaupam )

Well water
Water obtained from wells.
कौबेरकायः ( kauberakāyaḥ )

Person with wealthy, The characteristics of the person with a wealthy, luxurious luxurious temperament temperament are impartiality, tolerance, ability to make money and amass wealth, and high fertility.
क्रियाकल्पः ( kriyākalpaḥ )

Topical ocular procedures
Therapeutic procedures in which topical procedures are applied to the eye.
क्रियाकालः/षट्क्रियाकालः ( kriyākālaḥ/ṣaṭkriyākālaḥ )

Stages of disease manifestation and management
A comprehensive term for the six prominent stages in disease management indicating the stepwise progression of its pathogenesis.
क्रूरकोष्ठः ( krūra-koṣṭhaḥ )

Costive bowel habit
A physiological type of bowel habit due to the dominance of vata.. The individual with this type of bowel habit either has hard bowel motions or needs to strain at stool.
क्रोधः ( krodhaḥ )

Anger
Also translated as fury, rage or wrath.
क्रोधः ( krodhaḥ )

Sweating induced by provoking anger
A type of sudation therapy in which diaphoresis is achieved by angering the person.
क्रोष्टुकशीर्षः ( kroṣṭukaśīrṣaḥ )

Synovitis of the knee with effusion
A disorder characterized by a large painful swelling in the knee-joint/swelling in knee which resembles a jackal head; severe pain in mid-knee.
क्लमः-वमनव्यापत् ( klamaḥ-vamanavyāpat )

Condition of severe mental fatigue due to faulty emetic therapy
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: mental fatigue associated with drowsiness and heaviness; weakness; bodily exhaustion or tiredness/ inability to perform physical activities.
क्लमबस्तिव्यापत् ( klamabastivyāpat )

Condition of mental fatigue due to faulty enema therapy
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: exhaustion without exertion; internal burning sensation; pain in precordium/cardiac region; confusion/ delirium; feeling of being wrapped/cramps; heaviness.
क्लमविरेचनव्यापत् ( klamavirecanavyāpat )

Condition of mental fatigue due to faulty purgative therapy
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: mental fatigue associated with drowsiness and heaviness; weakness; bodily exhaustion or tiredness/ inability to perform physical activities.
क्लिष्टवर्त्म ( kliṣṭavartma )

Palpebral type of spring catarrah
A disorder characterized by the eyelid becoming soft; mildly painful and copper-red in colour; mild pain; coppery discoloration; even; suddenly becoming blood-red.
क्लेदककफः ( kledaka-kaphaḥ )

Moistening kapha
Subtype of kapha seated in the stomach which helps to moisten and loosen food particles and thus aid digestion.
क्लैब्यम् ( klaibyam )

Erectile dysfunction, impotence
An inability to perform the sexual act due to erectile dysfunction.
क्लोम, तिलकम्, तिलम् ( kloma, tilakam, tilam )

Root organ of watercarrying conduits
Usually commensurate with the gallbladder, pancreas and right lung.
क्लोमनाडी ( klomanāḍī )

Trachea
क्वाथः, शृतः, निर्यूहः ( kvāthaḥ, śṛtaḥ, niryūhaḥ )

Decoction
क्षणम्/निमेषः ( kṣaṇam/nimeṣaḥ )

Time equivalent to approximately 0.16 second
The time taken to pronounce a short syllable or one blink of the eye.
क्षतगुदस्य विरेचनव्यापत् ( kṣatagudasya virecanavyāpat )

Condition caused by purgation therapy administered to person having anal injury
A condition characterized by distressing pain around the injured anus which may endanger life.
क्षतजकासः ( kṣatajakāsaḥ )

Cough due to internal injury
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: dry cough; sputum with blood; spitting yellowcoloured sputum; spitting brown-coloured sputum; dry cough; spitting thick sputum; spitting purulent sputum; spitting excessive sputum; pain in throat; pain in chest; severe needle-pricking type of pain; pain on touch; sharp pain; breaking type of pain; burning sensation; breaking type of pain in small joints; fever; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; thirst; changed voice; cooing like a pigeon;injured chest; with tremor; pain in sides of chest/flanks; gradual depletion of virility/semen; gradual loss of taste; gradual loss of capacity to digestion; gradual loss of physical strength; gradual loss of body lustre/complexion; blood-coloured urine; stiffness of back; stiffness of lower back.
क्षतजतृष्णा ( kṣatajatṛṣṇā )

Morbid thirst due to trauma
A disorder characterized by thirst which is not relieved despite frequent intake of water day and night.
क्षतजदाहः ( kṣatajadāhaḥ )

Generalized burning sensation due to injury
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: syncope or swooning; excessive talking/ irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; thirst; severe internal symptoms of burning.
क्षतजविसर्पः ( kṣatajavisarpaḥ )

Erysipelas, spreading cellulitis due to trauma
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: grey-coloured oedema; red-coloured oedema; fever; burning sensation; inflammation/suppuration; vesicles resembling horse gram seeds; blackish eruptions; pain.
क्षतेषु वमनस्य व्यापदः ( kṣateṣu vamanasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition caused by emetic therapy administered to person suffering from trauma
A condition characterized by excessive haemoptysis due to aggravated injury.
क्षमा ( kṣamā )

Patience
A normal function of kapha. It signifies forbearance, forgiveness and resistance.
क्षयजकासः ( kṣayajakāsaḥ )

Cough due to diminution of bodily tissues
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: emaciation; spitting sputum with bad smell like raw meat; spitting sputum with green colour and blood; spitting sputum with pus/putrid sputum; spitting sputum with yellow colour; feeling as if heart is displaced from its site due to coughing; afflicted with sudden heat/coldness; sudden desire for heat/coldness; person with polyphagia; loss of physical strength or weakness; emaciated/thin/malnourished; unctuous clear face/unctuous charming face; pleasant; charming eyes; glossiness of palms; glossiness of soles; always displeased; abusing others; fever; dvandvaja type of jvara; pain in sides of chest/flanks; cold catarrh; loss of taste; passage of unformed. faeces; compact/formed stools; altered voice without any reason; body pain; burning sensation; confusion/delirium; attains death; depletion/wasting of muscle; depletion of blood with pus; breaking/pain in flanks; feels as if heart is displaced from its site due to coughing; loss of physical strength or weakness.
क्षयजराजयक्ष्मा ( kṣayajarājayakṣmā )

Consumption due to depletion of body elements
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: joint dislocation/laxity; dryness; cold catarrh; fever; cough; generalized body aches; headache; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; altered stools/loose motions; loss of taste; pain in sides of chest/flanks; diminution of voice/loss of voice; burning sensation in the shoulders/ scapular region; weakness; depletion/drying up of muscle and blood; crushing type of pain in shoulders; delayed digestion/ indigestion; altered voice; traumatic chest/pulmonary trauma; haemoptysis.
क्षयजस्वरभेदः ( kṣayajasvarabhedaḥ )

Hoarse voice, altered voice due to diminution of structural components.
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs voice due to diminution and symptoms: a smoky voice; obstructed/suffocated voice; of structural rubbing/scraping of throat.
क्षवथुः ( kṣavathuḥ )

Sneezing
A disorder characterized by kapha repeatedly and noisily being expelled from the nose; vayu and kapha being forcefully and noisily expelled from nose.
क्षवथुनिग्रहज-उदावर्तः ( kṣavathunigrahaja-udāvartaḥ )

Disorders of reversed or altered visceral movement due to suppression of sneezing
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: severe head disorders; severe eye disorders; severe nose disorders; severe ear disorders; feeling of fullness in throat; feeling of fullness in mouth; severe pricking pain in throat; severe pain in mouth; inarticulate speech; cessation of passage of vata; torticollis/stiffness of neck; headache; facial paralysis; hemicranial headache; impairment of sense organs.
क्षवथुवेगरोधः ( kṣavathuvegarodhaḥ )

Disorder due to withholding of sneezing
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: torticollis/stiffness of neck; headache; facial paralysis; hemicranial headache; impairment of sense organs; diseases of head; diseases of eyes; diseases of nose; diseases of ear; feeling of fullness in throat; feeling of fullness in mouth; severe pricking pain in throat; severe pricking pain in mouth; pigeon-like voice; difficulty in breathing; headache; impairment of sense organs; torticollis/stiffness of neck; facial paralysis.
क्षारः ( kṣāraḥ )

Alkali
Group of alkaline substances used in medicinal preparations.
क्षार-अतिदग्धः ( kṣāra-atidagdhaḥ )

Condition due to excessive cauterization or burns due to application of alkali substance
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: burning sensation; redness/congestion; inflammation/suppuration; discharge; generalized body aches; exhaustion without exertion; thirst; syncope or swooning; death; burning sensation with sweating and restlessness; swelling/proctitis; fever; spreading cellulitis/erysipelas; diseases of head; bleeding.
क्षार-अतिदग्धगुदः ( kṣāra-atidagdhagudaḥ )

Condition due to excessive burns to the anus due to application of alkali substance
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: obstruction of faeces; obstruction to passage of urine; diarrhoea; impotence/loss of sexual vigour; death on fissuring/tearing of anus; swelling at anus; pricking type of pain; proctalgia; anal discharge; absent urge to defecate; inability to hold urine; excessive defecation; frequent micturition.
क्षार-अतिदग्धनासा ( kṣāra-atidagdhanāsā )

Condition due to excessive burns to the nose due to application of alkali substance
A condition characterized by destruction of nasal cartilage; constriction of nasal cartilage; loss of sense of smell.
क्षार-अतिदग्धनेत्रम् ( kṣāra-atidagdhanetram )

Condition due to excessive burns to the eye due to application of alkali substance
A condition characterized by disruption of the sensory function of the eye due to puncture of eyelids; impaired vision.
क्षार-अतिदग्धश्रोत्रम् ( kṣāra-atidagdhaśrotram )

Condition due to excessive burns to the ear due to application of alkali substance
A condition characterized by loss of hearing.
क्षार-हीनदग्धः /दुर्दग्धः ( kṣāra-hīnadagdhaḥ / durdagdhaḥ )

Condition due to inadequate application of alkali substance
A condition characterized by pricking pain; itching; dullness/ frigidity/inactivity; increase in disease characteristics; coppery discoloration.
क्षारकर्म ( kṣārakarma )

Caustic therapy
A therapeutic measure in which caustic material is applied to tissue.
क्षारकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( kṣārakarma (vraṇacikitsā) )

Application of caustics for wound management
A procedure for applying medications with caustic properties.
क्षारकर्म-अपचारः ( kṣārakarma-apacāraḥ )

Condition due to improper application of alkali substance
क्षारपान-अतियोगः ( kṣārapāna-atiyogaḥ )

Condition due to excessive internal usage of alkali solution
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: hair loss; impairment of vision; affliction of heart; impotence/loss of sexual vigour; blindness; impotence; baldness; greying of hair; cutting type of pain in cardiac region.
क्षारपायना ( kṣārapāyanā )

Tempering of sharp surgical instruments with alkalis
The tempering of surgical instruments in caustic liquids.
क्षारमेहः ( kṣāramehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with urine resembling alkaline water
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: urine resembling alkaline liquid by odour, colour, taste and touch.
क्षारविभ्रमः ( kṣāravibhramaḥ )

Condition due to improper application of alkali substance
क्षारसूत्रः ( kṣārasūtraḥ )

Caustic thread
A medicated seton prepared with caustic medicines.
क्षिप्रम् (मर्म) ( kṣipram (marma) )

Vulnerable location(s) in first interdigital web-space of upper and lower limbs
Four in number (one in each limb) which when injured leads to convulsions and death.
क्षिप्रशुक्रमोचनम्/ शीघ्रशुक्रमुञ्चनम् ( kṣipraśukramocanam/ śīghraśukramuñcanam )

Premature ejaculation
An abnormal condition in the male in which ejaculation occurs before the normal time.
क्षीणशुक्रम् ( kṣīṇaśukram )

Decreased semen
Abnormal decrease in the amount of seminal fluid or decreased sperm count.
क्षीणातिस्थूलकृशबालवॄद्धदुर्बलानामौषधबलासहत्वात् ( kṣīṇātisthūlakṛśabālavṝddhadurbalānāmauṣadhabalāsahatvāt )

Condition caused by emetic therapy administered to person with consumption
A condition characterized by life-endangering reactions in a person unable to tolerate drugs used in emetic therapy.
क्षीर-विषः ( kṣīra-viṣaḥ )

Poisonous latexes
Poisoning characterized by frothing from mouth; altered stools/loose motions; heaviness of tongue.
क्षीरदधिन्यायः ( kṣīradadhinyāyaḥ )

Theory of sequential transformation
A theory to explain the process of nourishment of fundamental structural components: it states that the seven structural components are sequentially transformed from primary circulating nutrient fluid (primary product of digestion) to semen just as milk is transformed into curd and then butter and ghee.
क्षीरधूम ( kṣīradhūma )

Milk vapour fomentation
Steam from milk used for fomentation.
क्षीरम्/पयः/दुग्धम् ( kṣīram/payaḥ/dugdham )

Milk
Generally, denotes cow milk
क्षीरवर्गः ( kṣīravargaḥ )

Group of milks
क्षीरादः/दुग्धाशी ( kṣīrāda/ dugdhāśī )

Child on breast milk alone
An infant depending only on breast milk for its nourishment.
क्षीरान्नादः/दुग्धान्नाशी ( kṣīrānnādaḥ/ dugdhānnāśī )

Child on both breast milk and solid food
A child consuming both milk and solid food for its nourishment.
क्षीराष्टकम् ( kṣīrāṣṭakam )

Group of eight types of milk obtained from different sources
Milk of cow, buffalo, sheep, goat, horse, elephant, camel and humans.
क्षुद्-वेगरोधः ( kṣud-vegarodhaḥ )

Disorder due to suppression of hunger
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: emaciation; weakness; discoloration; generalized body aches; loss of taste; giddiness or dizziness; drowsiness/lassitude; diminished vision; breaking type of pain in body; fatigued mind and body; pain.
क्षुद्ररोगः ( kṣudrarogaḥ )

Group of disorders in which dosha pathogenesis has a single definitive diagnostic outcome
Miscellaneous group of morbid conditions ranging from very fatal conditions such as agnirōhiṇī and valmīka to conditions occurring in children such as ajagallikā and ahipūtanā These conditions have a specific, consolidated description of presenting signs and symptoms and minimum details in respect of etiology, subtypes, etc., compared with major disorders such as jvara, prameha and kuṣṭa.
क्षुद्रश्वासः ( kṣudraśvāsaḥ )

Mild dyspnoea
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: not very troublesome breathing; not harmful for the body; not distressing; not hampering intake of food or liquids; not painful for sense organs; not causing emergencies. Accumulation of pitta
क्षुद्रान्त्रम् ( kṣudrāntram )

Small intestine
क्षुद्रान्त्रावयवः ( kṣudrāntrāvayavaḥ )

Small intestinal loops
क्षुद्राहिक्का ( kṣudrāhikkā )

Mild or insignificant hiccups
A disorder characterized by hiccups increasing with exertion and decreasing after food intake; long interval; feeble bouts at long intervals; starting from jatrumūla and ending at jatrumūla.
क्षुधा ( kṣudhā )

Hunger
क्षुधा ( kṣudhā )

Sweating induced by hunger
A type of sudation therapy in which diaphoresis is achieved by not attending to hunger pangs.
क्षुधा ( kṣudhā )

Therapeutic sustained hunger
The process of keeping a person hungry as a therapeutic measure.
क्षुधार्तस्य नस्य व्यापदः ( kṣudhārtasya nasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition due to inhalation therapy administered to person who is hungry
A condition characterized by clinical features of vāta prakopa.
क्षुन्निरोधज-उदावर्तः ( kṣunnirodhaja-udāvartaḥ )

Disorders of reversed or altered visceral movement due to suppression of hunger
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: drowsiness/lassitude; generalized body aches; loss of taste; dizziness/confusion; diminished vision; exhaustion/fatigue.
क्षौद्रम् ( kṣaudram )

Honey from small bees
A variety of brownish-coloured honey produced by small types of honeybee.
क्षौद्रसर्पि: (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( kṣaudrasarpi (vraṇacikitsā) )

Application of honey and ghee for wound management
Therapeutic application of honey and ghee to a fresh wound.
खञ्जः ( khañjaḥ )

Lameness
खटिका ( khaṭikā )

Chalk
Pipe clay: a form of limestone composed of mineral calcite or calcium carbonate. Duly processed khatika is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
खट्वाबन्धः ( khaṭvābandhaḥ )

Four-tailed bandage
A type of bandage used to immobilize regions such as the mandible, temple, and cheeks.
खडः ( khaḍaḥ )

Beverage prepared from fruit
A type of beverage prepared from sour fruits such as jujube (Ziziphus jujube Mill.).
खनिजः ( khanijaḥ )

Mineral substances
An inorganic substance naturally occurring in the earth which has a consistent and distinctive set of physical properties and composition; a mineral.
खरः ( kharaḥ )

Roughness
The quality of a substance which is responsible for roughness.
खलेकपोतन्यायः ( khalekapotanyāyaḥ )

Theory of selective uptake
A theory to explain the process of nourishment of fundamental structural components: it states that each structural component selectively absorbs its specific nutrients just as a pigeon picks grains from a granary according to its need.
खल्ली ( khallī )

Twisting pain in upper and lower limbs
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: cramp in feet; cramp in calf; cramp in thigh; cramp in wrist; cramp in hand.
खल्वयन्त्रम् ( khalvayantram )

Mortar and pestle
खादितम् ( khāditam )

Hard eatables
Solid food items which are hard and need to be broken up with the teeth before being swallowed.
खारिः ( khāriḥ )

Measure of weight approximately equal to 196 kg and 608 g
Measure of weight equal to 16384 karsha or 4 droni.
खुडकः ,खुलकः ( khuḍakaḥ, khulakaḥ )

Ankle joint
गजपुटः ( gajapuṭaḥ )

Traditional oven using 1000 cow-dung cakes
A traditional oven using 1000 cow-dung cakes to produce heat for the calcination or incineration (bhasma) of mica, zinc and iron.
गण्डकर्णः ( gaṇḍakarṇaḥ )

Lobuloplasty type 5
A type of lobuloplasty indicated when the outer flap of the divided earlobe is long, and the inner flap is almost negligible.
गण्डमाला ( gaṇḍamālā )

Scrofula (cervical tuberculous lymphadenitis)
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: flesh-coloured nodular swellings on the neck which are hard; unctuous; brinjal-shaped; deep; some undergoing ripening and causing mild pain; some exuding fluid and causing severe itching; some disappearing; some reappearing; chronic in nature; glands resembling Zizyphus jujuba fruit (aproximately 2.5 to 6 cm), Piper chaba fruit (up to 7 cm) and Embelica officinalis fruit (2 to 2.5 cm). The closest diagnosis is tuberculous lymphadenitis.
गण्डू षः ( gaṇḍūṣaḥ )

Retention of medications in oral cavity
Full mouth retention of liquid medications for a specific time.
गतिः ( gatiḥ )

Gait
गन्धः ( gandhaḥ )

Smell
Trait of earth element.
गन्धकः ( gandhakaḥ )

Sulfur
Duly processed gandhakam is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbomineral pharmaceutical formulations.
गन्धनामा/गन्धमाला ( gandhanāmā/ gandhamālā )

Painful black vesicles on flanks and limbs
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a lesion resembling a vesicle; single vesicular lesion in upper arm; single vesicular lesion in shoulder region; single vesicular lesion in flanks; single vesicular lesion in axillary region; large vesicular swelling; vesicle/lesion resembling parched paddy. A subtype of kaksha disorder.
गन्धर्वकायः ( gandharvakāyaḥ )

Person with artistic, The characteristics of the person with an artistic, celebrating celebrating temperament temperament are a liking for pleasant smells, a liking for garlands, a passion for dancing and music and a fondness of roaming.
गन्धर्वोन्मादः ( gandharvonmādaḥ )

Psychosis making a person behave like an artiste
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a fondness for musical instruments; liking dancing; liking singing; liking various foods; liking drinking; liking bathing; liking flowers; liking holy fumes; liking perfumes; person who likes red-coloured clothes; person who likes religious sacrificing procedure; liking comic stories; spiritual; liking holy fragrances; happy soul; visiting riverside; well-mannered; overfondness for music; liking fragrance; smiling; using good beautiful words; fewer words; visiting forests/gardens.
गन्धवहाधमनी ( gandhavahādhamanī )

Artery related to perception of smell
गम्भीर-वातरक्तम् ( gambhīra-vātaraktam )

Deep-rooted polyarthiris due to vitiated vata and blood
Multiple joint pains; swelling; stiffness; hardness; sudden onset of pain; bluish-black colour; copper colour; burning sensation; pricking pain; pulsating sensation; inflammation/ suppuration; internal burning sensation; lameness; limping of both leg; deformities.
गम्भीरा-दृष्टिः ( gambhīrā-dṛṣṭiḥ )

Phthisis bulbi endophthalmitis
A disorder characterized by deformed eyes; eyes shrunk inwards; intense pain; constriction of ocular vessels.
गम्भीराहिक्का ( gambhīrāhikkā )

Hiccup; arising from depth of stomach
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: stiffness; pain in flanks; hiccups starting from umbilicus or large intestine/rectum; intense agitation of body; bending/flexion of body; obstruction on inhalation; diminution of mānasa bala/loss of consciousness; hiccups originating from the umbilical region; having high sound; dryness of lips; dryness of throat; dryness of tongue; dryness of mouth; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; pain in sides of chest/ flanks; yawning; stretching of body.
गरविषः ( garaviṣaḥ )

Poisoning due to two or more ingredients in combination
Poisoning characterized by pallor; emaciation; insufficient digestive power/capacity; discomfort in vital organs; affliction of marma; swelling in hands; pedal oedema; abdominal enlargement; diseases due to malfunctioning grahaṇi; phthisis; palpable glandular enlargement in abdomen/ abdominal lump; wasting; fever; oedema; insanity; haemorrhoids.
गरविषम् ( garaviṣam )

Mixture of poisons and nonpoisonous substances
A poison formed by the combination of two or more poisonous and nonpoisonous substances.
गर्दभिका ( gardabhikā )

Circular bloodfilled eruption
A disorder characterized by a main lesion surrounded by many small reddish lesions; rounded eruptions; rounded lesions; raised lesions; lesions associated with severe pain; abundant papular lesions.
गर्भः ( garbhaḥ )

Fetus or embryo
गर्भकोषः, गर्भकोष्ठः ( garbhakoṣaḥ, garbhakoṣṭhaḥ )

Uterine cavity
गर्भच्छिद्रम्, गर्भाशयद्वारम्, योनिमुखम् ( garbhacchidram, garbhāśayadvāram, yonimukham )

Cervical os, opening of the uterine cervix
गर्भपातः ( garbhapātaḥ )

Fetal expulsion in fifth or sixth month of pregnancy
Miscarriage of a formed fetus in the fifth month of pregnancy; in the sixth month of pregnancy.
गर्भवृद्धिः ( garbhavṛddhiḥ )

Foetal growth and development
The characteristics of this state are enlargement of the abdomen; perspiration in the pregnant woman.
गर्भस्थापनम्, प्रजास्थापनम् ( garbhasthāpanam, prajāsthāpanam )

Substance sustaining and preserving pregnancy
In general, this term also covers lifestyle and therapeutic measures that create the conditions favourable for preserving pregnancy.
गर्भस्रावः ( garbhasrāvaḥ )

Fetal expulsion before fourth month of pregnancy
Miscarriage of a fetus before completing the fourth month of pregnancy.
गर्भावस्था / व्यक्तगर्भः ( garbhavastha/ vyakta-garbhaḥ )

Pregnant state, visible signs of pregnancy.
The characteristics of this state are cessation of menstruation; excessive salivation; disinclination for food; vomiting; tastelessness; desire for sour tastes; seeking attention by speaking in a loud voice; heaviness of limbs; eye fatigue; milk droplets in breasts; darkening of lips; darkening of breast areola and nipple; severe pedal oedema; appearance of striate on abdomen; dilatation of yoni; approximation of eyelashes; aversion to pleasant smells; excessive salivation and tiredness.
गर्भाशयः, गर्भशय्या, फलयोनिः ( garbhāśayaḥ, garbhaśayyā, phalayoniḥ )

Uterus
गर्भिण्या नस्य व्यापदः ( garbhiṇyā nasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition due to inhalation therapy administered to a pregnant woman
A condition characterized by arrested fetal growth; blindness in one eye; deformity of upper limbs or kyphosis; hemiplegic; deformity of lower limbs.
गर्भोदकवमन ( garbhodakavamana )

Stomach wash
A procedure for inducing mild emesis in the newbornin order to expel collected amniotic fluid from the throat and stomach.
गलः ( galaḥ )

Oropharynx, throat
गलगण्डः ( galagaṇḍaḥ )

Goitre
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: swelling of anterior side of the neck; single swelling; swelling demonstrating symptoms of vata and kapha; localized swelling; growing in size with time; swelling hangs like a scrotum in the neck; big or small swelling in the neck; excessive pain.
गलग्रहः ( galagrahaḥ )

Obstructive Disorders of the throat
A disorder characterized by suddenly generating a stable oedema in the pharyngeal region such as pharyngitis.
गलबाह्यम् ( galabāhyam )

External part of the neck
गलमार्गः ( galamārgaḥ )

Throat passage
गलविद्रधिः ( galavidradhiḥ )

Throat abscess
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a swelling covering a whole part of throat; all kinds of pain; symptoms similar to tridośaja vidradhi; rapid onset and suppuration; putrid-looking discharge; discharge resembling pus.
गलशुण्डिका (कण्ठशुण्डी) ( galaśuṇḍikā (kaṇṭhaśuṇḍī) )

Uvulitis or elongated uvula
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: rapid onset of a swelling in kākala; large swelling about the size of distended bladder; elongated swelling about the size of distended bladder; large oedema at the base of soft palate; elongated oedema at the base of soft palate; thirst; cough; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; fish- or bladder-shaped oedema at the base of soft palate; soft oedema; elongated swelling; slimy swelling; expulsion of ingested food through nose; choking sensation of throat/ obstruction of throat; vomiting.
गलसन्धिः ( galasandhiḥ )

Isthmus of the throat
गलौघः ( galaughaḥ )

Acute inflammation of hypopharyngeal region
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: severe obstruction of food and water; severe swelling; hook-like swelling outside throat; hook-like swelling inside throat; heaviness of head; drowsiness/lassitude; salivation; hyperpyrexia; restricted movement of vāta.
गविनी ( gavinī )

Ureter
गाङ्गजलम् ( gāṅgajalam )

Uncontaminated water
A type of water which is not contaminated with dust, soot, toxic gases or other environmental impurities.
गाढबन्धन-व्रणः ( gāḍhabandhana-vraṇaḥ )

Condition due to tightly packed or bandaged wound
A condition characterized characterized by oedema; pain; rubbing of wound margins.
गात्रग्रहः-वमनव्यापत् ( gātragrahaḥvamanavyāpat )

Condition of stiffness of body due to faulty emetic therapy
गात्रग्रहविरेचनव्यापत् ( gātragrahavirecanavyāpat )

Condition of stiffness of A condition characterized by some or all the following signs body due to faulty and symptoms: rigidity/stiffness; shivering/tremors; pricking purgative therapy type of pain; bodily exhaustion or tiredness; spasm; churning type of pain.
गात्रपञ्चकम् ( gātrapañcakam )

Five prominences in the developing fetus
गार्भिण्याम वमनस्य व्यपदः ( gārbhiṇyāma vamanasya vyapadaḥ )

Condition caused by emetic therapy administered to pregnant woman
गिरिसिन्दूरः ( girisindūraḥ )

Red oxide of mercury
Duly processed girisindhura is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbomineral pharmaceutical formulations.
गिलायुः ( gilāyuḥ )

Swelling in throat (chronic tonsillitis)
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: amalaka-sized swellings in the throat; fixed swellings; swellings with mild pain; single muscular projection in throat; numerous muscular projections in throat; difficulty in breathing; difficulty in swallowing; broad-based; severely painful swelling.
गुञ्जा (बीज) ( Guñjā (bīja) )

Jequirity bean seed
Seed of Abrus precatorius L. Often employed as a unit of weight.
गुञ्जा, रत्ती ( Guñjā, rattī )

Measure of weight approximately equal to 125 mg
Measure of weight equal to one fruit of the jequirity bean
गुटिकाञ्जनम् ( guṭikāñjanam )

Collyrium in form of pill
A type of collyrium made in the form of a pill but applied like a collyrium.
गुणः ( guṇaḥ )

Property, quality or attribute
Property, quality or attribute
गुणः ( guṇaḥ )

Property, quality or trait
Attribute, property or quality of a substance; it forms an inseparable entity with substance (dravya); quality is devoid of any action on its own, although it is responsible for action through dravya.
गुण-विशेषः ( guṇa-viśeṣaḥ )

Dissimilarity at the level of quality
Qualities with opposing actions which result in one of them being depleted, e.g. the pacification of vata with usage of sesame oil owing to its opposite qualities.
गुण-सामान्यम् ( guṇa-sāmānyam )

Similarity at the level of qualities or properties
Quality exists in substance. This term denotes the similarity in quality exhibited by different substances, e.g. semen and milk.
गुदपार्श्वक्षेत्रम् ( gudapārśvakṣetram )

Ischiorectal fossa
गुदभ्रंशः ( gudabhraṃśaḥ )

Rectal prolapse
A disorder characterized by protrusion of the rectum outside the body.
गुदमण्डलम् ( gudamaṇḍalam )

Anal margin
गुदमुखम् ( gudamukham )

Anal orifice
गुदम्, पायुः, ब्रध्नः, महत्स्रोतः, शकृन्मार्गः ( gudam, pāyuḥ,bradhnaḥ,mahatsrotaḥ, śakṛnmārgaḥ )

Anus
गुदवलिः, वलिः, पायुवलिः ( gudavaliḥ, valiḥ, pāyuvaliḥ )

Folds of rectum
गुदस्थितवातः ( gudasthitavātaḥ )

Aggravation of vata in rectum
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: retention of faeces; obstruction to passage of urine/retention; retention of flatus; sharp pain in anus; abdominal distension; urolithiasis; multiple gravely particles in urine; pain in calf muscles; wasting of calf region; pain in thighs; wasting of thighs; pain in sacroiliac region of back; wasting of sacroiliac region of back; pain in legs/feet; wasting of legs; pain in back; wasting of back.
गुदान्त्रम् ( gudāntram )

Anal canal
गुदास्थि ( gudāsthi )

Coccyx
गुदास्थिविवरम् ( gudāsthivivaram )

Pelvic cavity
गुदौष्ठम् ( gudauṣṭham )

Anal verge
गुरुः ( guruḥ )

Heaviness
The quality of a substance which is responsible for nourishment.
गुरुप्रावरणम् ( guruprāvaraṇam )

Sweating induced by wearing heavy clothes
A type of sudation therapy in which diaphoresis is achieved by putting on thick clothes.
गुल्फः, घुटिका, , घुण्टिका ( gulphaḥ, ghuṭikā, ghuṇṭikā )

Ankle
गुल्फकर्णः ( gulphakarṇaḥ )

Medial and lateral malleoli
गुल्फसन्धिः, खुडः ( gulphasandhiḥ, khuḍaḥ )

Ankle joint
गुल्म ( gulma )

Shrub
A small, nonclimbing plant, e.g. Abutilon indicum (atibala) or Desmodium gangeticum (shaliparni).
गुल्मः ( gulmaḥ )

Lumps or growths (stable or transitory) in abdomen
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: being confined to mahāsrotasa; obstructing upper and lower orifices; colicky pain in abdomen; glandular swelling on palpation; glandular swelling between cardiac and bladder regions; glandular swelling which is mobile; glandular swelling which is fixed; glandular swelling increasing and decreasing in size; circular glandular swelling; sharp pierceing type of pain; severe pain; difficulty in breathing; rigidity/stiffness.
गुह्यप्रदेशः ( guhyapradeśaḥ )

Perineal region
गुह्यम् ( guhyam )

Genitals
गृध्रसी ( gṛdhrasī )

Sciatica
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: gradual stiffness of gluteal region; lower and upper back; thigh; knee; calf muscles and feet; constant/ frequent throbbing/twitching sensation; to-and-fro movements/ stretching of thigh; suppression/holding down of thighs.
गृहगोधिकादष्टः ( gṛhagodhikādaṣṭaḥ )

Reaction due to contact with household lizard
Poisoning characterized by burning sensation; pricking pain; perspiration; oedema.
गैरिकम् ( gairikam )

Red ochre
Iron (III) oxide (Fe2O3). Duly processed gairikam is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
गोदन्ती ( gōdantī )

Gypsum
Calcium sulfate dihydrate (CaSO4 .2H2O). Duly processed godanti is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
गोफणाबन्धः ( gophaṇābandhaḥ )

T- bandage
A type of bandage used in regions such as the chin, nose, lips, shoulder and pelvis.
गोफणिका ( gophaṇikā )

Blanket, reinforcing suture
A suture which resembles the stitching on the edge of a blanket.
गोमेदकम् ( gomedakam )

Zircon or hessonite
Duly processed gomedakam is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbomineral pharmaceutical formulations.
गोरसवर्गः ( gorasavargaḥ )

Group of milk and milk products
The group of milk and milk products such as milk, curd, buttermilk, butter, and ghee obtained from various animals such as cows, buffaloes and goats.
गौरीपाषाणम् ( gaurīpāṣāṇam )

White arsenic
Arsenic trioxide (As2O3). Duly processed gauripashanam is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
गौर्यः सिराः ( gauryaḥsirāḥ )

Lymphatic vessels
ग्रथितः ( grathitaḥ )

Knot-like formations on the penis
A disease of the penis characterized by knotty piḍaka; filled with barley awn.
ग्रन्थिः ( granthiḥ )

Nodular swelling, cyst
A disorder characterized by raised swelling; knotted swelling; rounded swelling.
ग्रन्थिविसर्पः/ वातकफजविसर्पः ( granthivisarpaḥ/ vātakaphajavisarpaḥ )

Erysipelas, spreading cellulitis due to vitiated vata and kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a series of slowly ripening nodules in a kapha-dominant region; a series of associated nodules in a region with vessels; muscles or skin; severe pain; large/small neoplasm or growth; elongated/round neoplasm or growth; red-coloured neoplasm or growth; fever; diarrhoea; cough; hiccup; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; dryness/ wasting/emaciation; confusion/delirium; discoloration; loss of taste; indigestion; excessive salivation; vomiting; syncope or swooning; breaking type of pain in body; sleep; distress/ discontent/restlessness; diminution of agni; rough nodules; giddiness or dizziness.
ग्रहचिकित्सा, भूतविद्या ( grahacikitsā, bhūtavidyā. )

Psychiatry
The clinical speciality of Ayurveda dealing with the treatment of mental disorders.
ग्रहणी, ज्योतिस्थानम्, अग्न्याधिष्ठानम्, अग्निस्थानम् ( grahaṇī, jyotisthānam, agnyadhiṣṭhānam, agnisthānam )

The site at which consumed food is held until digestion
That part of the intestine where semi digested food is retained until completely digested. It is the main functional area of digestive fire.
ग्रहणीरोग ( grahaṇīroga )

Chronic diarrhoea with malabsorption of nutrients
Malabsorption develops in persons who have been treated for diarrhoea but still have poor digestion; as well as in those with poor digestion who indulge in unsuitable foods and activities. Due to provoked dosha, the grahani becomes affected and impairs agni functions. It is characterized by undigested food matter within stools/faeces with āma/unformed stools (vimuñcati āma-mala-pravr̥ttiḥ/bhuktamāmaṁ vimuṁcation); expulsion of digested food; painful defecation; faeces with foul odour; formed stools interspersed with loose stools; faeces mixed with āma; faeces mixed with food; faeces mixed with undigested food; sudden well-formed hard stools; sudden onset of loose stools; longstanding pedal oedema; oedema on hands; emaciated/thin/malnourished person; pain in small joints; greediness; thirst; vomiting; fever; loss of taste; burning sensation; acidic eructation; bitter belchings/ eructations; sour belching/eructation; eructation with metallic smell; eructation with smoky smell; eructation with smell of raw meat; excessive salivation; dysgeusia/tastelessness; black-outs and loss of taste.
ग्रासान्तरम्, कवलान्तरम् ( grāsāntaram, kavalāntaram )

Administration of medicine between successive morsels of food
ग्राही ( grāhī )

Absorptive action
A drug which has appetizing and digestive qualities as well as an absorbent action due to its hot quality.
ग्रीवा ( grīvā )

Neck
ग्रीवा-अधःसन्धिः, जत्रुसन्धिः, अक्षकसन्धिः ( grīvā-adhaḥsandhiḥ, jatrusandhiḥ, akṣakasandhiḥ )

Sterno-clavicular joint
ग्रीवामूलम् ( grīvāmūlam )

Suprasternal notch
ग्रीवावंशः ( grīvāvaṃśaḥ )

Cervical part of vertebral column
घटियन्त्रावचरणम् ( ghaṭiyantrāvacaraṇam )

Bloodletting using a pot
Bloodletting using a specialized instrument resembling a pot.
घटी/नाडिका ( ghaṭī/nāḍikā )

Time equivalent to approximately 24 minutes
Time equal to 20 kala and 3 kashtha.
घनः ( ghanaḥ )

Water-soluble concentrate (solid)
घनवटी ( ghanavaṭī )

Tablet made from water soluble solid extract
घनसत्त्वम् ( ghanasattvam )

Water-soluble solid extract
घृतमूर्छनम् ( ghṛtamūrcchanam )

Pre-processing of ghee
Refining and enhancing the potency of ghee.
घोलः ( gholaḥ )

Buttermilk prepared by churning curd
A type of buttermilk prepared by churning curd without adding water.
घ्राणपाकः/नासापाकः ( ghrāṇapākaḥ/ nāsāpākaḥ )

Suppurative vestibulitis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: ulceration of the nose with marked suppuration; wheal-like skin eruptions; excessive moistness of nose; burning sensation; associated with pain; suppuration of nasal soft tissue.
घ्राणमार्गः ( ghrāṇamārgaḥ )

Nasal passage
घ्राणमूलम् ( ghrāṇamūlam )

Upper part of nasal cavity
घ्राणस्रावः/नासास्रावः ( ghrāṇasrāvaḥ/ nāsāsrāvaḥ )

Nasal discharge
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: constant colourless watery discharge from the nose; more marked at night; clear mucus discharge; watery discharge; continuous nasal discharge; colourless discharge; thick/dense discharge; yellowish discharge; whitish discharge; thin watery discharge.
घ्राणेन्द्रियम् ( ghrāṇendriyam )

Olfactory sense faculty
One of the sensory faculties : the faculty responsible for perception of smell or olfaction.
चक्षुः ,अक्षि, नेत्रम् ( cakṣuḥ, akṣi, netram )

Eye
चक्षुरिन्द्रियम् ( cakṣurindriyam )

Visual sense faculty
One of the sensory faculties : the faculty responsible for visual perception.
चणकाम्लः ( caṇakāmlaḥ )

Powder made from dewdrops
A powder made from dewdrops collected from the chickpea or chaṇaka plant [Cicer arietinum L.].
चतुर्थ-मदः ( caturtha-madaḥ )

Fourth stage of intoxication
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: idiocy; being as helpless as a piece of broken wood; loss of the sense of discrimination between right and wrong actions; unable to be roused or respond to stimuli.
चतुर्थकविपर्ययविषमज्वरः ( caturthakaviparyayaviṣamajvaraḥ )

Intermittent fiver recurring every fourth day when fever persists for two days with one day remission
A disorder characterized by a fever spike on the second and third days: the patient is free of fever at the beginning and end of every four-day period.
चतुर्थकविषमज्वरः ( caturthakaviṣamajvaraḥ )

Intermittent fever recurring every fourth day
A disorder characterized by a recurrent fever spike every fourth day.
चतुर्थपटलगत-दोषः ( caturthapaṭalagata-doṣaḥ )

Disorder affecting fourth layer of eye
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: the ability to see only the stars; ability to see clear and bright objects; complete obstruction of vision in all directions; ability to see the moon and sun; ability to see lightning in the sky; ability to visualize dazzling objects; obstruction of vision.
चतुर्थमासगर्भः ( caturthamāsa-garbhaḥ )

Fourth month of pregnancy
This month is characterized by increasing foetal stabilization, and an increasing excessive heaviness in the body of the pregnant woman; appearance of all body organs and adjuncts; appearance of body parts.
चतुर्विधदन्तजन्म ( caturvidhadantajanma )

Four types of dentition
Four different types of tooth eruption.
चतुर्विधहेतुः ( caturvidhahetuḥ )

Four types of etiological factor
There are four types of etiological factors: . proximate cause, distant etiological factor, mild yet potential causative factor and dominant causative factor
चतुर्विंशति-पुरुषः ( caturviṃśati-puruṣaḥ )

Embodied being composed of 24 elements
A body composed of 24 elements, namely: 1. eight primordial entities (ashtaprakriti) including unmanifested microcosm (avyakta), all-pervading intelligence (mahat) and the five rudimentary, undifferentiated elements (tanmatra); and 2. sixteen derivatives (shodashavikriti) comprising the five elements, the five organs of sense, five organs of action, and mind.
चतुर्विंशतियन्त्रकर्म ( caturviṃśatiyantrakarma )

Twenty-four functions of surgical instruments
A list of the various actions that can be performed using different blunt instruments.
चन्द्रकान्तः ( candrakāntaḥ )

Moon stone
Moon stone is sodium potassium aluminium silicate of feldspar with a pearly appearance. Duly processed chandrakanta is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
चन्द्रमण्डलवत्-छेदः ( candramaṇḍalavatchedaḥ )

Circular incision
An incision made in the shape of a circle.
चपलः ( capalaḥ )

Bismuth or selenium
Bismuth (III) sulfide (Bi2S3). In calcinated form chapala is used as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral formulations.
चर्मकीलः ( carmakīlaḥ )

Warts
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: nail-like projections from the skin surface; fixed projection; rough-textured projection; haemorrhoidal mass-like projection from skin surface; whitish projection; blackish projection.
चर्मकुष्ठः ( carmakuṣṭhaḥ )

Skin disease with lesions resembling elephant’s skin
A skin disease characterized by large lesions resembling an elephant’s skin; rough to touch.
चर्मदल-कुष्ठः ( carmadala-kuṣṭhaḥ )

Exfoliation of skin
A skin disease characterized by redness; itching; blister; pain; putrefaction; tenderness/inability to tolerate touch; burning sensation with sweating and restlessness; burning sensation.
चर्व्यम् ( carvyam )

Chewables
Food which requires thorough chewing when consumed.
चलाचल-सन्धिक्षतः ( calācala-sandhikṣataḥ )

Injury to movable and immovable joints
चालनकर्म ( cālanakarma )

Mobilization
A technique involving the mobilization of impacted foreign bodies or endogenous structures such as bones, teeth and fractured fragments.
चिकित्सा ( cikitsā )

Treatment
चिकित्सा ( cikitsā )

Treatment
A treatment eradicates or normalizes impaired dosha and reestablishes all the dhatu in equilibrium, thereby restoring the normal structure and function of bodily elements.
चिकित्सापचारः, व्यापत्, उपद्रवः ( cikitsāpacāraḥ, vyāpat, upadrava )

Conditions due to faulty treatment
Conditions which are well known outcomes of faulty assessment and administration of treatment regimens, and range from manageable states to those with fatal consequences.
चिकित्स्य-पुरुषः, षड्धातुपुरुष ( cikitsya-puruṣaḥ, ṣaḍdhātupuruṣa )

Person as the object of treatment
The treatable entity (a person), consisting of five elements and soul .
चिन्तनम् ( cintanam )

Decision-making
The process of weighing up or considering the worth of an action or its alternatives.
चिप्यम्/अक्षता/उपनख ( cipyam/ akṣatā/ upanakha; )

Whitlow
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a burning sensation in the lateral wall of eponychium; pus formation in the lateral wall of eponychium; intense burning sensation in the nailbeds and surrounding skin; intense burning sensation in the area between nails and skin underneath nails; fever; pain over and under nails.
चिबुकम् ( cibukam )

Chin
चीनबन्धः ( cīnabandhaḥ )

Eye bandage
A type of bandage applied in the eye region.
चूचुकम् ( cūcukam )

Nipple
चूडाकरणसंस्कारः ( cūḍākaraṇasaṁskāraḥ )

Tonsuring ceremony
A ceremony in which the scalp hairs are totally shaved off for the first time after the child is one year old and before reaching three years of age.
चूर्णम्, रजः, क्षोड: ( cūrṇam, rajaḥ,kṣodaḥ )

Powder
चूर्णाञ्जनम् ( cūrṇāñjanam )

Collyrium in form of powder
A type of collyrium in the form of a powder.
चूर्णोदकम्,शुद्धोदकम्‌ ( cūrṇodakam, śuddhodakam )

Lime water
चूषणम् (विषोपक्रमः) ( cūṣaṇam (viṣopakramaḥ)

Poison removal by suction
Applying suction by various means to remove poison.
चेतन-द्रव्यम्/सेन्द्रियः ( cetana-dravyam/ sendriyaḥ )

Sentient being
Any living, sentient, aware, feeling, animate being; any substance imbued with life (including plants).
चेतना/ चैतन्यम् ( cetanā/ caitanyam )

Consciousness
Awareness, conscious self or intelligence.
चेतःस्थानम् ( cetaḥsthānam )

Seats of consciousness
Body sites which are major seats of vital life force; primarily the heart .
चेष्टा ( ceṣṭā )

Motion, action, function
चेष्टावन्तसन्धिः ( ceṣṭāvantasandhiḥ )

Movable joint
चोष्यम् / चूष्यम् ( coṣyam/cūṣyam )

Suckables
Soft food including juicy fruits (such as mango) which may be consumed by sucking.
छदनम् ( chadanam )

Covering
छर्दिः ( chardiḥ )

Vomiting
छर्दिनिग्रहज-उदावर्तः ( chardinigrahaja-udāvartaḥ )

Disorders of reversed or altered visceral movement due to suppression of vomiting
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: skin diseases; itching; wheal-like skin eruptions; loss of taste; black pigmented patches; oedema; clinical features of pāṇḍu; fever; skin diseases; spreading cellulitis/erysipelas; nausea.
छर्दिनिग्रहणम्, छर्दिघ्नम् ( chardinigrahaṇam, chardighnam )

Anti-emetic
छर्दिवेगरोधः ( chardivegarodhaḥ )

Disorder due to withholding of vomiting
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: itching; wheal-like skin eruptions; loss of taste; blackish circular patches on face; oedema; clinical features of pāṇḍu; fever; skin disease; nausea; spreading cellulitis/erysipelas; diseases of eyes; itching; cough; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing.
छलः ( chalaḥ )

Perverted or deceitful argument
A specious and verbose statement made with the sole intention of unnerving the opponent.
छिद्रम्, द्वारम्, विवरम्, सुशिरम्, कुहरम् ( chidram, dvāram, vivaram, suṣiram, kuharam )

Orifice
छिद्रोदरः/क्षतोदरः ( chidrodaraḥ/ kṣatodaraḥ )

Acute abdominal swelling caused by intestinal perforation
An acute and life threatening illness characterized by increased abdominal distension below the umbilicus; passing of blackish stools; passing of bluish stools; passing of yellowish stools; passing of slimy stools; passing of stools smelling of dead body; passing of unformed stools with ama; hiccups; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; cough; thirst; excessive urination; loss of taste; indigestion; weakness; watery discharge from anus; severe needling type of pain; indigestion; frequent scanty stool-coloured discharge from anus; giddiness or dizziness; tearing.
छिन्नश्वासः ( chinnaśvāsaḥ )

Split or noncontiguous (breathing)
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: borborygmi with distension; with perspiration; syncope or swooning; burning in the bladder; confused dilated eyes; excessively weak respiration; redness of one eye; senselessness/unconsciousness; dryness of mouth; discoloration of face; excessive talking/irrelevant speech/ incoherent speech; afflicted with loosening of joints/ligaments; pain due to affliction of marma or vital points; suppression of urine; downward gaze; fainting; timidity or apathy; loss of lustre/charm; leading to death.
छेदनकर्म ( chedanakarma )

Excision
The procedure of excising or amputating a body part or organ.
छेदनकर्म ( chedanakarma )

Excision
Excision procedure for wound management.
छेदनभेदः ( chedanabhedaḥ )

Types of incision
Various types of incision based on shape, such as oblique, semicircular and circular.
छेदनम् ( chedanam )

Corrosive action
A therapeutic action which forcibly drives out sticky dosha such as kapha.
छेद्यरोगः ( chedyarogaḥ )

Eye disorders for excision
Eye diseases in which the surgical procedure of excision is indicated.
जघनम् ( jaghanam )

Waist
जङ्गमः/ बहिरन्तश्चेतनः ( jaṅgamaḥ/ bahirantaścetanaḥ )

Mobile life form with internal and external sentience
Any living being in the animal kingdom which visibly reacts to external stimuli.
जङ्गमविषः ( jaṅgamaviṣaḥ )

Animal poison
Poisoning characterized by sleep; drowsiness/lassitude; exhaustion without exertion; burning sensation; inflammation/ suppuration; horripilation; oedema; diarrhoea; indigestion.
जङ्घा ( jaṅghā )

Lower leg
The part of lower limb between the knee and the ankle.
जङ्घापिण्डिका ( jaṅghā-piṇḍikā )

Prominence of calf muscles
जङ्घास्थि ( jaṅghāsthinī )

Tibia and fibula
जतुमणिः ( jatumaṇiḥ )

Mole, birthmark
A disorder characterized by a painless circular lesion; slightly raised from skin surface; minute lesion; reddish or reddish tinged; smooth-textured lesion; resembles carmakīla; present since birth/congenital.
जत्रु ( jatru )

Clavicle
जत्रुमूलम् ( jatrumūlam )

Base of the neck
जन्मबलप्रवृत्तरोगः ( janmabalapravṛttarogaḥ )

Congenital anomalies
Conditions that occur at the time of birth which may be the result of diet and lifestyle choices by the mother during conception or from non-fulfilment of maternal cravings during pregnancy.
जरणशक्तिः ( jaraṇaśaktiḥ )

Digestive power
The capacity to digest consumed food.
जराजन्यक्लैब्यम् ( jarājanyaklaibyam )

Senile impotency
Impotency owing to senility and old age.
जरायुः ( jarāyuḥ )

Fetal membranes
जरायुजः ( jarāyujaḥ )

Viviparous animals
An animal species which undergoes placental birth, e.g. humans, lions, tigers, cows or goats.
जल-स्रावः ( jala-srāvaḥ )

Watery exudation from corners of eye
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a watery discharge occurring at the junction of eyelids and sclera; discharge from inner canthus; pain; redness/congestion; oedema; lacrimation occurring during digestion.
जलम् ( jalam )

Water element
Responsible for cohesion and fluidity, acts as the substratum of taste, perceived by the tongue.
जलवाहिनीसिरा ( Jalavāhinīsirā )

Lacrimal duct
जलौकावचरणम् ( jalaukāvacaraṇam )

Bloodletting using leech
Bloodletting by means of medical leeches (Hirudo medicinalis).
जल्पः ( jalpaḥ )

Defensive argument
A debate in which the speaker resorts to quibbling and illegitimate commentary to argue their own case and refute that of their opponent.
जाङ्गमः ( jāṅgamaḥ )

Drugs of animal origin
जाङ्गमविष-अधिष्ठानम् ( jāṅgamaviṣaadhiṣṭhānam )

Substrata of poison in animals
The various sites at which poisons are located in animals such as sight, breath, fangs/teeth, nails, faeces, urine, semen, saliva, menstrual blood, bones, bite, flatus, beak/mouth, bile, bristle and dead body.
जाङ्गमविषम् ( jāṅgamaviṣam )

Animal poison
A group of poisons originating from animals: snakes, rats, spiders and rabid animals e.g. dogs, scorpions and insects.
जाङ्गलमांसात्युपयोगः ( jāṅgalamāṃsātyupayogaḥ )

Disorder due to excessive intake of animal meat from region with dry forests and less rainfall
जाठराग्निः ( jāṭharāgniḥ )

Metabolic factors located in the digestive tract
Transformative factors in the gastrointestinal tract.
जातकर्म ( jātakarma )

Care of newborn
The various procedures undertaken in the care of a newborn baby.
जातकर्मसंस्कारः ( jātakarmasaṁskāraḥ )

Postnatal ritual
A ritual performed soon after birth for the purpose of promoting intellect, longevity and strength in the baby.
जानु ( jānu )

Knee region
जानुकपालिका ( jānukapālikā )

Patella
जानुबस्तिः ( jānubastiḥ )

Therapeutic retention of oil over knee region
A procedure which involves holding medicated oil over the knee region for a specific duration.
जानुसन्धिः ( jānusandhiḥ )

Knee joint
जान्वधःसन्धिः ( jānvadhaḥsandhiḥ )

Proximal tibiofibular joint
जालगर्दभः ( jālagardabhaḥ )

Nonsuppurating cellulitis
A disorder characterized by a slowly spreading swelling; swelling tending not to suppurate; small swelling; coppercoloured swelling; associated with fever.
जालधरासिरा, जालन्धरा ( jāladharā-sirā, jālandharā )

Great saphenous vein
जालम् ( jālam )

Plexus or network
An interlacing or decussating network such as those of māṃsa, sirā, snāyu or asthi.
जालिनी-प्रमेहपिडका ( jālinī-pramehapiḍakā )

Carbuncle resembling spider web
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a boil accompanied by a severe burning sensation; a boil surrounded by a fleshy mass network; numbness; covered with venous plexus; unctuous discharge; broad-cavity nodule; with severe pain; needling type of pain in nodule; minute opening; covered with a venous plexus.
जिज्ञासा ( jijñāsā )

Inquisitiveness
The desire to explore and investigate a particular topic out of curiosity and with the intention of knowing the truth.
जिह्वा, रसना, गोजिह्विका, गोजिह्वा ( jihvā, rasanā, gojihvikā, gojihvā )

Tongue
जिह्वाग्रम् ( jihvāgram )

Tip of the tongue
जिह्वातलम् ( jihvātalam )

Surface of the tongue
जिह्वामूलगतमलः ( jihvāmūlagatamalaḥ )

Debris deposition at the root of the tongue
A disorder characterized by restricted expiration; bad mouth smell/halitosis.
जिह्वामूलम्, जिह्वाप्रबन्धः, जिह्वाबन्धनम्, रसनबन्धनम् ( jihvā-mūlam, jihvāprabandhaḥ, jihvābandhanam, rasanabandhanam )

Root of the tongue
जिह्वासेवनी ( jihvā-sevanī )

Frenulum of the tongue
जिह्वास्तम्भः ( jihvāstambhaḥ )

Rigid tongue
A disorder characterized by inability to eat food and liquids; inability to speak.
जीवः ( jīvaḥ )

Living being, individual self
The lifelong vital principle.
जीवनम् ( jīvanam )

Giving life
One of the functions of blood is to give, quicken and vivify life.
जीवनीयः ( jīvanīyaḥ )

Substance maintaining life, wholesome to life
जीवनीयः ( jīvanīyaḥ )

Vitality enhancer
Therapies or medicines beneficial for increasing vitality.
जीवन्मुक्तिः ( jīvanmuktiḥ )

Liberation in the embodied state
Attaining emancipation or salvation while still alive, liberation from karmic rebirth.
जीवादानम्-वमनव्यापत् ( jīvādānam-vamanavyāpat )

Condition of bleeding due to faulty emetic therapy
A condition characterized by death due to blood loss; thirst; syncope or swooning; insanity.
जीवादानविरेचनव्यापत् ( jīvādānavirecanavyāpat )

Condition of bleeding due to faulty purgative therapy
A condition characterized by death due to blood loss; thirst; syncope or swooning; insanity.
जृम्भानिग्रहज-उदावर्तः ( jṛmbhānigrahaja-udāvartaḥ )

Disorders of reversed or altered visceral movement due to suppression of yawning
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: torticollis/stiffness of neck; stiffness of throat region; disorders of the head; severe diseases of the ear; severe diseases of the mouth; severe diseases of the nose; severe diseases of the eye.
जृम्भावेगरोधः ( jṛmbhāvegarodhaḥ )

Disorder due to withholding of yawning
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: flexion/bending of body; convulsions; contractions; numbness; tremors; tremor/shaking; torticollis/ stiffness of neck; stiffness of throat region; diseases of head; diseases of vāta; severe form of ear disease; severe form of mouth disease; severe form of nose disease; severe form of eye disease; headache; impairment of sense organs; facial paralysis.
जेन्ताकस्वेदः ( jentākasvedaḥ )

Sweating induced in a specially designed room
A type of sudation therapy in which diaphoresis is achieved by sitting in a specially designed chamber with internal heating for a prescribed period.
ज्ञः ( jñaḥ )

The knower
Perceiver of knowledge, soul.
ज्ञानम् ( jñānam )

Understanding, religious knowledge
A wider form of knowledge centred on a cognitive event that is recognized when experienced.
ज्ञानेन्द्रियगतवात/ श्रोत्रादीन्द्रियगतवातः ( Jñānendriyagatavāta/ śrotrādīndriyagatavātaḥ )

Aggravation of vata in the sense organs
A disorder characterized by functional impairment of the sense organs.
ज्ञानेन्द्रियम् ( jñānendriyam )

Sensory faculty
The five sensory or cognitive faculties: auditory, visual, gustatory, olfactory and tactile sensory faculties.
ज्वरः ( jvaraḥ )

Fever
A disorder characterized by rise of temperature/agitation; absence of perspiration; generalized body stiffness/pain.
ज्वरपूर्वरुपम् ( jvarapūrvarupam )

Prodromal symptoms of fever
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: dysgeusia/loss of taste; heaviness of body; aversion to food; querulous eyes; lacrimation/tears in eyes; excessive sleep; distress/discontent/restlessness; yawning; flexion/bending of body; shivering/tremors; exhaustion/ fatigue; giddiness or dizziness; excessive talking/irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; sleeplessness; horripilation; sensitive teeth/dental hyperaesthesia; random intolerance to sound; cold; wind and the sun; wavering like and dislike of cold; wavering like and dislike of wind; wavering like and dislike of sun; loss of taste; indigestion; weakness; generalized body aches; low vitality; slowness in activities; lethargy; loss of regular functions; aversion to work; disregard of superiors’ instructions; dislike of children; indifference towards own duties; dislike of garlands and external applications; difficulty in deglutition; aversion to sweet food; liking for sour food; liking for salty food; liking for pungent food; discoloration; eyes filled with tears; black-outs; displeasure/discontent; feeling of cold; tear-filled; agitated eyes; excessive sleeping; claudication/cramp in the calf muscles; exhaustion without exertion; disregard for better advice; aversion to sweet food; severe thirst; wavering like and dislike of sound without any reason; wavering like and dislike of agni/warmth without any reason; wavering like and dislike of water without any reason; stumbling gait; burning eyes.
टङ्कणम् ( ṭaṅkaṇam )

Borax
डमरुयन्त्रम् ( ḍamaruyantram )

Instrument for sublimation
ढालनम् ( ḍhālanam )

Pouring molten metal into a liquid
तक्रकूर्चिका ( takrakūrcikā )

Solid part of milk boiled with buttermilk
The solid portion obtained when milk is boiled with buttermilk.
तक्रधारा ( takradhārā )

Controlled pouring of buttermilk over body
A procedure in which buttermilk is poured in a stream all over the body.
तक्रम् ( takram )

Thin buttermilk
A type of buttermilk prepared by churning curd with quarter the amount of water.
तद्विद्यसंभाषा ( tadvidyasaṃbhāṣā, )

Discussion and debate amongst peers
Discussion and debate between peers which is conducted in a friendly spirit and serves to advance knowledge.
तद्विद्यसम्भाषा ( tadvidyasambhāṣā )

Discussion amongst peers
A discussion among experts in the field in the manner of a peer-review.
तनुरसः ( tanurasaḥ )

Thin meat soup
A meat soup prepared with larger amount of water.
तनुरेतोदोषः ( tanuretodoṣaḥ )

Abnormally thin, scanty semen
A condition characterized by abnormally thin semen or semen of reduced viscosity and increased liquidity.
तन्त्रम् ( tantram )

Treatise, structurally organized knowledge
A term that means literally to hold together on a thread, and figuratively to elaborate a structured and classified exposition of a subject.
तन्त्रयुक्तिः ( tantrayuktiḥ )

Devices for composition and analysis of technical treatises
Devices required to compose, understand, criticize and evaluate a technical treatise.
तन्द्रा ( tandrā )

Drowsiness
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: inability to perceive the objects of the senses; exhaustion without exertion; heaviness; yawning; sleepiness.
तन्मात्रा ( tanmātrā )

Rudimentary, undifferentiated element
Subtle physical state of all five elements from which a gross element (mahabhuta) is produced.
तमः ( tamaḥ )

Inertia
Characterized by darkness, ignorance and laziness, it is capable of vitiating the mind.
तमकश्वासः ( tamakaśvāsaḥ )

Bronchial asthma
Difficulty in breathing resulting in darkness in front of eyes; A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: cold catarrh; making ghurghur sound; severely raised respiratory rate/tachypnoea; life-threatening; fainting due to tachypnoea; cough; motionless; frequent fainting while coughing; distressed by inability to expel phlegm; feeling better temporarily due to spitting of phlegm; inflammation of throat; hardly able to speak; loss of sleep/insomnia; difficulty in breathing in sleeping position; respiration hindered by sides of chest due to vāta; feeling comfortable in sitting posture; comfortable with hot things/desire for warm substances; enlarged eyes; sweating on forehead; sudden onset of pain; dryness of mouth; body moving with respiratory effort during attack; aggravation of attack due to incoming clouds; rain; cold or wind and other factors which increase kapha; thirst; perspiration; vomiting; associated with loud sounds; with sputum/phlegm; aversion to food; loss of taste; numbness increased on sleep; confusion/delirium; tremor.
तरुणास्थि ( taruṇāsthi )

Cartilage
तर्कः ( tarkaḥ )

Speculative reasoning or debate
A method of speculative reasoning or debate.
तर्जनि ( tarjani )

Second toe
तर्पककफः ( tarpaka-kaphaḥ )

Nourishing kapha
Subtype of kapha seated in the head which nourishes the sensory organs.
तर्पण-अपचारः ( tarpaṇa-apacāraḥ )

Condition due to improper application of lubrication therapy on the eyes
तर्पणहीनयोगः ( tarpaṇahīnayogaḥ )

Condition of suboptimal application of lubrication therapy on the eyes
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: dry eyes; turbid eyes; excessive lacrimation; photophobia/intolerance of visual perception; increase in disease characteristics.
तर्पणातियोगः ( tarpaṇātiyogaḥ )

Condition of excessive application of lubrication therapy on the eyes
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: heaviness of eye; confused/turbid eyes; excessive unctuousness of eye; lacrimation; itching; greasiness; afflicted by dosha.
तलम् ( talaṁ )

Medicated paste or oil applied over vertex
An application of warm oil mixed with powder and made into a paste (or only warm oil) placed over the vertex.
तलम् ( talam )

Palm, sole
तलहृदयम् (मर्म) ( talahṛdayam (marma)

Vulnerable location(s) on the midpoint of sole and palm
Four in number (one in each limb) which when injured leads to pain which ends in death.
ताच्छिल्यम् ( tācchilyam )

Inclinations
Description used to denote a particular inclination, tendency, or habit. Also refers to methods of diagnosis and treatment.
ताडागम् ( tāḍāgam )

Tank or pond water
Water sourced from artificial tanks or ponds.
तापस्वेदः ( tāpasvedaḥ )

Sweating induced by contact with heat or heated substances
The procedure of achieving sudation by applying a warm substance to the body surface.
तामसकायः ( tāmasakāyaḥ )

Person with inertial temperament
The mental and physical characteristics of the person with an inertial temperament are laziness, fickleness and indecisiveness.
तामसरोगः ( tāmasarogaḥ )

Diseases caused by inertia prone tendency
A disorder of the psyche caused by increase in the inertiaprone tendency in the individual, e.g. grief, slothfulness or excessive sleepiness.
ताम्रम् ( tāmram )

Copper
Cu (Cuprum). Duly processed tamra is employed as a standalone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
ताम्रा ( tāmrā )

Fourth layer of skin
तार्क्ष्यम् ( tārkṣyam )

Emerald
Duly processed tarkshya is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbomineral pharmaceutical formulations.
तालयन्त्रम् ( tālayantram )

Spatula, spoonshaped instruments
Scoop-like instruments used in surgical and parasurgical procedures such as removal of foreign bodies from the ears, nostrils, and other passages.
तालु ( tālu )

Palate
A term which denotes the anterior fontanelle.
तालु-अर्बुदः ( tālu-arbudaḥ )

Tumour of palate
A disorder characterized by a lotus-shaped swelling in the centre of the palate.
तालुकण्टकः ( tālukaṇṭakaḥ )

Dehydration of palate
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: depression/sinking of anterior fontanelle; depression of palate; aversion to breast milk; difficulty in sucking; loose stools; thirst; itching in mouth; pain in eyes; inability to hold neck; vomiting.
तालुगतरोगः ( tālugatarogaḥ )

Disorders of palate
A disorder impacting on the structure and/or function of the interior upper surface (roof) of the mouth.
तालुदेशः, तालुप्रदेशः ( tāludeśaḥ, tālupradeśaḥ )

Region of palate
तालुपाकः/तालुशोथः ( tālupākaḥ/ tāluśothaḥ )

Palatal inflammation
A disorder characterized by excessive suppuration/ inflammation of the palate; pus discharge; severe pain.
तालुपिडका ( tālupiḍakā )

Palatal boil
A disorder characterized by painful soft tissue in the palate; eruption in palatal soft tissue; rough eruptions; multiple eruptions; eruptions with thick exudation.
तालुपुप्पुटः ( tālupuppuṭaḥ )

Cystic swelling of palate
A disorder characterized by a painless swelling in the middle of the palate; painless swelling in palate; stable/benign swelling in palate.
तालुमांसम् ( tālumāṃsam )

Soft palate
A term which denotes the anterior fontanelle. स्वप्नम्
तालुविद्रधिः ( tāluvidradhiḥ )

Palatal abscess
A disorder characterized by a burning sensation in the palate; redness/congestion of palate; inflammation/ suppuration of palate.
तालुशोषः ( tāluśoṣaḥ )

Atrophy of palate
A disorder characterized by excessive dryness of the palate; fever; exertion; fissuring of palate; respiratory distress.
ताल्वस्थि ( tālvasthi )

Bones of the palate
तिक्त-रसः ( tikta-rasaḥ )

Bitter taste
तिक्तरसातियोगः ( tiktarasātiyogaḥ )

Disorder due to excessive intake of bitter substances
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: diminution of fundamental structural components/emaciation; drying up of primary circulating nutrient fluid; drying up of blood (raktadhatu); drying up of muscle (mamsadhatu); drying up of fat (medodhatu); drying up of bone (asthi dhatu); drying up of bone marrow (majja dhatu); drying up of reproductive fluids (śukra dhatu); roughness/hardness in srotas/channels; loss of physical strength or weakness; emaciation; fatigued mind and body; confusion/delirium; giddiness or dizziness; dryness in mouth; diseases of vāta; stiffness of body parts; torticollis/stiffness of neck; convulsions; facial paralysis; headache; pricking pain; breaking type of pain; cutting type of pain; unpleasant taste in mouth; syncope or swooning; roughness of body.
तिक्तस्कन्धः ( tiktaskandhaḥ )

Group of bitter substances
तिमिरवमनस्य व्यापदः ( timira vamanasya vyapadaḥ )

Condition caused by emetic therapy administered to a person with cataract
A condition characterized by exacerbation of cataract.
तिर्यकक्षिप्त-सन्धिमुक्तम् ( tiryakakṣiptasandhimuktam )

Dislocation with oblique displacement
A dislocation of a joint characterized by one of the bones being obliquely displaced; severe pain.
तिर्यकपातनयन्त्रम् ( tiryakapātanayantram )

Distillation apparatus
तिर्यक् -छेदः ( tiryak-chedaḥ )

Oblique incision
A type of obliquely placed incision.
तिर्यक् -पातनम् ( tiryak-pātanam )

Oblique distillation of mercury
तिलकालकः ( tilakālakaḥ )

Black boil resembling a A disease of the penis characterized by a black-coloured sesame seed in size lesion localized on the skin surface; sesame-sized lesion; on the penis painless lesion; macular lesion/not raised from skin surface.
तिलकालकः ( tilakālakaḥ )

Black boil resembling tila seed
A disorder characterized by a black-coloured lesion localized on skin surface; sesame sized lesion; painless lesion; macular lesion/flush with skin.
तीक्ष्णः ( tīkṣṇaḥ )

Sharpness, speed
The quality of a substance which is responsible for rapid, strong or high intensity activity or response..
तीक्ष्णधूमपानम् ( tīkṣṇadhūmapānam )

High-potency medicated smoking
The procedure of medicated smoking with high-strength drugs.
तीक्ष्णाग्निः ( tīkṣṇāgniḥ )

Intense state of digestive, metabolic factors
A state in which the action of transformative factor is considerably intensified due to the dominant influence of pitta.
तुण्डिकेरी ( tuṇḍikerī; )

Tonsillitis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a large swelling; large swelling; pricking pain; burning sensation; severe inflammation; pharyngeal swelling resembling kārpāsa fruit; slimy swelling; swelling with dull aching pain; hard swelling; associated with temporomandibular joint.
तुत्थ-दग्धः ( tuttha-dagdhaḥ )

Condition due to incomplete first-degree burn
A condition characterized by discoloration; burning sensation with sweating and restlessness; no blisters.
तुन्नसेवनी ( tunnasevanī )

Darning suture
A subcuticular suture.
तुन्नसेवनी ( Tunnasevanī )

Sutural joint
तुला ( tulā )

Measure of weight approximately equal to 4 kg and 800 g
Measure of weight equal to 400 karsha or 100 pala.
तुषाम्बुः ( tuṣāmbuḥ )

Unhusked barley brew
Fermented liquid prepared by using raw broken unhusked barley.
तूनी ( tūnī )

Bladder pain radiating towards anus and penis
A disorder characterized by pain travelling down from colon and urinary bladder; tearing sensation in genitals; tearing sensation in anus; severe pain in bladder region.
तृणकान्तः ( tṛṇakāntaḥ )

Amber
Duly processed amber is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
तृतीय-मदः ( tṛtīya-madaḥ )

Third stage of intoxication
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: visiting places which should not be frequented; disrespect for teachers; eating inedible things; loss of consciousness; disclosure of even close-guarded secrets; dependency on others.
तृतीयकविषमज्वरः ( tṛtīyakaviṣamajvaraḥ )

Intermittent fever spiking every third day
A disorder characterized by a recurrent fever spike on alternate days, i.e. every third day.
तृतीयपटलगत-दोषः ( tṛtīyapaṭalagata-doṣaḥ )

Disorder affecting third layer of eye
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: presence of vision in an upward direction; absence of vision in a downward direction; even large objects appearing as if covered with a cloth; faces seemingly appearing with absence of ear; nose and eye; dṛṣṭi coloured according to the afflicting dosha; seeing body parts without features.
तृतीयमासगर्भः ( tṛtīyamāsa-garbhaḥ )

Third month of pregnancy
This month is characterized by the simultaneous manifestation of all the sense faculties; simultaneous manifestation of various bodily organs; manifestation of hands; manifestation of legs; manifestation of head; minute forms of body organs.
तृष्णा ( tṛṣṇā )

Morbid thirst
A disorder characterized by an incessant desire for water.
तृष्णा ( tṛṣṇā )

Therapeutic sustained thirst
The process of keeping a person thirsty as a therapeutic measure.
तृष्णा, पिपासा ( tṛṣṇā, pipāsā )

Thirst
तृष्णानिरोधजदाहः ( tṛṣṇānirodhajadāhaḥ )

Generalized burning sensation due to unquenched thirst
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: internal and external burning sensations; dryness of throat; dryness of palate; dryness of lips; trembling of the tongue on protrusion; dulling of all senses.
तृष्णापूर्वरूपम् ( tṛṣṇāpūrvarūpam )

Prodromal symptoms of morbid thirst
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: dryness of mouth; excessive dryness of palate; excessive dryness of lips; excessive dryness of throat; excessive dryness of oral cavity; burning sensation in the oral cavity; confusion/delirium; giddiness or dizziness; excessive and incoherent speech.
तृष्णावेगरोधः ( tṛṣṇāvegarodhaḥ )

Disorder due to suppression of thirst
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: dry throat; dryness in mouth; deafness/ hearing impairment; exhaustion/fatigue; bodily exhaustion or tiredness; precordial pain/cardiac pain; dryness/wasting/ emaciation; unconsciousness/confusion; giddiness or dizziness; diseases of heart.
तॄष्णार्तस्य नस्य व्यापदः ( tṝṣṇārtasya nasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition due to inhalation therapy administered to person who is thirsty
तेजः ( Tejaḥ )

Fire element
Responsible for heat, acts as the substratum for form and vision, perceived by the eyes.
तेजोजलम् ( tejojalam )

Aqueous humour
तेजोजलाश्रितबाह्यपटलम् ( tejojalāśritabāhya-paṭalam )

Cornea
तैलधारा ( tailadhārā )

Controlled pouring of oil over body
A procedure in which oil is made to poured in a stream (dhara) all over the body.
तैलपायना ( tailapāyanā )

Tempering of sharp surgical instruments with oil
The tempering of surgical instruments in medicated oil.
तैलमूर्छनम् ( tailamūrcchanam )

Pre-processing of oil
Refining and enhancing the potency of ghee.
तैलम् (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( tailam (vraṇacikitsā) )

Application of medicated oils for wound management
Topical applicationof medicated oil to a wound.
तैलवर्तिका ( taila-vartikā )

Omentum
The truncal cavity between the chest and pelvis. It may also refer to the uterine cavity.
तैलसेवन-अतियोगः ( tailasevana-atiyogaḥ )

Disorder due to excessive intake of oil, e.g. sesame oil
तौषारम् ( tauṣāram )

Dew water
Water obtained from dewdrops formed at night in the cold season or rainwater accumulating on leaves.
त्रयोपस्तम्भः ( trayopastambhaḥ )

Three pillars to maintain health and longevity
The three pillars are food, sleep and moderation in sensual indulgence including sexual activity
त्रिकम् ( trikam )

Sacrum, sacral region, pelvic girdle
The area between the two ilial wings and the fifth lumbar vertebra and coccyx. Also refers more generally to a triad or region where three structures meet, including the shoulder girdle.
त्रिकू र्चकशस्त्रम् ( trikūrcakaśastram )

Sharp threepin (brush-like) instrument
A type of surgical instrument with triple-pointed tips used for bloodletting or surgical drainage.
त्रिगुणा, महागुणः ( triguṇāḥ, mahāguṇaḥ )

Three primordial psychophysical attributes of nature
The three primary attributes of the universe, also indicative of mental attributes: tranquillity or harmony (sattva), agitation or activity (rajas) and inertia (tamas). The interplay of these gunas defines the character of a person or thing and determines the progress of life.
त्रिदोषः, शारीरिकदोष ( tridoṣaḥ, śārīrikadoṣa )

Three doshas or tridosha
The three regulatory functional factors of the body are: vata, pitta and kapha.
त्रिदोषजप्रकृतिः ( ṭridoṣajaprakṛtiḥ )

Body constitution in terms of the three dosha
त्रिदोषजमसूरिका ( tridoṣajamasūrikā )

Lentil-shaped pox disease due to vitiated tridosha
Lentil-shaped eruptive disorder is characterized by blue eruptions; flat eruptions; depresssed in the centre; severe pain; taking a long time to suppurate; excessive pus discharge; obstruction of throat; loss of taste; rigidity/stiffness; excessive talking/irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; distress/discontent/restlessness.
त्रिमर्म ( trimarma )

Three vulnerable locations
Heart, urinary bladder and head are considered as three most vulnerable locations
त्रिविध-शारीरिक-रोगः ( trividha-śārīrika-rogaḥ )

Three types of somatic disease
A threefold classification of somatic diseases based on vitiation of vata, pitta and kapha.
त्रिविधकुक्षिः ( trividha-kukṣiḥ )

Three divisions of stomach capacity
A division of stomach capacity into three parts, i.e.one part for solid items, one part for liquids and one part to be left empty for vata, pitta and kapha.
त्रिविधपरीक्षा (दर्शन, स्पर्शन, प्रश्न) ( trividhaparīkṣā (darśana, sparśana , praśna) )

Standard three Examination of the patient by observation (darshana), component examination palpation (sparshana) and interview (prashna).
त्रिविधहेतुः ( trividhahetuḥ )

Three types of etiological factors
A classification of etiology into three types: these are improper use of sense organs, intellectual error and transformation under the effect of time.
त्रिसूत्रायुर्वेदः, त्रिस्कन्ध ( trisūtrāyurvedaḥ, triskandhaḥ )

Three core principles The entire narrative of Ayurveda is woven coherently on the of Ayurveda knowledge logical framework of etiology (hetu), symptomatology (linga) and therapeutics (aushadha).
त्वक् -विषः ( tvak-viṣaḥ )

Poisonous barks
Poisoning characterized by halitosis; roughness/dryness; headache; secretion of mucus.
त्वक् , चर्म, वल्कम् ( tvak, carma, valkam )

Skin
त्वक्गतमसूरिका/ रसधातुगतमसूरिका ( tvakgatamasūrikā/ rasadhātugatamasūrikā )

Lentil-shaped pox disease localized in skin
Lentil-shaped eruptive disorder is characterized by vesicles resembling bubbles in water; watery discharge on rupture of vesicles; lesser severity.
त्वक्गतवातः ( tvakgatavātaḥ )

Aggravation of vata in skin
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: dryness of skin; cracking of skin; numbness of skin; thinning of skin/skin atrophy; blackening of skin; pricking pain in skin; stretching and redness of skin; pain in small joints; skin irritation resembling application of mustard paste; cracking of skin; discoloration; scaling of skin.
त्वक्पाकः ( tvakpākaḥ )

Boil producing fever and burning sensation of the penis
A disease of the penis characterized by fever; burning sensation.
त्वक्सारः, रससारः ( tvak-sāraḥ, rasa sāraḥ )

Person with predominance or essence of primary circulating nutrient fluid
Characterized by features such as unctuousness in ears, eyes, mouth, tongue, nose, lips, palms or soles, nails, forehead, penis with no signs of pallor and having a charming or pleasant personality.
त्वगिन्द्रियम्, स्पर्शनेन्द्रियम् ( tvagindriyam, sparśanendriyam )

Tactile sense faculty
One of the sensory faculties : the faculty responsible for perception of touch sensation..
त्वग्गत-शल्यः ( tvaggata-śalyaḥ )

Foreign body in the skin
A disorder due to presence of foreign body in the skin; characterized by discoloration; elongated prominent swelling; hard swelling.
त्वग्गतकुष्ठः ( tvaggatakuṣṭhaḥ )

Skin disease localized in primary circulating nutrient fluid
A skin disease characterized by loss of touch sensation; excess sweating; mild itching; discoloration; dryness.
दण्डकः ( daṇḍakaḥ )

Tonic convulsion
दण्डापतानकः ( daṇḍāpatānakaḥ )

Orthotonus with rod like stiffness
A disorder characterized by the whole body becoming stiff like a stick.
दद्रु-कुष्ठः ( dadru-kuṣṭhaḥ )

Skin disease with small, raised skin lesions
A chronic skin disease characterized by lesions associated with an itching sensation; reddish nodules; papules/eruptions; raised ring-shaped plaque; spreading out; resembling Indian doab grass; resembling flax flowers.
दधि-मिथ्योपयोगः ( dadhi-mithyopayogaḥ )

Disorder due to improper consumption of curd
A person consuming curd inappropriately; deviating from the prescribed rules.
दधिकूर्चिका ( dadhikūrcikā )

Solid part of milk boiled with curd
The solid portion obtained when milk is boiled with curd.
दधिमस्तु ( dadhimastu )

Watery part of curd
The supernatant liquid portion of curd.
दधिवर्गः ( dadhivargaḥ )

Group of curds
Curds, and the stages of their preparation, from the milk of various animals.
दन्तः, दशनः ( dantaḥ, daśanaḥ )

Teeth
दन्तजन्म ( dantajanma )

Dentition
One of the important milestones of childhood when the primary teeth erupt, thus indicating the time for weaning.
दन्तत्वक् , दन्तवल्कम् ( danta-tvak, dantavalkam )

Enamel
दन्तनाडी ( dantanāḍī )

Disease of tooth root, alveolar sinus
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: the formation of small channels/cavities; recurrent purulent discharge; disruption of skin; eruption in soft tissue; eruption through bone.
दन्तपुप्पुटः ( dantapuppuṭaḥ )

Periodontitis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a large swelling around two or three teeth; pain in two or three teeth; large hard swelling around two or three teeth; severe pain; rapid ripening into gingivitis.
दन्तबन्धनम्, द्विजबन्धनम्, दन्तमांसम्, दन्तमूलम्, दन्तपिण्डिका, दन्ताधारः, दन्तवेष्टकः ( dantabandhanam, dvijabandhanam, dantamāṃsam, dantamūlam, dantapiṇḍikā, dantādhāraḥ, dantaveṣṭakaḥ )

Gum, alveolar arch
दन्तविद्रधिः ( dantavidradhiḥ )

Alveolar abscess
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: oedema of gums; large swelling outside the gum; large swelling inside the gum; painful gums; burning gums; discharge of pus on bursting of lesion; discharge of blood on bursting of lesion.
दन्तवेष्टकः ( dantaveṣṭakaḥ )

Pyorrhoea
A disorder characterized by bleeding/haemorrhage; pus discharge; tooth loose in socket.
दन्तवैदर्भः ( dantavaidarbhaḥ )

Traumatic periodontitis
A disorder characterized by swelling of gums; tooth loose in socket.
दन्तशङ्कुशस्त्रम् ( dantaśaṅkuśastram )

Tooth scaler
A sharp instrument used for dental scaling.
दन्तशर्करा ( dantaśarkarā )

Tartar
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: putrid smell; foreign matter stuck between teeth; causing afflictions of teeth; dryness of foreign matter; teeth acquiring the roughness of sand; debris in teeth.
दन्तसम्पत् ( dantasampat )

Proper dentition
Teeth showing all the characteristics of healthy dentition.
दन्तहर्षः ( dantaharṣaḥ )

Hyperaesthesia of teeth
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: inability to tolerate cold substances on teeth; inability to tolerate hot substances on teeth; inability to tolerate touching/tenderness; inability to tolerate wind blowing on teeth; inability to tolerate sour food on teeth; inability to chew cold food with teeth; sour food causing pain; sour food causing teeth to move; inability to tolerate dry substances on teeth.
दन्ताग्रम् ( dantāgram )

Apex of tooth
दन्तोलूखलानि ( dantolūkhalāni )

Bony sockets of teeth
दमः ( damaḥ )

Self-restraint
A term that expresses self-command or self-control.
दर्पः ( darpaḥ )

Pride
A condition of arrogance, haughtiness, insolence or conceit.
दर्विकयन्त्रम् ( darvikayantram )

Ladle-shaped instrument
darvikayantram
दर्शनम् ( darśanam )

Vision
दशविधपरीक्षा ( daśavidhaparīkṣā )

Ten domains of clinical examination
Tenfold clinical examination: 1. individual constitution; 2. morbidity; 3. excellence of structural components; 4. compactness of tissues or organs; 5. measurement of body constituents; 6. homologation; 7. psychic condition; 8. power of food intake and digestion; 9. power of performing exercise; 10. age.
दशविधपरीक्ष्यभावः (कारण, करण, कार्ययोनि, कार्य, कार्यफल, अनुबन्ध, देशः, कालः, प्रवृत्ति, उपायः) ( daśavidhaparīkṣyabhāvaḥ (kāraṇa, karaṇa, kāryayoni, kārya, kāryaphala, anubandha, deśaḥ, kālaḥ, pravṛttiḥ, upāyaḥ) )

Ten items for clinical investigation
Ten important aspects of medical examination: principal agent (karana); tool, instrument (karana); substratum of treatment (karyayoni); treatment protocol (karya); immediate outcome, primary endpoint (karyaphala); consequence, long-term effect (anubandha); habitat (desha); time (kala); action (pravritti); and ailment-countering stratagem, means of action (upaya).
दंष्ट्राचिकित्सा ( damṣṭrācikitsā )

Toxicology
Synonym of toxicology: the science that deals with the study of poisons and their actions, methods of detection and treatment.
दहनम् ( dahanam )

Cauterization (therapeutic burn)
A process of cauterization for therapeutic purposes.
दहनम् ( dahanam )

Haemostasis by thermal cautery
A method of haemostasis using heat cauterization.
दहनोपकरणम् ( dahanopakaraṇam )

Materials used for cauterization
The various instruments or materials used for cauterization such as long pepper, cow’s teeth, grass stub, metal rod or probe.
दामबन्धः ( dāmabandhaḥ )

Sling bandage
A type of bandage applied to the back, sternum, and inguinal region (narrow parts).
दारणकर्म ( dāraṇakarma )

Removal of foreign body by splitting or tearing
The removal of a loosely impacted foreign body by splitting or tearing after application of a medication to the wound.
दारणकर्म ( dāraṇakarma )

Splitting, tearing or lancing
A procedure for removing pus from an abscess.
दारणकर्म ( dāraṇakarma )

Therapeutic rupturing, tearing
Induction of rupturing or tearing by local application of drugs.
दारुणकः ( dāruṇakaḥ )

Dandruff
A disorder characterized by itching of scalp; hair loss; loss of tactile sensation; dry scalp; cracks in scalp; hardening of scalp; cracked scalp skin; dry hairs.
दारुणकर्म ( dāruṇakarma )

Hardening-promoting measures for wound management
Technique of wound bed preparation for better healing by hardening of loose granulation tissue.
दारुणकोष्ठ-विरेचनव्यापत् ( dāruṇakoṣṭhavirecanavyāpat )

Condition caused by purgation therapy administered to person with costive bowel habit
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pain in precordium/cardiac region; breaking type of pain in small joints; borborygmi with distension; generalized body aches; vomiting; syncope or swooning; exhaustion without exertion; death of the patient.
दार्ढ्यम् ( dārḍhyam )

Firmness
A normal function of kapha. It signifies hardness, fixedness, stability and strength.
दालनः ( dālanaḥ )

Cracked tooth with A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs severe pain, odontalgia and symptoms: badly broken teeth; severe pain; tolerant of heat; pain worsening with cold substances; breaking pain; splitting type of toothache.
दाहः ( dāhaḥ )

Burning sensation
A disorder characterized by warmth amounting to a burning sensation.
दिनचर्या ( dinacaryā )

Daily routine
A term covering activities related to diet, lifestyle, work and recreation from the time an individual wakes up through to sleep: it is prescribed in accordance with natural diurnal rhythms and their impact on the human body and mind based on the person’s age, place of habitation and seasonal cycle.
दिनपाकि-अजीर्णम् ( dinapāki-ajīrṇam )

Indigestion, when food takes a full day to get digested
दिशः ( diśaḥ )

Direction
The points of the compass, cardinal and ordinal directions, bearing points.
दीपनम् ( Dīpanam, )

Capacitating mercury to amalgamate other entities
दीपनम् ( dīpanam )

Stimulating digestive fire or appetizing action
A therapeutic action which kindles digestive fire without directly acting on the products of incomplete digestion, transformation or metabolism (ama). It also denotes the procedure for preparing mercury to amalgamate other substances.
दीप्तः ( dīptaḥ )

Burning sensation in nose, acute catarrhal rhinitis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a severe burning sensation in the nose; air expired from the nose feeling like smoke; sensation as if entire nose is on fire; external part of nose feeling burnt; internal part of nose feeling burnt; tenderness/inability to tolerate touch.
दीर्घमायुः ( dīrghamāyuḥ )

Longevity
One of the beneficial effects of rejuvenation is to increase the lifespan.
दुःखम् ( duḥkham )

Sorrow, pain
An unfavourable perception including unhappiness, sorrow and grief; the opposite of pleasure.
दुःखवर्धनः ( duḥkhavardhanaḥ )

Traumatic lobulitis due to improper ear piercing
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a swelling of the ear lobe with itching; swelling of ear lobe with burning sensation; swelling of ear lobe associated with pain; swelling of ear lobe with suppurating tendency.
दुःखायुः ( duḥkhāyuḥ )

Poor quality of life
A lifestyle characterized by a low quotient of happiness.
दुग्धपाषाणम् ( dugdhapāṣāṇam )

Talc
Hydrated magnesium silicate. Duly processed dugdhapashana is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
दुर्दग्धम् ( durdagdham )

Improper burn
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: blister; severe sucking pain; severe burning sensation; severe redness; severe inflammation; pain which takes a long time to subside.
दुष्टप्रतिश्यायः ( duṣṭapratiśyāyaḥ )

Chronic and recurring rhinitis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: moistening of the nose; dryness of nose; intermittent nasal blockage; intermittent clearing of nose; bad breath; inability to perceive smell; afflicting all sensory organs; diminution of agni; fever; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; cough; pain in chest region; pain in sides of chest/ flanks; intermittent relapses without apparent reason; halitosis; oedema; intermittent clearing and obstruction of nose; discharge of thickened mucus resembling pus; blackish or reddish-tinged thick mucus discharge; manifestation of long thread-like worms; manifestation of unctuous-looking worms; manifestation of whitish worms; manifestation of minute worms.
दुष्टरक्तस्तंभनम् ( duṣṭaraktastaṃbhanam )

Condition due to arresting blood vitiated by dosha
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: bleeding disorders; fever; thirst; diminution of agni; loss of taste; clinical features of kāmalā; swelling; anal pain; pain in groin region; itching; redness; wheal-like skin eruptions; papules/eruptions; skin diseases; clinical features of pāṇḍu; obstruction to passage of flatus; obstruction to passage of urine; retention/obstruction to passage of faeces; headache; sensation of being covered with a wet cloth; heaviness of body; other diseases of rakta origin.
दुष्टव्रणः ( duṣṭavraṇaḥ )

Septic nonhealing ulcer
An ulcer characterized by putrid discharge mixed with blood; pus discharge mixed with blood; excessively vitiated bloody discharge; deep-rooted ulcer; chronic ulcer; offensive putrid odour; every feature contrasting with a clean wound; minuscule wound opening; very broad wound opening; very hard on palpation; very soft; raised wound; deep-based wound; excessively cold wound; excessively hot wound; wound coloured other than black; red; yellow or white; gruesome-looking; wound raised like a fleshy protuberance; filled with putrid pus; filled with flesh; filled with sinew; filled with numerous blood vessels; disagreeable-looking; disagreeable smell; excessive pain; excessive burning sensation; excessive suppuration; excessive redness; excessive itching; excessive swelling; impure blood discharge; not healing for a long time; deviating from the normal direction.
दुष्टशुक्रम् ( duṣṭaśukram )

Morbidities of semen
Qualitative and quantitative morbidities of the semen.
दूषीविष-लूतादष्टः ( dūṣīviṣa-lūtādaṣṭaḥ )

Slow, chronic spider poisoning
Poisoning characterized by loose stools; change in normal complexion; foul odour from mouth; altered taste in mouth; thirst; syncope or swooning; vomiting; stuttering/ stammmering; sadness/depression; abdominal distension due to vitiated tridosha; loss of hair from all parts of body; sense of intoxication after meal; indigestion; loss of taste; circular eruptions; wheal-like skin eruptions; confusion/delirium; diminution of dhātu/emaciation; pedal oedema; swelling of hands; swelling of mouth; clinical features of ascites; diarrhoea; discoloration; clinical features of intermittent fever; excessive thirst; psychosis; borborygmi with distension; loss of bodily secretions; stuttering/stammmering; skin diseases; red coloration; clinical features resembling psoriasis; oedema; pallor; haemorrhoids; extreme wasting of muscles/diminution of muscle mass; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; abdominal swelling; fever; leads to death; the poison becomes less potent following treatment but not eliminated from the system.
दूषीविषः/कृत्रिमविषः ( Dūṣīviṣaḥ/ kṛtrimaviṣaḥ )

Cumulative poisoning with mild effect over time
Poisoning characterized by loose stools; change in normal complexion; foul odour from mouth; altered taste in mouth; thirst; syncope or swooning; vomiting; stuttering/stammering; sadness/depression; abdominal distension due to vitiated tridosha; loss of hair from all parts of body; sense of intoxication after meal; indigestion; loss of taste; circular eruptions; wheal-like skin eruptions; confusion/delirium; diminution of dhātu/emaciation; pedal oedema; swelling in hands; swelling of mouth; clinical features of ascites; diarrhoea; discoloration; clinical features of intermittent fever; excessive thirst; psychosis; borborygmi with distension; loss of bodily secretions; skin diseases; red coloration; clinical features resembling psoriasis; oedema; pallor; haemorrhoids; extreme wasting of muscles/diminution of muscle mass; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; abdominal swelling; fever; leading to death; the poison becomes less potent following treatment but not eliminated from the system.
दूष्यम् ( dūṣyam )

A bodily structure which can be vitiated by aggravated doṣa
दृक्प्रसादनम् ( dṛkprasādanam )

Substance clearing vision
दृष्टिगोलकः, नयन​-बुद्बुदः, अक्षि गोलकम् , अक्षि गोलकत्वक् ( dṛṣṭi-golakaḥ, nayanabudbudaḥ, akṣi-golakam, akṣigolakatvak )

Eyeball
दृष्टिमण्डलम्, दृष्टिः ( dṛṣṭi-maṇḍalam, dṛṣṭiḥ )

Pupil
देवोन्मादः/देवशत्रुजुष्टोन्मादः ( devonmādaḥ/ devaśatrujuṣṭonmādaḥ )

Psychosis making a person behave like a demigod
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: seriousness/profundity; indomitability; not getting angry; insomnia/sleeplessness; aversion to food/ meals; scanty sweating; oliguria; reduced quantity of stool; reduced quantity of flatus; auspicious fragrance; face resembling a completely developed lotus flower; contentment/ satisfaction; purity of body; thought; words and deeds; smelling strongly of a divine fragrance of flowers; alert; speaking truthfully; conversing in Sanskrit; glowing radiantly; steady/stable eyes; delivering blessings; respectful of Brahmina.
देशः ( deśaḥ )

Habitat
Land, habitat or environment; it may designate body parts as well as geographical regions.
देशः, अङ्ग-प्रदेशः ( deśaḥ, aṅga-pradeśaḥ. )

Body region
दैर्घ्यम् / पाय्यमानम् ( dairghyam / pāyyamānam )

Measurements of distance or length
दैवबलप्रवृत्तरोगः ( daivabalapravṛttarogaḥ )

Diseases occurring by chance, beyond human control
Diseases, conditions and events that, in the absence of any apparent cause are believed to be of supernatural origin: they include those subsequent to natural calamities such as floods, cyclones, thunder, epidemics and pandemics.
दैवव्यपाश्रयचिकित्सा, दैवीचिकित्सा ( daivavyapāśrayacikitsā, daivīcikitsā )

Therapeutic rituals
One of the treatment classifications: spiritual therapies include the incantation of mantra, talismans, wearing gems, auspicious offerings, gifts, oblations, atonements, fasting and pilgrimage.
दोलायन्त्रम् ( dolāyantram )

Apparatus used for purifying substances by sudation or steaming
दोलाशयनसंस्कारः ( dolāśayanasaṁskāraḥ )

Cradling ceremony
A ceremony in which the child is placed in a cradle for the first time; usually done on the 12th or 13th day following birth.
दोषः ( doṣaḥ )

Dosha
The regulatory functional factors of the body formed by the synchronized interplay between the five basic elements within any living system.
दोष-प्रशमनम् ( doṣa-praśamanam )

Pacifying vitiated dosha
दोषगतिः ( doṣagatiḥ )

Movement of dosha
When it is not physiological, the movement of dosha within the body is a pathogenic mechanism which results in the manifestation of disease in different tracts.
दोषघ्नलेपः ( doṣaghnalepaḥ )

External application of dosha-alleviating paste
A type of ointment or lepa which alleviates doṣa.
दोषप्रकृति ( doṣaprakṛti )

Body constitution with a predominance of dosha
Body constitution with a predominance of dosha (doshaprakriti) is a result of the baseline state of the doshas of sperm (shukra) and ovum (shonita) at the time of conception. Doshaprakriti is unique to each individual. It is immutable and does not change during a lifespan.
दोषबलप्रवृत्तरोगः ( doṣabalapravṛttarogaḥ )

Disorders resulting from dosha imbalance
Diseases that manifest in the living system due to vitiation of body humours such as fever and bleeding disorders.
दोषवैषम्यम् ( doṣavaiṣamyam )

Derangement of dosha
दोषहेतुः ( doṣahetuḥ )

Causes which aggravate dosha
Causes which aggravate dosha irrespective of the disease.
दोषहेतुः ( doṣahetuḥ )

Vitiated dosha as a cause of disease
Seasonal variations leading to natural accumulation and aggravation of the dosha.
दोषावसेचनम् ( doṣāvasecanam )

Procedure to eliminate morbid dosha from body
Also a synonym of cleansing therapy.
दोषावस्था ( doṣāvasthā )

State of dosha
दोषोपक्रमः ( doṣopakramaḥ )

Dosha-specific therapeutic measure
A therapeutic measure or set of therapies with characteristics or properties which are antagonistic to specific dosha.
दौहृदापचारकृतरोगः ( dauhṛdāpacārakṛtarogaḥ )

Diseases due to neglect of maternal cravings
Congenital clinical conditions resulting from non-fulfilment of maternal cravings during pregnancy.
द्रवः ( dravaḥ )

Fluidity, liquidness
The quality of a substance which is responsible for fluidity.
द्रवस्वेदः ( dravasvedaḥ )

Sweating induced by warm liquid
The procedure of achieving sudation by applying a warm liquid.
द्रव्य-विशेषः ( dravya-viśeṣaḥ )

Dissimilarity at the level of substance
A substance which on consumption or usage may lead to a decrease in a specific element or attribute in the living system.
द्रव्य-सामान्यम् ( dravya-sāmānyam )

Similarity at the level of substance
Substance is the substratum of qualities and actions and the material cause of all composite things. This term denotes the similarity between substances, e.g. flesh to replenish and nourish muscle tissue.
द्रव्य, औषध ( dravya, auṣadha )

Materials for treatment
The material employed for treatment is expected to have the following qualities: utility in various dosage forms (bahukalpa), multitude of therapeutic qualities (bahuguna), wholesome nature (sampanna) and applicable in various contexts (yogyam).
द्रव्यगुण विज्ञानम् ( dravyaguṇavignanam )

Ayurvedic pharmacology
द्रव्यभूतचिकित्सा ( dravyabhūtacikitsā )

Treatment using material substances
Treatment with substances having physical form such as herbs or minerals.
द्रव्यम् ( dravyam )

Substance
द्रव्यम् ( dravyam )

Substance, entity
Matter.
द्रष्टा ( draṣṭā )

Observer, witness of all actions
Synonym of the term atma.
द्रोणः ( droṇaḥ )

Measure of weight approximately equal to 12 kg and 288 g
Measure of weight equal to 1024 karsha or 4 adhaka.
द्रोणी/वाहि ( droṇī /vāhi )

Measure of weight approximately equal to 49 kg and 152 g
Measure of weight equal to 4096 karsha or 2 shurpa.
द्वन्द्वज-अर्शः ( dvandvaja-arśaḥ )

Haemorrhoids due to any two vitiated dosha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: anal sprouts resembling Indian fig tree shoots; haemorrhoidal mass resembling gunja or coral; clinical features of pitta type of arśa; pressed by hard faeces; excessive bleeding; severely vitiated blood discharge; frequent bleeding; features similar to those of paittik; haemorrhoidal mass resembling banyan tree sprouts; sudden discharge of excessively vitiated and hot blood; suffering from various diseases due to blood loss; resembling a frog; dull complexion; loss of energy; loss of drive; loss of vitality; depressed sensory organs.
द्वन्द्वज-शोफः ( dvandvaja-śophaḥ )

Oedema due to any two vitiated dosha
द्वन्द्वजगुल्मः ( dvandvajagulmaḥ )

Lumps or growths due to any two vitiated dosha
A disorder characterized by the clinical features of mixed dosha.
द्वन्द्वजविस्फोटकः ( dvandvajavisphoṭakaḥ )

Bullous eruptions due to any two vitiated dosha
द्वन्द्वजशूलः ( dvandvajaśūlaḥ )

Abdominal colic due to any two vitiated dosha
द्वितीय-पटलगतदोषः ( dvitīya-paṭalagatadoṣaḥ )

Disorder affecting second layer of eye
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: severe impaired vision; pseudovisulization of flies; pseudovisualization of mosquitoes; pseudovisualization of hairs; pseudovisualization of webs; pseudovisualization of circles; pseudovisualization of flags; pseudovisulization of mirages; pseudovisualization of earrings; seeing various celestial objects in motion; visulization of rain and cloud; seeing darkness; distant objects appearing nearer; near objects appearing farther away; inability to locate a needle’s eye even with great effort; visulazation of nonexistent things; seeing actual objects with difficulty and only by going close to them; inability to see distant or minute objects.
द्वितीयमासगर्भः ( dvitīyamāsa-garbhaḥ )

Second month of pregnancy
This month is characterized by the embryo taking on a compact form; round mass (male); elongated muscle shape (female).
द्विरर्बुदः ( dvirarbudaḥ )

Proliferative tumour
Development of a new tumour in the body while another one persists or simultaneous development of more than one tumour lesion.
द्विरे ता ( dviretā )

Hermaphrodite or intersex
The presence of abnormal male and female sexual characteristics.
द्विविध-मानसिक-रोगः ( dvividha-mānasika-rogaḥ )

Two types of psychological disease
Diseases which affect the psyche can be classified as either agitative, reactive (rajasika) or inertia-prone conditions (tamasika).
द्विविधहेतुः ( dvividhahetuḥ )

Two types of etiological factors
Twofold type of etiological factors based on discriminating the factors etiological factor which directly causes a disease or condition which acts as an additional factor in its manifestation.
द्विविधोपक्रमः ( dvividhopakramaḥ )

Two-fold therapeutic protocol
Therapeutic protocols can be broadly classified into two: nourishing therapy and depleting therapy.
द्वेषः ( dveṣaḥ )

Aversion
The opposite of desire. The Sanskrit term dvesha, also denotes a suppressible urge.
धमनी ( Dhamanī )

Artery
A pulsatile conduit. Blood vessels which pulsate in synchrony with the heartbeat.
धमनीगत-शल्यः ( dhamanīgata-śalyaḥ )

Foreign body in the arteries
A disorder due to presence of foreign body in the arteries; characterized by foamy/frothy bleeding; expulsion of vayu with sounds; generalized body aches; thirst; nausea.
धमनीमर्म ( dhamanīmarma )

Vulnerable location(s) in which the main structural component is pulsating vessels
Marma where pulsating vessels are structurally prominent.
धातुः ( dhātuḥ )

Fundamental structural The seven fundamental structural components of the body, component which are formed from digested food. They provide nourishment and support to the body. They are primary circulating nutrient fluid (rasa), blood (rakta), muscle (mamsa), fat (medas), bone (asthi), bone marrow (majja) and semen (sukra). The Sanskrit term dhatu also denotes group of metallic ingredients for medicinal usage.
धातुः ( dhātuḥ )

Metal
Group of metallic ingredients for medicinal usage. The Sanskrit term dhatu also denotes fundamental structural components of the body.
धातु-प्रदूषणम् ( dhātu-pradūṣaṇam )

Disrupting normalcy of fundamental structural components
धातु-विषः ( dhātu-viṣaḥ )

Poisonous minerals
Poisoning characterized by precordial pain/cardiac pain; syncope or swooning; burning sensation in palate.
धातुक्षयजदाहः ( dhātukṣayajadāhaḥ )

Generalized burning sensation due to diminution of structural components
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: diminished activities; weak and feeble voice; thirst; excessive distress; syncope or swooning; malaise.
धातुगत-दूषीविषम् ( dhātugata-dūṣīviṣam )

Cumulative poisoning with mild effect over time, poison lodged in the tissues
Poisoning characterized by ailments due to involvement of fundamental structural components, e.g. when poison is associated with primary circulating nutrient fluid (rasa) there will be aversion to food/anorexia.
धातुमलः ( dhātumalaḥ )

Metabolic waste
The waste products of metabolism.
धातुवैषम्यम् ( dhātuvaiṣamyam )

Derangement of structural components
धातुसाम्यम् ( dhātusāmyam )

Equilibrium of fundamental structural components
Equilibrium of fundamental structural components is indicated by the absence or alleviation of disorder. Criteria for equilibrium of fundamental structural components include alleviation of disorder, normalcy of voice and complexion, development of the body, increase in strength, desire for food, proper and timely digestion of the food taken, timely sleep, elimination of urine, faeces and semen and overall normalcy of mind, intellect and senses.
धात्री ( dhātrī )

Wet nurse, nursing mother
The baby’s biological mother or wet nurse who is able to provide the child with breast milk.
धात्वग्नि (रसाग्निः, रक्ताग्निः, मांसाग्निः, मेदो अग्निः, अस्थ्यग्निः, मज्जाधात्वग्निः, शुक्रधात्वग्निः) ( dhātvagniḥ [rasāgni, raktāgni, māṃsāgni, medo-agni, asthyagni, majjādhātvagniḥ, śukradhātvagniḥ] )

Transformative factors at structural component level which governs the transformation of one fundamental structural component into another: i.e. primary circulating nutrient metabolic factors, blood metabolic factors, muscle metabolic factors, fat metabolic factors, bone metabolic factors, bonemarrow metabolic factors, semen and reproductive tissue metabolic factors.
Metabolic factors located in structural components
धान्याम्लधारा ( dhānyāmladhārā )

Pouring of sour fermented and husked grain gruel
A technique in which a fermented sour liquid prepared from a gruel of husked grains (dhānyāmla) is poured in a stream all over the body to achieve fomentation.
धारणम् ( dhāraṇam )

Holding
Signifies holding, carrying, preserving, protecting and possessing, which are common functions of all structural components. It underlines the importance of the fundamental structural component in holding the body and thereby life together and is also the specific function of bone, which supports other fundamental structural components by providing form and structure to the body.
धारणीयवेगः ( dhāraṇīya-vegaḥ )

Suppressible urges
Emotions or thoughts which need to be expressed carefully or even suppressed or discouraged owing to the undersirable consequences of their expression, e.g. the urge to engage in adventures, extreme activities of the psyche (greed, grief, fear, anger, egoism, shamelessness/impudence, jealousy, excessive affliction and desire to acquire someone else’s wealth); speech (harsh words, excessive talking, gossip intended to harm others or backbiting, lying and untimely discourse) and body (physical actions intended to trouble others, excessive indulgence in sex, stealing and forms of violence including persecution).
धारम् ( dhāram )

Fall water
A type of water which originates from waterfalls in the mountains.
धीः ( dhīḥ )

Intellect
Understanding, intelligence or wisdom.
धूपनम्, धूप ( dhūpanam/dhūpa )

Fumigation
धूमः/धूमपानम् (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( dhūmaḥ/ dhūmapānam (vraṇacikitsā)

Therapeutic smoking for wound management
Therapeutic inhalation of medicated smoke.
धूमदर्शी/धूमरः ( dhūmadarśī/ dhūmaraḥ )

Haziness of vision
A disorder characterized by seeing everything as if covered with smoke; eyes appearing dirty with cloudy appearance.
धूमनस्यम् ( dhūmanasyam )

Intranasal therapy with medicated smoke
Administration of medicated smoke via the intranasal route.
धूमपान-अतियोगः ( dhūmapāna-atiyogaḥ )

Condition due to excess application or overuse of application of medicated smoke therapy
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: dryness of palate; feeling of dryness of head; dryness of throat; hotness in the palate; hotness of head; hotness of throat; thirst; confusion/delirium; profuse bleeding; severe giddiness or dizziness; syncope or swooning; impairment of sense organ functioning; giddiness or dizziness; intoxication; constant. sound in the ear; diseases of the eyes; diseases of the nose; weakness; fever; affliction of sense organs; inflammation of the palate; smoky/fuming sensation; vomiting; death.
धूमपान-अपचारः ( dhūmapāna-apacāraḥ )

Condition due to improper application of medicated smoke
धूमपान-अयोगः ( dhūmapāna-ayogaḥ )

Condition due to suboptimal application of medicated smoke therapy
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: an unclear voice; throat filled with mucus or kapha; sensation of head being wrapped in a wet cloth; disease not pacified.
धूमपानमिथ्यायोगः ( dhūmapānamithyāyogaḥ )

Condition due to improper application of medicated smoke therapy
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: deafness/hearing impairment; blindness; dumbness/aphasia; bleeding disorder; giddiness; thirst; syncope or swooning; intoxication; confusion/delirium.
धूमपानम् ( dhūmapānam )

Medicated smoking
The inhalation of medicated smoke through the nose, exhaling through the mouth.
धूमम् (विषोपक्रमः) ( dhūmam (viṣopakramaḥ) )

Fumigation for detoxification
Neutralizing the toxic effects of poison by fumigating the bite site: fumigation is performed by inhaling through the nostrils and exhaling through the mouth.
धृतिः ( dhṛtiḥ )

Ability to control impulses
The controlling or stable intellect, the ability to restrain or resolve impulsive behaviour.
ध्यानम् ( dhyānam )

Contemplation
The act of meditating or contemplating a chosen object, a form of focused thinking in which mind and body function as a harmonious whole.
ध्वजभङ्गजन्यक्लैब्यम् ( dhvajabhaṅgajanyaklaibyam )

Erectile dysfunction
Impotency owing to erectile dysfunction.
नकुलान्ध्यम् ( nakulāndhyam )

Maculopathy
A disorder characterized by eyes shining like a mangoose’s; seeing objects with variegated colours during daytime; inability to see objects in variegated colours at night.
नखः, करजः ( nakhaḥ, karajaḥ )

Nail
नखमांसम् ( nakha-māṃsam )

Nail bed
नखशस्त्रम् ( nakhaśastram )

Nail parer
A sharp instrument used to pare nails.
नखसन्धिः ( nakha-sandhiḥ )

Nail root and fold
नपुंसकत्वम् ( napuMsakatvam )

Eunuch
A sterile person who is neither completely female nor male.
नरषण्डः ( naraṣaṇḍaḥ )

Sterile male
A person assigned male gender at birth with scanty semen and no sexual desire or pleasure: such a person tends to be feminine in both physical and psychological aspects, and to produce defective sperm.
नरसारः/नवसादरः ( narasāraḥ/navasādaraḥ )

Ammonium chloride
Ammonium chloride (NH4Cl). Duly processed narasara for medicinal usage is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral formulations.
नलकास्थि ( nalakāsthi )

Long bone
नवगुड-अत्युपयोगः ( navaguḍa-atyupayogaḥ )

Disorder due to excessive intake of fresh jaggery
नवजातः ( navajāta )

Neonate
The infant up to 28 days after birth.
नवज्वर पाण्डुरोग कामला प्रमेहिणां अनुवासनस्य व्यापदः ( navajvara pāṇḍuroga kāmalā pramehiṇāM anuvāsanasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition caused by A condition characterized by abdominal enlargement and medicated oily enema clinical features of ascites. administered to person with fever of recent origin.
नवज्वरि-विरेचनव्यापत् ( navajvari-virecanavyāpat )

Condition caused by purgation therapy administered to person with fever of recent origin
A condition characterized by immature or undigested dosha not being eliminated; aggravation of vata.
नवज्वरे शोकेनस्य व्यापदः ( navajvare śoke nasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition due to inhalation therapy administered to person with fever of recent onset and grief
A condition characterized by errors of refraction/partial blindness; aggravation of fever.
नवप्रतिश्यायर्तस्य नस्य व्यापदः ( navapratiśyāyartasya nasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition due to inhalation therapy administered to person with coryza of recent origin
A condition characterized by morbidity of circulation channels.
नस्यकर्मचिकित्सापचारः ( nasyakarmacikitsāpacāraḥ )

Condition due to improper errhine therapy
नस्यमिथ्यायोगः / शिरोविरेचनमिथ्यायोगः/ नस्यव्यापत् ( nasyamithyāyogaḥ/ śirovirecanamithyāyogaḥ/ nasyavyāpat )

Condition due to improper administration of inhalation therapy
नस्यम् (विषोपक्रमः) ( nasyam (viṣopakramaḥ)

Nasal medication for detoxification
Using a nasal medication to revive an unconscious patient and extract a poison located in the head.
नस्यम् (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( Nasyam (vraṇacikitsā) )

Intranasal medication for wound management
Intranasal administration of medication specifically for wound management.
नस्यम्/नस्तम् ( nasyam/ nastam )

Intranasal administration
A procedure in which medicine either in liquid or powder form is administered through the nose.
नस्यातियोगः ( nasyātiyogaḥ )

Condition due to excessive administration of errhine therapy
नस्यायोगः ( nasyāyogaḥ )

Condition due to inappropriate administration of errhine therapy
नागपाषाणम् ( nāgapāṣāṇam )

Serpentine
Magnesium silicate. Duly processed nagapashana is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
नागम् ( nāgam )

Lead
Pb (Plumbum). Duly processed naga is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
नाडीयन्त्रम् ( nāḍīyantram )

Tubular, scopic instruments
Tubular or scopic instrument with an opening at one end or both ends used for diagnostic and therapeutic procedures.
नाडीव्रणः ( nāḍīvraṇaḥ )

Deep ulcer with fisula formation
A wound characterized by an excessive flow of pus; appearance of pus via a tubular pathway in vrana; discharge appearing from a tube. When a suppurated abscess goes untreated, pus accumulates in the affected area and enters skin, with muscle and blood tissues forming a tract owing to vitiated tridosha or each dosha separately.
नाडीस्वेदः ( nāḍīsvedaḥ )

Sweating induced by steam directed from hose
A type of sudation therapy in which diaphoresis of specific parts of the body is achieved by focused application of steam by means of tube.
नादेय-उदकम् ( nādeya-udakam )

River water
Water obtained from rivers and streams.
नानात्मजविकार ( nānātmajavikāra )

Disease caused exclusively by one dosha
A group of diseases or conditions which are the unique expression of a particular dosha without the involvement of any other dosha.
नाभिः ( nābhiḥ )

Umbilicus
नाभिकल्पनविधिः ( nābhikalpanavidhih )

Cutting the umbilical cord
A standardized technique for cutting the umbilical cord and caring for the umbilical stump.
नाभिनाडी, गर्भनाभिनाडी ( nābhināḍī, garbhanābhināḍī )

Umbilical cord
नाभिनालपतनम् ( nābhinālapatanam )

Detachmentof umbilical cord
The time at which the dried umbilical cord stump falls off after the fifth day following birth.
नाभिप्रदेशः ( nābhipradeśaḥ )

Umbilical region
नाभिबन्धनम् ( nābhibandhanam )

Fetal attachment of umbilical cord
नाभिमण्डलम् ( nābhimaṇḍalam )

Round area of umbilicus
नामकरणसंस्कारः ( nāmakaraṇasaṁskāraḥ )

Naming ceremony
A naming ceremony usually performed on or after the 10th day following birth.
नारीषण्डः ( nārīṣaṇḍaḥ )

Sterile female
A person assigned female gender at birth, with scanty ova and no sexual desire or pleasure: such a person tends to have masculine features and to produce weak ova.
नावनम् ( nāvanam )

Medication of unctuous substance through nose
A type of nasya in which drops of medicated unctuous substance are used to medicate the nose.
नासा-अतिदग्धः ( nāsā-atidagdhaḥ )

Condition due to excessive cautery of nose
नासाक्षिसन्धिः ( nāsākṣi-sandhiḥ )

Inner canthus
नासाग्रम्, अग्रनासिका ( nāsāgram, agranāsikā )

Tip of the nose
नासातरुणास्थि ( nāsātaruṇāsthi )

Cartilage of the nose
नासानाडी ( nāsānāḍī )

External aperture of the nose
नासापुटबहिर्भागः ( nāsāpuṭa-bahirbhāgaḥ )

Ala of nose
नासापुटम् ( nāsāpuṭam )

Cavity of the nose
नासारन्ध्रम्, नासाविवरम् ( nāsārandhram, nāsāvivaram )

Nostril
नासारोगः ( nāsārogaḥ )

Disorders of nose and paranasal sinuses
नासारोगचिकित्सा ( nāsārogacikitsā )

Management of diseases of nose
Treatment of diseases related to the nose and paranasal regions.
नासार्बुदः ( nāsārbudaḥ )

Nasal tumour
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a circular swelling over the muscles; fixed circular swelling; mild pain; large in size; broad-based; slow growing; nonsuppurating; obstructing the nasal pathway.
नासार्शः ( nāsārśaḥ )

Nasal polyp
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: cold catarrh; excessive sneezing; difficulty in breathing; pus discharge from nose; nasal twang in speech; headache.
नासावंशः, नासास्थिदण्डः ( nāsāvaṃśaḥ, nāsāsthidaṇḍaḥ )

Bridge of the nose
नासाशोषः ( nāsāśoṣaḥ )

Excessive dryness of nasal mucosa
A disorder characterized by excessive dryness of the nose; inspiration and expiration with difficulty; feeling as if nose obstructed with śuka.
नासासन्धानविधिः ( nāsāsandhānavidhiḥ )

Rhinoplasty
The surgical procedure of reconstructing an injured or cut nose.
नासास्रोतः ( nāsāsrotaḥ )

Nostril
नासिका, घ्राणः, नासा ( nāsikā, ghrāṇaḥ, nāsā )

Nose
नासिकापुटम् ( nāsikāpuṭam )

Nostril, anterior nares
नासिकामलः ( nāsikāmalaḥ )

Mucus of the nose
निगमनम् ( nigamanam )

Deduction, conclusion
A deduction or conclusive statement; the final step of inference when affirming a proposed hypothesis.
निग्रहस्थानम् ( nigrahasthānam )

Point of defeat
Behaviour indicating that the opponent has reached the end of their argument and can no longer defend the stated viewpoint.
निघण्टुः ( nighaṇṭuḥ )

Materia medica
A glossary setting out synonyms, as well as the properties, names and actions of drugs, plants, minerals or other substances administered either as food or medicines to the human body.
निजव्रणः ( nijavraṇaḥ )

Ulcer due to endogenous factors
An ulcer developing due to endogenous factors, i.e. vitiation of dosha.
नित्यम् ( nityam )

Eternal
Everlasting, interminable, constant.
निदर्शनम् ( nidarśanam )

Illustrative statement
An explanatory statement which develops subject matter by means of an example.
निदानपञ्चकः ( nidānapañcakaḥ )

Five diagnostic criteria
The fivefold factors that help in the understanding and diagnosis of a disease, including its etiology, prodromal symptoms, signs and symptoms, pathogenesis and aggravating and relieving factors.
निदानपरिवर्जनम् ( nidānaparivarjanam )

Avoidance of etiological factors
A prerequisite for the cure and prevention of recurrent disease.
निदानम्; हेतुः; निमित्तम्; आयतनम्; कर्ता; कारणम्; प्रत्ययम्; समुत्थानम्. ( nidānam; hetuḥ; nimittam; āyatanam kartā; kāraṇam; pratyayam; samutthānam. )

Etiology
Etiology generally denotes understanding the causative factor and expression of morbidity. Ayurveda uses several terms as synonyms for etiology, based on the different perspectives under which etiology is understood: The factors directly or indirectly implicated in the etiology of a disease; Etiological factor; Indicative factor; Abode of the causative factor; Agent; Primary cause; Causative setting, conducive factor; Factors augmenting the pathology.
निदानार्थकररोग ( nidānārthakararoga )

Disease caused by another disease
A primary disease or condition that serves as the etiology for another disease and continues to exist in its original form.
निद्रा ( nidrā )

Sleep
निद्रा-वैषम्यम् ( nidrā-vaiṣamyam )

Disorders due to improper sleep
निद्रानाशः/अस्वप्नः ( nidrānāśaḥ/ asvapnaḥ )

Disorder due to loss of sleep, insomnia
निद्रावेगरोधः ( nidrāvegarodhaḥ )

Disorder due to withholding of sleep
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: yawning; generalized body aches; drowsiness/lassitude; diseases of head; heaviness of eyes; rigidity/stiffness of body; heaviness of head; confusion/ delirium; lethargy.
निन्दितशलाका ( ninditaśalākā )

Unsuitable probe
An unsuitable probe for management of diseases of the head and neck region.
निबन्धिनी ( nibandhinī )

Connecting structures
निमित्त-कारणम् ( nimitta-kāraṇam )

Efficient cause
This type of cause includes all other factors that are causally relevant to the effect in question. A potter, along with his wheel, rod and tools can be regarded as the “efficient” cause of the effect, a pot. This resembles the cause of the same name in Aristotelianism.
निमित्तजन्य-दृष्टिगतरोगः ( nimittajanyadṛṣṭigatarogaḥ )

Eye disorder with a particular cause
A disorder characterized by features of abhiṣyanda.
निमेषः ( nimeṣaḥ )

Closure of eyelid
निमेषः ( nimeṣaḥ )

Frequent blinking
A disorder characterized by frequent blinking of the eyes; frequent closing and opening of eyes; painless.
नियमः ( niyamaḥ )

Practising auspicious rules
A type of therapeutic ritual: treatment of a disease by following certain rules to cure the ailment.
नियमनम् ( niyamanam )

Modulating or restricting the mobility of mercury
नियोगः/सन्नियोगः ( niyogaḥ/ sanniyogaḥ )

Execution of appropriate action, mandatory instruction
An injunction or statement in the form of a command or order that is to be followed strictly without query or discussion.
निरग्नि-उपनाहस्वेदः ( niragni-upanāhasvedaḥ )

Sweating induced by applying a medicated herbal poultice
A type of sudation therapy in which diaphoresis is achieved by application of a paste which prevents body heat from escaping.
निरग्निस्वेदः ( niragnisvedaḥ )

Sweating induced without application of fire
Sudation procedures which do not rely on the direct or indirect application of fire.
निरामज्वरः ( nirāmaḥ )

Fever devoid- of ama, post-ama stage of fever
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: return of appetite; wasted/dried up/emaciated; feeling of lightness in body parts; lessening of fever/mild fever; passage of excreta; absence of clinical features of āmajvara.
निरामदोषः ( nirāmadoṣaḥ )

Dosha not associated with ama
When ama associated with dosha undergoes depletion, the resultant dosha is termed devoid of ama state; it is still in a vitiated state and has not returned to normal state.
निरामावस्था ( nirāmāvasthā )

Transformative stage devoid of ama pathology
The state when ama is converted either under the effect of time or by therapeutic measures.
निरूहबस्त्ययोगः ( nirūhabastyayogaḥ )

Condition due to inadequate or subnormal administration of evacuative; non-oily decoction enema
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: headache; pain in precordial region/angina pectoris; pain in anal region; pain in urinary bladder or basti; pain in genital region; oedema; cold catarrh; gripping pain; nausea; retention of flatus; obstruction to passage of urine/ retention; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; excessive salivation; precordial discomfort with nausea; feeling of abdominal fullness; aggravation of kapha and pitta; abdominal distension; loss of taste; vomiting; drowsiness/lassitude; sensation of being covered with a wet cloth; diminution of agni; heaviness of body; severe burning sensation; itching; retention of faeces; giddiness or dizziness; papules.
निरूहमिथ्यायोगः ( nirūhamithyāyogaḥ )

Condition of improper administration of medicated non-oily enema
निरूहातियोगः ( nirūhātiyogaḥ )

Condition due to excessively administered evacuative; non-oily enema
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: numbness; generalized body aches; exhaustion without exertion; shivering/tremors; insomnia; debility; feeling of entering into darkness; insanity; hiccups; syncope or swooning; rectal prolapse; excessive elimination of kapha; onset of colicky pain; watery discharge without dosha; blood tinged watery discharge; watery discharge resembling fatty meat washings; watery discharge resembling raw meat washings; shiny watery discharge resembling fat; oil or water mixed with fatty substances; blackish watery discharge; whitish watery discharge; thirst; agravates vata; giddiness or dizziness; protruding eyes.
निर्घातनकर्म ( nirghātanakarma )

Manual loosening of impacted foreign body
The manual processes for loosening and/or removing an impacted foreign body.
निर्णयः ( nirṇayaḥ )

Decision based on critical analysis
A decisive statement which reaches a conclusion or settles a topic after detailed consideration of all relevant and related facts.
निर्देशः ( nirdeśaḥ )

Detailed description, elaboration of statement
A detailed description of previously listed topics.
निर्ध्मापनकर्म ( nirdhmāpanakarma )

Removal of foreign body by insufflation
The removal of a loosely impacted foreign body by insufflation or blowing of air.
निर्बीजशुक्रम् ( nirbījaśukram )

Azoospermia
The absence of sperm in the semen.
निर्मलीकरणम् ( nirmalīkaraṇam )

Removal of physical impurities
निर्यास-विषः ( niryāsa-viṣaḥ )

Poisonous gums; resins
Poisoning characterized by halitosis; roughness/dryness; headache; secretion of mucus.
निर्वचनम् ( nirvacanam )

Technical definition
An illustrative statement understood only by experts with the specific domain knowledge.
निर्वापणकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( nirvāpaṇakarma (vraṇacikitsā) )

Application of demulcent for wound management
Application of cooling substances to a wound with a burning sensation.
निर्वापणम्/निमज्जनम् ( nirvāpaṇam/nimajjanam )

Immersion of heated solid in liquid
निर्विकल्पकम् ( nirvikalpakam )

Indeterminate perception
Direct perception, observation without specific details of the cognitive process.
निर्विकारम् ( nirvikāram )

Formless
A quality of soul which is devoid of all bodily and psychological ailments.
निर्वेधिम: ( nirvedhima )

Lobuloplasty type 7
A type of lobuloplasty indicated when both flaps of the divided earlobe are absent upto the root and it is repaired with the tragus as the base.
निवृत्तसन्तापीयरसायनम् ( nivṛttasantāpīyarasāyanam )

Tonics for counteracting A medicine to rebuild the physical and mental faculties effects of disease following their disturbance due to a disease process.
निशि, स्वप्नकालः ( niśi, svapnakālaḥ )

Administration of medicine at night before sleeping
निःश्वासः ( niḥśvāsaḥ )

Inspiration, inhalation
निष्क्रामणसंस्कारः ( niṣkrāmaṇasaṁskāraḥ )

Exposure of a baby to external environment
A ceremony performed in the fourth month in which the child is taken outdoors and exposed to the external environment for the first time.
निष्क्रियः ( niṣkriyaḥ )

Inactive
Inactiveness of atma, indicating its principal quality of performing the duty of being a witness to events.
निष्ठापाकः ( niṣṭhāpākaḥ )

Final phase of digestion
The final phase of action of transformative factors in the gastrointestinal tract on food, which results in the separation of nutrient part and waste product, and the manifestation of post-digestive transformation).
निष्ठापाकः ( niṣṭhāpākaḥ )

Transformation at the level of absorption, assimilation
निष्पीडनम् (विषोपक्रमः) ( niṣpīḍanam (viṣopakramaḥ)

Poison removal by squeezing
Squeezing or applying compression to remove a poison.
निष्फलशुक्रम् ( niṣphalaśukram )

Inactive or dead sperm
Inactive or dead sperm which are insufficient for conception.
नीलमेहः ( nīlamehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with bluish urine
A disorder characterized by passage of bluish urine; frothy micturition; transparent; sour taste.
नीलम् ( nīlam )

Blue sapphire
Duly processed nilam is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
नीला (मर्म) ( nīlā (marma) )

Vulnerable location(s) on either side of the throat
Two in number (one on each side) which when injured leads to difficulty in speech, altered voice and loss of taste sensation.
नीलिका ( nīlikā )

Black patch on face or body part
A disorder characterized by a black-coloured circular lesion on body; black-coloured circular lesion on face; painless circular lesion; thin lesion on body or face.
नेत्रतर्पणम् ( netratarpaṇam )

Therapeutic retention of melted medicated ghee over the eyes
Type of therapeutic procedure which involves retention of the supernatent portion of melted ghee or medicated ghee over the open eyes at a given temperature and for a specific duration, after forming a concentric boundary around the orbit with black gram dough or other preparation.
नेत्रनाडी ( netranāḍī )

Nasolacrimal duct
नेत्ररोगः ( netrarogaḥ )

Eye disorders
नेत्ररोगचिकित्सा ( netrarogacikitsā )

Management of eye diseases
Management of diseases related to the eye.
नेत्रसन्धिः ( netrasandhiḥ )

Anatomical junctions of the eye
A common term used to denote the junctions of the eye.
नेत्र्यम्, चक्षुष्यम् ( netryam, cakṣuṣyam )

Substance promoting health and functioning of the eyes
नेमिसन्धानकः ( nemisandhānakaḥ )

Lobuloplasty type 1
A type of lobuloplasty indicated when both flaps of the divided earlobe are thick, wide and equal.
नैगमेषग्रहः ( naigameṣagrahaḥ )

Syncope, constant fever, tremors due to external invisible factors
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: teeth-grinding/teeth-biting; syncope or swooning; bad odour; frothy vomitus; involuntary bending from abdomen; agitation; crying; upward gaze; constant fever; odour of animal fat; unconsciousness; abdominal distension; shaking of hands; shaking of legs; thirst; clenching of fist; diarrhoea; feeble voice; discoloration; cooing sound; vomiting; cough; hiccups; insomnia; dry throat; dry mouth; sound of hollow cough; biting of lips; contracture of body parts; stiffness; goat-like odour; involuntary upward gaze and laughing; swelling of eye.
नैमित्तिकरसायनम् ( naimittikarasāyanam )

Disease-specific rejuvenation therapy
Rejuvenation therapy which is specific for the treatment of a particular disease.
नैष्ठिकीचिकित्सा ( naiṣṭhikīcikitsā )

Proven or evidencebased clinical protocol for management of a disease
Definitive treatment or permanent remedy to a disease: the term naiṣṭhikīcikitsā is a compound of the two words niṣtha (definitive) and cikitsā (treatment).
न्यच्छः ( nyacchaḥ )

Congenital bluish or black patch on body
A disorder characterized by circular patches on body; largesized patches; small-sized patches; bluish black-coloured patches; blackish-coloured patches; painless patches.
पक्तिः ( paktiḥ )

Metabolic transformation
पक्तिस्थानम् ( paktisthānam )

Place of digestion
पक्वावस्था ( pakvāvasthā )

Ripened stage of dosha
The transformative phase in the course of a disease or wound indicating a post-inflammatory or suppurative condition.
पक्वाशयः, पक्वस्थानम्, पक्वाधानम् ( pakvāśayaḥ, pakvasthānam, pakvādhānam )

Large intestine
The primary functional area of vata dosha.
पक्वाशयगतवातः ( pakvāśayagatavātaḥ )

Aggravation of vata in colon
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: borborygmi/gurgling intestinal sounds; colicky pain in abdomen; dysuria; difficulty in passing stool; borborygmi with distension; pain in sacroiliac region; constipation; urolithiasis; herniation; haemorrhoids; stiffness of sacroiliac region; stiffness of lower back.
पक्वाशयसमुत्थरोगः ( pakvāśayasamuttharogaḥ )

Diseases of the lower gastrointestinal tract
Diseases and conditions which have their origin in the large intestinal tract such as piles and constipation.
पक्वाशयस्थ-दूषीविषम् ( Pakvāśayasthadūṣīviṣam )

Cumulative poisoning with mild effect over time, poison lodged in intestines
Poisoning characterized by vāta pitta disorders; hair loss from head and body; individual resembling a bird with withered wings.
पक्वाशयस्थ-रुधिरः ( pakvāśayastha-rudhiraḥ )

Accumulation of blood in the large intestine due to injury
A disorder characterized by heaviness; heaviness below the umbilicus; bleeding through orifices; pain; coldness; coldness in lower abdomen.
पक्षः ( pakṣaḥ )

Body half in the sagittal plane, limb
पक्षः ( pakṣaḥ )

Subject under investigation
The context in which a cause-and-effect relationship has not been affirmed but is being examined or investigated.
पक्षः ( pakṣaḥ )

Time equivalent to one fortnight
Time equal to half of a lunar month or 15 days.
पक्षाघातः/पक्षवधः ( pakṣāghātaḥ/ pakṣavadhaḥ )

Hemiplegia
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: hemiplegia/hemiparesis; loss of movement/ inability to move; impediment of speech/dysphasia; pain; contraction in a lower limb; contraction in an upper limb; pricking pain; sharp/acute pain; senselessness/ unconsciousness; dislocation of joint/flaccidity; loss of tactile sensation.
पक्ष्म, प्रतिबालः, अक्षिपक्ष्म ( pakṣma, pratibālāḥ, akṣipakṣma )

Eyelashes
पक्ष्मकोपः/पक्ष्मोपरोधः ( pakṣmakopaḥ/ pakṣmoparodhaḥ )

Trichiasis, entropion
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: the development of sharp eyelashes; rough eyelashes; repeated rubbing of eyeball; vitiation of eye; releif on plucking/removal of eyelash; aversion to wind; aversion to sunlight; aversion to fire; constriction/spasm of the eyelids; downward-looking eyebrows; swelling of eyes due to irritation by sharp eyelash tips; burning sensation with sweating and restlessness; loss of eyelashes from their roots; distorted eyelashes; inward-turning eyelashes; redness of black cornea and white sclera.
पक्ष्ममण्डलम् ( pakṣmamaṇḍalam )

Eyelashes
पक्ष्मवर्त्मसन्धिः ( pakṣmavartma-sandhiḥ )

Junction of cilia with lid margin
पक्ष्मशातः ( pakṣmaśātaḥ )

Loss of eyelashes, madarosis
A disorder characterized by itching along the margin of the eyelids; burning in eyelids; loss of eyelashes and burning sensation.
पक्ष्माग्रम् ( pakṣmāgram )

Free ends of eyelashes
पक्ष्माशयः ( pakṣmāśayaḥ )

Roots of eyelashes
पङ्गुः ( paṅguḥ )

Paraplegia
पच्यमानज्वरः ( pacyamānajvaraḥ )

Intermediate stage of fever, phase between ama stage and post-ama stage of fever
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: high-grade fever; thirst; excessive talking/irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; giddiness or dizziness; loose stools; nausea/ provocation of dosha.
पच्यमानावस्था ( pacyamānāvasthā )

State of active digestion, and transformation of ama
An intermediary stage of active digestion and transformation of ama leading to the next non-ama state. This can be a state of natural disease progression or may have to be induced by intervention to mitigate the pathology and treat the condition. Physiologically it is the state of active digestion of food in the intestines.
पच्यमानाशयः ( pacyamānāśayaḥ )

Principal part of intestine concerned with food digestion
पञ्चकर्म ( pañcakarma )

Panchakarma
Five internal cleansing therapies, comprising emesis, purgation, decoction enema, unctuous enema and errhine therapy.
पञ्चदशकर्णबन्धाकृति ( pañcadaśakarṇabandhākṛti )

Fifteen shapes or methods of lobuloplasty
Various methods for surgical correction of the earlobe.
पञ्चममासगर्भः ( pañcamamāsa-garbhaḥ )

Fifth month of pregnancy
This month is characterized by excessive increase in foetal fleshiness; an excessive increase in blood; thinning of the pregnant woman; appearance of mind and intellect; consciousness.
पञ्चमहाभूत ( pañcamahābhūta )

Five elements
The five elements (panchamahabhuta) 1. Space (akasha); 2. air (vayu); 3. fire (tejas, agni); 4. water (jalam); and 5. earth (prithvi).
पञ्चाङ्गीबन्धः ( pañcāṅgībandhaḥ )

Five-tailed bandage
A type of five-tailed bandage used in the supraclavicular region.
पञ्चावयव-वाक्यम् ( pañcāvayava-vākyam )

Five-stepped syllogism
A collective term used for deriving intended inference based on five syllogistic steps, namely: proposition/declaration (pratijna), means/reason or cause for obtaining knowledge (hetu), example (drishtanta/audaharaṇa), comparison between proposition and example (upanaya) and establishment of the statement (nigamana).
पटलम्, नेत्रत्वक् ( paṭalam, netratvak )

Layers of the eye
पत्र-विषः ( patra-viṣaḥ )

Poisonous leaves
Poisoning characterized by yawning; convulsive movements of body; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing.
पत्रदानकर्म ( patradānakarma )

Covering the wound with medicinal leaves
A therapeutic procedure in which medicinal leaves are placed on the wound after application of a medicinal paste.
पथ्यम् ( pathyam )

Compatible with health
Dietary and behavioural practices helpful in treating disease or maintaining health. Synonym of treatment.
पथ्यम् ( pathyam )

Wholesome
Dietary items, activities and behavioural regimens that are beneficial for the body channels or systems: these are subject to individual variations.
पदार्थः ( padārthaḥ )

Object denoted by a word
Etymologically “the meaning or referent of a word”, it is applied to any entity that is knowable and nameable, i.e. an object of experience.
पद्मिनीकण्टकः ( padminīkaṇṭakaḥ )

Papules resembling lotus thorns
A disorder characterized by patches with thorny projections; raised circular lesions; associated with itching; thorny projections resembling lotus thorns; painless; whitish projection.
पनसिका ( panasikā )

Abscess in the inner part of the ear
A disorder characterized by a swelling associated with severe pain; nodular swelling over pinna of ear; nodular swelling around the external ear; nodular swelling on posterior surface of pinna; nodule resembling the lotus root; hard nodular swelling; fixed nodular swelling.
परतन्त्र ( paratantra )

Dependant, secondary disease
A secondary or dependant disease or condition that resolves when the primary disease or condition is treated.
परत्वम् ( paratvam )

Relatively superior, nearer the cause
Priority, superiority or greater utility of a substance over the other substances, e.g. in pharmaceutical preparations.
परमदः ( paramadaḥ )

Alcohol intoxication leading to suppression of visceral movements
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: warmth; aggravation of kapha; heaviness of body; absence of any taste in the mouth; retention of faeces; obstruction to passage of urine/retention; drowsiness/ lassitude; loss of taste; thirst; headache; pain in joints.
परादिगुणः ( parādiguṇaḥ )

Qualities beginning with term “paratva”
A group of ten clinical decision criteria commencing with “paratva that support a practitioner in the analytical process of deciding on appropriate interventions.
परामर्शः ( parāmarśaḥ )

Inference based on analogy
The process of drawing an inference based on an analogy.
परार्थानुमानम् ( parārthānumānam )

Inference for others
Obtaining the proof of inference for others.
परिकर्तिका-वमनव्यापत् ( parikartikā-vamanavyāpat )

Condition of scissoring pain in throat region due to faulty emetic therapy
A condition characterized by excruciating sawing pain; accompanied by a slimy and bloody discharge.
परिकर्तिकाबस्तिव्यापत् ( parikartikābastivyāpat )

Signs of sawing pain due to faulty enema therapy
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pricking pain in lumbar region; pricking pain in groin region; pricking pain in urinary bladder or basti; pain in lower abdomen; constipation; frequent voiding of stool in small quantities.
परिकर्तिकाविरेचनव्यापत् ( parikartikāvirecanavyāpat )

Condition of scissoring pain in anal region due to faulty purgative therapy
A condition characterized by excruciating sawing pain; accompanied by slimy and bloody discharge.
परिघः ( parighaḥ )

Obstructed fetal presentation with fetus in a transverse lie
Abnormal fetal presentation characterized by a fetus in a tranverse lie with obstructed passage.
परिणामः ( pariṇāmaḥ )

Course of development, transformation
One of the three primary causes of a disease owing to the transformative impact of the flow of time.
परिणामशूलः ( pariṇāmaśūlaḥ )

Abdominal colic occurring during digestion of food
A disorder characterized by a burning sensation; fever.
परिदरः ( paridaraḥ )

Bleeding gums
A disorder characterized by decaying of the gums; spitting blood.
परिपोटकः ( paripoṭakaḥ )

Traumatic ear lobule injury
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: cracking of the skin over the swollen ear lobe; blackish swelling in ear lobe; slightly reddish swelling in ear lobe; rigid swelling in ear lobe; painful swelling in ear lobe; eg traumatic lobule injury commonly seen in older children.
परिमाणः ( parimāṇaḥ )

Quantity, measurement
The quality by which the measurement of various substances is possible.
परिम्लायि-लिङ्गनाशः ( parimlāyi-liṅganāśaḥ )

Mature cataract in which only yellow is perceived
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: seeing all directions as yellow; seeing rising sun before eyes; seeing trees as if strewn with many shining fireflies; colour of glowing fire; light blue; circular lesion; yellowish-blue circular patch appearing before eyes; seeing objects as coloured yellow; seeing objects as fire.
परिलेही ( parilehī )

Pustules on ear lobe, epidermoid cyst
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: mustard seed-like eruptions on ear lobe; eruptions associated with itching; manifestation of worms/ organisms in ear lobe; destruction of ear lobe tissue by organisms/worms; mustard seed-like eruptions in ear lobe with burning sensation; mustard seed-like eruptions in ear lobe associated with pain.
परिवर्तिका ( parivartikā )

Paraphimosis
A disorder characterized by the foreskin or prepuce becoming stuck behind the glans penis and hanging underneath like a gland.
परिषेकः (विषोपक्रमः) ( pariṣekaḥ (viṣopakramaḥ) )

Streaming of medicated liquids for detoxification
Continuous pouring or streaming of decoctions to detoxify a bite site or poisoned area.
परिषेककर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( pariṣekakarma (vraṇacikitsā) )

Therapeutic streaming Therapeutic pouring of medicated liquids for wound healing. of medicated liquids for wound management
परिषेकस्वेदः ( pariṣekasvedaḥ )

Sweating induced by streaming a prewarmed liquid
A type of sudation therapy in which diaphoresis is achieved by sprinkling or streaming a prewarmed liquid over a person.
परिस्राव-वमनव्यापत् ( parisrāva-vamanavyāpat )

Condition of exudation of liquid from oral/nasal route due to faulty emetic therapy
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: excessive flow of saliva or kapha; itching; oedema; skin disease; heaviness of body; diminution of agni; diminution of physical strength; sensation of being covered with a wet cloth; loss of taste; pallor.
परिस्रावबस्तिव्यापत् ( parisrāvabastivyāpat )

Condition of excessive discharge due to faulty enema therapy
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: anal inflammation; exudation of blood and pitta of various colours; forceful elimination; continuously resulting in fainting.
परिस्रावविरेचनव्यापत् ( parisrāvavirecanavyāpat )

Condition of exudation of liquid from anal region due to faulty purgative therapy
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: reduced discharge; itching; oedema; skin disease; heaviness of body; diminution of agni; diminution of physical strength; sensation of being covered with a wet cloth; loss of taste; pallor.
परिस्रावीभगन्दरः/ श्लेष्मजभगन्दरः ( parisrāvībhagandaraḥ/ śleṣmajabhagandaraḥ )

Intrasphincteric fistula
A fistula in the anal sphincter tissues characterized by a white-coloured nodule; immovable nodule (with large/fixed base); nodule with itching; suppurating if left untreated; indurated; redness/congestion/inflammation; associated with itching sensation; slimy discharge; continuous discharge; flatus; urine; faeces and semen oozing from openings if left untreated; thick/dense discharge; mild pain.
परिहारः ( parihāraḥ )

Amendment of a faulty statement
Correction of faults or defects revealed in a previous statement.
परिहारकालः ( parihārakālaḥ )

Period of restrictions following major therapies
The defined recovery period after major therapy during which certain regimens are to be followed.
परिहारकाल-व्यापदः/ अपरिहारसेवनम् ( parihārakāla-vyāpadaḥ/ aparihārasevanam )

Condition due to one of the eight impediments during a gap between two key panchakarma procedures
परिहारकाले अजीर्णभोजनम् ( parihārakāle ajīrṇabhojanam )

Condition of indigestion during panchakarma therapy recovery period
परिहारकाले अति-आसनम् ( parihārakāle ati-āsanam )

Condition of prolonged sitting during panchakarma therapy recovery period
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pain in hips/buttocks; pain in sides of chest/ flanks; pain in groin region; scrotal pain; low back pain; pain in back; weakness of joints; weakness of shoulders; weakness of neck; burning sensation in the limbs; pedal oedema; pedal numbness; tingling sensation in the feet.
परिहारकाले अतिचङ्क्रमणम् ( parihārakāle aticaṅkramaṇam )

Condition of long walk during panchakarma therapy recovery period
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pain in legs/feet; pain in calf region; pain in thighs; pain in knees; pain in groin region; pain in pelvic region; pain in back; feeling of weakness/fatigue of thighs; pricking pain in legs; claudication/cramp in the calf muscles; generalized body aches; burning sensation in the shoulders/ scapula; pulsatile veins; pulsatile arteries; breathlessness/ difficulty in breathing; cough.
परिहारकाले अहितभोजनम् ( parihārakāle ahitabhojanam )

Condition of unwholesome food and irregular meal during panchakarma therapy recovery periodA condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: an aversion to food; weakness; discoloration; itching; scabies; bodily exhaustion or tiredness; clinical features of grahaṇī; haemorrhoids.
परिहारकाले उच्चभाष्यम् ( parihārakāle uccabhāṣyam )

Condition of loud and excessive speech during panchakarma therapy recovery period
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a burning sensation in the head; pricking pain in temples; pricking pain in ears; deafness; dryness of mouth; dryness of palate; dryness in throat; errors of refraction/partial blindness; thirst; fever; feeling of entering into darkness; lockjaw/catching sensation over jaw; torticollis/stiffness of neck; spitting; pain in chest and sides of neck; pain in sides of chest/flanks; hiccups; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing.
परिहारकाले दिवास्वप्नः ( parihārakāle divāsvapnaḥ )

Condition of midday sleep during panchakarma therapy recovery period
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: loss of taste; indigestion; loss of agni; sensation of being covered with a wet cloth; pallor; itching; scabies; burning sensation; vomiting; generalized body aches; tightness in the precordial region; dullness/frigidity/ inactivity; drowsiness/lassitude; continuous sleep; appearance of nodules; weakness; blood-coloured urine/ haematuria; reddish-coloured eyes; coating on the palate.
परिहारकाले मिथ्याव्यवायः ( parihārakāle mithyāvyavāyaḥ )

Condition of sexual intercourse during panchakarma therapy recovery period
परिहारकाले रथक्षोभः ( parihārakāle rathakṣobhaḥ )

Condition of jolting by conveyance during panchakarma therapy recovery period
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: looseness of the large joints; looseness of small joints; pain in jaw; nasal pain; earache; headache; pricking pain; irritation in the pelvic region; gurgling intestinal sounds/borborygmi; borborygmi/gurgling intestinal sounds; abdominal distension; feeling of obstruction in the precordial region/impairment of cardiac activity/bradycardia; obstruction of sense organ functioning; pain in hips/buttocks; pain in sides of chest/flanks; pain in groin; pain in scrotum; low back pain; pain in back; weakness of joints; weakness of shoulders; weakness of neck; burning sensation in the limbs; pedal oedema; pedal numbness; tingling sensation in the feet.
परीक्षा ( parīkṣā )

Investigation, examination The standard of examination which affirms valid knowledge.
पर्पटी ( parpaṭī )

Thin flakes of wafer
पर्व, अस्थिसन्धयः, अस्थिपर्व ( parva, asthisandhayaḥ, asthiparva )

Articulation, joint
The junction or interface between two bones comprising bone and connective tissue.
पर्वणिका ( parvaṇikā )

Corneal nodules
A disorder characterized by nodules at the sclerocorneal junction; coppery-coloured swelling; thin swelling; swelling with burning sensation; swelling with pain; rounded swelling.
पर्शुका ( parśukā )

Rib
पर्शुकाग्रम् ( parśukāgram )

Anterior end of the rib
पलम् ( palam )

Measure of weight approximately equal to 48 g
Measure of weight equal to 4 karṣaḥ or 2 shukti.
पलितः ( palitaḥ )

Greying of hair
A disorder characterized by hair pattern resembling monkey hairs; greying of hair.
पवनेन्द्रियः ( pavanendriyaḥ )

Azoospermia
Absence of semen or sperms: if such a patient ejaculates no sperm are found in the ejaculate.
पश्चात्-कर्म ( paścāt-karma )

Posttherapy procedures
The variety of procedures which are advised after a major therapeutic procedure in order to return a person to normalcy.
पश्चाद्भक्तः, अधोभक्तः, भोजनोत्तरम् ( aścādpbhaktaḥ, adhobhaktaḥ, bhojanottaram )

Administration of medicine after a meal
पश्चिमहानव्यदन्तः ( paścimahānavyadantaḥ )

Wisdom tooth
पाकः ( pākaḥ )

Digestion, metabolism, bio- transformation
The function of transformative factor.
पाचकपित्तम् ( pācaka-pittam )

Digesting pitta
Subtype of pitta mainly responsible for digestion. It divides the food into nutritive and waste portions and supports other subtypes of pitta.
पाचनकर्म ( pācanakarma )

Removal of foreign body by inducing suppuration
The removal of a loosely impacted foreign body by the suppuration process.
पाचनम् ( pācanam )

Digestion
The fundamental function of transformative factors in the gastrointestinal tract.
पाचनम् ( pācanam )

Digestive action
A drug which directly acts on products of incomplete digestion, transformation or metabolism (ama) but does not kindle digestive fire
पाचनम् ( pācanam )

Haemostasis by chemical cautery.
A method haemostasis using local applications such as bhasma, sprays or dustings.
पाटनकर्म ( pāṭanakarma )

Incision, opening
Incising, opening, and draining of an inflammatory lesion.
पाटितभग्नः ( pāṭitabhagnaḥ )

Cracked fracture
A fracture characterized by multiple fractures with comminuted bone pieces; associated with pain.
पाणिः,करः, हस्तः ( pāṇiḥ, karaḥ, hastaḥ )

Hand, manus
पाणितलम्, पाणिहृदयम् ( pāṇitalam, pāṇihṛdayam )

Palm
पाणिशलाकाधिष्ठानम् ( pāṇiśalākādhiṣṭhānam )

Distal row of carpal bones
पाण्डुकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( pāṇḍukarma (vraṇacikitsā)

Whitening, depigmentationinducing measures
A therapeutic measure to whiten or depigment a hyperpigmented scar by application of a medicinal paste.
पाण्डुरोगः ( pāṇḍurogaḥ )

Anaemic syndrome
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a constant sound in the ear; destroyed agni; weakness; exhaustion; aversion to food; exhaustion/fatigue; giddiness or dizziness; body pain; fever; difficulty in breathing; heaviness of body; loss of taste; rubbing type of pain in body; squeezing type of pain in body; body feels as if being churned; swelling of ocular orbits; greenish discoloration of body; fragility/loss of body hair; loss of lustre; anger/irritability; aversion to cold; sleepiness; spitting/excessive expectoration; reduced talking; claudication/cramp in the calf muscles; low back pain; pain in thighs; pain in feet; feeling of weakness of hip region; fatigue/weakness in thighs; feeling of weakness of feet/legs; exertion/dyspnoea on climbing; laxity/looseness of dhātu; decreased quality of ojas; reduced raktadhātu/ depletion of rakta; reduced medodhātu/depletion of medodhātu; reduction in sāra of dhātu/sapless/weakness; laxity of organs of physical action, i.e. hands, legs and tongue (karmendriya), and cognitive organs (jñanendriya); heart palpitations; weakness of limbs/motionlessness. A complex disorder representing various conditions: anaemia, liver derangement, splenic disorders, etc.
पातनम् ( pātanam )

Distillation of mercury
पादः ( pādaḥ )

Foot
पादकू र्चास्थि ( Pādakurcāsthi )

Tarsal bones excluding talus and calcaneus
पादचतुष्टयम् ( pādacatuṣṭayam )

Components of medical practice
These four components or elements are: the physician (vaidya, bhishak), materials for treatment (dravya), attendants or paramedics (upasthata) and the patient (rogi).
पादतलम् ( pādatalam )

Sole
पाददारी ( pādadārī )

Rhagades
A disorder characterized by fissuring and cracking of the feet; associated with pain.
पाददाहः ( pādadāhaḥ )

Burning feet
A disorder characterized by burning sensation in feet.
पादमध्यम् ( pādamadhyam )

Middle third of the foot, midfoot
Medial third of foot
पादहर्षः ( pādaharṣaḥ )

Peripheral neuritis of the feet
A disorder characterized by numbness in feet; sensation of excitement/tingling in feet.
पादाग्रम् ( pādāgram )

Forefoot
The anterior third of the foot.
पादाघातः ( pādāghātaḥ )

Therapeutic pedal massage
A therapeutic massage in which the feet are used to apply body weight as pressure.
पादाङ्गुलिः ( pādāṅguliḥ )

Toes
पादांशिकक्रमः ( pādāṃśikakramaḥ )

Diet-transition protocol
A quarter-portion protocol in which an unwholesome substance is gradually withdrawn from the diet—one quarter on the first day, two quarters on the second day, three quarters on the third day—and replaced with the same amount of a non-addictive wholesome alternative. One quarter unwholesome plus three quarters non-addictive wholesome substance should be maintained on the fourth, fifth and sixth days. On the seventh day the unwholesome substance should be completely discarded and the wholesome substance continued thereafter. This method is generally employed for de-addiction purposes.
पानकम् ( pānakam )

Beverage
A beverage prepared from unripe fruit such as mango, grapes, dates, and jujube by adding sugar and spices.
पानविभ्रमः ( pānavibhramaḥ )

Aversion to alcohol and food due to alcohol intoxication
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a pricking pain in cardiac region; dislike of alcohol; dislike of food; pricking pain all over the body; secretion of mucus; feeling as if the throat is full of smoke; syncope or swooning; vomiting; fever; headache; burning sensation.
पानाजीर्णम् ( pānājīrṇam )

Indigestion due to excessive alcohol intake
A disorder characterized by abdominal distension; sour belching/eructations; internal burning sensation.
पानीयक्षारः ( pānīyakṣāraḥ )

Internal administration of caustic substance
One of the two modes of applying alkali.
पामा (कच्छू ) ( pāmā (kacchū) )

Skin disease with white, reddish or blackish-brown erupting lesions
A skin disease characterized by lesions with a whitish discoloration; reddish discoloration; blue-black colour; itching; papules/eruptions; moistening/soddening; pain; minute; especially in the buttocks; hands and elbows.
पायुमेढ्रान्तरम्, गुदोपस्थदेशः ( pāyumeḍhrāntaram, gudopasthadeśaḥ )

Perineum
पारदः ( pāradaḥ )

Mercury
The basic and most important ingredient of various formulations mentioned in the discipline dealing with the therapeutic applications of metals and minerals (rasaśāstra).
पारद-अष्टसंस्कारः ( pārada-aṣṭasaṃskāraḥ )

Eight stages of the mercury purification process
Purifying mercury for medicinal use involves eight processes which need to be applied consecutively in a specific sequence. They include svedanam, mardanam, murchanam, utthapanam, patanam, rodhanam, niyamanam and dipanam/ samdipanam.
पारदमूर्छनम् ( paradamūrcchanam )

Pre-processing of mercury
A process by which mercury attains the property of curing diseases.
पारिगर्भिकः ( pārigarbhikaḥ )

Malnutrition disorder
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: diminution of digestive power; loss of taste; emaciation; cough; abdominal enlargement; drowsiness/ lassitude; giddiness or dizziness; vomiting.
पार्थिवम् ( pārthivam )

Drugs of mineral origin
पार्श्वजघनम् ( pārśvajaghanam )

Sides of pelvic region
पार्श्वम् ( pārśvam )

Flank
पार्श्वसन्धिः (मर्म) ( pārśvasandhiḥ (marma)

Vulnerable location(s) near the twelfth rib
Two in number which when injured causes bleeding into abdominal cavity leading to death.
पार्ष्णिः, प्रपदम् ( pārṣṇiḥ, prapadam )

Heel
पार्ष्ण्यस्थि ( pārṣṇyasthi )

Calcaneus
पाशवकायः ( pāśavakāyaḥ )

Person with cowardly, unintelligent temperament
The characteristics of the person with a cowardly, unintelligent temperament are dullness, lack of grasping power, slowness and laziness, daily dreams of intercourse and indecisiveness.
पाषाणगर्दभः ( pāṣāṇagardabhaḥ )

Temporomandibular joint region inflammation
A disorder characterized by a swelling with pain in the lower jaw joint; firm swelling in the lower jaw joint.
पिच्छा/पिच्छिल-बस्तिः ( picchā/picchila-bastiḥ )

Slimy enema
A type of specialized enema to control bleeding from the anus.
पिच्छिलः ( picchilaḥ )

Sliminess, murkiness
The quality of a substance which is responsible for providing a coating effect to body tissues.
पिण्डस्वेदः ( piṇḍasvedaḥ )

Sweating induced by application of a poultice
Sudation achieved with the application of a poultice prepared with medicated substances.
पिण्डिका ( piṇḍikā )

Muscular or bony prominence
पिण्डी ( piṇḍī )

Eye poultice
A therapeutic procedure in which mild sudation is achieved over the eye and orbital region by filling paste or medicines into small cloth packets and applying them over the closed eyelids.
पिण्याकः ( piṇyākaḥ )

Oil cakes
The residue of seeds which have been pressed and ground to extract their oil.
पितृ-उन्मादः ( pitṛ-unmādaḥ )

Psychosis making a person behave like an ancestor
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a person with sorrowful eyes; not establishing eye-contact; sleepy; stalled or broken speech; aversion to food; loss of taste; indigestion; offering oblations to ancestors’ souls; calm temperament; keeping cloth on the right shoulder; liking meat; liking tila; liking jaggery; liking milk-pudding; praising forefathers.
पितृजरोगः ( pitṛjarogaḥ )

Hereditary diseases of paternal origin
Hereditary conditions inherited through the paternal genetic line due to morbidity of the sperm.
पित्त-स्रावः ( pitta-srāvaḥ )

Yellowish-blue exudation from corners of eye
A disorder characterized by discharge from the middle of the sandhiḥ; warm discharge; watery discharge; turmericcoloured discharge; yellowish discharge.
पित्तकफप्रकृतिः ( pittakaphaprakṛtiḥ )

Body constitution with a predominance of pitta and kapha
A body constitution with predominantly mixed features of pitta and kapha.
पित्तकर्म ( pitta-karma )

Functions of pitta
General term for functions of pitta
पित्तक्षयः ( pittakṣayaḥ )

Diminution of pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: diminution of warmth; diminution of agni; diminished complexion or loss of body lustre; rigidity or stiffness; coldness; irregular or inconsistent pain; burning sensation; loss of taste; indigestion; roughness of body; tremors; heaviness; whitish nails; whitish eyes.
पित्तज ग्रहणीरोग ( pittaja grahaṇīroga )

Chronic diarrhoea with malabsorption of nutrients due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: indigestion; defecation of blue, yellowcoloured stools; defecation of yellow-coloured stools; stools liquid in nature; putrid eructations; sour belching/eructations; burning sensation in the precordial/cardiac region; burning sensation in throat; loss of taste; thirst.
पित्तज-अतिसारः ( pittaja-atisāraḥ )

Diarrhoea due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: defecation of yellow-coloured stools; defecation of greenish stools; bluish stools; black stools; stools with blood and pitta; foul stools; thirst; burning sensation; perspiration; syncope or swooning; colicky pain in abdomen; burning sensation at anus; suppuration of anus; heat; rapid stools; stools resembling raw meat washings; watery/unformed stools; severe form; yellowish stool; bluish stool; bloody stool; fever; defecation of grassy stools.
पित्तज-अधिमन्थः ( pittaja-adhimanthaḥ )

Glaucoma due to vitiated pitta, secondary glaucoma
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: an eye bearing red streaks; discharge; feeling as if on fire; resembling a piece of liver; burning sensation similar to that of a wound treated with caustics; suppuration of lid margins; lid margins intensely inflamed and oedematous; perspiration; yellowish appearance; syncope or swooning; burning sensation in the head; eyes resembling burning embers.
पित्तज-अपस्मारः ( pittaja-apasmāraḥ )

Epilepsy due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: intermittent seizures; regaining consciousness in a moment; cooing sound from throat; scratching the floor; greenish nails; greenish eyes; greenish discoloration of skin; yellowish discoloration of nails; yellowish discoloration of eyes; yellowish discoloration of face; yellowish discoloration of skin; coppery nails; coppery eyes; coppery face; coppery skin; reddish eyes; seeing horrible things; seeing violent things; seeing illuminated things; seeing objects as if covered; yellow-coloured froth; yellow discoloration of body; yellow discoloration of face; yellow discoloration of eyes; seeing all objects as yellow; seeing all objects as red; thirst; warmth; visualizing all worldly objects as engulfed by fire; sweating; syncope or swooning; inappropriate movements of body parts; in agony; feeling of being chased by black horrifying object/person; total disturbance of mind; agony/pain; excessive talking/irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; shaking on ground;
पित्तज-अरोचकः ( pittaja-arocakaḥ )

Anorexia due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a pungent taste in the mouth; sour taste in the mouth; feeling of warmth in the mouth; loss of taste in the mouth; foul odour in oral cavity; salty taste in the mouth; burning sensation in cardiac region; sucking type of pain; bitter taste in the mouth; syncope or swooning; thirst.
पित्तज-अश्मरी ( pittaja-aśmarī )

Urinary calculus due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: obstruction to passage of urine; burning sensation in urinary bladder as if near a fire; sucking type of pain in urinary bladder or basti; burning sensation in the urinary bladder; bladder feels as if burnt by alkali; clinical features of the disease uṣṇavāta; blood associated with stone; yellowish stone; black-coloured stone; stone shaped like bhallātakāsthi (seed of Semecarpus anacardium); honeycoloured stone; burning sensation in the bladder as if being cooked; red-coloured calculus.
पित्तज-उदररोगः ( pittaja-udararogaḥ )

Abdominal enlargement due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a burning sensation; fever; thirst; syncope or swooning; diarrhoea; giddiness or dizziness; pungent taste in mouth; greenish discoloration of nails; greenish eyes; greenish discoloration of face; greenish discoloration of urine; greenish discoloration of skin; greenish discoloration of faeces; yellowish discoloration of nails; yellowish discoloration of eyes; yellowish discoloration of face; yellowish discoloration of urine; yellowish discoloration of skin; yellowish discoloration of faeces; bluish veins over abdomen; yellowish veins over abdomen; turmeric-coloured veins over abdomen; greenish veins over abdomen; coppery-coloured veins over abdomen; burning sensation over abdomen; smoky sensation in abdomen; pain in abdomen; burning sensation in abdomen; resembling fomentation of abdomen; wetness of abdomen; soft to touch; quickly leading to ascites or jalodara; sucking type of pain; associated with thirst; associated with fever; associated with burning sensation; quickly increasing in size; pungent taste in mouth.
पित्तज-उपदंशः ( pittaja-upadaṃśaḥ )

Sexually transmitted penile inflammation due to vitiated pitta
A disease characterized by fever; swelling resembling ripe figs or udumbara; severe burning sensation; rapidly suppurating; pain of pitta type-ośa coṣa; excessive moistness/ soddening; associated with burning sensation.
पित्तज-ओष्ठप्रकोपः ( pittaja-oṣṭhaprakopaḥ )

Disorders of lip due to vitiated pitta, acute herpes labialis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: thirst; fever; blisters; nodules with burning sensation; inflammation/suppuration; smoky/fuming sensation; syncope or swooning; pain of various kinds; cracked nature; appearance of all colours except white; appearance of all colours except red; mustard seed-like eruptions; bluish discharge; yellowish discharge; itching in lips; skin-coloured nodule; painless; slimy lips; cold lips; heaviness of lips; sharp lips; tender lips; yellowish lips; moist eruptions/vesicles; rapidly suppurating; vesicles with burning; vesicles with suppuration; eruptions appearing yellow; painful vesicle.
पित्तज-प्रतिश्यायः ( pittaja-pratiśyāyaḥ )

Rhinitis due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a warm yellowish discharge from the nose; emaciated/thin/malnourished; excessive paleness of body; burning sensation; excessive thirst; feeling of suddenly vomiting out a mass of fire and fumes; manifestation of eruptions inside nose; giddiness or dizziness; suppuration of nose tip; fever; discharge of dried mucus; discharge of hot mucus; coppery-coloured nasal discharge.
पित्तज-योनिरोगः ( pittaja-yonirogaḥ )

Vaginal disease due to predominant pitta
A gynaecological disorder characterized by burning in female genital organs; inflammation/suppuration of female genital organs; fever; heating sensation; menstrual discharge becoming blue; yellow or black in colour; yellowish discharge; whitish discharge; very hot dishcarge; large amount of hot; offensively smelling discharge; burning in female genital organs; putrid smell in female genital organs; hot menstrual flow; heavy menstrual flow; smelling of dead body.
पित्तज-वृद्धिः ( pittaja-vṛddhiḥ )

Hydrocoele due to pitta predominance
A disorder characterized by fever; swelling resembling ripe fig fruit or udumbara; severe burning sensation; rapid suppuration; pain of pitta type-ośa coṣa; excessive moistness/soddening.
पित्तज-शिरोरोगः ( pittaja-śirorogaḥ )

Headache due to vitiated pitta
Headache characterized by burning sensation in head; headache/discomfort in head; headache on exposure to cold; burning sensation in eyes; thirst; giddiness or dizziness; sweating; headache with burning sensation; headache as if studded with burning charcoal; feeling of fuming from nose; especially in night due to cold; fuming-like sensation in head; fever; syncope or swooning; softnesss at night; pain subsiding with cold/softness by cold; feeling of fuming from eyes and nose; relieved by cold; subsiding at night.
पित्तजकर्णरोगः ( pittajakarṇarogaḥ )

Ear disorder due to vitiated pitta, subacute otalgia
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: oedema; redness; tearing; internal burning sensation; yellowish discharge; pain in ear associated with burning sensation; desire for cold; swelling; fever; rapidly suppurating; discharge of yellowish fluid after suppuration; suppuration at fluid leakage points.
पित्तजकासः ( pittajakāsaḥ )

Cough due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: being mixed with pitta/pitta-mixed phlegm/ yellowishness of eyes; bitter taste in mouth; changed voice; smoky sensation/hotness in chest; thirst; burning sensation; confusion/delirium; loss of taste; giddiness or dizziness; seeing stars after continuous coughing/black-outs on continuous coughing; burning sensation in chest; fever; dryness of mouth; vomiting of yellowish pungent phlegm; pallor; giddiness or dizziness; vomiting of pitta; blood; sour belching/eructations.
पित्तजक्षीरदोषः ( pittajakṣīradoṣaḥ )

Breast milk vitiated by pitta
A disorder characterized by breast milk which is sour in taste; pungent taste; with yellowish streaks; causing burning sensation in child; hot in nature; salty taste.
पित्तजगुल्मः ( pittajagulmaḥ )

Lumps or growths due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: burning sensation in abdomen; burning sensation in cardiac region; burning sensation in chest; burning sensation in throat; smoky euctations; acid eructations; feeling as if burning; pain; emitting smoke; hot in nature; perspiration; wetness; tenderness as if wound lax or nonhealed; slight excitement/bristling; fever; giddiness or dizziness; burning/excessive warmth/inflammation of eyes; thirst; dryness of throat; dryness of palate; dryness of mouth; fainting/severe confusion; altered stools/loose motions; greenish discoloration of skin; green-coloured eyes; greenish discoloration of face; green-coloured urine; greenish discoloration of faeces; yellow-coloured skin; yellow-coloured eyes; yellow-coloured face; yellowish discoloration of urine; yellow-coloured faeces; perspiration; food indigestion of food/ acid reflux; burning sensation; reddish discoloration of body; pungent taste in mouth; sour belching/eructations; syncope or swooning; burning sensation of gulma; relief with cold; feeling as if burnt by hot metal ball; hairless; generally resides at nābhi; reddish discoloration of face; severe pain during digestion; severe pain while eating.
पित्तजग्रन्थिः ( pittajagranthiḥ )

Nodular swelling, cyst due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: severe burning; fuming sensation; sucking type of pain; inflammation/suppuration; feeling of being burnt up; reddish swelling; yellow swelling; profuse; warm and bloody discharge; rapidly suppurating.
पित्तजचतुर्थकज्वरः ( pittajacaturthakajvaraḥ )

Intermittent fever recurring every fourth day due to predominance of pitta
पित्तजछर्दिः ( pittajachardiḥ )

Vomiting due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: syncope or swooning; thirst; dryness of mouth; burning sensation in the head; burning sensation in the palate; burning sensation in the eyes; black-outs; giddiness or dizziness; yellowish vomitus; very hot vomitus/ forceful vomiting; greenish vomitus; bitter vomitus; smoky vomitus; vomiting with burning sensation; sour vomitus; pungent vomitus; bitter taste in mouth; vomitus with blood; sucking type of pain; fever; vomitus alkaline in nature/vomitus as kṣāra diluted in water; exhaustion/fatigue.
पित्तजतृष्णा ( pittajatṛṣṇā )

Morbid thirst due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: aversion to food; bitter taste in the mouth; burning sensation in head; desire for cold; syncope or swooning; yellowish colour of eye; yellowish urine; yellowcoloured stool; excessive talking/irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; loss of taste; dryness of mouth; sensation of fumes emerging from body and mouth; parched mouth; bloodshot eyes.
पित्तजदन्तनाडी ( pittajadantanāḍī )

Alveolar sinus due to vitiated pitta, subacute alveolar sinus
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: thirst; burning sensation; pricking pain; exhaustion; fever; tearing sensation; excessive hot yellowish discharge during the day; excessive warm discharge.
पित्तजदाहः ( pittajadāhaḥ )

Generalized burning sensation due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by symptoms similar to those of dāha.
पित्तजनाडीव्रणः ( pittajanāḍīvraṇaḥ )

Deep ulcer with fistula formation due to vitiated pitta
A sinus ulcer characterized by thirst; burning sensation; pricking pain; exhaustion; fever; tearing sensation; excessive warm discharge; excessive yellow discharge; putrid pus discharge.
पित्तजनासार्शः ( pittajanāsārśaḥ )

Nasal polyp due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: the presenting part being blue; slender; spreading; yellowish tinge; looks like liver; shape resembles a parrot’s tongue; barley shaped in the middle; resembling a leech’s mouth.
पित्तजपाण्डुरोगः ( pittajapāṇḍurogaḥ )

Anaemic syndrome due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: yellowish discoloration of faeces; yellowish discoloration of urine; yelllowish discoloration of eyes; yellowish veins; covered with yellow veins; yellowish discoloration of face; greenish discoloration of faeces; greenish discoloration of urine; greenish discoloration of veins; greenish discoloration of nails; greenish discoloration of face; fever; burning sensation; thirst; syncope or swooning; thirst; excessive sweating; desire for cold; lack of desire for food; pungent taste in mouth; aggravation of clinical features due to exposure to heat; aggravation of clinical features due to intake of sour foods; sour belching/eructations; indigestion leading to acidic food; bad body odour; passage of unformed. faeces; weakness; black-outs; excessive yellowish tinge.
पित्तजप्रमेहः ( pittajapramehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder due to vitiated pitta
पित्तजमसूरिका ( pittajamasūrikā )

Lentil-shaped pox disease due to vitiated pitta
Lentil-shaped eruptive disorder is characterized by red eruptions; yellow eruptions; blackish eruptions; burning sensation; severe pain; rapidly suppurating; altered stools/ loose motions; generalized body aches; burning sensation; thirst; loss of taste; stomatitis; redness of eyes; severe fever; very distressing with high fever.
पित्तजमूत्रकृच्छ्रम् ( pittajamūtrakṛcchram )

Difficulty in urination due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: passage of yellow urine; passage of urine with pain; passage of urine with burning sensation; difficulty in passing urine; frequent micturition; yellowish discoloration of urine; urine with increased heat; blood-coloured urine/ haematuria; burning pain as if burned on scrotum; burning pain as if burned on penis; burning pain as if burned in bladder.
पित्तजमूर्च्छा ( pittajamūrcchā )

Syncope due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: seeing the sky as red before entering a state of darkness; seeing the sky as green before entering a state of darkness; seeing the sky as yellow before entering a state of darkness; waking up with perspiration; thirst; with burning sensation; reddish disturbed eyes; yellowish disturbed eyes; falling down as soon as the fit starts; regaining consciousness immediately; loose motions; yellowish discoloration; syncope or swooning.
पित्तजरक्तपित्तम् ( pittajaraktapittam )

Haemorrhage due to predominance of pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: ochre-coloured blood discharge; blackcoloured blood discharge; blood discharge resembling the colour of cow’s urine; blood resembling the ocelli in a peacock’s tail; blood discharge resembling soot or collyrium.
पित्तजरोहिणी ( pittajarohiṇī )

Diphtheria due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: fever; thirst; confusion/delirium; fuming sensation in throat; rapidly developing muscular projection; burning sensation of rapid suppuration; rapidly suppurating; excessive redness/congestion; tenderness/inability to tolerate touch; hyperpyrexia.
पित्तजविद्रधिः ( pittajavidradhiḥ )

Abscess due to vitiated pitta
A type of abscess characterized by a swelling resembling ripe fig-fruit or udumbara; blackish colour of swelling; fever; producing a burning sensation; rapid onset and suppuration; yellowish discharge; discharge resembling sesame seeds or tila; discharge resembling black gram or māṣa; discharge resembling kulatthodakaḥ; thirst; confusion/delirium; intoxication; reddish swelling; coppery-coloured swelling.
पित्तजविसर्पः ( pittajavisarpaḥ )

Erysipelas, spreading cellulitis due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: fever; thirst; syncope or swooning; confusion/ delirium; vomiting/emesis; loss of taste; breaking pain in body; excessive perspiration; burning sensation inside the body; excessive talking/irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; headache; querulous eyes; insomnia/sleeplessness; distress/ discontent/restlessness; giddiness or dizziness; excessive desire for cold water; excessive desire for cold air; greenish tint in eyes/excessive icterus; green-coloured urine; greenish tint in stool; patient having greenish vision; yellow-coloured eyes; yellowish discoloration of urine; excessive yellow tint to stool; patient having yellowish vision; pinkish coloration of visarpa-affected area; greenish coloration of visarpa-affected area; yellowish coloration of visarpa-affected area; bluish coloration of visarpa-affected area; blackish coloration of visarpa-affected area; redness of visarpa-affected area; local swelling; severe burning sensation; excessive breaking pain; eruption with pinkish discharge; eruption with greenish discharge; eruption with yellowish discharge; eruption with bluish discharge; eruption with blackish discharge; eruptions with bloody discharge/bleeding; speedy/quick/swift gait; furuncle with deep red colour; constitutional features of pittaja fever; pitta-dominant wound formation in ripened and ruptured.
पित्तजविस्फोटकः ( pittajavisphoṭakaḥ )

Bullous eruptions due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by fever; thirst; burning sensation; inflammation/suppuration; yellowish-red discoloration; pain; discharge.
पित्तजव्रणः ( pittajavraṇaḥ )

Ulcer due to vitiated pitta
An ulcer characterized by its sudden appearance; yellowish discoloration; bluish discoloration; oozing resembling palasha flower washings; warm discharge; burning sensation; causing inflammation/suppuration; dreadful-looking; yellowish pustules; thirst; confusion/delirium; fever; soddened wound/ ulcer with burning sensation; cracking of wound margins; putrid-smelling wound; putrid-smelling discharge; greyishcoloured; brownish-coloured; exudation of urine-like discharge; excessive/copious discharge; discharge resembling ash mixed water; discharge resembling oil; pain as if burned by alkali.
पित्तजव्रणशोफः ( pittajavraṇaśophaḥ )

Pre-ulcerative inflammation due to vitiated pitta
A condition characterized by a yellowish-coloured swelling; soft oedema; reddish swelling; rapid onset of suppuration; severe burning sensation; smoky/fuming sensation.
पित्तजशूलः ( pittajaśūlaḥ )

Abdominal colic due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: thirst; burning sensation; intoxication; syncope or swooning; severe pain; desire for cold; pain decreasing with cold; confusion/delirium; pain in umbilical region; perspiration; giddiness or dizziness; sucking type of pain; pain exacerbated at noon; pain exacerbated at midnight; pain exacerbated when digesting food; pain exacerbated in autumn/śarat ṛtu; relieved during cold season; relieved with sweet food; relieved with cold food.
पित्तजशोफः ( pittajaśophaḥ )

Oedema due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: soft oedema; with odour; blackish oedema; yellowish oedema; oedema with redness; giddiness or dizziness; fever; sweating; thirst; intoxication; hotness; tenderness/pain on touch; red eyes; severe inflammation; yellow-reddish oedema; rapidly spreading/rapidly remitting; symptoms such as burning sensation with sweating and restlessness; coppery hairs; occurring first in mid-part of body; severe burning sensation; heat/fever; moistening/ soddening; desire for cold; altered faeces/loose motions; tenderness/inability to tolerate touch.
पित्तजश्लीपदः ( pittajaślīpadaḥ )

Filariasis due to vitiated pitta
Filariasis characterized by a yellowish-coloured swelling; soft swelling; fever; burning sensation.
पित्तजस्वरभेदः ( pittajasvarabhedaḥ )

Hoarse voice, altered voice due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a burning sensation in the palate; burning sensation in the throat or kaṇṭha; unwillingness to speak; yellowish discoloration of face; yellowness of eyes; yellowness of stool; yellowish urine; dryness of palate; dryness of throat.
पित्तजहृद्रोगः ( pittajahṛdrogaḥ )

Heart disease due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: burning sensation in the precordial/cardiac region; bitter taste in mouth; bitter eructations; sour belching/ eructations; exhaustion without exertion; thirst; syncope or swooning; giddiness or dizziness; perspiration; burning sensation with sweating and restlessness; burning sensation; sucking type of pain; fatigued heart; smoky eructations; syncope or swooning; dryness of mouth; sour vomitus; vomiting of pitta; yellowish discoloration; fever.
पित्तजार्शः ( pittajārśaḥ )

Haemorrhoids due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: soft; flabby; delicate; red; tender pile-mass associated with discharge smelling like raw meat; thin; red in colour with burning sensation; itching; colicky pain; pricking pain and suppuration; The stool is loose yellow or green; The patient suffers from morbid thirst; fever; asthma; fainting and dislike for food; nails; eyes; skin; urine and stool are yellow in colour.
पित्तजोन्मादः ( pittajonmādaḥ )

Psychosis due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: intolerance/impatience; anger; agitation in inappropriate places; hurting self with weapon; hurting self with clod; hurting self with whip; hurting self with wood; hurting self with fist; hurting self with weapon; hurting self with clod; hurting self with whip; hurting self with wood; hurting self with fist; hurting others with weapon; hurting others with clod; hurting others with whip; hurting others with wood; hurting others with fist; craving for shade/shelter; craving for cold water; craving for cold food; frequent anger; coppery eyes; greenish eyes; yellowish eyes; steady/stable eyes; redness/ congestion/inflammation; nudity; intimidating attitude; runing away; hotness of body; anger; yellowish complexion; excessive thirst; excessive sweating; excessive burning sensation; voracious eating; improper sleep; wants cold; wants air; enjoys insides of water bodies; excessive anger; suspicious; seeing stars in the sky in daytime; false visualization of fire/halluciation of fire; hallucination of stars; false visualization of flame/hallucination of flame; fear of yellowish things falling down;
पित्तदुष्टरक्तः ( pittaduṣṭaraktaḥ )

Condition of improper repair of punctured ear causing pittavitiated blood
A condition characterized by a burning sensation; inflammation/suppuration; redness/congestion; pain.
पित्तदोषावस्था ( pittadoṣāvasthā )

Morbid state of pitta
पित्तधराकला ( pittadharā-kalā )

Pitta-bearing membrane
पित्तप्रकृतिः ( pittaprakṛtiḥ )

Body constitution with a predominance of pitta
The characters of a pitta predominant person are greatly influenced by its qualities: hotness, sharpness, fluidity, pungency, sourness and its characteristic fleshy smell. Accordingly, the person will have inherent characteristics such as a soft and supple body, presence of moles, reddish tinge to facial skin; with pimples, freckles and marks; soft and brown hair on the face, head and other parts of the body; with lax muscles and flexible joints; intolerance of heat; strong digestive power; excessive hunger and thirst; a higher intake of food and drinks in quantity and frequency; sweat profusely; greater than normal formation and passing of stool and urine; a foul-smelling body odour especially at the axilla, scalp, mouth and head; with less semen and sexual desire; show the early appearance of wrinkles, premature greying and baldness; and with a tendency for frequent ulceration of the mouth.
पित्तप्रकोपः/ पित्तवृद्धि-लक्षणम् ( pittaprakopaḥ/ pittavṛddhi-lakṣaṇam )

Aggravation of pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: sour belching/eructations; thirst; severe burning sensation; burning sensation; redness/congestion; warmth; inflammation/suppuration; perspiration; moistening/ soddening; discharge; wheal-like skin eruptions; exhaustion; syncope or swooning; intoxication; pungent taste; sour taste; pallor of a reddish-brown colour.
पित्तप्रसरः ( pittaprasaraḥ )

Spreading of pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: burning sensation; sucking type of pain; severe burning sensation; vomiting of medicated smoke or dhūma; sensation of heat in mouth.
पित्तम् ( pittam )

Pitta, dosha regulating body temperature and metabolic activities
Pitta is one of the three regulatory functional factors; it is responsible for digestion and metabolism in the body. The predominant basic elements in pitta are fire and water.
पित्तलम् ( pittalam )

Brass
An alloy of copper and zinc. Duly processed pittala is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
पित्तवहा, पित्तवाहिनी ( Pittavahā, Pittavāhinī )

Vein carrying pitta
पित्तविकारः ( pittavikāraḥ )

Derangement of pitta
पित्तविदग्धदृष्टिः/ दिवान्ध्यम्/दोषान्ध्यम् ( pittavidagdhadṛṣṭiḥ/ divāndhyam/ doṣāndhyam )

Daytime blindness
A disorder characterized by yellowish discoloration of eyes; seeing objects as yellow; day blindness; normal vision at night; loss of vision after sunset.
पित्तसञ्चयः ( pittasañcayaḥ )

Accumulation of pitta
A disorder characterized by yellowishness of body, hypothermia or mild warmth.
पित्ताभिष्यन्दः ( pittābhiṣyandaḥ )

Conjunctivitis due to vitiated pitta, acute catarrhal conjunctivitis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a burning sensation; severe inflammation; longing for cold application; smoky/fuming sensation; excessive watering; warm tearing; yellow discoloration; oedema; blackish discoloration on external part of eyelids; internal moistness; yellowish tears; hot tear secretion; redness/congestion; yellowish vision; appearance of eyes resembling an alkali injury.
पित्ताशयः ( pittāśayaḥ )

Receptacle for pitta
The most prominent site of pitta which has an important role in the digestion of food: gallbladder.
पिपीलिका-दष्टः ( pipīlikā-daṣṭaḥ )

Reaction due to ant bite
Poisoning characterized by swelling at bite site; burning sensation; oedema.
पिशाचादिकृतरोगः ( piśācādikṛtarogaḥ )

Diseases caused by malevolent or negative spiritual entities
पिशिताश्रितंपटलम् ( piśitāśritaṃpaṭalam )

Iris and uveal tract
पिष्टकः ( piṣṭakaḥ )

Lymphangioma
A disorder characterized by raised lesions resembling waterdrops; raised growth like rice-paste; rounded.
पिष्टमेहः ( piṣṭamehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with urine resembling flour mixed with water
A disorder characterized by floury white urination; bristling during micturition; profuse urination; whitish urination.
पीडनकर्म ( pīḍanakarma )

Removal of foreign body by squeezing or pressing
The removal of a loosely impacted foreign body by squeezing or pressing.
पीडनकर्म ( pīḍanakarma )

Squeezing
A procedure to remove an impacted foreign body through the application of a squeezing or milking motion.
पीडनकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( pīḍanakarma (vraṇacikitsā) )

Squeezing
A method of exerting pressure by applying medicines over the site or via manual pressure to remove residual or remnant pus.
पीतम् ( pītam )

Drinkables
Food items such as juices, milk or buttermilk which are consumed in liquid form.
पीतस्नेह; मद्यतोयपातुकामानां नस्य व्यापदः ( pītasneha; madyatoyapātukāmānāṃ nasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition due to inhalation therapy administered to person who has taken oleation therapy
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: salivation; discharge from the nose; stickiness of eyes; errors of refraction/partial blindness; diseases of the head.
पीयूषः ( pīyūṣaḥ )

Colostrum
The milk of mammals produced just after delivery of their offspring: it is considered nourishing and heavy to digest.
पुटः ( puṭaḥ )

Traditional oven
A graded heating system traditionally using cow-dung cake for the calcination or incineration (preparation of bhasma) of metals, minerals and marine products.
पुटपाकः ( puṭapākaḥ )

Retention of herbal extract from indirectly heated bolus over the eyes
Type of therapeutic procedure undertaken to restore the strength of the eyes by pouring an excract (expressed from a warm bolus of herbs) into a temporary cavity built around the orbit at a given temperature and for a specific duration, after forming a concentric boundary around the orbit with black gram dough or other preparation.
पुटपाक-अतियोगः ( puṭapāka-atiyogaḥ )

Condition of excessive retention of specially prepared medications in the eye
A condition characterized by pain; oedema; papules/ eruptions; appearance of partial blindness or timira.
पुटपाक-अपचारः ( puṭapāka-apacāraḥ; )

Condition due to improper application of juice expressed from warm herbal bolus on the eyes
पुटपाक-हीनयोगः ( puṭapāka-hīnayogaḥ )

Condition of suboptimal retention of specially prepared medications in the eye
A codition characterized by inflammation/suppuration of eyes; lacrimation; type of pain where internal cooling is felt; appearance of dosha.
पुटपाकस्वरसः ( puṭapākasvarasaḥ )

Juice expressed from steamed bolus of herbs
पुण्डरीकः ( puṇḍarīkaḥ )

Skin disease with lesions resembling a white lotus
A skin disease characterized by lesions resembling lotus petals; resembling palāśa flower; whitish appearance; reddish appearance; reddish margins; full of red streaks; associated with reddish veins; raised; excessive pus discharge; excessive bloody discharge; excessive watery discharge; thick pus discharge; thick bloody discharge; thick watery discharge; itching; worms; burning sensation; inflammation/ suppuration; rapidly spreading; rapid onset; sudden onset of complications.
पुत्रिणी-प्रमेहपिडका ( putriṇī-pramehapiḍakā )

Carbuncle surrounded by multiple small boils
A disorder characterized by a large-sized boil which is studded with multiple small boils; large vesicular swelling; covered with numerous eruptions.
पुंबीजम् ( puṃbījam )

Male seed
Male factors responsible for conception.
पुरीषक्षयः ( purīṣakṣayaḥ )

Diminution of faeces
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: gripping type of pain; pain in precordial region/angina pectoris; pain in flanks; upward movement of vata with sounds/upward oblique movement of vata with sounds in abdomen; movement of vata in the abdomen; reduced quantity of faeces.
पुरीषजकृमिः [ककेरुकः, मकेरुकः, लेलिहः, सशूलकः, सौसुरादः/ सौसूलकः] ( purīṣajakṛmiḥ [kakerukaḥ makerukaḥ, lelihaḥ saśūlakaḥ, sausurādaḥ/ sausūlakaḥ] )

Worm or parasite arising from faeces; residing in large intestine
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: emaciation; pruritis ani; pallor; roughness/ dryness; horripilation; altered faeces/loose motions; constipation/abdominal fullness; colicky pain; severe irritation at anus; itching at the anal margins; hyperaesthesia at anal margins; anal expulsion of worms.
पुरीषजननम् ( purīṣajananam )

Substance increasing the quantity of faeces
पुरीषधराकला ( purīṣadharākalā )

Faeces-bearing membrane
पुरीषम्, शकृत, विट ( purīṣam, śakṛt, viṭ )

Faeces
A by-product of digestion, the function of which is to support the body in general and vata and digestive, metabolic factors in particular.
पुरीषरोधजमूत्रकृच्छ्रम् ( purīṣarodhajamūtrakṛcchram )

Difficulty in urination due to faecal retention
A disorder characterized by abdominal distension; pain due to vāta; obstruction to passage of urine/retention.
पुरीषवहस्रोतः ( purīṣavahasrotaḥ )

Channel in which faeces is formed and excreted
The pathway for faeces. Entities related to this channel are the large intestines and rectum.
पुरीषवहस्रोतोदुष्टिः ( purīṣavaha-srōtōduṣṭi )

Vitiation of channels carrying stools
A disorder is characterized by difficulty in defecation; scanty defecation; defecation with sound; painful defecation; defecating watery stools; defecating scybalous/hard stools; defecating large-volume stools.
पुरीषवहस्रोतोविद्धः ( purīṣavahasrotoviddhaḥ )

Injury to the channels of the gastrointestinal system
A disorder characterized by borborygmi with distension; bad smell; nodularity.
पुरीषविरजनीय ( purīṣavirajanīya )

Substance imparting a normal colour to the faeces
पुरीषवृद्धिः ( purīṣavṛddhiḥ )

Morbid increase of faeces
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: gurgling sounds in the abdomen; pain in abdomen; heaviness of abdomen; enlargement of abdomen.
पुरीषवेगरोधः ( purīṣavegarodhaḥ )

Disorder due to withholding of faeces
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pain in rectum; headache; suppression of flatus; suppression of faeces; claudication/cramp in the calf muscles; abdominal distension; gurgling intestinal sounds/ borborygmi; colicky pain in abdomen; cutting type of pain in anus; obstruction/retention in passage of faeces; upward movement of vata; elimination of faeces through mouth; cold catarrh; feeling of obstruction in the precordial region/ impairment of cardiac activity/bradycardia.
पुरीषवैषम्यम् ( purīṣavaiṣamyam )

Derangement of faeces
A disorder characterized by distension and upward movement of vayu.
पुरीषसङ्ग्रहणीय ( purīṣasaṅgrahaṇīya )

Stool-consolidating
पुरीषाधारः ( purīṣādhāraḥ )

Sigmoid colon and rectum
पुरीषाभिघातज-उदावर्तः ( purīṣābhighātaja-udāvartaḥ )

Disorders of reversed or altered visceral movement due to suppression of stools
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: gurgling intestinal sounds/borborygmi; colicky pain in abdomen; cutting type of pain in anal region; obstruction/retention to passage of faeces; eructation/upward movement of vata; vomiting of faecal matter.
पुरुषः ( puruṣaḥ )

Person, living being
The personal and animating principle in all sentient beings, the soul.
पुष्करिका ( puṣkarikā )

Vesicle consisting of many smaller vesicles and resembling a lotus petal on the penis
A disease of the penis characterized by a boil resembling the bud of a lotus flower (padmapuṣkarasaṃsthānā piḍakā/ padmakarṇikasaṃsthānā piḍakā); studded with boils.
पुष्प-विषः ( puṣpa-viṣaḥ )

Poisonous flowers
Poisoning characterized by vomiting; abdominal distension; confusion/delirium.
पुष्परागम् ( puṣharāgam )

Yellow sapphire, topaz
Duly processed pushyaraga is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbomineral pharmaceutical formulations.
पुष्पितः ( puṣpitaḥ )

Person showing signs of impending death
A person with fatal prognostic signs.
पूतनाग्रहः ( pūtanāgrahaḥ )

Fever, retention of urine due to external invisible factors
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: crying; vomiting; shivering of body; drowsiness/lassitude; wakefulness at night; hiccups; abdominal distension; altered bowels/loose stools; thirst; retention of urine; flaccidity/laxity; horripilation; crow-like smell; sleepiness in daytime; thirst; involuntary sideways glance.
पूतिकर्णः ( pūtikarṇaḥ )

Suppurative otitis media
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: putrid/offensive discharge; without or with pain; purulent discharge from ear without pain; purulent discharge from ear with pain; thick purulent discharge from ear; excessive moistness/soddening.
पूतिशुक्रदोषः ( pūtiśukradoṣaḥ )

Pyospermia
Semen containing pus or foul-smelling.
पूतीनासा ( pūtīnāsā )

Foul smell in nose and mouth, atrophic rhinitis.
A disorder characterized by a putrid odour emitted by the mouth; foul-smelling air from nose or ozaena.
पूपः ( pūpaḥ )

Fried sweet bread
A deep-fried sweet bread.
पूपलिका ( pūpalikā )

Deep-fried sweet bread
A type of sweet cake fried in ghee or oil.
पूयरक्तम्/पूय-शोणितम् ( pūyaraktam/ pūya-śoṇitam )

Purulent and sanguineous rhinitis
A disorder characterized by discharge of blood-tinged pus from the nose; burning sensation in head; headache such as chronic maxillary sinusitis.
पूयस्रावः/सन्निपातज-स्रावः ( pūyasrāvaḥ/ sannipātaja-srāvaḥ )

Pus discharge from corners of eye
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: discharge in the canthus; pus discharge; suppurative discharge from inner canthus; mixed symptoms of all dosha; discharge from inner canthus; recurrent purulent discharge; blood-mixed discharge.
पूयालसः ( pūyālasaḥ )

Acute dacrocystitis
A disorder characterized by a swelling over the medial canthus; suppurated swelling; putrid purulent discharge; thick prurulent discharge; minute wound; preceding swelling; preceding redness of eyes; swelling over medial canthus; pricking pain in inner canthus.
पूरणकर्म ( pūraṇakarma )

Filling of cavity with medications
A therapeutic measure which entails filling a cavity with medications.
पूरणम् ( pūraṇam )

Replenishment
The essential function of bone marrow is to fill or complete a cavity or container; replenish the body with structural components.
पूर्वकर्म ( pūrvakarma )

Preparatory procedures
Preparatory procedure carried out before proper administration of any major procedure such as panchakarma or surgery.
पूर्वपक्षः ( pūrvapakṣaḥ )

Objecting or opposing a proposed hypothesis
A possible objection to, or refuting of, the proposed hypothesis.
पूर्वपश्चिमविभागः ( pūrvapaścima-vibhāgaḥ )

Anterior-posterior division
An arbitrary division of the body into anterior (ventral) and posterior (dorsal) parts for descriptive purposes.
पूर्वरूप ( pūrvarūpa )

Prodrome
A forerunner or early symptom of a disease or condition.
पूर्वरूपभेदः ( pūrvarūpabhedaḥ )

Classification of prodromes
A classification of prodromal symptoms based on their general and specific nature which may indicate a particular disease or condition.
पूर्वरूपम् ( pūrvarūpam )

Prodrome, premonitory symptoms
Recognition of the prodrome or set of premonitory, precursory symptoms, treatment of which can forestall manifestation of the disease; they are classified into two types depending on their nature.
पृथक्त्वम् ( pṛthaktvam )

Separation or exclusion, particularity
The quality by which one substance is differentiated or separated from the other.
पृथुकः ( pṛthukaḥ )

Flattened rice
A preparation made from de-husked paddy which is moistened, fried, and then parched and flattened.
पृथुलस्नायुः ( pṛthulā-snāyuḥ )

Aponeurosis
पृथ्वी ( pṛthvī )

Earth element
Responsible for mass and the force of attraction. It acts as the substratum of smell, perceived by the nose.
पृष्ठबस्तिः ( pṛṣṭhabastiḥ )

Therapeutic retention of oil over thoracolumbar region
A procedure which involves holding medicated oil over the thoracolumbar region for a specific duration.
पृष्ठमर्म ( pṛṣṭhamarma )

Vulnerable location(s) in the back
Marma located in the back.
पृष्ठम् ( pṛṣṭham )

Back, dorsum
पृष्ठवंशः, पृष्ठेषिका ( pṛṣṭhavaṃśaḥ, pṛṣṭheṣikā )

Vertebral column
पेया ( peyā )

Thin rice gruel
A thin gruel of rice along with its solid portion which is easily digestible and thus increases digestive capacity; it is prepared by adding 14 parts water to one part broken rice and boiling well until all the rice grains become soft.
पेश्यन्तरगत-शल्यः ( peśyantaragata-śalyaḥ )

Foreign body between the muscles
A disorder due to presence of foreign body between the muscles; characterized by inflammation/suppuration; failure of foreign body pathway to heal; inability to bear touching/pressing.
पैत्तिक-असृग्दरः ( paittika-asṛgdaraḥ )

Dysfunctional uterine bleeding due to vitiated pitta
A gynaecological disorder characterized by a bluish discharge; yellowish discharge; warm discharge; blackish discharge; constant discharge; frequent bleeding; painful; burning sensation; reddish bleeding; thirst; confusion/delirium; fever; giddiness or dizziness; red; discharging repeatedly and forcefully.
पैत्तिक-आमवातः ( paittika-āmavātaḥ )

Pitta-predominent polyarthritis due to ama
A disorder characterized by burning sensation; redness/ congestion.
पैत्तिक-लिङ्गनाशः ( paittika-liṅganāśaḥ )

Mature cataract due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: bluish discoloration of maṇḍala; coppery discoloration of maṇḍala; yellowish discoloration of maṇḍala; pupils appearing bluish-black in colour resembling a bee; loss of vision; eyes appearing unctuous; spitting; excessive salivation; pain; tenderness/inability to tolerate touch.
पैत्तिकज्वरः ( paittikajvaraḥ )

Fever due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: onset of fever in the whole body at once; rise in fever in whole body at once; onset of fever in whole body while eating; rise in fever in whole body while eating; onset of fever at midday; rise in fever at midday; onset of fever at midnight; rise in fever at midnight; fever onset in śarad ṛtu/ autumn; rise in fever in śarad ṛtu/autumn; pungent taste in mouth; inflammation of nose; stomatitis; inflammation of throat; inflammation of lips; inflammation of palate; excessive thirst; intoxication; giddiness or dizziness; syncope or swooning; vomiting of pitta; diarrhoea; aversion to food; exhaustion; excessive talking/irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; red-coloured patchy eruptions on skin; green coloration of nails; green-coloured eyes; green-coloured mouth/face; green-coloured urine; green-coloured faeces; green-coloured skin; yellow-coloured nail; yellow-coloured eyes; yellow-coloured face; yellowish discoloration of urine; yellow-coloured faeces; yellow-coloured skin; hyperpyrexia; severe burning sensation; desire for cold; aggravation with usage of nidāna and relief with upaśaya; reduced sleep/ sleeplessness; vomiting of pitta; perspiration; yellowish stools; yellowish urine; yellowish eyes; whole body involved at once; distress/discontent/restlessness; spitting of blood; sour belching/eructations; yellowishness of skin; yellowness of mouth/face; yellowish nails; bad odour from breath.
पैत्तिकज्वरपूर्वरूपम् ( paittikajvarapūrvarūpam )

Prodromal symptoms of fever due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by burning sensation in eyes as presenting complaint.
पैत्तिकपरिणामशूलः ( paittikapariṇāmaśūlaḥ )

Abdominal colic occurring during digestion of food due to vitiated pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: thirst; burning sensation; distress/discontent/ restlessness; perspiration; pain exacerbated by pungent food; pain exacerbated by sour food; pain exacerbated by salty food; pain relieved by cold.
पैत्तिकयोनिकन्दः ( paittikayonikandaḥ )

Round-shaped abscess in vagina due to vitiated pitta
A gynaecological disorder characterized by a tuberous swelling accompanied by a burning sensation and redness of the female external genital organs; swelling in external genital organs associated with fever; vaginal sprouts with redness.
पैत्तिकरक्तदुष्टिः ( paittikaraktaduṣṭiḥ )

Blood vitiated by pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: blood with yellow discoloration; blackishcoloured blood; delayed coagulation because of hotness; blood with a bluish tinge; blood with a greenish tinge; dark, brown-coloured blood; blood smelling of raw meat; not favourable for ants; flies or bees because of kaṭu rasa; non-coagulating because of hotness; sooty/smoky-coloured blood; blood smelling of fish; blood with a shiny appearance/ particles; blood resembling cow’s urine.
पैरोजकः ( pairojakaḥ )

Turquoise
Duly processed pairojaka is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbomineral pharmaceutical formulations.
पैशाचकायः ( paiśācakāyaḥ )

Person with overeating, The characteristics of the person with an overeating, unclean, unclean, hypersexual hypersexual temperament are eating what is left by others; temperament angriness; liking for adventure, fondness for women, shamelessness.
पोथकी ( pothakī )

Trachoma
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: discharging boils in the eyelids; boils with itching in the eyelids; heaviness in the boils as well as eyelids; eruptions resembling red mustard seeds; painful boils in the eyelids; white-coloured boils; thick and firm lesion; oedema; excessive discharge of rheum; pain; itching; slimy lacrimation.
पौत्तिकम् ( pauttikam )

Ghee-coloured honey
A variety of honey which resembles ghee in colour, produced by larger types of honeybee.
प्रकरणसमः ( prakaraṇasamaḥ )

Improper reason appearing identical to the subject
Improper reasoning while making an inference in a particular context; a fallacy of inference; one of the ahetu.
प्रकृतिः ( prakṛtiḥ )

An individual’s inherent nature
An individual’s inherent nature is the discrete phenotype of an individual based on physical, psychological, physiological and behavioural traits, independently of social, ethnic and geographical variables. It represents a person’s baseline state of optimal functioning of both body and mind. The predominant expression of an individual’s inherent nature in bodily functions is known as body constitution with a predominance of dosha (doshaprakṛti) and its expression in the domains of mental and physical personality is called kaya/manasaprakriti. However, for all practical purposes the doshaprakriti and kaya of an individual need to be interpreted in consideration with the following entities: ethnicity (jaati), familial inheritance, genetics (kula), the influence of a specific geographical region and climate (desha), as well as the ageing process (kala).
प्रकृतिः ( prakṛtiḥ )

Normal state, normalcy
The state of being normal in every respect, without deviation from or derangement of the normal state, function or quality.
प्रकृतिविघातः ( prakṛtivighātaḥ )

Creating conditions hostile to cause
Setting up conditions that are against the originating cause of disease.
प्रकृतिसमसमवेतसन्निपातजरोगः ( prakṛtisamasamavetasannipātajarogaḥ )

Disease symptoms in accord with dosha
A disease or condition due to coexistence of aggravated three dosha , in which dosha dominance can be understood based on symptoms.
प्रकृतिस्थापनम् ( prakṛtisthāpanam )

Restoration of health
Process of restoring health. Synonym of treatment.
प्रकोपः ( prakopaḥ )

Stage of a dosha reaching the threshold
The second stage of disease manifestation, when dosha increases to reach the threshold at its own location. This term may also indicate physiological aggravation of dosha.
प्रकोष्ठः ( prakoṣṭhaḥ )

Forearm, distal third of the forearm
प्रक्लिन्नवर्त्म/ कफोत्क्लिष्ट-वर्त्म ( praklinnavartma/ kaphotkliṣṭa-vartma )

Conjunctivitis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a painless swelling internally and externally; inwardly moist; discharge; excessive itching; pricking sensation; stiffness of eyelids; excessive secretion of waste products; fever; syncope or swooning; nonsuppuration of eyelids; repeated sticking of eyelids even if cleansed or not.
प्रक्षालनकर्म ( prakṣālanakarma )

Irrigation, streaming
A therapeutic procedure in which the wound is cleaned by being irrigated with medicated liquids.
प्रक्षालनकर्म ( prakṣālanakarma )

Removal of foreign body by irrigation
The removal of a loosely impacted foreign body by irrigation with medicated liquid.
प्रक्षेपः ( prakṣepaḥ )

Addition of small quantity of powder at the end of preparation
Addition of powdered ingredients (generally at the end of main processing) to enhance the taste, palatability and absorption of a medicine.
प्रच्छानम् ( pracchānam )

Bloodletting by scarification or multiple incisions
Bloodletting by means of multiple small cuts.
प्रजननमलः ( prajananamalaḥ )

Smegma
प्रजायनी / प्रजननकालः ( prajāyanī / prajananakālaḥ )

Onset signs of approaching labour
This month is characterized in the pregnant woman by bodily exhaustion; a tired expression; relaxed eyes; a feeling as if the heart is separating; descent of the abdomen; heaviness in the lower abdomen; a pricking-type pain in the groin; a pricking-type pain in the bladder region; a pricking type-pain in the lower back; a pricking-type pain in the abdomen; a pricking-type pain in the sides of the chest and flanks; a pricking-type pain in the back; vaginal secretions; disinclination for food; appearance of labour pains; secretion of amniotic fluid; laxity of the abdomen; pain in the hips and pelvic region; loss of taste; excessive salivation; frequent excessive urination; pain in the thighs; abdominal pain; lower back pain; pain in the back; precordial and cardiac pain; pain in the bladder region; pain in the groin region; a breaking-type pain in the vagina; splitting type of pain in the labia; a pricking-type pain in the vagina; quivering of the vagina; vaginal secretions; a feeling as if eyes are separating; spitting; frequent excessive defecation.
प्रज्ञापराधः ( prajñāparādhaḥ ) Behaviour based on erroneous judgement.
One of the three primary causes of a disease owing to behaviour based on erroneous judgement.
प्रज्ञापराधः ( prajñāparādhaḥ )

Judgement of error
An action taken based on an erroneous judgement, which may be due to a failure of wisdom, intellect or memory
प्रणिपातगमनम् ( praṇipātagamanam )

Pilgrimage
A type of therapeutic ritual:treatment of a disease by visiting a holy place to cure the ailment.
प्रतरसन्धिः ( pratarasandhiḥ )

Gliding joint
प्रतानवतीस्नायुः ( pratānavatīsnāyuḥ )

Ramified sinew
प्रतिखुरः ( pratikhuraḥ )

Obstructed fetal presentation with head, hands and feet presenting together
Abnormal fetal presentation characterized by emergence of fetal palms and feet; body obstructed; resembling horse’s hoof; a category of compound fetal presentation. Ayurvedic literature describes this as obstructed fetal presentation resembling a horse’s hoof.
प्रतिज्ञा ( pratijñā )

Proposition, proposed hypothesis
A statement requiring proof; the first step in the logical or inferential process of proving a hypothesis.
प्रतिज्ञाहानिः ( pratijñāhāniḥ )

Abandoning the hypothesis
A shift from the original hypothesis, rejection of an initial statement in response to an opponent’s views.
प्रतितूनी ( pratitūnī )

Proctalgia
A disorder characterized by pain from the anorectal and penile region which rapidly radiates upwards.
प्रतिनिधिद्रव्यम् ( pratinidhidravyam )

Alternative for an unavailable ingredient
प्रतिनिधिद्रव्यम् ( pratinidhidravyam )

Substitute drug
प्रतिपत्तिः ( pratipattiḥ )

Prompt and appropriate The ability to make correct and rapid decisions under action pressing conditions.
प्रतिमर्शः ( pratimarśaḥ )

Low-dose routine intranasal medication
A nasal cleansing therapy in which mainly oil-based medicines are instilled; it is suitable for individuals of all age groups.
प्रतिमर्शः ( pratimarśaḥ )

Removal of foreign body by nasya therapy
The removal of a loosely impacted foreign body by applying a minimal dose of nasal drops.
प्रतिवासर-अजीर्णम् ( prativāsara-ajīrṇam )

Indigestion recurring every day
प्रतिविषम् (विषोपक्रमः) ( prativiṣam (viṣopakramaḥ)

Administration of counterpoison
Administering a poison of opposite or antagonistic origin to counter the effects of a specific poison.
प्रतिश्याय प्लीहादयोः अनुवासनस्य व्यापदः ( pratiśyāya plīhādayoḥ anuvāsanasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition caused by medicated oily enema administered to person with coryza and splenomegaly
A condition characterized by excessive aggravation of already aggravated dosha.
प्रतिश्यायः/पीनसः ( pratiśyāyaḥ/ pīnasaḥ )

Rhinitis
A disorder characterized by abdominal fullness due to constipation; headache; heaviness of body; stuffy nose; fever; cough; nausea with mucus; hoarseness of voice.
प्रतिष्ठापना ( pratiṣṭhāpanā )

Proving the alternate hypothesis
Offering a meaning or interpretation contrary to that of the proposed hypothesis.
प्रतिसारणकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( pratisāraṇakarma (vraṇacikitsā) )

External application by mild rubbing for wound management
Therapeutic procedures in which either dry or wet medicines are applied externally by mild rubbing over the skin surface.
प्रतिसारणम् ( pratisāraṇam )

Gentle application of The procedure of applying a medicated paste or powder to the medications over oral oral cavity. and periodontal regions
प्रतिसारणम् (विषोपक्रमः) ( pratisāraṇam (viṣopakramaḥ)

Gentle rubbing of medications for detoxification
A technique for gently rubbing medications like long pepper (Piper longum), black pepper (Piper nigrum), dry ginger (Zingiber officinale) and turmeric (Curcuma longa) on wounds to promote removal of the ill effects of the poison.
प्रतिसारणीयक्षारः ( pratisāraṇīyakṣāraḥ )

External application of caustic substance
One of the two modes of applying alkali.
प्रतीनाहः ( pratīnāhaḥ )

Nasal obstruction
A disorder characterized by obstruction of the nasal passage; obstructed breathing; obstructed feeling in nasal cavity; obstructed inspiration and expiration.
प्रत्यक्षम् ( pratyakṣam )

Direct perception, observation
The immediate form of cognition arising from the interaction of the five senses and objects in the world.
प्रत्यञ्जनम् ( pratyañjanam )

A type of prasādañjana applied to reduce complications such as ocular irritation and the burning sensation which may develop following application of tikṣṇāñjana (high potency collyrium).
ITA-9.5.36
प्रत्यनुयोगः ( pratyanuyogaḥ )

Counter-question
An enquiry or cross-examination based on sequential questions.
प्रत्याख्येयरोगः ( pratyākhyeyarogaḥ )

Diseases that are terminal
Diseases and conditions which cannot be successfully cured despite the best available care.
प्रत्यानाहः/प्रत्याध्मानम् ( pratyānāhaḥ/ pratyādhmānam )

Severe abdominal distension
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: abdominal distension originating from stomach, gurgling intestinal sounds/borborygmi; excessive pain; abdominal distension; obstruction of flatus.
प्रत्युत्सारः ( pratyutsāraḥ )

Negating or refuting an A statement that negates the argument of the opponent. opposing viewpoint
प्रथम-पटलगतदोषः ( prathamapaṭalagatadoṣaḥ )

Disorder affecting first layer of eye
A disorder characterized by blurring of vision; intermittent spontaneous clear vision.
प्रथम-मदः ( prathama-madaḥ )

First stage of intoxication
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: passionate desire; erotic stimulation; desire to have sexual intercourse; happiness; confusion/delirium; sleep; abnormal/unsuitable food; abnormal sounds; abnormal exhibition of any body part; enhanced intelligence; enhanced memory; enhanced affection; enhanced happiness; increased desire to drink; increased desire to eat; increased desire to sleep; increased ability to recite songs; increased quality of speech; very pleasant.
प्रथममासगर्भः ( prathamamāsa-garbhaḥ )

First month of pregnancy
This month is characterized by a small round lump; unmanifested form; though present body parts are not conspicuous
प्रदेशः ( pradeśaḥ )

A brief and incomplete or partial description of an extensive subject.
प्रदेशिनि ( pradēśinī )

Index finger
प्रदेहः ( pradehaḥ )

Thick and hot external application of paste
A type of ointment or lepa which is thick and hot.
प्रधमनकर्म ( pradhamanakarma )

Insufflation
A therapeutic procedure involving blowing or breathing air at a specific site.
प्रधमनम्/ध्मापनम् ( pradhamanam/ dhmāpanam )

Intranasal therapy with medicated powder
Administration of medicated powders via the intranasal route.
प्रधान-कर्म ( pradhāna-karma )

Main therapeutic procedure
The main therapeutic procedures usually adopted in the context of panchakarma and surgery.
प्रध्वंसाभावः ( pradhvaṃsābhāvaḥ )

Posterior nonexistence
An entity that ceases to exist after its destruction.
प्रनष्टशल्यम् ( pranaṣṭaśalyam )

Obscured foreign body
Any exogenous substance caught within body tissues and further obstructing normal functioning.
प्रपाणिः, अरत्निः ( prapāṇiḥ, aratniḥ )

Forearm
प्रबाहुः ( prabāhuḥ )

Arm
प्रभा ( prabhā )

Lustre
प्रभावः ( prabhāvaḥ )

Unique therapeutic action
An observed pharmacological action, the mechanism of which remains as yet unknown.
प्रभावर्धनम् ( prabhāvardhanam )

Lustre-enhancer
Therapies or medicines beneficial for increasing the lustre of the skin.
प्रमा ( pramā )

Knowledge
Valid knowledge.
प्रमाणः ( pramāṇaḥ )

Proof, means of valid cognition or knowledge
The tools which lead to accurate, true knowledge in Ayurveda are direct perception, observation (pratyakṣsham), codified knowledge, expert opinion (aptopadesha), inference based on observations (anumana), reasoning, understanding causation (yukti) and analogy (upamana).
प्रमाणम् ( pramāṇam )

Body measurements
Measurements of the whole or part of the body usually described in proportions based on the width of an individual’s fingers.
प्रमाथी ( pramāthī )

Substance unclogging channels in the body
प्रमार्जनकर्म ( pramārjanakarma )

Removal of foreign body by wiping or cleaning
The removal of a loosely impacted foreign body by wiping or cleaning.
प्रमार्जनकर्म ( pramārjanakarma )

Wiping
A therapeutic procedure in which a wound is wiped with a finger or soft cloth.
प्रमेयः ( prameyaḥ )

Object of knowledge, the object of investigation
The objects of enquiry in any given discipline or field.
प्रमेहः ( pramehaḥ )

Polyuria disorders
Group of disorders characterized by increased urinary quantity and frequency with or without turbidity.
प्रमेहपिडका ( pramehapiḍakā )

Carbuncles
प्रयत्नः ( prayatnaḥ )

Effort
The quality of being stimulated or striving to achieve an object.
प्रयोजनम् ( Prayojanam )

Aim, objective
A statement that clarifies the aims and objectives of a proposed activity or action.
प्रलेपः ( pralepaḥ )

Thin and cold external application of paste
A type of ointment or lepa which is thin and cold and dries quickly.
प्रवाहणकर्म ( pravāhaṇakarma )

Removal of foreign body by straining
The removal of a loosely impacted foreign body by straining.
प्रवाहिका ( pravāhikā )

Dysentery
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: strained defecation, stools mixed with blood; thirst; colicky pain in abdomen; internal burning sensation; proctitis; fever; burning sensation.
प्रवाहिकाबस्तिव्यापत् ( pravāhikābastivyāpat )

Condition of gripping strained defecation, stools mixed with blood; thirst; colicky pain in abdomen and pain in abdomen; internal burning sensation; proctitis; fever; stools mixed with blood burning sensation. due to faulty enema therapy
प्रवाहिणी ( pravāhiṇī )

Superior rectal fold
One of the transverse folds of the rectum or plicae recti.
प्रविचारणास्नेहः/ विचारणास्नेहः ( pravicāraṇāsnehaḥ/ vicāraṇāsnehaḥ )

Intake of ghee or oily substance in combination with other material(s)
A method of inducing oleation by administering various unctuous substances along with food or medicines.
प्रवृत्तिः ( pravṛttiḥ )

Action
The onset of a treatment or therapeutic action.
प्रशमनम् ( praśamanam )

Palliation
The process of disease abatement or containment. Synonym of treatment.
प्रशस्त-आहारकालः ( praśasta-āhārakālaḥ )

Appropriate time for food intake
प्रशस्तयोनिः ( praśastayoniḥ )

Normal female external genitalia
प्रसक्त च्छर्दि वमनस्य व्यपदः ( prasakta cchardi vamanasya vyapadaḥ )

Condition caused by emetic therapy administered to person already subject to incessant vomiting
A condition characterized by enema moving upwards due to aggravated vata.
प्रसक्त च्छर्दिर्निष्ठीविका श्वास कासहिक्कार्तानां आस्थापनस्य व्यापदः ( prasakta cchardirniṣṭhīvikā śvāsa kāsahikkārtānāṃ āsthāpanasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition caused by medicated decoction enema administered to person who is vomiting, and has excessive mucosal secretions, breathing problems, cough and hiccups
A condition characterized by enema moves upward due to aggravated vata.
प्रसङ्गः ( prasaṅgaḥ )

Contextual repetition
Repetition of a previously cited statement when it acquires relevance in another context.
प्रसरः ( prasaraḥ )

Stage of a dosha spreading beyond its own location
The third stage of disease manifestation, when aggravated dosha migrates outside its own location.
प्रसादः ( prasādaḥ )

Nutrient part of food
The nutrient component formed during the various processes of biotransformation.
प्रसादनाञ्जनम् ( prasādanāñjanam )

Collyrium with soothing effect
A type of collyrium with soothing effect.
प्रसादाञ्जन-अतियोगः ( prasādāñjana-atiyogaḥ )

Condition due to overdosage of soothing collyrium
प्रसादाञ्जन-अपचारः ( prasādāñjana-apacāraḥ )

Condition due to improper application of soothing collyrium
प्रसादाञ्जन-अयोगः ( prasādāñjana-ayogaḥ )

Condition due to underdosage of soothing collyrium
A condition characterized by no desired effect following the administration of soothing collyrium.
प्रसूतितन्त्र, स्त्रीरोग ( prasūtītantra, strīroga )

Obstetrics, gynecology
प्रसृतिः ( prasṛtiḥ )

Measure of weight approximately equal to 96 g
Measure of weight equal to 8 karsha or 2 pala.
प्रस्तरस्वेदः ( prastarasvedaḥ )

Sweating induced by lying on bed
A type of sudation therapy in which diaphoresis is achieved by the person lying down on a bed to which a prewarmed medicine has been applied.
प्रस्तार्यर्म ( prastāryarma )

Pterygium
A disorder characterized by a spreading membranous growth; thin membranous growth; membranous growth resembling blood; bluish tinge; soft membranous growth; sudden membranous growth; painless; having blackish and bloodlike lustre.
प्रस्थः ( prasthaḥ )

Measure of weight approximately equal to 768 gm
Measure of weight equal to 64 karsha or 2 manika.
प्राकाम्यम् ( prākāmyam )

Irresistible will
The ability to become irresistible, the condition of not being subject to another’s will.
प्राकृतदोषः ( prākṛtadoṣaḥ )

Normal state of dosha in health
The normal physiological state of dosha underpinning a state of equilibrium and bodily health.
प्रागभावः ( prāgabhāvaḥ )

Prior nonexistence
Antecedent nonbeing of an entity before its production or manifestation.
प्राणः ( prāṇaḥ )

Vata, dosha that provides the attribute of life to an organism, life force
Subtype of vata seated in the head and controlling the intellect, heart, sensory and motor organs and mind. It also regulates activities such as respiration, spitting, sneezing, belching and swallowing. Also denotes life or vitality, which is evidenced by breathing and all kinds of movements relating to the living body.
प्राणप्रत्यागमनम् ( prāṇapratyāgamanam )

Neonatal resuscitation
Stepwise measures to resuscitate the baby immediately after birth.
प्राणवहस्रोतः ( prāṇavahasrotaḥ )

Conduit for vital life
Channels in the body which originate from the heart and carry and circulate vital life (prana) throughout the body.
प्राणवहस्रोतोदुष्टिः ( prāṇavahasrotoduṣṭiḥ )

Vitiation of channels carrying vital life force
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: severe restricted expiration; agitated expiration; slow expiration; frequent expiration; expiration with loud sounds; expiration with pain
प्राणवहस्रोतोविद्धः ( prāṇavahasrotoviddhaḥ )

Injury to the conduit for vital life force
A disorder characterized by flexion/bending of body; semiconsciousness or stupefaction; vertigo; shivering/ tremors; screaming; death.
प्राणवातकोपः ( prāṇavātakopaḥ )

Aggravation of life force
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: hiccups; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; impairment of sense organs, notably the eye; cold catarrh; facial paralysis; thirst and cough.
प्राणायतनम्, जीवितायतनम्, जीवितधाम ( prāṇāyatanam, jīvitāyatanam, jīvitadhāma )

Seats of vital life force
There are ten of these locations: temporal region (right, left), heart, urinary bladder, head, throat, rectum, blood, semen and ojas.
प्रातिनियमिकीसिद्धिः ( prātiniyamikīsiddhiḥ )

Real effect
The real and attributable effect of a medicine or treatment, when it is possible to confirm that a clinical outcome is the result of a given course of action.
प्राधानिकहेतुः ( prādhānikahetuḥ )

Dominant causative factor
A dominant causative factor plays a preponderant role in giving rise to a disease or condition: this kind of factor produces instantaneous vitiation of the dosha, damaging the tissues even before being processed in the body, and is therefore very potent, e.g. a poison.
प्राधान्यसम्प्राप्तिः ( Prādhānyasamprāptiḥ )

Significance-based pathogenesis
Pathogenesis subclassification based on the primary or secondary ailment.
प्रायश्चित्तम् ( prāyaścittam )

Amendment to wrong behaviour
Correction of wrong behaviour, leading to disease alleviation. Synonym of treatment.
प्रायश्चित्तम् ( prāyaścittam )

Atonement, compensatory rites
A type of therapeutic ritual.
प्रायोगिकधूमपानम् ( prāyogikadhūmapānam )

Prophylactic medicated smoking
The procedure of medicated smoking that can routinely be practised by healthy persons.
प्रास्रवणम् ( prāsravaṇam )

Water derived from a spring or fountain
A type of water obtained from small falls or fountains.
प्रेतकायः ( pretakāyaḥ )

Person with sorrowful, jealous temperament
The characteristics of the person with a sorrowful, jealous temperament are a dislike of giving possessions to others, laziness, unhappiness, jealousy of others’ progress, greediness or lack of charity.
प्रेत्य ( pretya )

After death
Having died, after death, in the next world.
प्लीहा ( plīhā )

Spleen
प्लीहोदरः ( plīhodaraḥ )

Abdominal enlargement due to enlarged plīha (splenomegaly)
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: progressive enlargement of the spleen, debility, lack of taste in mouth, indigestion, constipation, retention of urine, darkness in front of the eyes, excessive thirst, body ache, vomiting, transient loss of consciousness, tiredness in the body parts, cough, dyspnea, mild fever, flatulence, loss of appetite, emaciation, abnormal taste in the mouth, pain in joint of the digits, abdominal pain due to morbid vata, abnormal pinkish coloration of the abdomen, discoloration of the abdominal wall; abdominal wall showing bluish-greenish-yellowish linear stretch marks.
फणम् (मर्म) ( phaṇam (marma) )

Vulnerable location(s) on either side of the nasal passage
Two in number (one on each side) which when injured leads to loss of smell.
फलप्राशनसंस्कारः ( phalaprāśanasaṁskāraḥ )

Fruit-feeding ceremony
A ceremony at which fruit-feeding is initiated in the sixth month before graduating to feeding on cooked food (annaprāśana).
फलवर्गः ( phalavargaḥ )

Group of fruits
In general, fruits that are eaten after they ripen are classified as group of fruits e.g. grapes, pomegranate and mango. Fruits that are eaten raw are classified as a group of vegetables.
फलविषः ( phalaviṣaḥ )

Poisonous fruits
Poisoning characterized by scrotal oedema; burning sensation; aversion to food.
फाण्टम्, चूर्णद्रवः ( phāṇṭam, cūrṇadravaḥ )

Hot infusion
फुफ्फुसः ( phuphphusaḥ )

Lung
फे निलरे तोदोषः ( phenilaretodoṣaḥ )

Frothy semen
Semen with excessive froth.
फेनमेहः ( phenamehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with urine associated with froth
A disorder characterized by micturating in small quantities rapidly; transparent clear urination; frothy micturition.
बडिशशस्त्रम् ( baḍiśaśastram )

Hook
A type of hook used for extraction.
बदराश्मः ( badarāśmaḥ )

Silicate of lime
Duly processed badarashma is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbomineral pharmaceutical formulations.
बद्धगुदोदरः ( baddhagudodaraḥ )

Abdominal enlargement due to obstructed bowels
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: thirst; burning sensation; fever; dryness of mouth; dryness of palate; fatigue in thighs; cough; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; weakness; loss of taste; indigestion; suppression of faeces; obstructed elimination of urine; abdominal distension; vomiting; sneezing; headache; precordial pain/cardiac pain; pain in umbilical region; anal pain; obstructed flatus; rigid abdomen; reddening of abdomen; bluish striae over abdomen; bluish veins over abdomen; no striae; cow-tail protrusion of umbilicus; impacted stools in rectum/anus; passage of scanty faeces with difficulty; increased abdominal swelling between heart and umbilicus in epigastric region; faecal odour of abdomen.
बद्धोदर; छिद्रोदरः; उदकोदर; आध्मानार्तानां आस्थापनस्यव्यापदः ( baddhodara; chidrodara; udakodara; ādhmānārtānāṃ āsthāpanasyavyāpadaḥ )

Condition caused by medicated decoction enema administered to person with partial intestinal obstruction, perforation, ascites or abdominal distension
A condition characterized by severe distension leading to death.
बन्धनकर्म ( bandhanakarma )

Bandaging
A method to immobilize injured body parts and cover wounded regions.
बन्धनकर्म ( bandhanakarma )

Bandaging
Various types of bandaging procedures or shapes used in treatment.
बन्धनकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( bandhanakarma (vraṇacikitsā) )

Bandaging
Therapeutic bandaging for faster wound healing by softening and keeping the wound clean.
बलम्, व्याधिक्षमत्वम् ( balam, vyādhikṣamatvam )

Immunity, strength, physical endurance
This is classified into three types: innate strength, acquired strength and seasonal strength
बलसम्प्राप्तिः ( balasamprāptiḥ )

Intensity-specific pathogenesis
Pathogenesis subclassification based on the strength of the disease or condition.
बलासः ( balāsaḥ )

Inflammatory swelling of throat
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a large swelling in the throat; pain in throat; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; affecting/damaging vital parts or marmasthāna.
बलासकः ( balāsakaḥ )

Conjunctival cyst
A disorder characterized by a growth resembling a water drop and having a bell metal lustre occurring in the white sclera of eye and neither soft nor painful; resembling water drops; hard swelling; painless swelling; reddish swelling; extensive swelling; heaviness; smooth/unctuous/oily.
बलिः ( baliḥ )

Offerings to deity excluding animal sacrifice
A type of therapeutic ritual: treatment of a disease whereby something auspicious is offered to the deity to cure the ailment.
बस्ति-अभिघातः ( basti-abhighātaḥ )

Injury to the urinary bladder
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: spiralling spasm in the urinary bladder or basti; upward movement of vata in the abdomen; palpable glandular enlargement in abdomen/abdominal lump; hard tumour caused by vata; bladder spasticity; stasis of flatus; stasis of urine; stasis of faeces; pain in groin; penile pain; colicky pain in urinary bladder or basti; catching sensation in umbilical region; catching sensation in lower abdominal region; catching sensation in anus; catching sensation in the pelvis.
बस्तिः, वस्तिः, मूत्रवस्ति, मूत्राशयः, मलाधारः ( bastiḥ, vastiḥ, mūtravasti, mūtrāśayaḥ, malādhāraḥ )

Urinary bladder
बस्तिकर्म ( bastikarma )

Therapeutic enema
The therapeutic application of medicated liquids via the rectal, urethral or vaginal routes.
बस्तिकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( bastikarma (vraṇacikitsā) )

Therapeutic enema for wound management
Anorectal administration of a medicated emulsion or unctuous substance especially for promoting healing of the wounds in the lower half of the body.
बस्तिकर्मचिकित्सापचारः ( bastikarmacikitsāpacāraḥ )

Condition due to improper administration of enema therapy
बस्तिकुण्डलः ( bastikuṇḍalaḥ )

Massive bladder distension
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: colicky pain in abdomen; pulsating sensation; burning sensation; dropwise passage of urine; feeling of rigidity; cramp-like pains; pain; passage of urine after pressing below umbilicus.
बस्तिव्यापद् ( bastivyāpad )

Condition due to improper administration of enema
बहलवर्त्म ( bahalavartma )

Multiple Meibomian cysts
A disorder characterized by the whole eyelid being full of boils; having same colour as eyelids; even boils; large muscular growth; firm colourless boils in eyelids.
बहिःपरिमार्जनम् ( bahiḥparimārjanam )

External cleansing therapies
Therapeutic procedures involving the external application of medicines.
बहिरायामः/बाह्यायामः/ धनुःस्तम्भः ( bahirāyāmaḥ/ bāhyāyāmaḥ/ dhanuḥstambhaḥ )

Opisthotonus
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: backward bending of head; elevation of chest; torticollis/stiffness of neck; bending of neck/neck pain; grinding of teeth/biting; yawning; salivation; choked voice; confusion/weakness after the attack/episode; breaking type of pain in chest; back or thigh.
बहिर्वेगज्वरः ( bahirvegajvaraḥ )

Fever in which dosha and A disorder characterized by high-grade external temperature; symptoms are located in decreased severity of thirst. supportive tissues
बहुपानम् ( bahupānam )

Sweating induced by drinking large amounts of alcohol
A type of sudation therapy in which diaphoresis is achieved by excessive intake of alcoholic beverages.
बाधनम् ( bādhanam )

Acute toxin
One of the two types of hazardous substance which produces an immediate harmful effect after use, e.g. poisoning, burning by fire or cutting with a sharp instrument.
बाधिर्यम् ( bādhiryam )

Deafness
A disorder characterized by deafness/hearing impairment.
बालः ( bālaḥ )

Child
The child between one and 16 years of age.
बालः, रोम, लोम, अङ्गजम् ( bālaḥ, roma, loma, aṅgajam )

Body hair
बालचिकित्सा, कौमारभृत्यम् ( bālacikitsā, kaumārabhṛtyam )

Child and maternal health
The clinical speciality of Ayurveda dealing with child and maternal health and obstetrics; its scope extends to cover pre- and postnatal care.
बालभेषजमात्रा ( bālabheṣajamātrā )

Paediatric drug dosage
A term indicating the special drug dosage patterns for the paediatric age-group.
बालरोगः ( bālarogaḥ )

Paediatric diseases
Diseases of children aged between birth and 16 years.
बाहुः, भुजा ( bāhuḥ, bhujā )

Upper limb
बाहुनलकम् ( Bāhunalakam )

Humerus
बाहुपिण्डिका ( bāhu-piṇḍikā )

Bicipital prominence
बाहुपृष्ठम् ( bāhupṛṣṭham )

Posterior part of the upper limb
बाहुमध्यम्, भुजमध्यम् ( bāhumadhyam, bhujamadhyam )

Middle part of the upperlimb
बाहुमर्म ( Bāhumarma )

Vulnerable location(s) in the upper limbs
Marma located in the upper limbs.
बाहुमूलम् ( bāhumūlam )

Shoulder region
बाह्यजकृमिः ( bāhyajakṛmiḥ )

External worm infestation
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: itching; wheal-like skin eruptions; papules/ eruptions; nodular swelling.
बाह्यस्नेहः ( bāhyasnehaḥ )

External oleation
External oleation of the body.
बाह्यहेतुः ( bāhyahetuḥ )

Extrinsic cause
External causes that include vitiation of dosha through alterations in food, behavioural patterns and time.
बिडालक: ( biḍālaka: )

Lid ointment
A therapeutic procedure in which a medicated paste is applied over the closed eyelids.
बिसवर्त्म ( bisavartma )

Ulcerative conjunctivitis
A disorder characterized by external swelling; many minute openings on internal surface; multiple pores resembling the underground lotus stem; watery discharge internally.
बीज: ( bīja )

Seed, germinative matrix
Male seed (pumbija) or female seed (stribija).
बीजकः ( bījakaḥ )

Obstructed fetal presentation with the head and one hand presenting
Abnormal fetal presentation characterized by emergence of fetal head and one hand; a category of compound fetal presentation. Ayurvedic literature describes this as obstructed foetal presentation resembling a sprouting seed.
बीजभागः ( bījabhāgaḥ )

Part of seed
बीजभागावयवः ( bījabhāgāvayavaḥ )

Subpart of seed
बीजम् ( bījam )

Seed
Factors responsible for conception.
बीजोपघातजन्य-क्लैब्यम् ( bījopaghātajanyaklaibyam )

Genetic impotency
Impotency due to genetic causes or parental factors passed on to the child.
बुद्धिः ( buddhiḥ )

Intelligence, intellect
The power of forming and retaining concepts and general notions: intelligence, reason, intellect, discernment or judgement.
बुद्बुदम् ( budbudam )

Stage of fetal development resembling the blastula
बृंहण-अतियोगः ( bṛṃhaṇa-atiyogaḥ )

Condition of excessive nourishing therapy
Transformative factors at structural component level which governs the transformation of one fundamental structural component into another: i.e. primary circulating nutrient metabolic factors, blood metabolic factors, muscle metabolic factors, fat metabolic factors, bone metabolic factors, bonemarrow metabolic factors, semen and reproductive tissue metabolic factors.
बृंहण-अपचारः ( bṛṃhaṇa-apacāraḥ )

Condition due to improper nourishing therapy
बृंहणधूमपानम् ( bṛṃhaṇadhūmapānam )

Nourishing medicated smoking
The procedure of medicated smoking with nourishing effect.
बृंहणनस्यम् ( bṛmhaṇanasyam )

Nourishing intranasal therapy
A type of nasya therapy with the primary aim of nourishment.
बृंहणम् (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( bṛmhaṇam (vraṇacikitsā) )

Restorative measures
Therapeutic measures for restoring and increasing bodily tissues.
बृंहणम्/बृंहणचिकित्सा ( bṛṁhaṇam/ bṛṁhaṇacikitsā )

Bulk-enhancing
One of the six types of treatment modalities: a procedure which is nutritive, nourishing, increases body weight, promotes growth or enhances bulk.
बृंहणीयः ( bṛṃhaṇīyaḥ )

Bulk-promoting
बृहती (मर्म) ( bṛhatī (marma)

Vulnerable location(s) in the mid back
Two in number which when injured causes death due to complications arising from severe bleeding.
बृहत्त्रयी, (चरकसंहिता, सुश्रुतसंहिता, अष्टाङ्गसंग्रह, अष्टाङ्गहृदय) ( bṛhattrayī (Carakasaṃhita, Suśrutasaṃhita, Aṣṭāṅgasamgraha, Aṣṭāṅgahṛdaya) )

Major triad of Ayurveda texts
The three principal texts of Ayurveda. Carakasamhita, Sushrutasamhita and the writings of Vāgbhaṭa: Ashtangasamgraha and Ashtangahridaya.
बोधककफः ( bodhaka-kaphaḥ )

Taste-perceiving kapha
Subtype of kapha seated in the tongue which assists with the perception of taste.
बोधनम्, रोधनम् ( Bodhanam, rodhanam )

Potentiation of mercury.
ब्रह्मकायः ( brahmakāyaḥ )

Person with pure, truthful temperament
The characteristics of the person with a pure, truthful temperament are purity, devoutness, knowledge seeking, respectful of elders, a good host and an ardent performer of rituals.
ब्रह्मचर्यम् ( brahmacaryam )

Celibacy
Non-indulgence in sensual pleasures including sexual activity.
भक्तसंयुक्तम्, सभक्तः, सान्नम्, सम्भोज्यम् ( bhaktasaṃyuktam, sabhaktaḥ, sānnam, sambhojyam. )

Administration of medicine mixed with food
भक्तिः ( bhaktiḥ )

Devotion
A natural attachment, inclination or fondness for something; often used as a synonym for faith or love.
भक्ष्यम् ( bhakṣyam )

Eatables
A substance that can be consumed orally.
भगः ( bhagaḥ )

Pubic region
भगन्दरः ( bhagandaraḥ )

Anal fistula
Fistula of the ano-rectal region. An anorectal abscess formed due to vitiated dosha or trauma, results in an abnormal tract or tunnel (fistula) which breaks through the perineum, anus and/or bladder regions, and discharges pus. This results in a chronic nonhealing fistula.
भगन्दरपूर्वरूपम् ( bhagandarapūrvarūpam )

Prodromal symptoms of anal fistula
The early stage of bhagandaraḥ is characterized by pain at iliac region/iliac bones; itching; burning sensation; anal oedema; nodule leading to fistula-in-ano; burning sensation; pain.
भगास्थि ( bhagāsthi )

Pubic bone
भग्नः ( bhagnaḥ )

Fracture
A condition characterized by marked swelling; inability to bear movement or rotation and touch; crepitus on squeezing; looseness of parts; appearance of various types of pain; no relief of pain in any posture
भग्नसन्धानम्, भग्नसन्धानकरः ( bhagnasandhānam, bhagnasandhānakaraḥ )

Substance aiding in union of fractures
भञ्जनकर्म ( bhañjanakarma )

Crushing
A surgical procedure in which foreign bodies lodged inbody tissues are morcellated, e.g. crushing of urinary calculus.
भयः ( bhayaḥ )

Sweating induced by fear
A type of sudation therapy in which diaphoresis is achieved by frightening the person.
भस्म ( Bhasma )

Calcinated minerals, metals or marine products
The ashes of minerals or metals obtained by calcination or incineration.
भस्मपरीक्षा [वारितर, रे खापूर्णता, निश्चन्द्र, निरुत्थ, अपुनर्भव] ( bhasmaparīkṣā [: vāritara, rekhāpurṇatā,, niścandra, niruttha, apunarbhava ] )

Testing of calcinated minerals
An assay of calcinated minerals based on the following criteria: verifying microfine nature by flotation on water (varitara), filling in the flexor creases of the hand (rekhapurnata), non-lustrous nature (nischandra) and non-reversal to metallic state (niruttha, apunarbhava).
भाजनम् ( bhājanam )

Processing by use of specific vessels or utensils
A type of food processing in which the properties of food items are modified by using specific utensils for preparation, eating and storage.
भानुपाकः, आदित्यपाक ( bhānupākaḥ, ādityapāka )

Processing, heating with sunlight
The process of simply heating substances with sunlight.
भारः ( bhāraḥ )

Measure of weight approximately equal to 96 kg
Measure of weight equal to 8000 karsha or 20 tula.
भारः/पौतवमानम् ( bhāraḥ/pautavamānam )

Measurement of weight
भावना ( bhāvanā )

Trituration
भिन्न-सद्योव्रणः ( bhinna-sadyovraṇaḥ )

Stab injury
भिषङ्निमित्तजः ( bhiṣaṅnimittajaḥ )

Physician-related adverse event
An adverse event due to an act of negligence or omission specifically committed by the treating physician.
भुक्तभक्त; पीतोदकस्य आस्थापनस्य व्यापदः ( bhuktabhakta; pītodakasya āsthāpanasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition caused by medicated decoction enema administered to person who has eaten and drunk water
A condition characterized by instantaneous appearance of serious ailments.
भुक्तादिः, अन्नादौ, प्राग्भक्तः ( bhuktādiḥ, annādau, prāgbhaktaḥ )

Administration of medicine at the beginning of a meal
भुजशिखरम् ( bhujaśikharam )

Proximal part of the upper limb
भूताग्निः ( bhūtāgniḥ )

Transforming factors acting at the level of the basic elements
Transformative factors at the level of the five basic elements. It acts at two levels: 1. together with digestive fire during digestion; and 2. together with metabolic factors located in structural components during fundamental structural component level metabolism. There are five types: transforming factors of earth element, water element, fire element, air element and space element.
भूतात्मा ( bhūtātmā )

Self-embodied being
The soul in association with the living body, the vital principle as the proximate cause of life and action.
भूस्वेदः ( bhūsvedaḥ )

Sweating induced by lying on warmed earth surface
Sudation achieved by a person lying on the warmed earth surface in a controlled environment protected from breezes.
भेदः ( bhedaḥ )

Stage of disease developing into subtypes or leading to complications
The sixth stage of disease manifestation kālaḥ, when the established disease or condition differentiates into subtypes based on dosha and which may signal complications.
भेदनकर्म ( bhedanakarma )

Incision
Incision procedure for wound management.
भेदनकर्म ( bhedanakarma )

Incision and drainage
The procedure of incising a fluid-filled cavity for drainage.
भेदनकर्म ( bhedanakarma )

Removal of foreign body by incision
The removal of a loosely impacted foreign body by incision.
भेदनम् ( bhedanam )

Strong laxative
A type of therapeutic action which breaks down faecal matter or vitiated dosha and expels them.
भेद्यरोगः ( bhedyarogaḥ )

Eye disorders for incision
Eye diseases in which the surgical procedure of incision is indicated.
भेषजनिमित्तजः ( bheṣajanimittajaḥ )

Treatment-related adverse event
An adverse event due to an inappropriate or inadequate treatment.
भेषजम् ( bheṣajam )

Procedure or medicine
A procedure or medicine used in the treatment of disease.
भेषजम् ( bheṣajam )

Remedy
“Bheṣaja” is a comprehensive term representing different treatment approaches in the direct administration of medicines. It is also used to indicate a remedy, medicine, medicament, drug or incantation, and is generally considered to have two modes: one which bestows well-being in healthy individuals and the other which alleviates diseases.
भेषजागारः, भेषजगृहम् ( bheṣajāgāraḥ, bheṣajagṛham )

Pharmacy
भैषज्यकल्पना ( bhaiṣajyakalpanā )

Ayurvedic pharmaceuticals
भैषज्यकालः / औषधकालः ( bhaiṣajyakālaḥ / auṣadhakālaḥ )

Time of administration of a medicine
Frequency or dosage interval
भ्रंशथुः ( bhraṃśathuḥ )

Thick saltish nasal discharge
A disorder characterized by excessive secretion of viscid dense mucus; excessive undigested sour secretion; excessive salty mucus discharge.
भ्राजकपित्तम् ( bhrājakapittam )

Pitta for complexion
Subtype of pitta seated in the skin which is responsible for its glossiness or lustre.
भ्रामरम् ( bhrāmaram )

Whitish honey from large bees
A variety of whitish-coloured honey produced by large black bees.
भ्रूः ( bhrūḥ )

Eyebrows
मक्षिका-दष्टः ( makṣikā-daṣṭaḥ )

Reaction due to sting of honeybee
Poisoning characterized by itching; oedema; burning sensation; pain; brownish-coloured papules; fever; death.
मङ्गलम् ( maṅgalam )

Auspicious offerings
A type of therapeutic ritual.
मज्जाक्षयः ( majjākṣayaḥ )

Diminution of bone marrow
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: decaying of bony tissue; weakness; lightness; repeated afflictions with vāta roga; reduced quantity of semen/śukra; breaking type of pain in small joints; pricking/ piercing type of bone pain; feeling of emptiness in bones; porousness of bones; giddiness/dizziness; blackouts.
मज्जागतमसूरिका ( majjāgatamasūrikā )

Lentil-shaped pox disease localized in bone marrow
Same symptoms as lentil-shaped eruptive disorder localized in asthidhātu.
मज्जागतवातः ( majjāgatavātaḥ )

Aggravation of vata in bone marrow
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: cracking type of pain in bone and small joints; pain in joints; extreme wasting of muscles/diminution of muscle mass; loss of physical strength or weakness; insomnia/sleeplessness; constant pain; porousness of bones; stiffness.
मज्जाधातुः, अस्थिसारम् ( majjā-dhātuḥ, asthisāram )

Bone marrow
The sixth of the seven fundamental structural components. It is the soft organic material that fills bone cavities. Its function is replenishment of body tissues.
मज्जाधातुगतज्वरः ( majjādhātugatajvaraḥ )

Fever due to vitiated bone marrow
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: hiccups; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; cough; feeling of entering into absolute darkness/black-outs; affects/damage of marmasthāna; internal burning and external coldness; burning sensation internally; rigors/chills; laboured breathing; vomiting.
मज्जाधात्वग्निः ( majjādhātvagniḥ )

Metabolic factors The transformative factor which converts bone to bone marrow located in bone marrow
मज्जामेहः ( majjāmehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with urine resembling bone marrow
A disorder characterized by passage of urine mixed with bone marrow; passage of urine resembling bone marrow; recurrent passage of urine.
मज्जावहस्रोतः ( majjāvahasrotaḥ )

Channel carrying bone marrow
The pathway for bone marrow. Entities related to this channel are bone and joints.
मज्जावहस्रोतोदुष्टिः ( majjāvahasrotoduṣṭiḥ )

Vitiation of channels carrying bone marrow
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pain in the joints, giddiness, fainting and deep-seated wounds in the joint.
मज्जावृद्धिः ( majjāvṛddhiḥ )

Morbid increase of bone marrow
A disorder characterized by heaviness of the whole body; heaviness of eyes; redness of eyes; redness of body; furuncles at the base of small joints.
मज्जावैषम्यम् ( majjāvaiṣamyam )

Disproportion of bone marrow
Changes in the normal quantity and quality of bone marrow.
मज्जासारः ( majjasāraḥ )

Person with predominance or essence of bone marrow
Characterized by features such as, having soft body parts; good physical strength; unctuous complexion; pleasant and soft voice; large and round joints; longevity; strength and excellence in learning, attainment of wealth, knowledge and honour.
मञ्जिष्ठामेहः ( mañjiṣṭhāmehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with urine resembling Rubia cordifolia decoction
A disorder characterized by passage of urine resembling Rubia cordifolia decoction; profuse urination; urine smelling like raw flesh.
मणिः ( maṇiḥ )

Glans penis
मणिधारणम् ( maṇidhāraṇam )

Gem wearing
A type of therapeutic ritual: treatment of a disease through wearing appropriate gems or precious stones depending on the disease itself.
मणिबन्धः, करमूलम्, पाणिमूलम् ( maṇibandhaḥ, karamūlam, pāṇimūlam )

Wrist
मण्डः ( maṇḍaḥ )

Supernatant liquid obtained after draining boiled rice
The liquid portion of rice prepared by adding 14 parts water to one part rice.
मण्डलकुष्ठः/कफजकुष्ठः ( maṇḍalakuṣṭhaḥ/ kaphajakuṣṭhaḥ )

Skin disease with discoid lesions
A skin disease characterized by smooth/unctuous/oily lesions; heaviness; raised lesions with glossy margins; hard margins; yellowish margins; whitish appearance; reddish appearance; covered with whitish hairs; excessive/copious discharge; profuse discharge; slimy discharge; excessive moistness/ soddening; excessive itching; excessive worms; slowly spreading; slow onset; slow onset of complications.
मण्डलबन्धः ( maṇḍalabandhaḥ )

Circular bandage
A type of bandage applied in circular manner.
मण्डलम् ( maṇḍalam )

Generic areas of eye and adnexa
मण्डलसन्धिः ( maṇḍalasandhiḥ )

Circular joint
मण्डलाग्रशस्त्रम् ( maṇḍalāgraśastram )

Circular knife
A type of sharp instrument with a circular edge which is used for curetting or excising tissue.
मण्डूकदष्टः ( maṇḍūkadaṣṭaḥ )

Reaction due to contact with a frog
Poisoning characterized by itching at site; yellowish froth from mouth; burning sensation; vomiting; syncope or swooning; sleep.
मण्डूरम् ( maṇḍūram )

Iron rust
Iron oxide (Fe2O3.H2O). Duly processed mandura is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
मत्त मूर्च्छितयोर आस्थापनस्य व्यापदः ( matta mūrcchitayora āsthāpanasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition caused by medicated non oily enema administered to person who is intoxicated, swooning
A condition characterized by mental damage.
मथितः ( mathitaḥ )

Buttermilk prepared by churning curd after removing cream
A type of buttermilk prepared by churning curd and the removing cream.
मदः ( madaḥ )

Arrogance
A state of being emotionally aroused, prideful and stubborn.
मदः ( madaḥ )

Intoxication other than alcohol-induced
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: incoherent speech; excessive speech; fast speech; unstable movements; uncoordinated actions; dry body appearance; blackish body appearance; slightly reddish complexion.
मदकारी ( madakārī )

Narcotic, intoxicant
Substances hampering the intellectual functions following consumption, e.g. alcohol.
मदात्ययः/पानात्ययः ( madātyayaḥ/ pānātyayaḥ )

Alcohol intoxication
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: fainting/severe confusion; precordial pain/ cardiac pain; loose motions/diarrhoea; continuous thirst; saumya āgneya; fever; loss of taste; headache; pain in flanks; pain in bones; tremors; injury to vital points; stiffness of sacroiliac region; chest tightness; errors of refraction/partial blindness; cough; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; being awake; excessive sweating; constipation/abdominal fullness; oedema; instability of mind; excessive talking/irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; vomiting; nausea/provocation of dosha; giddiness or dizziness; having unpleasant dreams.
मदात्ययित विरेचनव्यापत् ( madātyayitavirecanavyāpat )

Condition caused by purgation therapy administered to person intoxicated by alcohol
A condition characterized by its life-endangering risk.
मद्यजमदः ( madyajamadaḥ )

Second stage of intoxication
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: incoherent intelligence; incoherent memory; incoherent speech; incoherent actions; lunatic appearance and behaviour; furious nature; recurrent lethargy; recurrent sleepiness.
मद्यजमूर्च्छा ( madyajamūrcchā )

Syncope due to alcoholism
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: drowsing while talking irrelevantly; remaining unconscious and bewildered; flinging limbs in all directions.
मद्यपानातियोगः ( madyapānātiyogaḥ )

Disorder due to abusive ingestion of alcoholic beverages
मद्यवर्गः ( madyavargaḥ )

Group of alcoholic drinks
The group of alcoholic drinks such as wine prepared by fermentation of grains and fruits.
मधुक्रोडः ( madhukroḍaḥ )

Fritter with sweet stuffing
A type of food preparation in which a sweet substance is coated in batter and fried.
मधुमेह कुष्ठिनोर्व्याधे: आस्थापनस्य व्यापदः ( madhumeha kuṣṭhinorvyādheḥ āsthāpanasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition caused by medicated decoction enema administered to person with diabetes and skin diseases
A condition characterized by an aggravation of the clinical features of madhumeha kuṣṭa.
मधुमेहः/क्षौद्रमेहः ( madhumehaḥ/ kṣaudramehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with urine resembling honey
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: passage of astringent urine; passage of sweet urine; passage of nonunctuous urine; pale urine; urine resembling honey; honey-coloured urine.
मधुर-रसः, स्वादुः ( madhura-rasaḥ, svāduḥ )

Sweet taste
मधुररसातियोगः ( madhurarasātiyogaḥ )

Disorder due to excessive intake of sweet substances
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: obesity; moistness/softness of skin; lethargy; excessive sleep; heaviness; aversion to food; diminution of agni; fleshy growth in mouth/face; fleshy growth in throat region; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; cough; cold catarrh; clinical features of alasaka; fever with chills; borborygmi with distension; sweetness in mouth; vomiting; loss of consciousness; loss of voice; glandular swelling in jaw; neck and throat region/goitre; series of nodules in neck region; elephantiasis; swelling in throat; feeling of coating in urinary bladder or basti; feeling of coating in anal region; coating in lumen of blood vessels; mucus coating; eye diseases; inflammation of eyes; worms; tumour; excessive urination; diseases of throat; raised circular patches on the body/urticaria; headache; cold catarrh; fever; diseases of abdomen/clinical features of udara; spitting/excessive expectoration; complete exhaustion.
मधुरस्कन्धः ( madhuraskandhaḥ )

Group of sweet substances
मधुरावस्थापाकः ( madhuraavasthāpākaḥ )

Sweet predominant stage of digestion
During the first and initial stage of digestion in the gastrointestinal tract the ingested food is transformed to a predominantly sweet state. This results in the generation of kapha-dosha.
मधुवर्गः ( madhuvargaḥ )

Group of honeys
Honey produced by various types of honeybee.
मध्यभक्तः, मध्यभोजनम् ( madhyabhaktaḥ, madhyabhojanam )

Administration of medicine in the middle of a meal
मध्यमकोष्ठः ( madhyama-koṣṭhaḥ )

Normal bowel habit
A physiological type of bowel habit due to the dominance of either kapha, or all three dosha being in functional balance. The individual with this type of bowel habit passes stools which are neither soft nor costive.
मध्यमगतिः ( madhyamagatiḥ )

Shifting of dosha
A movement of dosha towards the vital parts, including the head and various junctures and junctions of the body.
मध्यमधूमपानम् ( madhyamadhūmapānam )

Moderate medicated smoking
The procedure of medicated smoking with drugs of moderate strength.
मध्यमशुद्धिः ( madhyamaśuddhiḥ )

Moderate cleansing
Achievement of a moderate degree of dosha evacuation during cleansing therapy..
मध्यमा ( madhyamā )

Middle finger
Also denotes third toe.
मनः, चेतः ( manaḥ, cetaḥ )

Mind, psyche
The faculty through which cognitive organs (indriya) connect with the soul (atman). Denotes consciousness.
मन:शिला ( manaḥśilā )

Realgar
As2S2. Duly processed manahshila is employed as a standalone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
मनोगुणः/स्वरूपम् ( manoguṇaḥ/svarūpam )

Characteristics of mind
Two features of mind (manas)
minuteness (the smallest possible structure) (anutva) and oneness or singularity (ekatva).
मनोधिष्ठानम् ( manodhiśṭānaṃ )

Mind as seat of disease
A disease or condition in which the mind is first affected followed by the body.
मनोऽर्थः ( manoarthaḥ )

Objects of the mind
Mind or psychic functions, namely: thought, analysis, contemplation, mediation and volition.
मन्त्रः (विषोपक्रमः) ( mantraḥ (viṣopakramaḥ) )

Incantation
Incantation of hymns (mantra) to counteract a poison.
मन्त्रचिकित्सा ( mantracikitsā )

Chanting of auspicious hymns
A type of therapeutic ritual: treatment of a disease by incantation of appropriate mantra under specified conditions.
मन्थनम् ( manthanam )

Churning
A type of processing which involves transforming the properties of a substance by churning.
मन्दः ( mandaḥ )

Mildness, slowness
The quality of a substance which is responsible for slow, mild or low intensity activity or response .
मन्दाग्निः ( mandāgniḥ )

Depressed or weak state of digestive, metabolic factors
A state in which the action of transformative factor is weak or depressed due to the dominant influence of kapha.
मन्दाग्निः ( mandāgniḥ )

Subdued digestive, metabolic factors
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: difficulty in digestion of food after a long time even though of proper quantity; heaviness of abdomen; heaviness of head; cough; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; excessive salivation; vomiting; bodily exhaustion or tiredness; abdominal distension; constipation; gurgling intestinal sounds/borborygmi; dryness of mouth; inactivity/ inertia of anus.
मन्दाग्नि दुर्बलयोर अनुवासनस्य व्यापदः ( mandāgni durbalayora anuvāsanasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition caused by A condition characterized by diminution of agni. medicated oily enema administered to person with diminished digestive capacity and weak person
मन्या ( manyā )

Carotid area of the neck
मन्या (मर्म) ( manyā (marma)

Vulnerable location(s) on either side of the throat
Two in number (one on each side) which when injured leads to difficulty in speech, altered voice and loss of taste sensation.
मन्याबस्तिः ( manyābastiḥ )

Therapeutic retention of oil over cervical region
A procedure which involves holding medicated oil over the cervical region (neck) for a specific duration.
मन्यास्तम्भः ( manyāstambhaḥ )

Wry neck; torticollis
A disorder characterized by torticollis/stiffness of posterior aspect of neck.
मरणम् ( maraṇam )

Death
मर्दनम् ( mardanam )

Crushing in mortar and pestle
Substances crushed in a mortar and pestle to enhance their quality
मर्दनम् ( mardanam )

Massage with pressure
A massage procedure involving a therapeutic pressurised massage.
मर्दनम् ( mardanam )

Trituration of mercury
मर्म ( Marma )

Mortal or vulnerable location
The 107 major vital locations or seats of life in the body are classified into various types based on their structure, dimensions, vulnerability to trauma or mortal outcome. Injury to these locations may result in death, deformity or severe pain.
मर्मरिका ( marmarikā )

Condition of development of knots due to improper piercing of child’s ear
A condition characterized by pain; fever; glandular swellings and knots.
मर्मरिका ( Marmarikā )

Vein located in the ear
मर्मविद्धः/ मर्माभिघातः/मर्मक्षतः ( marmaviddhaḥ/ marmābhighātaḥ/ marmakṣataḥ )

Injury of vulnerable locations
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: giddiness or dizziness; excessive talking/ irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; falling down; fainting/ severe confusion; uncoordinated movements; nonfunctioning of the mind as in sleep; feeling of warmth; flaccidity/laxity; syncope or swooning; upward movement of vata; severe breaking type of pain; bloody discharge resembling meat washings; cessation of all sense organ functioning; fatigued mind and body.
मर्माभिघातजदाहः ( marmābhighātajadāhaḥ )

Generalized burning sensation due to injury to vulnerable locations
A disorder characterized by a burning sensation due to injury of a vulnerable point.
मर्शः ( marśaḥ )

High-dose intranasal medication
A nasal cleansing therapy in which mainly oil-based medicines are instilled.
मलः ( malaḥ )

Excretory products
Waste products formed during various stages of digestion and metabolism; one of the fundamental constituents of the human body along with dosha (regulatory functional factors) and fundamental structural components; there are two categories: waste products from digestion of food and waste products from transformation of structural components. The waste products from digestion of food comprise urine and faeces. The waste products from transformation of structural components are: phlegm (excretory form of kapha) from the primary product of digestion (the primary circulating nutrient fluid), bile (excretory form of pitta) from blood, mucus of nose and ear wax from muscle, perspiration from fat, nails and hair from bone, and rheum of the eye from bone marrow.
मलवैषम्यम् ( malavaiṣamyam )

Derangement of excretory products
मशक-दष्टः ( maśaka-daṣṭaḥ )

Reaction due to sting of mosquito
Poisoning characterized by severe itching; swelling at bite site; mild pain.
मषकः ( maṣakaḥ )

Spots resembling black gram
A disorder characterized by painless round lesions on body; lesions resembling black gram; blackish-coloured lesion; raised from the skin surface.
मसूरिका ( masūrikā )

Lentil-shaped pox disease
A disorder characterized by lentil-shaped pustules on skin; The presentation resembles smallpox and such other eruptive fevers.
मसूरिका-प्रमेहपिडका ( masūrikā-pramehapiḍakā )

Carbuncle characterized by lesions resembling green gram
A disorder characterized by a boil similar in size to a lentil.
मसूरिकापूर्वरूपम् ( masūrikāpūrvarūpam )

Prodromal symptoms of lentil-shaped pox disease
Lentil-shaped eruptive disorder is characterized by fever; itching; breaking pain in body; distress/discontent/ restlessness; giddiness or dizziness; oedema on skin; discoloration; redness of eyes. Oedema due to vitiation of three dosha
मस्तुलुङ्गः, मस्तिष्कः, मस्तिष्कः, घृतिका, मस्तकस्नेहः, मस्तकमज्जा, शिरोगतस्नेहः ( mastuluṅgaḥ, mastiṣkaḥ,ghṛtikā,mastakasnehaḥ,mastakamajjā, śirogatasnehaḥ )

Brain
महतीहिक्का ( mahatīhikkā )

Extremely powerful and noisy hiccups
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: hiccups enveloping the throat with a high sound; continuous hiccups; loss of consciousness; stiffness of body; obstructing the passage of food and liquids; impaired memory; eyes bathed or dimmed with tears; stiffness of temporal regions; drooping of eyebrows; irrelevant talk in a suppressed voice; hiccups afflicting the vital organs; shaking of entire body; obstruction of speech; bending of back; dryness/wasting/emaciation.
महापद्मः ( mahāpadmaḥ )

Paediatric erysipelas
महारसः ( mahārasaḥ )

Group of key substances used in the processing of mercury
A group of eight minerals used in the processing of mercury: 1. abhrakam, 2. vaikrantam, 3. makshikam, svarnamakshikam, 4. vimalam, 5. shilajatu, 6. sasyaka, tuttha, 7. capala and 8. rasaka, kharpara; considered to have superior properties to other minerals.
महाविषम् ( mahāviṣam )

High-potency poison
A group of extremely poisonous substances such as Aconitum ferox Wall. ex Ser.
महाशौषिरः ( mahāśauṣiraḥ )

Palatal abscess
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: loosening of teeth; fissuring of gums; fissuring of palate; affecting the mouth; affecting the gums; fever; pus discharge; haemorrhage; damaged tooth socket as in cancrum oris.
महाश्वासः ( mahāśvāsaḥ )

Extremely strained and difficult breathing; generally in terminal illness
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: deep respiratory movements constantly producing a sound like an excited but restrained person on account of vata; loss of knowledge, wisdom or consciousness; eye-rolling or side glances; confused face/wide-open mouth; distorted/ dilated eyes; ugly face; retention of urine; retained stool/ constipation; fading/broken/feeble voice; timidity or apathy; dyspnoea also apparent from a distance; frequent fainting/ unconsciousness; pain in sides of chest/flanks; dryness of throat with high-pitched sound; bulging of eyes; stretching of body on breathing; snoring due to obstructed respiration; convulsive movement of chest; severe pain in ears; severe pain in temporal region; severe pain in head.
महास्रोतस्, अन्तःकोष्ठः, कोष्टः, शरीरमध्यम्, महानिम्नम ( mahāsrotas, antaḥkoṣṭhaḥ, koṣṭhaḥ,śarīramadhyam, mahānimnam )

The major inner cavity of the body from the mouth to anus
Comprises both stomach and large intestine
माक्षिकम् ( mākṣikam )

Oil-like honey
A variety of honey which resembles oil in colour and produced by tawny honeybees.
माक्षिकम्/स्वर्णमाक्षिकम् ( mākṣikam/ svarṇamākṣikam )

Copper pyrite, chalcopyrite
Copper iron sulfide (Cu2Fe2S4). In calcinated form makshikam is used as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral formulations.
माणिक्यम् ( māṇikyam )

Ruby
Duly processed manikya is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbomineral pharmaceutical formulations.
मातृका (मर्म) ( mātṛkā (marma) )

Vulnerable location(s) on the neck
Eight in number and leads to sudden death when injured.
मातृजरोगः ( mātṛjarogaḥ )

Hereditary diseases of maternal origin
Hereditary conditions inherited through the maternal genetic line due to morbidity of the ovum.
मात्रा ( mātrā )

Dose or measure
मात्राबस्तिः ( mātrābastiḥ )

Low-dose ghee or oily enema
A medicated enema given in a dose which will not cause complications even if retained or the posttherapy regimen is not followed.
मात्सर्यम् ( mātsaryam )

Discontentment
A state of being discontent with one’s state of affairs, being envious, competitive.
मात्स्यकायः ( matsyakāyaḥ )

Person with timid, unintelligent temperament
The characteristics of the person with a timid, unintelligent temperament are fickleness and instability, foolishness, cowardice, affinity for water, and a tendency to fight with people of a similar type.
माधुतैलिकबस्तिः ( mādhutailikabastiḥ )

Enema prepared from honey and oil
A medicated enema mainly constituted of honey and oil.
मानम् ( mānam )

Measurements
मानसक्लैब्यम् ( mānasaklaibyam )

Psychogenic impotency
Erectile dysfunction or impotency owing to psychological reasons.
मानसिक-भावः ( mānasika-bhāvaḥ )

Psychological or mental attributes
The characteristic features or attributes of the mind.
मानसिकहेतुः ( mānasikahetuḥ )

Psychological cause
Causes leading to disturbances in the functions of the mind.
मानिका/शरावः ( mānikā/śarāvaḥ )

Measure of weight approximately equal to 384 g
Measure of weight equal to 32 karsha or 2 kudava.
मारणम् ( māraṇam )

Calcination or incineration of minerals, metals and marine products
मारुतः ( mārutaḥ )

Therapeutic exposure to wind
The process of exposing a person to wind as a therapeutic measure.
मार्गविशोधनम् ( mārgaviśodhanam )

Passage clearing
A technique to clear a passage as for an impacted foreign body.
माषः ( māṣaḥ )

Measure of weight approximately equal to 1 g
Measure of weight equal to eight seeds of jequirity bean .
माषः (बीज) ( māṣaḥ(bīja) )

Black gram seed
Seed of Vigna mungo (L.) Hepper. Employed as a unit of weight.
मासः ( māsaḥ )

Time equivalent to one month
Time equal to one lunar month or 30 days (two paksha).
मांसक्षयः ( māmsakṣayaḥ )

Diminution of muscle
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: wasting of hips; wasting of neck; wasting of abdomen; wasting of cheeks/whole side of face including the temple; wasting/dryness of lips; wasting dryness of genitals or penis; wasting of thighs; wasting of chest; wasting of armpits/ axillae; wasting of calf; dryness; pricking pain; bodily exhaustion or tiredness; dysfunction of channels carrying blood and nerve impulses; lazy eyes/eye fatigue; splitting type of pain in joints.
मांसगत-शल्यः ( māṃsagata-śalyaḥ )

Foreign body in the muscle
A disorder due to presence of foreign body in the muscle; characterized by sucking type of pain; inflammation/ suppuration; increase in swelling; failure of foreign body pathway to heal; inability to bear touching/pressing.
मांसगतमसूरिका ( māṃsagatamasūrikā )

Lentil-shaped pox disease localized in muscle
Lentil-shaped eruptive disorder is characterized by hard eruptions; unctuous appearance of eruptions; taking a long time to suppurate; thick skin; body pain; thirst; itching; fever; distress/discontent/restlessness.
मांसगतवातः ( māṃsagatavātaḥ )

Aggravation of vata in muscle
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: heaviness of body, excessive pain in body as if beaten by a stick or fists; pain and excessive fatigue; glandular swelling which is hard; firm or rough; pricking pain; exhaustion/fatigue; severe pain; stiffness; glandular swelling with pain.
मांसज-ओष्ठप्रकोपः ( māṃsaja-oṣṭhaprakopaḥ )

Disorders of lip due to vitiated muscle, epithelioma of lip
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: heaviness of lips; thickening of lips; projection of lips into a fleshy lump; maggots coming from both corners/ angles of the mouth.
मांसजार्बुदः ( māṃsajārbudaḥ )

Tumour due to vitiated muscle
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: unctuousness; large in size; hard in nature; covered with sirā/venous plexus; same colour as skin; nonsuppurating; stony hard; fixed swelling; painless.
मांसजालम् ( māṃsajālam )

Network of muscles
मांसतानः (अर्बुदः) ( māṃsatānaḥ )

Malignant tumour of throat
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a painful spreading swelling; severe form of swelling; hanging tumour leading to death; obstruction of throat.
मांसधरा ( māṃsadharā )

Seventh layer of skin
मांसधराकला ( māṃsadharākalā )

Muscle-bearing membrane
Deep fascia.
मांसधातुः, मांसम्, पेशी ( māṃsa-dhātuḥ, māṃsam, peśī )

Muscle
The third of the seven fundamental structural components. Its function is to cover the skeleton.
मांसधातुगतज्वरः ( māṃsadhātugatajvaraḥ )

Fever due to vitiated muscle
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a burning sensation inside the body thirst; confusion/delirium; fatigued mind and body; easy passage of stools; bad odour; convulsive movements of limbs; claudication/ cramp in the calf muscles; easy passage of urine; burning sensation externally; giddiness or dizziness; black-outs.
मांसधात्वग्निः ( māṃsadhātvagniḥ )

Metabolic factors located in muscle
The transformative factor which converts blood to muscle tissue
मांसपाकः ( māṃsapākaḥ )

Penile necrosis
A disease of the penis; characterized by softening and sloughing of the glans penis along with with pain.
मांसमर्म ( Māṃsamarma )

Vulnerable location(s) in which the mainstructural component is muscle
Marma where muscles are structurally prominent.
मांसरज्जुः, रज्जुः ( māṃsarajjuḥ, rajjuḥ )

Long muscles
The group of four, rope-like, long muscles of the back.
मांसरसः, रसः ( māṃsarasaḥ, rasaḥ. )

Meat soup
A soup of varying consistency prepared with or without seasoning or condiments.
मांसवर्गः ( māṃsavargaḥ )

Group of meats
The group of meats of various animals such as birds, fish.
मांसवहस्रोतः ( māṃsavahasrotaḥ )

Conduit nourishing muscle
Related entities are tendons and skin.
मांसवहस्रोतोदुष्टिः ( māmsavahasrotoduṣṭiḥ )

Vitiation of channels carrying muscle
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: granular eruptions, growths, tumours, warts, sloughing of muscles, dry gangrene.
मांसवहस्रोतोविद्धः ( māṁsavahasrōtōviddhaḥ )

Injury to the channels that nourish muscles
मांसवृद्धिः ( māmsavṛddhiḥ )

Excessive increase of muscle
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: hypertrophy/enlargement of hips; hypertrophy/enlargement of cheeks/whole side of face including the temple; hypertrophy/enlargement of lips; hypertrophy/enlargement of genitals or penis; hypertrophy/ enlargement of thighs; hypertrophy/enlargement of arms; enlargement of abdomen; hypertrophy/enlargement of calf; heaviness of limbs; heaviness of hips; heaviness of cheeks; heaviness of lips; heaviness of arms; heaviness of abdomen; heaviness of thighs; heaviness of calf; diseases of palate; diseases of tongue; diseases of kantha/throat; glandular swelling in jaw; neck and throat region/goitre; series of nodules in neck region; tumour; glandular swelling; diseases of kapha and rakta; hypertrophy of māṃsa in kaṇṭha.
मांसवैषम्यम् ( māmsavaiṣamyam )

Disproportion of muscle
Changes in the normal quantity and quality of muscles.
मांससङ्घातः/तालुसंहतिः ( māṃsasaṅghātaḥ/ tālusaṃhatiḥ )

Fibroma of palate
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a painless swelling in the middle of the palate; thick and soft swelling in palate; inflamed soft tissue swelling in palate.
मांससारः ( māṃsa-sāraḥ )

Person with predominance or essence of muscle
Characterized by features such as having large, prominent, muscular and visually pleasing temples, forehead, nape of neck, eyes, cheeks, jaw, neck, shoulder, abdomen, axillae, chest, upper limb joints and lower limb joints; readiness to forgive and forbearance; patience and steadiness; lack of greediness; wealth; knowledge; happiness; simplicity; health; strength and longevity.
मांसार्बुदः ( māṃsārbudaḥ )

Tumour originating from penile muscle tissue
A disease of the penis; characterized by painless swelling; unctuous swelling; swelling of the same colour; nonsuppurating; stony; fixed and hard swelling.
माहेन्द्रकायः ( māhendrakāyaḥ )

Person with prosperous, leading temperament
The characteristics of the person with prosperous, leading leading temperament temperament are greatness, bravery, commanding habits, a follower of religious teachings and someone who looks after dependent people.
मिथ्याविरेचनम्/ विरेचनमिथ्यायोगः ( mithyāvirecanam/ virecanamithyāyogaḥ )

Condition of improper purgation therapy
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: heaviness of body; dysentery; cutting type of pain in anus; abdominal distension; heaviness of head; vayu not moving downwards; increase in severity of disease.
मिथ्याव्रणोपचारः ( mithyāvraṇopacāraḥ )

Condition due to improper management of wound(s)
मिन्मिनः ( minminaḥ )

Nasal intonation of speech
A disorder characterized by nasal twang.
मुक्तनाल-विरेचनव्यापत् ( muktanālavirecanavyāpat )

Condition caused by A condition characterized by its life-endangering risk owing to purgation therapy excessive prolapse. administered to person with rectal prolapse
मुक्ताफलम् ( muktāphalam )

Pearl
Duly processed mukta is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
मुख-विशोधन ( mukha-viśodhana )

Cleaning the mouth
A step in neonatal resuscitation and general care in which the oral cavity is thoroughly cleaned.
मुखगन्धहरः ( mukhagandhaharaḥ )

Substance removing foul mouth odour
मुखमण्डिकाग्रहः ( mukhamaṇḍikāgrahaḥ )

Prominent veins, shiny face due to external invisible factors
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: venous prominences on the body; pale complexion of face; polyphagia; urine/cow urine odour; exhausted body; tender palms; tender soles; shiny face; bluish-black venous prominence on abdomen; agitation; dark-coloured veins on abdomen; fever; aversion to food/milk; tired body.
मुखम्, वक्त्रम्, वदनम्, आस्यम् ( mukham, vaktram, vadanam, āsyam )

Mouth, face
मुखरोगः ( mukharogaḥ )

Disorders of oral cavity
मुखरोगचिकित्सा ( mukharogacikitsā )

Management of diseases of oral cavity proper
The treatment of diseases related to the mouth or oral cavity.
मुत्तोलिः/प्रतोलीबन्धः ( muttoliḥ/pratolībandhaḥ )

Winding bandage
A type of bandage used on narrow body parts such as the neck or penis.
मुद्रिकाशस्त्रम् ( mudrikāśastram )

Finger knife
A type of sharp instrument mounted on the finger for use in oral surgery.
मुष्कस्रोतोऽभिघातः ( muṣkasroto abhighātaḥ )

Injury to the seminal passages
Injury to the bulbo-urethral glands; seminal vescicles or epididymis.
मुहुर्मुहुः ( muhurmuhuḥ )

Frequent administration of medicine
मुहूर्तः ( muhūrtaḥ )

Time equivalent to approximately 48 minutes
Time equal to two nadika.
मूकत्वम् ( mūkatvam )

Dumbness
A disorder characterized by dumbness/aphasia.
मूढगर्भः ( mūḍhagarbhaḥ )

Obstructed fetal presentation
Abnormal fetal presentation characterized by irritation of the abdomen; pain in sides of chest/flanks; pain in urinary bladder; pain in head; pain in abdomen; pain in female genital organs; borborygmi with distension; obstruction to passage of urine/retention; abortion of young fetus; discharge of blood; ocassional enlargement of fetus; abnormal fetal presentation; fetus descending to lower abdomen; fetal retention due to vitiated apāna vata.
मूत्र-वेगरोधः/मूत्रग्रहः ( mūtra-vegarodhaḥ/ mūtragrahaḥ )

Disorder due to withholding of urine
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pain in urinary bladder or basti; penile pain; dysuria; severe headache; flexion/bending of body; distension in groin; drop-by-drop urination; severe pain in anus; pain in groin region; severe scrotal pain; severe pain in umbilical region; severe headache; distended basti; breaking type of pain; breaking type of pain in body; urolithiasis.
मूत्रकृच्छ्रम् ( mūtrakṛcchram )

Difficulty in urination
मूत्रक्षयः ( mūtrakṣayaḥ )

Diminution of urine
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: dysuria; discoloration of urine; thirst; dryness in mouth; pricking pain in urinary bladder or basti; oliguria; haematuria.
मूत्रक्षयः ( mūtrakṣayaḥ )

Oliguria, anuria
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: dysuria; discoloration of urine; thirst; dryness of mouth; pricking pain in urinary bladder; oliguria; haematuria.
मूत्रग्रन्थिः ( mūtragranthiḥ )

Bladder obstruction due to nodular swelling
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: glandular swelling at the urinary bladder opening; difficulty in passing urine; pain resembling that of aśmarī; round-shaped glandular swelling; small swelling; fixed swelling; severe pain usually obstructing urine flow at bladder neck; sudden manifestation; clinical features of ashmari.
मूत्रज-वृद्धिः ( mūtraja-vṛddhiḥ )

Hydrocoele due to predominance of vitiated urine
A disorder characterized by discharges of various colours; pain of different types; death; black blisters; severe bleeding; features of the pittaja variety.
मूत्रजठरः ( mūtrajaṭharaḥ )

Bladder atony with lower abdominal distension
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: abdominal enlargement due to full bladder; indigestion; obstruction to passage of urine/retention; faecal retention; abdominal distension below the umbilicus; severe pain below umbilicus; obstruction to urinary and faecal channels bladder outlet obstruction.
मूत्रजननम् ( mūtrajananam )

Substance increasing the quantity of urine
मूत्रप्रसेक-क्षणनम् ( mūtrapraseka-kṣaṇanam )

Urethral injury
मूत्रमार्गः ( mūtramārgaḥ )

Urinary passage
मूत्रम् ( mūtram )

Urine
A by-product of digestion, whose function is to remove excess watery waste from the body.
मूत्रवहस्रोतः ( mūtravahasrotaḥ )

Urinary tract
The pathway for urine. Entities related to this channel are the bladder and groin.
मूत्रवहस्रोतोदुष्टिः ( mūtravahasrōtōduṣṭiḥ )

Vitiation of channels carrying urine
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: excess micturition; dribbling; dysuria.
मूत्रवहस्रोतोविद्धः ( mūtravahasrotoviddhaḥ )

Injury to the channels of the urinary system
A disorder characterized by retention of urine; distended basti; stiffness of penis.
मूत्रवहा ( mūtravahā )

Urine carrier
मूत्रवहानाडी ( mūtravahānāḍī )

Urinary system conduits
मूत्रवृद्धिः ( mūtravṛddhiḥ )

Morbid increase of urine
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: frequent micturition; pricking pain in urinary bladder or basti; abdominal distension; urge even after micturition.
मूत्रवैषम्यम् ( mūtravaiṣamyam )

Derangement of urine
मूत्रशुक्रः ( mūtraśukraḥ )

Semenuria
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: urine mixed with semen; discharge of semen while voiding urine; passage of urine that looks like it is mixed with ash at beginning or end of micturition; discharge of fluid resembling ash water.
मूत्रसेकः, मूत्रपथः ( mūtrasekaḥ, mūtrapathaḥ )

Urethra
मूत्राघातः ( mūtrāghātaḥ )

Urinary retention
मूत्राघातवमनस्य व्यापदः ( mūtrāghāta vamanasya vyapadaḥ )

Condition caused by emetic therapy administered to a person with urinary suppression
मूत्रातीतः ( mūtrātītaḥ )

Urinary incontinence
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: urinary hesitancy; weak urine flow; difficulty in passing urine/anuria; occasional passage of urine; mild pain during micturition; scanty micturition; increased frequency of micturition; difficulty in passing urine.
मूत्राभिघातज-उदावर्तः ( mūtrābhighātaja-udāvartaḥ )

Disorders of reversed or altered visceral movement due to suppression of urine
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: difficulty in micturition; scanty micturition; penile pain; proctalgia; pain in groin region; pain in urinary bladder or basti; scrotal pain; pain in umbilical region; headache; bloating of urinary bladder; dysuria; bending of body due to pain; distension in lower abdomen.
मूत्रोत्सङ्गः ( mūtrotsaṅgaḥ )

Urethral stricture
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: urine obstruction at bulb of penis; later painless micturition; later painful micturition; split-stream urination; heaviness in penis; urine remains in bladder; urine remains in penile urethra; urine remains in bulb of penile urethra; urine with blood; straining to urinate; dribbling in small quantities on straining; scanty dropwise urination.
मूत्रौकसादः ( mūtraukasādaḥ )

Scanty urination with viscid, dense urine
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: passage of urine with blood; passage of viscid urine; burning sensation while urinating; passage of whitish urine; passage of dense urine; difficult and burning micturition; yellow-coloured urine; conch shell-coloured urine.
मूर्च्छनम् ( mūrcchanam )

Pre-processing of ghee A procedure for refining and enhancing the potency of oil or or oil with herbs ghee and imparting colour and fragrance to it. The term also denotes the process by which mercury attains the property of curing diseases.
मूर्च्छा ( mūrcchā )

Syncope
Temporary loss of consciousness.
मूर्च्छा-पूर्वरूपम् ( mūrcchā-pūrvarūpam )

Prodromal signs of syncope
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: precordial pain/cardiac pain; yawning; fatigued mind and body; loss of sensory perception; loss of strength.
मूर्छनम् ( mūrcchanam )

Swooning of mercury
मूर्तद्रव्य, परमाणुः ( Mūrtadravya, paramāṇuḥ )

Substances having Resultant material(s), product or effect
A tangible or perceptible substance, or substance that has form, gross substances settled into a fixed shape or form; also refers to material, embodied or incarnate things.
मूर्धतैलम्/शिरस्तैलम् ( mūrdhatailam/ śirastailam )

Application of oily substance to head
External application of oil to the head.
मूलविषः ( mūlaviṣaḥ )

Poisonous roots
Poisoning characterized by pains/convulsive movements of limbs; excessive talking/irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; confusion/delirium.
मूषा ( mūṣā )

Crucible
मूषिकाविषः/आखुविषः ( mūṣikāviṣaḥ/ ākhuviṣaḥ )

Poisoning due to rat bite
Poisoning characterized by nodular swelling; oedema; resembling lotus seed; circular patches; intense growth of papules; spreading cellulitis/erysipelas; clinical features of kiṭibha; breaking type of pain in small joints; severe pain; syncope or swooning; bodily exhaustion or tiredness/inability to perform physical activities; fever; weakness; loss of taste; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; vomiting; horripilation; bleeding from bite site; pallor; burning sensation.
मृगश्रृंगम् ( mṛgaśrṛṃgam )

Hartshorn
The desiccated horn of a male deer. Duly processed mrigashringa is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
मृतगर्भः ( mṛtagarbhaḥ )

Intrauterine fetal death
Death of fetus in the uterus characterized by feeling as if the abdomen is wrapped in a wet cloth; stiff abdomen; stretched abdomen; abdomen cold to touch; stony hard fetus; absence of fetal movements; severe pain; no labour pain; no discharge from yoni; sluggish eyes; distressed mother; giddiness or dizziness; difficulty in breathing; distress/discontent/ restlessness; improper manifestation of natural urges; cessation of labour pain; blackishness or cyanosis; pallor; foetid smell on breath; colicky pain in abdomen; inflated abdomen; thirst; difficulty in breathing; exhaustion without exertion; mother crying constantly; sleeplessness; difficulty in breathing.
मृतसञ्जीवनम् (विषोपक्रम) ( mṛtasañjīvanam (viṣopakrama) )

Life-reviving
Therapy or medicines able to revive a patient.
मृदितः ( mṛditaḥ )

Inflammatory penile disorder due to excessive rubbing and pressing
A disorder characterized by the presence of a swollen boil.
मृदुः ( mṛduḥ )

Softness, mildness
The quality of a substance which is responsible for producing softness or fragility.
मृदुकर्म ( mṛdukarma )

Wound-softening measures
Technique to remove hard, fibrosed or indurated tissues to promote softening and smoothening of the wound bed.
मृदुकोष्ठः ( mṛdukoṣṭhaḥ )

Soft bowel habit
A physiological type of bowel habit due to the dominance of pitta. The individual with this type of bowel habit passes soft bowel motions without straining.
मृदुधूमपानम् ( mṛdudhūmapānam )

Mild medicated smoking
The procedure of medicated smoking with drugs of mild strength.
मृद्दारश्रृंगः ( mṛddāraśrṛṃgaḥ )

Litharge
Lead oxide (PbO). Duly processed mriddarashringa is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
मृद्भक्षणजन्य/ कृमिजपाण्डुरोगः ( mṛdbhakṣaṇajanya/ kṛmijapāṇḍurogaḥ )

Anaemic syndrome due to pica or dirt-eating
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: loss of strength; loss of agni; loss of normal body colour; swelling of malar region; supraorbital swelling; swelling of eyebrows; pedal oedema; periumbilical oedema; oedema of penis; worm infestation in abdomen; diarrhoea/ altered stools; worms in faecal matter; oedema of face; blood-mixed faecal matter; mucus-mixed faecal matter;
मेढ्रः. शेफः, ध्वजः, उपस्थः, पुरुषेन्द्रियम्, लिङ्गम्, पौरुषम्, प्रजननम्, नालम्, लक्षणम् ( meḍhraḥ, śephaḥ,dhvajaḥ,upasthaḥ,puruṣendriyam,liṅgam,pauruṣam,prajananam, nālam, lakṣaṇam )

Penis
मेढ्रचर्म ( meḍhracarma )

Foreskin
मेढ्रद्वारम् ( meḍhradvāram )

External urethral orifice, urinary meatus
मेढ्ररोगजक्लैब्यम् ( meḍhrarogajaklaibyam )

Impotency due to penile disorders
Impotency due to structural or functional disorders of the penis.
मेढ्राग्रम् ( meḍhrāgram )

Tip of the penis, glans penis
मेदःक्षयः ( medaḥkṣayaḥ )

Diminution of fat
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: breaking/splitting type of pain; fatigued mind and body; eye stress; sunken abdomen; splenomegaly; hollow feeling in joints; dryness of body parts; desire for fatty meat; numbness in low back; emaciation; exhaustion/fatigue; dryness/wasting/emaciation; signs and symptoms of māṃsa depletion.
मेदजरोहिणी ( medajarohiṇī )

Diphtheria due to vitiated fat
मेदसाश्रितंपटलम् ( medasāśritaṃpaṭalam )

Cortical part of lens and vitreous humour
मेदोगतमसूरिका ( medogatamasūrikā )

Lentil-shaped pox disease localized in fat
Lentil-shaped eruptive disorder is characterized by rounded eruptions; soft on touch; slightly raised; associated with severe fever; broad; unctuous apprearance of eruptions; associated with pain; unconsciousness/confusion; distress/ discontent/restlessness; burning sensation. pakvāśayaḥ, pakvasthānam, pakvādhānam
मेदोगतवातः ( medogatavātaḥ )

Aggravation of vata in fatty tissue
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: heaviness of body, excessive pain in body as if beaten by a stick or fists; pain and excessive fatigue; glandular swelling which is hard; firm or rough; pricking pain; exhaustion/fatigue; severe pain; stiffness; mild pain; glandular swelling without ulcer.
मेदोज-ओष्ठप्रकोपः ( medoja-oṣṭhaprakopaḥ )

Disorders of lip due to vitiated fat, hypertrophy of lip
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: lips resembling the supernatant layer of ghee; itching sensation in lips; stable nature of lip lesion; soft lips; crystal-clear discharge; heaviness of lips; unctuous lips; oedematous lips; moistening/soddening of lips; nonhealing ulcer; nonsoftening of ulcer.
मेदोज-गलगण्डः ( medoja-galagaṇḍaḥ )

Goitre due to predominance of fat
मेदोज-वृद्धिः ( medoja-vṛddhiḥ )

Hydrocoele due to predominance of vitiated fat
A disorder characterized by clinical features of all types of dosha; cracking of penile skin; appearance of kṛmi; scrotal oedema; severe pain; undergoing rapid suppuration.
मेदोजग्रन्थिः ( medojagranthiḥ )

Nodular swelling, cyst due to afflicted adipose tissue
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a swelling which increases or decreases as the body mass increases or decreases; unctuous swelling; large swelling; swelling with mild pain; associated with excessive itching sensation; on bursting discharge resembles an oil-cake or ghee; soft swelling; mobile swelling; on bursting thick coppery black-coloured meda discharge.
मेदोजस्वरभेदः ( medojasvarabhedaḥ )

Hoarse voice, altered voice due to vitiated fat
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: inaudible phonation within the throat; indistinct syllables; delayed speech; thirst; coated/smeared throat; coated/smeared lips; coated/smeared palate; difficulty in pronouncing syllables.
मेदोधराकला ( medodharākalā )

Fatty tissue-bearing membrane
मेदोधातुः ( medo-dhātuḥ )

Fat
The fourth of the seven fundamental structural components. Its function is to provide oleation. It refers to adipose tissue and other lipids in the body.
मेदोधातुगतज्वरः ( medodhātugatajvaraḥ )

Fever due to vitiated fat
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: perspiration; excessive thirst; excessive talking/ irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; repeated vomiting; intolerance of personal smell; fatigued mind and body; loss of taste; syncope or swooning; vomiting; bad odour; intolerance.
मेदोधात्वग्निः ( medodhātvagniḥ )

Metabolic factors located in fat
The transformative factor which converts muscle tissue to fat
मेदोरोगः ( medorogaḥ )

Obesity
A disorder defined by excessive body mass and characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: decreased life expectancy; decreased sexual potency; snoring due to obstructed respiration; voracious appetite; dyspnoea on exertion; thirst; bad odour; tendency of fat to accumulate in the abdomen and bones; confusion/delirium; bodily exhaustion or tiredness; sleepiness; sweating; vigour not in proportion to body bulk; pendulous breasts; pendulous buttocks; pendulous abdomen.
मेदोवहस्रोतः ( medovahasrotaḥ )

Channel carrying fat
The pathway for fat. Entities related to this channel are the kidneys and omentum.
मेदोवहस्रोतोदुष्टिः ( medovahasrotoduṣṭiḥ )

Vitiation of channels carrying medas
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: excessive collection of tartar on the teeth, palate, tongue; burning sensation in hands and feet; sticky sweating; thirst and breathlessness.
मेदोवहस्रोतोविद्धः ( medovahasrotoviddhaḥ )

Injury to the channels carrying fat
A disorder characterized by perspiration; oiliness of body; dryness of palate; nonpitting oedema; thirst.
मेदोवृद्धिः ( medovṛddhiḥ )

Morbid increase of fat
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: unctuousness of body parts; pendulous fatty enlargement of abdomen; fatty deposition in flanks; cough; difficulty in breathing/dyspnoea on minor exertion; bad odour; prodromal signs of prameha; complications of obesity; diseases of kapha and rakta; signs and symptoms of enlargement/hypertrophy of māṃsa; exhaustion/fatigue; pendulous fatty enlargement of hips; pendulous fatty enlargement of breasts.
मेदोवैषम्यम् ( medovaiṣamyam )

Disproportion of fat
Changes in the normal quantity and quality of adipose tissue.
मेदोसारः ( medosāraḥ )

Person with predominance or essence of fat
Characterized by features such as glossy complexion; smooth and pleasant voice; shining eyes; shining and glossy scalp and body hair, nails, teeth and lips; unctuous urine and faeces; being endowed with wealth; prosperity; happiness; enjoyment; simplicity; softness and being gentle in activities.
मेध्यरसायनम् ( medhyarasāyanam )

Rejuvenation therapy to enhance mental abilities
Rejuvenation therapy or medicines beneficial for increasing intellect.
मेध्यायुष्यकामीयरसायनम् ( medhyāyuṣyakāmīyarasāyanam )

Mental ability and lifespan enhancer
Therapies or medicines which enhance intellect and improve longevity.
मैथुनाशक्तिः ( maithunāśaktiḥ )

Inability to perform sexual intercourse
Incapacity to perform sexual intercourse due to inability to achieve or sustain an erection; also used as a synonym for impotency.
मोक्षः ( mokṣaḥ )

Salvation, liberation
Liberation, cessation from worldly existence or transmigration, the fourth goal of life (puruṣartha).
मोहः ( mohaḥ )

Delusion
A state of confusion or perplexity that leads to incorrect perception and error.
यकृत्, कालखण्डः, कालीयम्, कालीयकम् ( yakṛt, kālakhaṇḍaḥ, kālīyam, kālīyakam )

Liver
यकृत्प्रदेशः ( yakṛtpradeśaḥ )

Hepatic region
यक्षोन्मादः ( yakṣonmādaḥ )

Psychosis making a person behave like an opulent person
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: continuous dreams; continuous crying; continuous laughing; liking dancing; liking singing; liking various foods; liking drinking; liking bathing; liking flowers; liking holy fumes; liking perfumes; liking musical instruments; liking recitals; liking stories or chatting; reddish-coloured eyes; confused dilated eyes; hating brahmaṇavaidya parivādinaṃ; speaking secretly/revealing secrets; coppery redness of eyes; wearing favourite garments; wearing light garments; liking red-coloured clothes; serious in nature; speedy/quick/swift gait; talking less; tolerant; looking majestic; constantly asking what might be done for others.
यदृच्छासिद्धिः ( yadṛcchāsiddhiḥ )

Chance effect
The chance effect by which a medicine appears to cure or relieve the symptoms of a disease, when it is not possible to confirm a clinical outcome is the result of a given course of action.
यन्त्रदोषः ( yantradoṣaḥ )

Defects of blunt surgical instruments
The 12 types of defects inherent in blunt instruments which makes them unsuitable for their respective purposes.
यन्त्रम् ( yantram )

Blunt surgical instruments, devices
The variety of blunt instruments and tools used in surgery.
यन्त्रम् ( yantram )

Instrument, equipment or apparatus
यन्त्रम् (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( yantram (vraṇacikitsā)

Use of blunt instrument Therapeutic removal of a deeply embedded foreign body or to assist surgical morbid material from a wound using a blunt instrument. procedures for wound management
यमकबन्धः ( yamakabandhaḥ )

Twin bandage
A type of bandage applied to two adjacent wounds.
यव ( yava )

Barley grain
Grain of Hordeum vulgare L. Often employed as a basic unit of length.
यवक्षारः ( yavakṣāraḥ )

Alkali mainly containing potassium carbonate
यवप्रख्या ( yavaprakhyā )

Skin lesions resembling barley seeds
A disorder characterized by knotted lesions; lesions located in muscle tissue; barley-shaped lesions; very hard lesions.
यववक्रशलाका ( yavavakraśalākā )

Probe with a barley seed-shaped tip
An instrument with a barley seed-shaped tip.
यवोदरः ( Measure of length equal to the distance taken by a thin string to yavodaraḥ traverse the centre of one barley grain or the central thickness of the barley grain: one-eighth of 3/4 inch, i.e. 0.24 cm. )

Length approximately equal to thickness of barley grain at its centre
यशदम् ( yaśadam )

Zinc
Zn (Zinc). Duly processed yashada is employed as a standalone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
यष्टिकर्णः ( yaṣṭikarṇaḥ )

Lobuloplasty type 14
A type of lobuloplasty indicated when both flaps of the split lobule have keloid tissue, are vascular and very small.
यानक्लान्तस्य आस्थापनस्य व्यापदः ( yānaklāntasya āsthāpanasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition caused by medicated decoction enema administered to person fatigued by travelling
A condition characterized by instantaneous emaciation of body.
यापनबस्तिः ( yāpanabastiḥ )

Palliative enema
A type of therapeutic enema which is used to maintain health and prolong life.
यापनवस्ति-अतियोगः ( yāpanavasti-atiyogaḥ )

Condition due to Excessive use of maintenance oily enema
याप्यरोगः ( yāpyarogaḥ )

Diseases that can be palliated
Diseases which by their nature are not completely curable but can be controlled or mitigated and symptoms palliated with suitable medicines and dietetics, e.g. persistent diabetes mellitus and bronchial asthma.
यामः ( yāmaḥ )

Time equivalent to approximately 3 hours
Time equal to 3.75 muhurta.
याम्यकायः ( yāmyakāyaḥ )

Person with judicious, prompt temperament
The characteristics of person with a judicious, prompt temperament are doing the right things with tireless energy, fearlessness, a good and retentive memory, freedom from attachments and infatuations, and a lack of vanity and jealousy.
युक्तरथबस्तिः ( yuktarathabastiḥ )

Enema practicable even while travelling
A type of enema which can be administered with minimal restrictions on travel and physical activity.
युक्तिः ( yuktiḥ )

Logical management, rationale
The quality of being able to intelligently consider circumstances and act on that basis; also considered as one of the methods of investigation and examination.
युक्तिः ( yuktiḥ )

Reasoning, understanding causation
The perception of the multiplicity of factors behind a phenomenon or event.
युक्तिकृतबलम् ( yuktikṛta-balam )

Acquired strength
Strength or immunity attained by the application of rational means such as rejuvenation therapy.
युक्तिव्यपाश्रयचिकित्सा, मानुषीचिकित्सा ( yuktivyapāśrayacikitsā, mānuṣīcikitsā )

Structured therapy based on clinical reasoning
A rational and evidence-based therapeutic intervention within the ambit of human intelligence; one of the treatment classifications which has recourse to modalities such as the administration of medicines, diet and other evidence-based approaches to treat a disease.
युगः ( yugaḥ )

Time equivalent to five years
Time equal to five samvatsara.
युवानपिडका (मुखदूषिका) ( yuvānapiḍakā (mukhadūṣikā) )

Pimples
A disorder characterized by lesions resembling silk cottontree prickles; affecting young people’s faces; associated with pain; thick and dense lesion; presence of fatty pultaceous material inside lesions.
यूका ( yūkā )

Head lice infestation
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: itching; wheal-like skin eruptions; papules/ eruptions; nodular swelling.
यूषः ( yūṣaḥ )

Soup of vegetables and /or pulses
A type of food preparation in which a soup of vegetables and/ or pulses is prepared by adding 16 parts water.
यूषोपयोगजीर्णज्वरः/यूषोपयोगवातज्वरः ( yūṣopayogajīrṇajvaraḥ )

Condition due to use of gruel endstage of fever
योगः ( yogaḥ )

Union, compounding, a structured sentence (syntax)
An arrangement of words and sentences structured and ordered so as to make complete sense.
योगबस्तिः ( yogabastiḥ )

Course of eight combined therapeutic enemas
A type of therapeutic enema based on a course of eight enemas which includes five half-dose therapeutic ghee or oily enemas and three therapeutic decoction enemas, administered in a particular sequence.
योगवाही ( Substance accommodating the properties of other substances yogavāhī with which it comes into contact without losing its own attributes: it can therefore be used as a vehicle for drug administration, e.g. honey. )

Substance accommodating the properties of other substances
योग्या ( yogyā )

Simulated training in surgical procedures
Development of technical skills in surgery by performing the technique on various objects. It is a part of surgical training.
योनिः, अपत्यपथः, अपत्यमार्गः, विशिखान्तरम्, रक्तपथः ( yoniḥ, apatyapathaḥ,apatyamārgaḥ,viśikhāntaram, raktapathaḥ )

Vagina
योनिकन्दः ( yonikandaḥ )

Round-shaped abscess in vagina
A gynaecological disorder characterized by a tuberous swelling filled with pus; a tuberous swelling filled with blood; a tuberous swelling resembling a nikuca fruit.
योनिकल्कधारण ( yoni kalkadhāraṇa )

Retention of medicated pastes in vagina
Application and retention of a medicated paste or poultice in the vaginal canal.
योनिधावन/ योनिप्रक्षालन ( yoni dhāvana/ yoni prakṣālana )

Vaginal douche
The procedure of vaginal douching with medicated liquids.
योनिधूपन ( yoni dhūpana )

Vaginal fumigation
The procedure of fumigating the external genitalia or vaginal canal with fumes produced by medicinal substances.
योनिपिचु ( yoni picu )

Vaginal tampon
A sterile tampon soaked with medicated liquids which is inserted in the vaginal canal.
योनिपूरण ( yoni pūraṇa )

Vaginal irrigation
The procedure of introducing medicated substances into the vaginal canal.
योनिरोगः/योनिव्यापत् ( yonirogaḥ/ yonivyāpat )

Vaginal disease
Disorders of female genitalia including the uterus.
योनिलेपन ( yoni lepana )

Application of medicated paste to vagina
Application of a medicated paste to the vaginal walls.
योनिवर्ति ( yoni vartī )

Vaginal suppository or wick
The procedure of inserting a medicated suppository or wick prepared with herbal or mineral medicationsinto the vagina.
रक्त-स्रावः ( rakta-srāvaḥ )

Blood exudation from corners of eye
A disorder characterized by bloody discharge; warm discharge; profuse discharge; not very dense discharge; coppery-coloured discharge; profuse discharge of vitiated blood.
रक्तक्षयः ( raktakṣayaḥ )

Diminution of blood
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: rough/dry skin; cracked skin; faded skin/ lustreless skin; praying for/desire for/liking of sour taste; praying/desire/liking for cold; laxity of vessels/tortuous vessels; dryness.
रक्तगतमसूरिका ( raktagatamasūrikā )

Lentil-shaped pox disease localized in raktadhātu
Lentil-shaped eruptive disorder is characterized by eruptions resembling blood; sudden onset of suppuration; thin skin; discharge of blood on rupture; not very severe.
रक्तज-अधिमन्थः ( raktaja-adhimanthaḥ )

Glaucoma due to vitiated blood, haemorrhagic glaucoma
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: the bright-red appearance of the eye resembling Pentapetes phoenicae flowers; weakness of eyes; tenderness of eyes; bloody discharge; pricking type of pain; all directions appearing to be on fire; eyes resembling ariṣṭa dipped in blood; fiery red eyes; reddish margins; coppery margins; pain as if being torn apart; bleeding through eye.
रक्तज-उपदंशः ( raktaja-upadaṃśaḥ )

Sexually transmitted penile inflammation due to vitiated blood
A disease characterized by black blisters; severe bleeding; features of the pittaja variety; fever; burning sensation; dryness/wasting/emaciation; fleshy appearance.
रक्तज-ओष्ठप्रकोपः ( raktaja-oṣṭhaprakopaḥ )

Disorders of lip due to vitiated blood, lip granuloma
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: eruptions resembling the colour of date-palm fruit; tumour after blood loss; lips obscured with blood; bleeding; vesicles becoming painful; secretion resembling blood.
रक्तज-प्रतिश्यायः ( raktaja-pratiśyāyaḥ )

Rhinitis due to vitiated blood
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a bloody discharge; coppery redness of eyes; afflicted by features of chest injury; bad odour from nose; foul odour from mouth/halitosis; inability to perceive smell; manifestation of unctuous-looking worms; manifestation of whitish worms; manifestation of minute worms; disorders of kṛmija siro roga; feeling of numbness over chest; copperycoloured eyes; itching in ear; itching in eyes; itching in nose.
रक्तज-लिङ्गनाशः ( raktaja-liṅganāśaḥ )

Mature cataract due to vitiated blood
A disorder characterized by a pearl-coloured cataract; colour of red-lotus petal; blackish discoloration of dṛṣṭi; lustreless eyes; loss of vision; red-coloured vision.
रक्तज-वृद्धिः ( raktaja-vṛddhiḥ )

Hydrocoele due to predominance of vitiated blood
A disorder characterized by heavy swelling of scrotum accompanied by copious whitish dense discharge.
रक्तज-शिरोरोगः ( raktaja-śirorogaḥ )

Headache due to vitiated blood
A disorder characterized by pitta-dominant features of headache; tenderness/inability to tolerate head being touched; pitta-predominant pain.
रक्तजगुल्मः ( raktajagulmaḥ )

Lumps or growths due to vitiated rakta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: stoppage/obstruction of menstrual flow; increased size of abdomen due to obstruction of menstrual flow; colicky pain in abdomen; cough; diarrhoea; vomiting; loss of taste; indigestion; generalized body aches; sleep; lethargy; feeling as if covered with wet cloth; salivation; expression of breast milk; blackish lips; blackish breast areola; severe fatigue of eyes; syncope or swooning; nausea; pedal oedema; mild abdominal striae/striae gravidarum; dilatation of vagina; bad odour of vagina; discharge from vagina; pulsating lump/quickening; signs of pitta gulma; no pulsation; no abdominal enlargement; signs of pregnancy; imperious desire/desire of pregnant woman; weaker/more debilitated; rigidity/stiffness; burning sensation; diarrhoea; pain in uterus; delayed pulsation with pain.
रक्तजग्रन्थिः ( raktajagranthiḥ )

Nodular swelling, cyst due to vitiation of blood
A disorder characterized by numbness and features of pitta-predominant cyst: severe burning; fuming sensation; sucking type of pain; inflammation/suppuration; feeling of being burnt up; reddish swelling; yellow swelling; profuse; warm and bloody discharge; rapidly suppurating.
रक्तजदाहः ( raktajadāhaḥ )

Generalized burning sensation due to vitiated rakta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: warmth; coppery lustre with copper-red eyes; coppery lustre to skin; thirst; emitting iron-like odour from body; emitting iron-like odour from mouth.
रक्तजमसूरिका ( raktajamasūrikā )

Lentil-shaped pox disease due to vitiated blood
Lentil-shaped eruptive disorder is characterized by red eruptions; yellow eruptions; blackish eruptions; burning sensation; severe pain; rapidly suppurating; altered stools/ loose motions; generalized body aches; burning sensation; thirst; loss of taste; stomatitis; redness of eyes; severe fever; very distressing with high fever.
रक्तजमूर्च्छा ( raktajamūrcchā )

Syncope due to vitiated blood
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: fainting on perceiving solely the smell of blood; reddish vision; deep respiration; body becoming rigid.
रक्तजरोहिणी ( raktajarohiṇī )

Diphtheria due to vitiated blood
A disorder characterized by blisters; blisters with pittapredominant features; heat resembling burning charcoal; otalgia; features of disorder caused by pitta.
रक्तजविद्रधिः ( raktajavidradhiḥ )

Abscess due to vitiated blood
A type of abscess characterized by a swelling covered with black blisters; blackish discoloration; severe burning sensation; painful; fever; features of paittika abscess; swelling resembling ripe fig-fruit or udumbara; blackish colour of swelling; fever; producing a burning sensation; rapid onset and suppuration; yellowish discharge; discharge resembling sesame seeds or tila; discharge resembling black gram or māṣa; discharge resembling kulatthodakaḥ; thirst; confusion/ delirium; intoxication; reddish swelling; copperycoloured swelling.
रक्तजविस्फोटकः ( raktajavisphoṭakaḥ )

Bullous eruptions due to vitiated blood
A disorder characterized by eruptions resembling gunja or vidruma/coral.
रक्तजव्रणः ( raktajavraṇaḥ )

Ulcer due to vitiated rakta
An ulcer characterized by resembling a collection of corap sprouts; covered with black vesicles; covered with black eruptions; covered with black network-like structures; smells like horses’ stable; associated with pain; fuming sensation; bloody discharge; sudden onset; yellowish discoloration; bluish discoloration; oozing resembling palasha flower washings; warm discharge; burning sensation; causing inflammation/suppuration; dreadful-looking; yellowish pustules; pricking pain; burning sensation; smoky/fuming sensation; yellowish or reddish in appearance with a similarly coloured discharge; discharge of pus tinged with blood.
रक्तजव्रणशोफः ( raktajavraṇaśophaḥ )

Pre-ulcerative inflammation due to vitiated rakta
A condition characterized by yellowish-coloured swelling; soft oedema; reddish swelling; rapid onset of suppuration; intensely black-coloured swelling; burning sensation; smoky/ fuming sensation.
रक्तजार्बुदः ( raktajārbudaḥ )

Tumour due to vitiated blood
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: profuse bleeding; nonsuppurative; rapid growth; raised; larger in size; pallor; fleshy projections forming bulky growth; with discharge.
रक्तजार्शः ( raktajārśaḥ )

Haemorrhoids due to vitiated blood
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms fleshy growths; anal obstruction; polyps of different shape and size; severe emaciation; lack of energy; timidity or apathy; blackish discoloration; lack of glow; paleness; loss of lustre; resembling a tree afflicted by worms; associated with complications caused due to marma pīḍa; cough; thirst; unpleasant taste in the mouth; breathlessness/ difficulty in breathing; cold catarrh; breaking type of pain in body; sneezing; swelling; fever; inability to perform sexual act/ impotence; deafness/hearing impairment; errors of refraction/ partial blindness; mutiple gravely particles in urine; weak and feeble voice; hoarseness of voice; staring look; spitting/ excessive expectoration; loss of taste; pain in small joints; bone pains; pain in precordium/cardiac region; pain in umbilical region; pain in anus; pain in groin region; slimy discharge from anus; ricewater discharge from anus; occasional constipation; occasional normal bowels; sometimes wet; sometimes dry; sometimes ripened; sometimes unripened; pale-coloured stools; yellow stools; greenish stools; reddish stools; slimy stools.
रक्तधराकला ( raktadharākalā )

Blood-bearing membrane
रक्तधातुः, रक्तम्, शोणितम् ( rakta-dhātuḥ, raktam, śoṇitam )

Blood
The second of the seven fundamental structural components. Its function is to give life. It is formed in the liver and spleen with the help of colouring pitta and its metabolic component and receives its name from the red colour .
रक्तधातुगतज्वरः ( raktadhātugatajvaraḥ )

Fever due to vitiated blood
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a papular rash filled with rakta or red-coloured pustules; a hot-feeling papular rash; thirst; repeated haemoptysis; burning sensation; redness/congestion; giddiness or dizziness; intoxication; excessive talking/irrelevant speech/ incoherent speech; perspiration; vomiting; papules/eruptions; confusion/delirium.
रक्तधात्वग्निः ( raktadhātvagniḥ )

Metabolic factors located in blood
The transformative factor which converts primary circulating nutrient fluid to blood .
रक्तपित्तम् ( raktapittam )

Haemorrhage from external and internal orifices, bleeding disorders
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: bleeding from body orifices in its upper part, i.e. mouth, nose, eyes and ears; bleeding from body orifices in its lower part, i.e. anus, penis and vagina; bleeding from both body parts; bleeding through hair follicles.
रक्तपुष्टिः ( raktapuṣṭiḥ )

Nourishment of blood
One of the functions of primary circulating nutrient fluid.
रक्तपूर्णकोष्ठः ( raktapūrṇakoṣṭhaḥ )

Accumulation of blood in the thoracoabdominal cavity due to injury
रक्तमोक्षण-अतियोगः ( raktamokṣaṇa-atiyogaḥ )

Condition due to excessive bloodletting
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a burning sensation in the head; blindness; eye disease and glacouma; errors of refraction/partial blindness; diminution of dhātu or emaciation; convulsions; burning sensation; hemiplegia; monoplegia; hiccups; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; cough; pallor/clinical features of paṇḍu; death.
रक्तमोक्षण-अपचारः ( raktamokṣaṇa-apacāraḥ )

Condition due to improper application of bloodletting
रक्तमोक्षण-अयोगः ( raktamokṣaṇa-ayogaḥ )

Condition due to suboptimal or inadequate bloodletting
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: oedema; burning sensation; redness/ congestion; inflammation/suppuration; pain.
रक्तमोक्षणमिथ्यायोगः ( raktamokṣaṇamithyāyogaḥ )

Condition due to improper application of bloodletting
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: profound swelling; rigidity/stiffness; tremors; diseases of tendons and veins; diseases of tendons and veins; fatigued mind and body; other diseases of vāta origin.
रक्तमोक्षणम् (विषोपक्रमः) ( raktamokṣaṇam (viṣopakramaḥ) )

Bloodletting
Removal of vitiated blood by bloodletting in the treatment of poisoning.
रक्तमोक्षणम्/अस्रविस्रुतिः ( raktamokṣaṇam/ asravisrutiḥ )

Bloodletting
The therapeutic measure of bloodletting (in which a specific amount of blood is removed from the body).
रक्तवहस्रोतः ( Raktavahasrotaḥ )

Channel carrying blood
The pathway which carries blood. Entities related to this channel are the liver and spleen.
रक्तवहस्रोतोदुष्टिः ( raktavahasrotoduṣṭiḥ )

Vitiation of channels carrying blood
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: skin afflictions, erysipelas, dysfunctional uterine bleeding, inflammation of rectum, penis, mouth, enlargement of spleen, moles, freckles, jaundice, ringworm, leucoderma, papules, wheals.
रक्तवहस्रोतोविद्धः ( raktavahasrotoviddhaḥ )

Injury to the channels carrying blood
A disorder characterized by black discoloration of body; fever; burning sensation; pallor; bleeding/haemorrhage; redness of the eyes.
रक्तवहा ( Raktavahā )

Vein carrying blood
रक्तवृद्धिः ( raktavṛddhiḥ )

Morbid increase of blood
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: redness of skin/body parts; reddish-coloured eyes; fullness of blood vessels; skin disease; spreading cellulitis/erysipelas; papules/eruptions; irregular or excessive menstruation; redness/inflammation of eyes/conjunctivitis; redness/inflammation of mouth/stomatitis; redness/ inflammation of penis/balanitis; redness/inflammation of anus/ proctitis; plīha; palpable glandular enlargement in abdomen/ abdominal lump; abscess; blackish patches on face; clinical features of jaundice; loss of agni; feeling of entering into darkness; clinical features of vātarakta; diseases caused by pitta; unconsciousness/confusion; urine with blood/bloodcoloured urine/haematuria; clinical features of raktapitta; inflammation of gums/gingivitis; clinical features of jaundice.
रक्तवैषम्यम् ( raktavaiṣamyam )

Disproportion of blood
Changes in the normal quantity and quality of blood.
रक्तशोधनः, अस्रविशोधनः ( raktaśodhanaḥ, asraviśodhanaḥ )

Blood purifier
रक्तसारः ( rakta-sāraḥ )

Person with predominance or essence of blood
Characterized by features such as redness, unctuousness of ears, eyes, mouth, face, tongue, nose, lips, palms, soles, nails, forehead, penis and a pleasant personality.
रक्तातिप्रवृत्तिः ( raktātipravṛttiḥ )

Condition of severe haemorrhage
रक्तातिसारः ( raktātisāraḥ )

Diarrhoea due to vitiated blood
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: stool mixed with blood; thirst; colicky pain in the abdomen; internal burning sensation; proctitis; fever; burning sensation.
रक्ताभिष्यन्दः ( raktābhiṣyandaḥ )

Conjunctivitis due to vitiated blood, acute mucopurulent conjunctivitis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: coppery lacrimation; reddish discoloration of eyes; generalized deep red vascular lines; features of pittaja abhiṣyanda; reddish tear secretion; increased vascularity; reddish rheum secretion; seeing reddish halos.
रक्ताशयः, शोणितस्थानम्, ( raktāśayaḥ, śoṇitasthānam, rudhirasthānam, jīvaraktāśayaḥ )

Receptacle for rakta
Sites at which blood is stored or collected such as the liver, spleen or heart.
रक्षाकर्म ( rakṣākarma )

Protective measures for the newborn
The different measures adopted to ensure the protection of the newborn from infections and injuries.
रक्षाविधानम् (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( rakṣāvidhānam (vraṇacikitsā) )

Protective measures Measures (e.g. fumigation, chanting mantra) to protect for wound management wounds from factors imperceptible to sense organs that are deleterious to wound healing and clinical outcome.
रजः ( rajaḥ )

Agitation, activity
Characterized by activity, initiation, action and attachment, it is capable of vitiating the mind.
रजतम् ( rajatam )

Silver
Ag (Argentum). Duly processed rajata is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
रञ्जकपित्तम् ( Subtype of pitta seated in liver, spleen and its pigment in blood. rañjaka-pittam )

Colouring pitta
रत्नम् ( ratnam )

Gems
Group of gems/precious stones for medicinal usage.
रसः ( rasaḥ )

Taste
Trait of water element.
रसः ( rasaḥ )

Taste
There are six tastes: sweet, sour, salty, pungent, bitter and astringent. The term also indicates the fundamental structural component of primary circulating nutrient fluid (rasadhatu) as well as mercury.
रसकः/खर्परः ( rasakaḥ/kharparaḥ )

Smithsonite, calamine
Zinc carbonate (ZnCo3). In calcinated form rasaka is used as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral formulations.
रसकृतरोगः ( rasakṛtarogaḥ )

Diseases due to inadequate fetal nutrition
Congenital disorders due to a deleterious diet during conception and pregnancy.
रसक्रिया ( rasakriyā )

Water-soluble extract concentrated into semisolid form
The desired drug is decocted, filtered and concentrated into a thick syrup
रसक्रिया (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( rasakriyā (vraṇacikitsā) )

Application of semisolid medicated decoction for wound management
Application of semi-solidified medicated decoction for wound healing.
रसक्रिया क्षुद्राञ्जनम् ( rasakriyā kṣudrāñjanam )

Concentrated decocted A therapeutic procedure in which the desired medication is paste used as eyemade into decoction which is then filtered and concentrated to shadow make a thick paste for use as an eyeshadow .
A disorder characterized by yellowishness of body, hypothermia or mild warmth.
रसक्षयः ( rasakṣayaḥ )

Diminution of primary circulating nutrient fluid
रसक्षयजतृष्णा ( rasakṣayajatṛṣṇā )

Morbid thirst due to depletion of primary circulating nutrient fluid
A disorder characterized by drying up; burning sensation; excessive desire for water.
रसधातुः, रसः ( rasa-dhātuḥ, rasaḥ )

Primary circulating nutrient fluid, primary product of digestion
The first of the seven fundamental structural components. Its major function is nourishment. It is the primary product of digestion and circulates constantly throughout the body from the heart and nourishes other tissues .
रसधातुगतज्वरः ( rasadhātugatajvaraḥ )

Fever due to vitiated primaryproduct of digestion
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: heaviness; apathy; agitation/anxiety; exhaustion; vomiting; loss of taste; hot sensation externally; generalized body aches; yawning; burning sensation in the precordial/cardiac region; nausea/provocation of dosha; breaking type of pain in body.
रसधात्वग्निः ( rasadhātvagniḥ )

Metabolic factors located in primary circulating nutrient fluid
The transformative factor which converts digested food to primary circulating nutrient fluid.
रसनेन्द्रियम् ( rasanendriyam )

Gustatory sense faculty
One of the sensory faculties : the faculty responsible for perception of taste or gustation.
रसपञ्चकम् ( rasapañcakam )

Five pharmaco-therapeutic principles of substance
The five pharmaco-therapeutic principles of substances are taste, quality, potency, post-digestion taste, and unique therapeutic action.
रसवहस्रोतः ( rasavahasrotaḥ )

Channel carrying nutrient fluids
The pathway mediating and distributing the primary circulating nutrient fluid to the body tissues. Entities related to this channel are the heart and vessels carrying primary circulating nutrient fluid.
रसवहस्रोतोदष्टिः ( rasavahasrotoduṣṭiḥ )

Vitiation of channels carrying primary product of digestion
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: anorexia, nausea, impaired sensation of taste, heaviness, fever with body aches, loss of digestive power, premature wrinkling of skin, greying of hair.
रसवहस्रोतोविद्धः ( rasavahasrotoviddhaḥ )

Injury to the channels carrying nutrient fluids
A disorder characterized by dryness/wasting/emaciation; clinical features resembling an injury to prāṇavāha srotas; flexion/bending of body; semiconsciousness or stupefaction; vertigo; shivering/tremors; screaming; death.
रसवहाधमनी ( rasavahādhamanī )

Artery related to perception of taste
रसवृद्धिः ( rasavṛddhiḥ )

Aggravation or morbid increase of primary circulating nutrient fluid
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: nausea; excessive salivation; loss of taste; unpleasant taste in mouth; nausea; aversion to sweet food; generalized body aches; diseases caused by kapha; white discoloration; coldness; obesity; lethargy; heaviness; bodily exhaustion or tiredness/inability to perform physical activities; obstruction in srotas/obstruction to flow of primary circulating nutrient fluid (rasa); syncope or swooning; excessive sleep; drowsiness/lassitude; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; cough; diminution of agni; loosening/dislocation of joints; flaccidity/laxity in body parts.
रसवैषम्यम् ( rasavaiṣamyam )

Derangement of primary circulating nutrient fluid
रसशास्त्रम् ( rasaśāstram )

Discipline dealing with the therapeutic applications of metals and minerals
रसशेषजन्य-अजीर्णम् ( rasaśeṣajanya-ajīrṇam )

Indigestion due to remnant of unabsorbable primary product of digestion)
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: clear eructations but with continuing aversion to food; heaviness in cardiac region; excessive salivation; cardiac pain in spite of clear eructations; precordial discomfort with nausea; heaviness.
रसाञ्जनम् ( rasāñjanam )

Collyrium in form of semi-solid decoction
A type of collyrium in the form of a semi-solidified decoction.
रसातियोगः ( rasātiyogaḥ )

Disorder due to excessive intake of drugs or diet with predominantly one taste
रसायन-चिकित्सा ( rasāyana-cikitsā )

Rejuvenation and revitalization therapy
One of the eight branches of Ayurveda which deals with rejuvenation and improving life quality, longevity and disease control.
रसायनचिकित्सा, जराचिकित्सा ( rasāyanacikitsā, jarācikitsā )

Geriatrics
The clinical speciality of Ayurveda dealing with age-related issues and promoting health and well-being .
रसायनम् ( rasāyanam )

Rejuvenative therapy
The procedures or medicines used to improve health and longevity.
रसाला ( rasālā )

Sweet preparation of curd
A preparation of curd obtained by mixing it with sugar and spices such as pepper.
राक्षसकायः ( rākṣasakāyaḥ )

Person with intolerant, angry temperament
The characteristics of the person with an intolerant, angry temperament are a preference for solitude, wrathfulness, jealousy of others’ progress and irreligiousness.
रागः ( rāgaḥ )

Sweet-sour sauce
A preparation with mixed sweet, sour and salty tastes usually made by using the juice of garcinia, falsa fruit and black plum, and adding sugar, black salt, rock salt and a small amount of mustard powder.
राजयक्ष्मा ( rājayakṣmā )

Consumption disorder complex, diminution of structural components
राजसरोगः ( rājasarogaḥ )

Diseases caused by agitative, reactive tendency
A disorder of the psyche caused by an increase in agitative, reactive tendency in the individual, e.g. excessive anger, jealousy or impetuousness.
राजसिककायः ( rājasikakāyaḥ )

Person with agitated, reactive temperament
The mental and physical characteristics of the person with an agitated, reactive temperament are violence, cowardice, jealousy and greed.
राजावर्तः ( rājāvartaḥ )

Lapis lazuli
Duly processed rajavarta is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbomineral pharmaceutical formulations.
रात्रिचर्या ( rātricaryā )

Night routine
रुक्षणम् ( rukṣaṇam )

Substance which dehydrates
रुचकास्थि ( rucakāsthi )

Teeth
रुजाकरमर्म ( rujākaramarma )

Vulnerable location(s) leading to pain
Marma which if injured may lead to severe pain.
रुधिर-निवारणम् (चतुर्विध) ( rudhira-nivāraṇam (caturvidha) )

Methods of haemostasis
Various methods of arresting bleeding such as sandhānam,skandanam, pācanam and dahanam.
रुह्यमाणव्रणः ( ruhyamāṇavraṇaḥ )

Healing ulcer
An ulcer characterized by pigeon-coloured margins; no internal discharge; fixed to underlying tissue; flaky surface.
रूक्षः ( rūkṣaḥ )

Dryness
The quality of a substance which is responsible for dryness and absorbs moisture.
रूक्षण-अतियोगः ( rūkṣaṇa-atiyogaḥ )

Condition of excessive drying therapy
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: breaking type of pain in small joints; generalized body aches; cough; dryness of mouth; loss of appetite; loss of taste; thirst; weakness of ears; weakness of eyes; loss of memory/confusion state of mind; upward movement of vata; bradycardia; loss of power of body; loss of agni; loss of strength.
रूक्षण-अपचारः ( rūkṣaṇa-apacāraḥ )

Condition due to improper drying therapy
रूक्षरे तोदोषः ( rūkṣaretodoṣaḥ )

Reduced unctuousness of semen
A semen abnormality characterized by reduced unctuousness.
रूपः ( rūpaḥ )

Visual form, colour
Trait of fire element.
रूपवहाधमनी ( Rūpavahādhamanī )

Artery related to perception of form
रे चननस्यम् ( recananasyam )

Cleansing type of intranasal therapy
A type of nasya therapy which eliminates morbid factors from the head region.
रे तोदोषः ( retodoṣaḥ )

Seminal abnormalities
Seminal anomalies including qualitative and quantitative disturbances.
रे वतीग्रहः ( revatīgrahaḥ )

Symptom complex resembling juvenile pernicious anaemia due to external invisible factors
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: black-bluish discoloration; rubbing of ears; rubbing of eyes; rubbing of nose; cough; hiccups; irregular movement of eyes; deviation of mouth; redness of face; goat-like odour; fever; dryness/wasting; greenish faeces; loose stools; limbs covered with ulcers; limbs covered with blisters; muddy odour; bloody discharge; stools not well formed; burning sensation; excessive paleness of body; stomatitis; suffering with pain; easily afflicted.
रेतस् ( retas )

Semen
Part of seminal tissue. Predominantly composed of water element. It generally refers to the ejaculate and carries the male seed.
रोगपरीक्षा ( rogaparīkṣā )

Disease assessment
The process of investigating a disease: it is conducted by applying the five diagnostic principles
रोगाधिष्ठानम् ( rogādhiṣṭhānam )

Disease pathogenesis and manifestation
The site of origin of the pathogenesis and/or manifestation of a disease or condition.
रोगानीकः ( rogānīkaḥ )

Group of diseases, comorbidity
The simultaneous appearance of two or more illnesses.
रोगावस्था ( rogāvasthā )

Disease stage
The different stages or phases of a disease or condition.
रोगि ( rogi )

Patient
A patient is expected to have the following qualities: to be able to afford treatment personally or through a system support (adhya), consenting (bishagvashya), bear in mind instructions personally or through a reminder system (jnapakaḥ) and exert willpower (satvavan).
रोगीपरीक्षा ( rogīparīkṣā )

Patient examination
रोचनः, रुच्यम्, रुचिकृत्, रोचिष्णुः ( rocanaḥ, rucyam,rucikṛt, rociṣṇuḥ )

Taste enhancer
रोदनम्/क्रोशनम् ( rodanam/ krośanam )

Crying
The preverbal child’s act of expression for nearly everything – hunger, discomfort, pain and boredom – as well as an expression of pain or sadness in older (verbal) children.
रोपण-आश्च्योतनम् ( ropaṇa-āścyotanam )

Instillation of eye drops for healing effect
The instillation of liquid medications in the eye for healing effect.
रोपणकर्म ( ropaṇakarma )

Wound-healing measures
Wound-healing procedures using medications.
रोपणकवलः ( ropaṇakavalaḥ )

Mouth gargle with healing property
A type of gargle with healing properties.
रोपणगण्डू षः ( ropaṇagaṇḍūṣaḥ )

Retention of medications with healing property in the oral cavity
Full mouth retention of liquid medications with ulcer-healing properties for a specific time.
रोपणपुटपाकः ( ropaṇapuṭapākaḥ )

Retention of heat extract bolus with healing effects
A therapeutic procedure in which an herbal extract expressed from indirectly heated bolus is retained over the eyes for a stipulated period for healing effect.
रोपणसेकः ( ropaṇasekaḥ )

Continuous streaming of liquid medicines over the eyes for healing effects
A procedure involving gentle pouring of a thin stream of medicated solution over the closed eyelids for a stipulated period for healing effect.
रोपणाञ्जन-अतियोगः ( ropaṇāñjana-atiyogaḥ )

Condition due to overdosage of healing collyrium
रोपणाञ्जन-अपचारः ( ropaṇāñjana-apacāraḥ )

Condition due to improper application of healing collyrium
रोपणाञ्जन-अयोगः ( ropaṇāñjana-ayogaḥ )

Condition due to underdosage of healing collyrium
A condition characterized by no desired effect following the administration of healing collyrium.
रोपणाञ्जनम् ( ropaṇāñjanam )

Collyrium with healing effect
A type of collyrium with healing effect.
रोमकलवणम् ( rōmakalavaṇam )

Sambhar salt
रोमकूपः, कूयकम् ( romakūpaḥ, kūyakam )

Hair follicle
रोमराजी ( romarājī )

Linea nigra
रोमसञ्जननकर्म ( romasañjananakarma )

Stimulation of hair growth (repilation)
The therapeutic measure of stimulating hair growth by external application of medicines to the skin.
रोमान्तः ( romāntaḥ )

Hair tip
रोमावर्तः ( romāvartaḥ )

Hair whorl
रोहिणी ( rohiṇī )

Diphtheria
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a burning sensation at the base of tongue; large swelling at base of tongue; variable types of pains at base of tongue; life expectancy of three days; obstructing the throat; soft tissue growth obstructing the throat; sprouting muscles at root of tongue in the throat; severe; developing and growing fast; killing the patient quickly.
रोहिणी ( rohiṇī )

Sixth layer of skin
लगणः ( lagaṇaḥ )

Chalazion
A disorder characterized by a non-suppurating; hard; big; knotty; painless swelling in the eyelid; hardness; broad; painless swelling; itching; slimy; resembling a kola in size; pale swelling.
लघुः ( laghuḥ )

Lightness
The quality of a substance which promotes lightness and decreases physical bulk and heaviness.
लघुत्रयी (माधवनिदान, शार्ङ्गधरसंहिता, भावप्रकाश) ( Laghutrayī (Mādhavanidāna, Śārṅgadharasaṃhita, Bhāvaprakāśa) )

Lesser triad of Ayurveda texts
The supportive texts of Ayurveda. Madhavanidana, Sharangadharasamhita and Bhavaprakāśa.
लङ्घन-अतियोगः ( laṅghana-atiyogaḥ )

Condition of excessive depletion therapy
लङ्घन-अपचारः ( laṅghana-apacāraḥ )

Condition due to improper depletion therapy
लङ्घनम् ( laṅghanam )

Lightness promoting therapy
One of the six types of treatment modalities: a procedure that induces lightness in the body.
लज्जा ( lajjā )

Shyness
A term that expresses modesty, sense of decency or decorum.
लता ( latā )

Climber
A twiner or climber, e.g. vidari (Pueraria tuberosa) or kapikacchu (Mucuna prurita).
ललाटम्, अलिकम् ( lalāṭam, alikam )

Forehead
ललाटसिरा ( lalāṭasirā )

Veins of the forehead
लवण-रसः, पटुः ( lavaṇa-rasaḥ, paṭuḥ )

Salty taste
लवणमेहः ( lavaṇamehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with urine resembling salt solution
A disorder characterized by salty urine.
लवणम् ( lavaṇam )

Salt
Different salts used in medicinal preparations.
लवणरसातियोगः ( lavaṇarasātiyogaḥ )

Disorder due to excessive intake of salty substances
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: vitiation of pitta; pronounced increase in rakta; thirst; syncope or swooning; hotness/pyrexia; cracking/ fissuring of skin; suppuration of māṃsa; suppuration of skin diseases/appearance of skin lesions; increased effect of viṣa; rupturing of swellings; loosening of teeth; tooth loss; impotence/loss of sexual vigour; obstruction of sense organ functioning; wrinkles; greying of hair; hair loss/baldness; signs of raktapitta; amlapitta; spreading cellulitis/erysipelas; vātarakta; vicharchika; indralupta; itching; wheal-like skin eruptions; oedema; discoloration; stomatitis; inflammation of eyes; sour belching/eructations; clinical features of kiṭibha; convulsions; agumentation of wounds; augumentation of insanity; loss of physical strength or weakness; diminution of ojas.
लवणस्कन्धः ( lavaṇaskandhaḥ )

Group of salty substances
लसीका ( lasīkā )

Lymphatic exudate
Clear fluid exudate at the site of a skin injury, one of the sites of pitta.
लाक्षारसः ( lākṣārasaḥ )

Solute of shellac
लाजपेया ( lājapeyā )

Thin gruel of parched grain
A thin gruel prepared from parched grains.
लाजमण्डः ( lājamaṇḍaḥ )

Liquid portion of parched grain gruel
The liquid portion of gruel prepared from parched grains
लाजसक्तुः ( lājasaktuḥ )

Flour of roasted parched grain
A type of food preparation made from the flour of roasted parched grain by adding water and sugar, and mixing it to the consistency of paste.
लाजा ( lājā )

Parched paddy
A preparation of roasted grains which is easily digestible.
लालामेहः ( lālāmehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with urine similar in consistency to saliva
A disorder characterized by passage of saliva-like urine containing shreds; slimy urine.
लिक्षा ( likṣā )

Nit infestation
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: itching; wheal-like skin eruptions; papules/ eruptions; nodular swelling.
लिङ्गः, आकृतिः , लक्षणम् , चिह्नम् , संस्थानम् , व्यञ्जनम् , रूपम् . ( linga )

Signs and symptoms
Ayurveda uses several terms as synonyms for signs and symptoms, based on the different perspectives under which they are understood. Any morbid phenomenon or departure from the normal in structure, function or sensation, as experienced by the patient or observed by the physician and indicating a disease. The terms used are लिङ्गः, आकृतिः , लक्षणम् , चिह्नम् , संस्थानम् , व्यञ्जनम् , रूपम् .
लिङ्गनाशः ( liṅganāśaḥ )

Mature cataract
A disorder characterized by ability to see only glowing objects; impariment of vision; objects appearing to be dazzling; seeing star-like objects; seeing lightning before eyes.
लिङ्गनाशमिथ्यावेधनम् ( liṅganāśamithyāvedhanam )

Condition due to improper puncturing in eye diseases
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: redness/congestion; oedema; tumour; sucking type of pain; muscular growth resembling bubble; downward gaze; eye disease/glacouma; pain.
लीढम् ( līḍham )

Lickables
Semisolid food items such as pastes, jams, and jellies, which are licked when consumed.
लीनदोषावस्था ( līnadoṣāvasthā )

Vitiated dosha lying dormant
A state in which vitiated dosha remains dormant (concealed) in the body conduits. In this state, the dosha remains primed to cause diseases when circumstances are favourable.
लूताविषः ( lūtāviṣaḥ )

Poisoning due to spider bite
लेखन-आश्च्योतनम् ( lekhana-āścyotanam )

Instillation of eye drops for curetting effect
The instillation of liquid medications in the eye for curetting effect.
लेखनकर्म ( lekhanakarma )

Scraping
The procedure of removing hard, raised excess tissue by scraping or curettage.
लेखनकर्म ( lekhanakarma )

Therapeutic scraping
Therapeutic scraping procedure for wound management.
लेखनपुटपाकः ( lekhanapuṭapākaḥ )

Retention of heat extract bolus with curetting effect
A therapeutic procedure in which an herbal extract expressed from indirectly heated bolus is retained over the eyes for a stipulated period for curetting effect.
लेखनम् ( lekhanam )

Drying and sloughing
A therapeutic action which dries and sheds tissues or impurities from the body.
लेखनसेकः ( lekhanasekaḥ )

Continuous streaming of liquid medicines over the eyes for curetting effect
A procedure involving gentle pouring of a thin stream of medicated solution over the closed eyelids for a stipulated period for curetting effect.
लेखनाञ्जन-अतियोगः ( lekhanāñjana-atiyogaḥ )

Condition due to excessive application of scraping collyrium
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: distortion of eyes or vision; hardness in eyes; discoloration of eyes; flabbiness; excessive dryness of eyes; excessive lacrimation.
लेखनाञ्जन-अपचारः ( lekhanāñjana-apacāraḥ )

Condition due to improper application of scraping collyrium
लेखनाञ्जन-अयोगः ( lekhanāñjana-ayogaḥ )

Condition due to suboptimal application of scraping collyrium
लेखनाञ्जनम् ( lekhanāñjanam )

Collyrium with curetting effect
A type of collyrium or añjanam with curetting effect.
लेखनातियोगः ( lekhanātiyogaḥ )

Doncition due to excessive scraping in eye diseases
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: the eyelids remaining everted; eyelashes becoming distorted; pain; profuse discharge.
लेखनायोगः ( lekhanāyogaḥ )

Condition due to inadequate scraping in eye diseases
A condition characterized a thick bloody discharge from the eye wound produced by the instrument; redness/congestion; oedema; excessive discharge; errors of refraction/partial blindness; failure of condition to improve; brownish discoloration of eyelid; heaviness; fixedness of eyelid; itching of eyelid; flickering of eyelids; sticky discharge; severe inflammation of eye.
लेख्यरोगः ( lekhyarogaḥ )

Eye disorders for curetting
Eye diseases in which the surgical procedure of curetting or scraping is indicated.
लेपः ( lepaḥ )

Ointment
Medication in the form of a paste for external application.
लेपः (विषोपक्रमः) ( lepaḥ (viṣopakramaḥ) )

Antipoison annointment
The application of ointments, cold pastes and/or creams to treat poisoning.
लेहः ( lehaḥ )

Electuary
A sweet semi-liquid preparation that is consumed by licking.
लेहः (विषोपक्रमः) ( lehaḥ (viṣopakramaḥ) )

Electuary detoxification
Administering medicine in avaleha (semi-solid) form for detoxification purposes.
लेहनम् ( lehanam )

Licking of electuaries
A method for administering electuaries in children, both as a therapeutic and food supplement.
लोभः ( lobhaḥ )

Greed
An excessive or insatiable desire to acquire an object beyond need.
लोमकू पमलः ( lomakūpamalaḥ )

Sebum
लोमापहरणम् ( lomāpaharaṇam )

Depilation
The procedure of removing hairs at skin level.
लोहितका ( lohitakā )

Condition of neck stiffness due to improper piercing of child’s ear
A condition characterized by neck and head stiffness; tetanus; and earache.
लोहितमेहः/रक्तमेहः ( lohitamehaḥ/ raktamehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with urine mixed with blood
A disorder characterized by urine smelling like raw flesh; urine tasting like saline; reddish urine; elimination of urine which is hot in nature; passage of blood with urine.
लोहिता, असृग्धरा ( lohitā, asṛgdharā )

Second layer of skin
लोहिताक्षः (मर्म) ( lohitākṣaḥ (marma)

Vulnerable location(s) near the upper part of the thigh below inguinal region
Two in number (one in each lower limb) which when injured causes severe bleeding leading to paralysis or death.
लोहितार्म/क्षतार्म ( lohitārma/ kṣatārma )

Progressive pterygium
A disorder characterized by muscular growth resembling a lotus; even muscular growth; glossy muscular growth; soft tissue resembling a lotus flower.
लोहितिका ( Lohitikā )

Vein located in the ear
लौहम्/लोहः ( lauham/lohaḥ )

Iron
Fe (Ferrum). Duly processed loha is employed as a standalone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
वक्री ( vakrī )

Abnormallyshaped penis
Impotency due to penile deformity.
वक्षस्थलम् ( vakṣasthalam )

Chest region
वङ्क्षणः, गण्डकः ( vaṅkṣaṇaḥ, gaṇḍakaḥ )

Groin
वङ्गम् ( vaṅgam )

Tin
Sn (Stannum). Duly processed vanga is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
वदनान्तरम्, मुखकुहरम् ( vadanāntaram, mukhakuharam )

Oral cavity
वनस्पतिः ( vanaspatiḥ )

Plant bearing fruits only
A plant which does not bear visible flowers (apushpa) such as the flowerless Ficus glomerata (uduṃbara) or Ficus benghalensis (vaṭa).
वनोपला, वनोत्पला, वन्योपला, करीषः ( vanopalā, vanotpalā, vanyopalā, karīṣaḥ )

Cow-dung cake
Cattle droppings which dry naturally in the open fields. Each approximately weighs around 50 to 75 grams.
वपावहनम्, वपा ( vapāvahanam, vapā )

Omentum
वमन-अतियोगः ( vamana-atiyogaḥ )

Condition due to excessive therapeutic emesis
वमन-अपचारः ( vamana-apacāraḥ )

Condition due to improper emetic therapy
वमन-अयोगः ( vamana-ayogaḥ )

Condition of incomplete emetic therapy
वमन-कर्म, ऊर्ध्वभागहर-कर्म ( vamana-karma, ūrdhvabhāgahara-karma )

Therapeutic emesis
A therapeutic emesis to eliminate vitiated pitta and kapha which are drawn to the stomach by preparatory panchakarma procedures .
वमन-व्यापदः ( vamana-vyāpadaḥ )

Condition of improper administration of emetic therapy
वमनकर्म ( vamanakarma )

Removal of foreign body by emesis
The removal of a loosely impacted foreign body by emesis.
वमनकर्म (व्रनचिकित्सा) ( vamanakarma (vraṇacikitsā) )

Therapeutic emesis for wound management
Therapeutic induction of emesis for wound management.
वमनकर्म/प्रच्छर्दनम् ( vamanakarma/ pracchardanam )

Therapeutic emesis
A therapeutic process for the controlled induction of emesis along with a series of pre- and post-intervention measures.
वमनमिथ्यायोगः / अवम्यानाम् वमन व्यापदः ( vamanamithyāyogaḥ/ avamyānām vamana vyāpadaḥ )

Condition due to improper emetic therapy
वमनम् (विषोपक्रमः) ( vamanam (viṣopakramaḥ)

Emesis for detoxification
Therapeutic induction of emesis for the expulsion of poison.
वमितविरिक्तयोस्तु आस्थापनस्य व्यापदः ( vamitaviriktayostu āsthāpanasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition caused by medicated decoction enema administered to person who has just taken emetic therapy and purgation therapy
A condition characterized by administration of niruha vasti which burns the dehydrated body as if ulcerated by application of alkalis.
वयः/ कालः ( vayaḥ/kālaḥ )

Age
Inevitable life events
वयस्थापनम् ( vayasthāpanam )

Rejuvention therapy for healthy ageing
Rejuvenation therapy or medicines beneficial for prolonging youth and preventing senile changes in the body.
वराहदंष्ट्रकः ( varāhadaṃṣṭrakaḥ )

Lesion resembling an injury from pig tusk, pig-bite
A disorder characterized by severe pain; itching sensation; fever; associated with suppuration of skin; associated with burning sensation; reddish-coloured appearance of lesion circumference.
वराहपुटः ( varāhapuṭaḥ )

Traditional oven using 500 cow dung cakes
A traditional oven using 500 cow-dung cakes to produce heat for the calcination or incineration of mica, copper, silver and cowrie shells.
वर्ण्यः ( varṇyaḥ )

Complexion enhancer
Therapy or medicines beneficial for healthy skin and improved skin tone.
वर्ण्यलेपः ( varṇyalepaḥ )

Ointment promoting complexion
A type of ointment or lepa which promotes a healthy complexion.
वर्तनकर्म ( vartanakarma )

Approximation of wound edges
A therapeutic measure in which wound edges are approximated to promote healing.
वर्तलौहम्, वर्तलोहम् ( Vartalauham, vartalohaḥ )

An alloy of iron, bronze, copper and brass
Duly processed vartala is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbomineral pharmaceutical formulations.
वर्तिः ( vartiḥ )

Therapeutic wick
A therapeutic method for the eye using a wick made of medicinal paste.
वर्तिः (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( vartiḥ (vraṇacikitsā) )

Application of medicated wick for wound management
A medicated wick used for wound cleansing (debridement) and healing.
वर्त्म-रोगः ( vartma-rogaḥ )

Disorders of eyelids
वर्त्म, नेत्रकोशः, अक्षिकोशः, नेत्र-छादनम् , अक्षिपुटम्, नेत्रपुटम्, अक्षिवर्त्म, अक्षिवर्त्मकोशः ( Vartma, netrakośaḥ, akṣikoṣaḥ, netra-chādanam, akṣipuṭam, netrapuṭam, akṣivartma, akṣivartmakoṣaḥ )

Eyelid
वर्त्मकर्दमः ( vartmakardamaḥ )

Lid abscess
A disorder characterized by moist and watery eyelids; blackish discoloration; appearance resembling mud.
वर्त्मगत-रक्तार्शः/शोणितार्शः ( vartmagataraktārśaḥ/ śoṇitārśaḥ )

Warts on eyelids
A disorder characterized by growths continuing after repeated excision; soft growths; burning sensation; itching; pain; stiffness; smooth/unctuous/oily; associated with discharge.
वर्त्मपटलम् ( vartmapaṭalam )

Layers of the eyelids
वर्त्ममण्डलम् ( vartmamaṇḍalam )

Eyelid
वर्त्मशर्करा ( vartmaśarkarā )

Spring catarrh, granular form of trachoma
A disorder characterized by large rugous nodules; dense nodules; rough nodules; thick nodules.
वर्त्मशुक्लसन्धिः ( vartma-śukla-sandhiḥ )

Junction of palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva
वर्त्मसन्धिः ( vartmasandhiḥ )

Palpebral junction
वर्त्मार्बुदः ( vartmārbudaḥ )

Polyp or papilloma of lid
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a growth situated at the lid margin; irregular/ uneven; developing into a growth; painless; hyperaemic; hanging; swelling resembling muscular lump; hard swelling; movable externally.
वर्त्मावबन्धकः ( vartmāvabandhakaḥ )

Allergic oedema of the eyelid
A disorder characterized by itching; mild pricking sensation; oedema of eyelids; inability to close eyes properly.
वर्धनः/खलिः ( vardhanaḥ/ khaliḥ )

Supernumerary teeth
A disorder characterized by severe pain; pain subsiding on tooth eruption; excessive growth/additional tooth; severe pain during tooth eruption.
वलयः ( valayaḥ )

Hypopharyngeal growth, PlummerVinson syndrome
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: an elongated prominent swelling; raised swelling; obstruction of food; uncontrolled intensity; mild pain; ring-shaped swelling.
वलयास्थि ( valayāsthi )

Curved bone
वल्मीकः ( valmīkaḥ )

Anthill-like growth on palms; sole; neck with openings
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: the occurrence of a lesion with multiple minute openings in the palm resembling an anthill; lesion with multiple minute openings in sole resembling an anthill; lesion with multiple minute openings in supraclavicular region resembling an anthill; lesion with multiple minute openings at joints resembling an anthill; pain; associated with itching; burning sensation; excessive sticky discharge; gradual development; pricking pain.
वल्लीकर्णः ( vallīkarṇaḥ )

Lobuloplasty type 13
A type of lobuloplasty indicated when the flaps of the earlobe are thin, unequal and short.
वल्लूरकः ( vallūrakaḥ )

Lobuloplasty type 3
A type of lobuloplasty indicated when both flaps of the divided earlobe are circular, short and equal.
वशी ( vaśī )

Complete self-control
Absolute autonomy, not subject to control by others.
वसा ( vasā )

Intramuscular fat
Supportive structural component of muscle.
वसामेहः ( vasāmehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with urine resembling muscle fat
A disorder characterized by recurrent passage of urine; passage of urine having a fatty appearance; passage of fat-mixed urine.
वस्तिकुक्षिः ( vastikukṣiḥ )

Lumen of urinary bladder
वस्तिमुखम् ( vastimukham )

Opening of the urinary bladder
वस्तिशिरः, वस्तिमूर्धा, बस्तिशीर्शम् ( vastiśiraḥ, vastimūrdhā, bastiśīrṣam )

Bladder fundus
वह्निजारः ( vahnijāraḥ )

Ambergris
Duly processed vahnijara is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbomineral pharmaceutical formulations.
वाक् -सिद्धिः ( vāk-siddhiḥ )

Eloquence
An articulate command of the language.
वाक्यदोषः ( vākyadoṣaḥ )

Syntax error, defective sentence
A statement deficient in any of the five components of a sentence, thereby resulting in incomplete or distorted expression of meaning.
वाक्यप्रशंसा ( vākyapraśaṃsā )

Correct statement
A statement free of any syntactical deficiencies and congruent with its exactly intended meaning.
वाक्यशेषः ( vākyaśeṣaḥ )

Supply of ellipsis
A statement in which some word(s) are lacking and have to be correctly surmised and supplied to derive the exact meaning of a sentence in its given context.
वागिन्द्रियम् ( vāgindriyam )

Speech faculty
One of the motor faculties : it represents the combined function of phonation and articulation.
वाजीकरणचिकित्सा ( vājīkaraṇacikitsā )

Aphrodisiac or virility treatment
A treatment for improvement of male and female fertility and virility which promotes śukra secretion
वाजीकरणचिकित्सा, वृषचिकित्सा ( vājīkaraṇacikitsā, vṛṣacikitsā )

Fertility treatment
The clinical speciality of Ayurveda dealing with reproductive and sexual health.
वाजीकरणम् ( vājīkaraṇam )

Potency and fertility therapy
One of the eight clinical branches of Ayurveda concerned with aphrodisiac use.
वाट्यः ( vāṭyaḥ )

Fried barley porridge
A type of food preparation made from fried barley.
वाट्यमण्डः ( vāṭyamaṇḍaḥ )

Liquid portion of porridge prepared with fried barley
The liquid portion of food preparations made from fried barley and consisting of one part fried barley and 14 parts water.
वातः ( vātaḥ )

Vata, dosha regulating movement and cognition
One of the three regulatory functional factors (dosha). The functional balance governing all sensory perceptions, motor activities and higher mental activities. The predominant basic elements in vata are air and space.
वात-कर्म ( vāta-karma )

Functions of vata
वातकफतृतीयकज्वरः ( vātakaphatṛtīyakajvaraḥ )

Intermittent fever recurring every third day due to predominance of vata and kapha
A disorder characterized by stiffness of back or pruśṭha.
वातकुण्डलिका ( vātakuṇḍalikā )

Bladder insufficiency with reverse movement of urine
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: heaviness of body; feeling of being wrapped/ cramps; obstruction to passage of urine/retention; faecal retention; feeling of rigidity; scanty micturition; passage of urine with pain; spiralling of urine within urinary bladder or basti; passage of urine with pain during defecation.
वातक्षयः ( vātakṣayaḥ )

Diminution of vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: sluggishness of body; reduced talking; displeasure or discontent; loss of consciousness; exhaustion; tiredness or inability to perform physical activities; reduced activities; loss of investigating intelligence or consciousness; diseases due to increased kapha; excessive salivation; loss of taste; nausea and palpitations; impairment of agni.
वातखुड्डता/वातकण्टकः ( vātakhuḍḍatā/vātakaṇṭakaḥ )

Pain specific to heels
वातज ग्रहणीरोग ( vātaja grahaṇīroga )

Chronic diarrhoea with malabsorption of nutrients due to vitiated vāta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: diminution of agni or digestive power; difficulty in digesting food; fermentation of food; roughness of body; dryness in throat; dryness in mouth; appetite; thirst; errors of refraction/partial blindness; tinnitus; excess pain in sides of chest/flanks; pain in thighs; severe/constant pain in groins; severe/constant pain in neck; indigestion with vomiting and diarrhoea with colicky pain; precordial pain/ cardiac pain; emaciation; weakness; altered taste in mouth; cutting type of pain in anal region; craving for various tastes; mental depression; flatulence after digestion of food; flatulence during digestion of food; sense of well-being after taking meals; anxious about developing vātagulma; anxious about developing cardiac disease; anxious about developing splenomegaly; takes long time to evacuate bowels; defecation with pain; stools liquid in nature; stool in dry state; stool in less quantity; stool with āma; stool accompanied with loud sound; frothy stools; repeatedly passing stool; cough; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; severe pain in anus; pain in precordium/cardiac region; severe pain in abdomen; severe pain in head; dryness of palate; anxious about having haemorrhoids; suspicion of pandu rōga.
वातज-अतिसारः ( vataja-atisāraḥ )

Diarrhoea due to vitiated vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: defecation of faeces with higher water content/ watery stools; faeces with unformed stools; broken/unformed stools; stools sink in water; dry stools; watery stools; defecation with pain; stools smelling like raw meat; defecation with little sound; suppression of urine; suppression of flatus; barborygmi/ gurgling sound of intestines; anal/rectal prolapse; exhausted back; exhausted thighs; exhausted calf muscles; small quantities; frothy faecal matter; dry faecal matter; dark brown colour; faeces with flatus; defecation with loud sound; formed stools; clear stools; compact stools; frequent defecation; stools resembling burnt jaggery; frothy stools with cutting pain in anus; dry mouth; horripilation; slightly reddish faecal matter; gripping pain; gurgling sound; loud groaning.
वातज-अधिमन्थः ( vātaja-adhimanthaḥ )

Glaucoma due to vitiated vata, acute congestive glaucoma
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: feeling as if the eye is being extracted; being churned up by an araṇi; foreign body sensation; pricking pain; splitting type of pain; intense swelling of tissue; eyeball looking muddy/turbid; feeling of constriction; feeling of bursting; raised tension; twitching; ipsilateral headache; tinnitus; giddiness or dizziness; feeling as if forehead is being churned with araṇi; feeling as if eyes are being churned with araṇi; feeling as if eyebrows are being churned with araṇi.
वातज-अपस्मारः ( vātaja-apasmāraḥ )

Epilepsy due to vitiated vāta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: intermittent seizures; regaining consciousness/alertness in a moment; protrusion of eyes; irrelevant talking; frothy vomiting; stretching of neck; head injury; abnormally contracted fingers; hand improperly placed; leg improperly placed; slightly reddish nails; slightly reddish eyes; slightly reddish face; slightly reddish skin; rough/dry nails; rough/dry eyes; rough/dry mouth/face; rough/dry skin; blackish nails; blackish eyes; darkened face; blackish skin; showing abnormal presentation; viewing unstable objects; seeing rough/dry objects; seeing dryness; tremors; grinding teeth; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; visualizing everything as reddish; visualizing everything as black; person feels as if chased by black horrifying object/person; total disturbance of mind; pricking pain in cardiac region; agony/ pain; excessive talking/irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; cooing sound from throat; fluttering of legs; crying in scratchy voice; inflated neck; jerking body in all directions; dry eyes;
वातज-अरोचकः ( vātaja-arocakaḥ )

Anorexia due to vitiated vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: dental hyperaesthesia; astringent taste in oral cavity; precordial pain/cardiac pain; oppression of heart; loss of taste in mouth.
वातज-अश्मरी ( vātaja-aśmarī )

Urinary calculus due to vitiated vatadosha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a stone resembling kadamba flower (Anthocephalus cadamba) with pocket-like shapes; obstruction to passage of urine; severe pain; gnashing/ grinding teeth; squeezing umbilical region; due to excess breaking pain, internal burning sensation person keeps touching genitalia and anal region; difficulty in passing flatus; difficulty in passing urine; difficulty in passing faeces; excessive passage of flatus; excessive passage of urine; excessive passage of faeces; blackish stone; rough stone; irregular-shaped stone; rough calculus; stone covered with thorn; sudden onset of pain; shivering/tremors; constant groaning in agony; faeces expelled along with flatus; dropwise passage of urine.
वातज-उदररोगः ( vātaja-udararogaḥ )

Abdominal enlargement due to vitiated vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: abdominal oedema; oedema in hands; oedema in legs; cracking of abdominal skin; fluctuating abdominal oedema; pain in abdomen; pain in sides of chest/ flanks; upward movement of vāta; generalized body aches; breaking type of pain in small joints; dry cough; emaciation; weakness; loss of taste; indigestion; heaviness in lower abdomen; suppression of flatus; obstruction to elimination of urine; retention of faeces/constipation; blackish nails; blackish eyes; blackish face; blackish urine; blackish skin; blackish faeces; slightly reddish nails; slightly reddish eyes; slightly reddish face; slightly reddish urine; slightly reddish skin; slightly reddish faeces; thin veins spread across the abdomen; blackish veins spread across the abdomen; abdomen on percussion sounds like a distended leather bag; upward movement of vayu with pain; downward movement of vayu with pain; random movement of vayu with pain; upward movement of vayu with sound; downward movement of vayu with sound; random movement of vayu with sound; scrotal oedema; low back pain; pricking type of pain in abdomen; breaking type of pain in abdomen; in side of chests/flanks;in back; in umbilical region; blackish veins spread on painful distended abdomen with abdominal sounds.
वातज-उपदंशः ( vātaja-upadaṃśaḥ )

Sexually transmitted penile inflammation due to vitiated vata
A disease characterized by roughness/dryness; skin cracking; stiffness of shaft; rough oedema; various types of vātika pain; penile oedema; various types of pain; blackish blisters; breaking type of pain; pricking pain; pulsating sensation.
वातज-ओष्ठप्रकोपः ( vātaja-oṣṭhaprakopaḥ )

Disorders of lip due to vitiated vāta, cracked lip
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: dryness of mouth; excessive dryness of face; dryness of face; shifting pain; black salivation; slightly reddish salivation; cold salivation; loosening of lips; pulsating sensation; pricking pain in lips; rough lips; hard lips; rigid lips; dark/blackish lips; severe pain in lips; cracking of lips; fissuring of lips; severe pain.
वातज-योनिरोगः ( vātaja-yonirogaḥ )

Vaginal disease due to predominant vāta
A gynaecological disorder characterized by a pricking pain in the female genital organs; roughness of female genital organs; feeling as if ants are crawling over the body/ formication; numbness; exertion; menstrual flow with sound; menstrual flow with pain; frothy menstruation; dry menstruation; stiffness of female genital organs; pain; pricking type of pain; tinnitus; slightly reddish-brown menstrual flow; blackish menstrual flow; scanty menstrual flow; thin menstrual flow; feeling as if pelvis has prolapsed; pelvic pain; feeling as if sides of chest/flanks have prolapsed; pain in sides of chest/ flanks; leading to gulma; diseases according to the affected dosha. Note: yoni can indicate both the internal and external female genital organs.
वातज-वृद्धिः ( vātaja-vṛddhiḥ )

Hydrocoele due to vata predominance
A disorder characterized by blackish blisters; breaking type of pain; pricking pain; pulsating sensation.
वातज-शिरोरोगः ( vātaja-śirorogaḥ )

Headache due to vitiated vata
Headache characterized by severe pain; severe pricking pain in both temporal regions; severe pricking pain at nape of neck; breaking pain in both temporal regions; breaking pain at nape of neck; burning sensation in middle of eyebrows; burning sensation in forehead; severe pain between both eyebrows; severe pain in forehead; puncturing pain in both ears; tininitus; feeling as if eyes being extracted; feeling as if head spinning; sensation of laxation in skull region; pulsating sensation over vascular plexus; stiffness of neck; sudden onset of pain; pulsating sensation; severe headache without apparent cause; severe headache at night; headache relieved by bandage; headache relieved by fomentation; heaviness of head; locked jaw; intolerance of light/photophobia; rhinorrhoea; sudden relief of pain; softness generated by massaging; softness generated by oil; softness generated by sudation; softness generated by bandaging.
वातजकर्णरोगः/ वातजकर्णशूलम् ( vātajakarṇarogaḥ/ vātajakarṇaśūlam )

Ear disorder due to vitiated vata, acute otalgia
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: tinnitus; severe pain in ears (atiruk; drying of wax; thin watery discharge; loss of hearing; pain around ears; intermittent pain in bouts; hemicranial headache; rigidity/ stiffness of ear; aversion to cold; suppurating after a long time; discharge of small amount of clear fluid if suppuration occurs; occasional feeling of blockage of ears.
वातजकासः ( vātajakāsaḥ )

Cough due to vitiated vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pain in precordium/cardiac region pain in sides of chest/flanks; headache; pain in temporal region; pain in abdomen; hoarseness of voice; feeling of dryness in chest; dryness of throat; feeling of dryness in the mouth; anxious appearance of face; body hair bristling or thrilling; loss of consciousness; rattling sound; apathy; sound of hollow cough; diminution of strength; diminution of voice; diminution of vitality; irritation in chest; confusion/delirium; dry cough; dry phlegm expelled with difficulty for only mild relief; constant coughing until phlegm is expelled; pain, with noise; horripilation.
वातजक्षीरदोषः ( vātajakṣīradoṣaḥ )

Breast milk vitiated by vāta
A disorder characterized by breast milk giving rise to constipation in children; causing retention of urine in children; astringent taste; immediately dissolving in water; dry in nature.
वातजगलगण्डः ( vātaja-galagaṇḍaḥ )

Goitre due to vitiated vāta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pricking pain (todaḥ); full of blackish veins; covered with black striae; blackish swelling; slightly reddish swelling; bluish black swelling; after a while becoming unctuous; painless; hard swelling; taking a long time to increase; nonsuppurative; occasionally suppurating; sometimes suppurating; unpleasant taste in mouth; dryness of palate; dryness of throat.
वातजगुल्मः ( vātajagulmaḥ )

Lumps or growths due to vitiated vāta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: frequent increase in size; frequent reduction in size; inconsistent levels of pain; feeling as if ants are crawling on body; severe pricking type of pain; severe splitting type of pain; severe pulsating type of sensation; severe stretching type of pain; severe contraction type of pain; severe feeling of numbness; severe feeling of horripilation; marked increase and decrease in above signs and symptoms; sensation of perforation/piercing type of pain; feeling as if pierced by śaṅku; fever at end of day; dryness in mouth; obstructed expiration; horripilation during pain;spleenomegaly; gurgling intestinal sounds/borborygmi; indigestion; upward movement of vāta; generalized body aches; neck pain; headache; pain in temporal region; swelling in inguinal region/hernia; blackish discoloration of skin; blackish discoloration of nails; blackish discoloration of eyes; blackish discoloration of face; blackish discoloration of urine; blackish discoloration of faeces; slightly reddish discoloration of skin; slightly reddish discoloration of nails; slightly reddish discoloration of eyes; slightly reddish-coloured face; slightly reddish discoloration of urine; slightly reddish discoloration of faeces; rough/dry skin; rough nails; roughness of eyes; roughness of mouth/face; roughness of urine; roughness of faeces; pain in precordium/cardiac region; pain in abdomen; dryness in throat; confinement/lack of movement of vata; irregular agni; diseases due to vāta; fever; frequent difficult expiration; stiffness of body parts; emaciation; dryness of skin; indeterminate form and shape; indeterminate area or site; indeterminate growth; indeterminate decrease; indeterminate pain; feeling as if ants are moving all over; increased complications in vatakala; occasional stretching of skin; occasional skin contractions; whole body pain but mainly at urinary bladder or basti; pyrexia with chills; pain in sides of chest/flanks; pain in shoulders; headache increasing after digestion of food, lessening while eating.
वातजग्रन्थिः ( vātajagranthiḥ )

Nodular swelling, cyst due to vitiated vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a feeling of stretching; distress; pricking pain; a tearing type of pain associated with a cutting sensation; sensation of rending; blackish swelling; hard swelling; distended like the urinary bladder or basti; clear blood discharge on bursting; swelling abruptly increasing and decreasing; soft swelling.
वातजचतुर्थकज्वरः ( vātajacaturthakajvaraḥ )

Intermittent fever recurring every fourth day due to predominance of vāta
A disorder characterized by an initial affliction of the head.
वातजछर्दिः ( vātajachardiḥ )

Vomiting due to vitiated vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: precordial pain/cardiac pain; pain in flanks; dryness of mouth; headache; discomfort/pain in umbilical region; cough; alteration of voice; pricking pain; eructations with loud sounds; frothy vomitus; shredded/variegated vomitus; blackish vomitus; thin/scanty vomitus; astringent vomitus; difficulty in vomiting; small quantity of vomitus; vomiting with great force; vomiting with pain; pain in back; fatigued/tired; vomiting in large quantity; more vomiting after digestion; exhaustion without exertion.
वातजतृष्णा ( vātajatṛṣṇā )

Morbid thirst due to vitiated vāta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: dryness of mouth; loss of taste in the mouth; pain in temporal region; headache exacerbated by drinking of cold water; feeling of obstructed passages; insomnia; vertigo; wasted/dried up/emaciated; apathy; inability to smell; unpleasant taste in mouth; diminished hearing ability; diminished sleep; diminished strength.
वातजदन्तनाडी ( vātajadantanāḍī )

Alveolar sinus due to vitiated vata, acute alveolar sinus
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: roughness/dryness; minute opening; associated with pain; excessive frothy discharge which is worse at night.
वातजनाडीव्रणः ( vātajanāḍīvraṇaḥ )

Deep ulcer with fistula formation due to vitiated vāta
A sinus ulcer characterized by small, indurated opening; pain; frothy discharge; greater discharge at night; discoloured discharge.
वातजनासार्शः ( vātajanāsārśaḥ )

Nasal polyp due to vitiated vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: the presenting part being dry; slightly red in colour; discoloration; irregular in centre; resembling kadamba flowers; resembling the wild cotton plant; tubular-like appearance; flower bud-like appearance; point of a needlelike appearance; associated with pain.
वातजपाण्डुरोगः ( vātajapāṇḍurogaḥ )

Anaemic syndrome due to vitiated vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pale black dryness of body; slight reddish discoloration of body; generalized body aches; pain; pricking pain; pain in sides of chest/flanks; headache; tremors; decreased amount of faecal matter; unpleasant taste in mouth; oedema; borborygmi with distension; loss of physical strength or weakness; blackish discoloration of eyes; covered with blackish veins; blackish discoloration of faeces; blackish disoloration of urine; blackish discoloration of nails; blackish discoloration of face; blackish discoloration of veins; slightly reddish discoloration of faeces; slightly reddish discoloration of urine; slightly reddish discoloration of nails; slightly reddish discoloration of eyes; slightly reddish discoloration of veins; dryness of faecal matter; reduced unctuousness of urine; dryness of nails; dry eyes; dryness of veins; giddiness or dizziness.
वातजप्रतिश्यायः ( vātajapratiśyāyaḥ )

Rhinitis due to vitiated vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: fullness or blockage of nose; feeling as if nose is filled with dust; thin watery discharge; dryness of throat; dryness of palate; dryness of lips; pricking pain in temples; excessive sneezing tendency; loss of taste in mouth; hoarseness/weakness of voice; toothache; pain in temporal region; pain in the head; feeling as if insects crawling in supraorbital area; suppurating after a long time; discharge of cold mucus; discharge of clear mucus.
वातजप्रमेहः ( vātajapramehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder due to vitiated vata
वातजमसूरिका ( vātajamasūrikā )

Lentil-shaped pox disease due to vitiated vata
Lentil-shaped eruptive disorder is characterized by blackish eruptions; slightly reddish eruptions; dry eruptions; severe pain; hard eruptions; taking a long time to suppurate; breaking/splitting pain in joints; breaking/splitting type of bone pains; breaking type of pain in small joints; cough; tremors; distress/discontent/restlessness; exhaustion without exertion; dryness of palate; dryness of lips; dryness of tongue; thirst; loss of taste.
वातजमूत्रकृच्छ्रम् ( vātajamūtrakṛcchram )

Difficulty in urination due to vitiated vatadosha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pain in inguinal region; pain in urinary bladder or basti region; severe penile pain; scanty micturition; frequent micturition; severe scrotal pain; pain in urinary bladder or basti; passing urine with difficulty.
वातजमूर्च्छा ( vātajamūrcchā )

Syncope due to vitiated vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: seeing the sky as blue before loss of consciousness; seeing the sky as black before loss of consciousness; seeing the sky as red before loss of consciousness; regaining consciousness soon afterwards; shivering/tremors; generalized body aches; pain in precordium/cardiac region; emaciation; blackish appearance; slightly reddish appearance.
वातजरक्तपित्तम् ( vātajaraktapittam )

Haemorrhage due to predominance of vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: blackish blood discharge; slightly reddish blood discharge; frothy blood discharge; reduced viscosity of blood discharge; reduced unctuousness of blood discharge.
वातजरोहिणी ( vātajarohiṇī )

Diphtheria due to vitiated vāta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: dryness in throat; dryness of mouth; pain in lower jaw or chin; otalgia; soft buds around the tongue; soft tissue swelling obstructing the throat; severe pain in soft swelling; complications depending on dosha.
वातजविद्रधिः ( vātajavidradhiḥ; )

Abscess due to vitiated vāta
A type of abscess characterized by black swelling; slightly red-coloured swelling; rough oedema; excessively severe pain; varied types of onset and suppuration; thin watery discharge; less unctuous discharge; slightly reddish-coloured discharge; blackish-coloured discharge; frothy discharge; penetrating type of pain; cutting type of pain; giddiness or dizziness; borborygmi with distension; sound from swelling; pulsating sensation; spreading nature of swelling; blackish discoloration of swelling; irregular appearance.
वातजविसर्पः ( vātajavisarpaḥ )

Erysipelas, spreading cellulitis due to vitiated vāta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: giddiness or dizziness; burning sensation of eye; thirst; pricking type of pain; severe pain; generalized body aches; cramps; tremors; fever; black-outs; cough; breaking/splitting type of bone pains; breaking/splitting pain in joints; feel of loosening in bones; loosening/dislocation of joints; shivering/tremors; loss of taste; indigestion; querulous eyes; bleeding; tingling sensation; greyish-coloured oedema; slightly reddish-coloured oedema; excessive tearing sensation; excessive stretching; excessive contracture; horripilation; excessive twitching; constitutional features as in vātaja fever; wound/ulcer formation after rupture of ripened abscess.
वातजविस्फोटकः ( vātajavisphoṭakaḥ )

Bullous eruptions due to vitiated vāta
A disorder characterized by blackish discoloration; fever; thirst; breaking type of pain in small joints; headache; severe pain.
वातजव्रणः ( vātajavraṇaḥ )

Ulcer due to vitiated vāta
An ulcer characterized by blackish discoloration; slightly reddish discoloration; thin wound; slimy; cold to touch; reduced quantity of discharge; dry; margins tending to crack/ crackling noise in ulcer; pulsating sensation; stretching; pricking pain; piercing/breaking pain; devoid of muscular tissue; hard on palpation; severe pain; colour resembling bhasma; colour resembling a pigeon; resembling mastu; colour resembling water used to wash flesh; intense pain.
वातजव्रणशोफः ( vātajavraṇaśophaḥ )

Pre-ulcerative inflammation due to vitiated vāta
A condition characterized by a black-coloured swelling; slightly reddish-coloured swelling; roughly indurated swelling; soft oedema; nonfixed/movable swelling; pricking pain; breaking pain; cutting type of pain.
वातजशूलः ( vātajaśūlaḥ )

Abdominal colic due to vitiated vāta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: severe pain on empty stomach; severe stiffness of body; difficulty in breathing; difficulty in passing flatus; difficulty in micturition; difficulty in defecation; pain in precordial region; pain in sides of chest/flanks; pain in back; pain in sacral region; pain in urinary bladder or basti; pain occurs after digestion of food; pain during twilights; pain during cloudy weather; pain when it is cold; recurrent exacerbation of pain; recurrent remission of pain; retention of faeces; retention of flatus; pricking type of pain; breaking type of pain; pain relieved by sudation; pain relieved by oleation; pain relieved by massage/rubbing; pain relieved by unctuous food; pain relieved by hot food.
वातजशोफः ( vātajaśophaḥ )

Oedema due to vitiated vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: migratory oedema/shifting in nature; shiny/ thin skin; rough/dry skin; slightly reddish swelling; blackish oedema; numbness; hyperaesthesia; pain; subsiding on its own; pitting on pressure and quickly refilling; increasing in daytime; soft oedema; shifting pain; various types of pain including pricking sensation or splitting pain; dry oedema; rough hairs; contractions; pulsatile; quick increase and decrease; relieved by snigdha treatment; relieved by hot treatment; relieved by massage; less swelling at night; irritation of skin (as if smeared with mustard paste).
वातजश्लीपदः ( vātajaślīpadaḥ )

Filariasis due to vitiated vāta
Filariasis characterized by swelling which is rough to touch; black-coloured swelling; rough oedema; excessive cracks; severe pain; onset of pain without cause; frequent attacks of fever; peeling of skin.
वातजस्वरभेदः ( vātajasvarabhedaḥ )

Hoarse voice, altered voice due to vitiated vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: weak and feeble voice; trembling/shaky voice; hoarse voice; slow speech; indistinct voice; harsh donkey-like voice; blackish discoloration of eyes; blackish discoloration of face; blackish discoloration of urine; blackish discoloration of faeces; throat filled with barley awn; relieved by unctuous and hot measures.
वातजहृद्रोगः ( vātajahṛdrogaḥ )

Heart disease due to vitiated vāta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: severe pain; shivering/tremors; feeling of being wrapped/cramps; rigidity/stiffness; fainting/severe confusion; feeling of hollowness; fear; severe pain; feeling of stretching; pricking pain in heart; churning pain in heart; tearing pain in heart; bursting pain in heart; splitting pain in heart; breaking type of pain in heart; depletion/dessication of heart; feeling as if heart is stiff and rigid; palpitations; sudden distress/fear; intolerant of grief; intolerant of fear; intolerant of sound; obstructed breathing; sleeplessness.
वातजार्शः ( vātajārśaḥ )

Haemorrhoids due to vitiated vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: borborygmi/gurgling intestinal sounds; lethargy; weakness; exhaustion; defecation of liquid faeces; defecation of faeces of cold nature; defecation of dense faeces; defecation of unctuous faeces; low back pain; undigested food matter within stools/defecation of faeces along with āma; defecation of stools in bulky amounts; defecation of mucoid stools; defecation of stool along with sound; defecation of stool with mild pain; attacks of diarrhoea occurring every fortnight month; ten days; attacks of diarrhoea occurring daily; condition worsening during the daytime; condition subsiding at night; inability to diagnose; inability to diagnose; persistent/longstanding.
वातजोन्मादः ( vātajonmādaḥ )

Psychosis due to vitiated vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: severe restlessness; flickering of eyes; flickering of eyebrows; sudden movements of lips; movements of shoulders; sudden movements of jaws; sudden movements of hands; sudden movements of legs; continuous voice; intermittent voice; frothing from mouth; smiling at inappropriate places; laughing at inappropriate places; dancing at inappropriate places; singing at inappropriate places; playing music organs; no rhythmic following music; acting as if going on vehicle; acting as if wearing ornaments; severe jealousy; emaciation; roughness/dryness; protrusion of eyes; slightly reddish brown eyes; Incoherent speech at inappropriate places; irrelevant movements of the limbs; weeping at inappropriate places; slight reddish complexion of the body; provocation of the symptom after the food has been digested; lustreless appearance; harsh voice; prominent veins; wants cold; pulsatile/vibrating body; vibrating joints; wandering with shaking; roams around; crying at inappropriate place; mimics sound of flute; mimics sound of lute; travels/roams a lot; speaks a lot; desires for food; abuses after obtaining food; speaks in appropriate places;
वातज्वरः ( vātajvaraḥ )

Fever due to vitiated vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: unusual/irregular type of onset; unusual/ irregular type of remission/settling of fever; temperature difference between body parts; variations in severity of fever; onset of fever at the end of digestion; onset of fever in the evening; onset of fever in the early morning; onset of fever at the end of summer; rise in fever at the end of digestion; rise in fever in the evening; rise in fever in the early morning; rise in fever at the end of summer; rough nails; rough eyes; rough face/mouth; rough urine; rough faeces; rough skin; dark red-coloured nails; dark red-coloured eyes; dark red-coloured face; dark red-coloured urine; dark red-coloured faeces; dark red-coloured skin; severe cracking of nails; severe expanding sensation in eyes; severe expanding/cracking sensation in mouth; severe suppression of micturition; severe suppression of defecation; severe cracking of skin; various types of. pain in body parts; numbness in feet; claudication/cramp in the calf muscles; looseness in knee joints; looseness in joints; fatigue in thighs; breaking type of pain in lower back; breaking type of pain in flanks; breaking type of pain in back; breaking type of pain in shoulders; breaking type of pain in arms; breaking type of pain in shoulderblade; breaking type of pain in chest; cutting type of pain in lower back; cutting type of pain in flanks; cutting type of pain in back; cutting type of pain in shoulders; cutting type of pain in arms; cutting type of pain in shoulderblades; cutting type of pain in chest; crushing feeling in the lower back; crushing feeling in the flanks; crushing feeling in the back; crushing feeling in the shoulders; crushing feeling in the arms; crushing feeling in the shoulderblade; crushing feeling in the chest; churning feeling in the lower back; churning feeling in the flanks; churning feeling in the back; churning feeling in the shoulders; churning feeling in the arms; churning feeling in the shoulderblade; churning feeling in the chest; broken feeling in the lower back; broken feeling in the flanks; broken feeling in the back; broken feeling in the shoulders; broken feeling in the arms; broken feeling in the shoulderblade; broken feeling in the chest; splitting type of pain in lower back; splitting type of pain in sides of chest; splitting type of pain in back; splitting type of pain in shoulders; splitting type of pain in arms; splitting type of pain in shoulderblades; splitting type of pain in chest; constricting feeling in the lower back; constricting feeling in the sides of chest; constricting feeling in the back; constricting feeling in the shoulders; constricting feeling in the arms; constricting feeling in the shoulderblades; constricting feeling in the chest; jaw not able to perform its action/ immovable jaw; sound in the ear/tinnitus; sharp shooting pain in temporal region of head; astringent taste in the mouth; loss of taste of mouth/unability for perceive taste; dryness of mouth; dryness of palate; dry throat; thirst; stiffness of cardiac region; dry vomiting/nausea; dry cough; suppression of sneezing; suppression of eructations; stagnation of primary product of digestion; excessive salivation; loss of taste; indigestion; depression; yawning; flexion/bending of body; shivering/tremors; exhaustion/fatigue; giddiness or dizziness; excessive talking/irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; sleeplessness; horripilation; sensitive teeth/dental hyperaesthesia; lack of warmth; irregular course of fever; dryness of lips; insomnia; sneezing; stiffness of body parts; dryness of body; headache; precordial pain/cardiac pain; body aches; hard stools; retained stool/constipation; abdominal distension; colicky pain in abdomen; unusual irritation; unusually mild behaviour; unusual pain; rigidity of legs/feet; stiffness of lower back; grinding pain in back; squeezing type of pain in abdomen; piercing type of pain especially in the sides of chest as if pierced by bone; as if beaten by whip on chest; churning type of pain in shoulders; breaking type of pain in arms; squeezing type of pain in shoulder/scapula; inability to eat; suppression of faeces; dryness of skin; dryness of mouth; dryness of eyes; dryness of nails; dryness of urine; dryness of faeces; slightly reddishcoloured skin; slightly reddish-coloured face; slightly reddishcoloured skin; slightly reddish-coloured nails; slightly reddishcoloured urine; slightly reddish-coloured faeces; aversion to food; anhidrosis/lack of sweating; thirst; horripilation; lack of warmth.
वातदुष्टरक्तः ( vātaduṣṭaraktaḥ )

Condition of improper repair of punctured ear causing vatavitiated blood
A condition characterized by loss of skin.
वातनिग्रहज-उदावर्तः ( vātanigrahaja-udāvartaḥ )

Disorders of reversed or altered visceral movement due to suppression of vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: abdominal distension; colicky pain in abdomen; feeling of obstruction in precordial region/ impairment of cardiac activity/bradycardia; headache; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; hiccups; cough; cold catarrh; choking sensation in throat; expulsion of faeces through mouth; retention of vata/flatus; obstruction to passage of urine/retention; obstruction/retention in passage of faeces; exhaustion without exertion; pain; various other abdominal diseases or vātika.
वातपर्यायः ( vātaparyāyaḥ )

Ocular pain
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pain sometimes affecting both eyelids; sometimes pain in eyes; sometimes pain in eyebrows; distortion of eyes or vision; depressed eyeball; repeated attacks in eyebrows and eyes; severe pain.
वातपित्तजज्वरः ( vātapittajajvaraḥ )

Fever due to vitiated vāta and pitta
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: headache; breaking type of pain in small joints; burning sensation; horripilation; dryness in throat; dryness in the mouth; vomiting; thirst; syncope or swooning; giddiness or dizziness; loss of taste; insomnia; excessive talking; yawning; confusion/delirium; distress/discontent/ restlessness; sleeplessness; rigidity/stiffness; a feeling of darkness.
वातपित्ततृतीयकज्वरः ( vātapittatṛtīyakajvaraḥ )

Intermittent fever recurring every third day due to predominance of vata and pitta
A disorder characterized by stiffness of head/headache.
वातपित्तप्रकृतिः ( vātapittaprakṛtiḥ )

Body constitution with a predominance of vata and pitta
A body constitution with predominantly mixed features of vata and pitta.
वातपैत्तिकशूलः ( vātapaittikaśūlaḥ )

Abdominal colic due to vitiated vāta and pitta predominance
वातप्रकृतिः ( vātaprakṛtiḥ )

Body constitution with a predominance of vata
The characters of a vata-predominant person are greatly influenced by its qualities: dryness, lightness, perpetually moving, expanding, proliferating, quick, cold, roughness and fragility. Accordingly, the person will have inherent characteristics such as thinness, light weight and build, with prominent tendons and veins; unstable/highly flexible joints; rough hair, nails, teeth, face, hands and legs; fragile (easily breaking/cracking/splitting) body structures (skin/bones/hair/ lips/heels); hypersensitivity to cold (shivering/stiffness), intolerance of cold; with an unclear, unpleasant, feeble, stammering, broken and hoarse voice; an unsteady gaze, always restless body parts (eyebrows, jaws, lips, tongue, head, shoulder and legs); a cracking sound from joints on movement; sleeps less, and is easily awakened or stays awake; talkative; quick to act (fast gait, eating, speech); has swift and often hasty initiation of actions; is easily agitated, intolerant, subordinated or frightened; is quick to comprehend but less memory; and rapidly becomes fond as well as disenchanted.
वातप्रकोपः/ वातवृद्धिलक्षणम् ( vātaprakopaḥ/ vātavṛddhilakṣaṇam )

Aggravation of vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: dislocation/prolapse; expansion/dilatation; obstruction/adherence; breaking type of pain; bodily exhaustion or tiredness; horripilation/bristling; dryness of mouth/thirst; tremors/trembling/shaking; contrary or circular movement of vata; pulsation; pricking pain; uneasiness/ agitation/feeling of discomfort; abnormal movements; roughness of body; conspicuousness/clarity/perceptibility; porousness/hollowness; slight reddish complexion of body; astringent taste in mouth; loss of taste/unpleasant taste in mouth; dryness/wasting/emaciation; sharp type of pain; numbness/drowsiness; contractions of body parts; stiffness/ rigidity and limping.
वातप्रसरणम् ( vātaprasaraṇam )

Spreading of vata
A disorder characterized by abnormal movements of air; gurgling intestinal sounds or borborygmi.
वातबलासकज्वरः ( vātabalāsakajvaraḥ )

Persistent low-grade fever due to vitiated vata and kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: constant low-grade fever; dryness; oedema; exhaustion or tiredness of body; rigidity of body; predominance of kapha.
वातबस्तिः ( vātabastiḥ )

Bladder neck obstruction with retention of urine
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: obstruction to passage of urine/retention; pain; itching; pain in abdomen/flanks; pain in urinary bladder or basti.
वातरक्तम् ( vātaraktam )

Polyarthritis due to vitiated vata and blood
A disorder characterized by pain in small joints of the foot, gradually spreading to upper portions of the body; causing itching, pain, numbness in all joints of the hands and feet.
वातवहा ( Vātavahā )

Vein carrying vata
वातशूलव्यापत् ( vātaśūlavyāpat )

Condition of vitiated vata pain due to faulty emetic therapy
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pain in sides of chest/flanks; pain in back; pain in pelvis; neck pain; pain in marma regions; syncope or swooning; giddiness or dizziness; intoxication; loss of sensory perception.
वातसञ्चयः ( vātasañcayaḥ )

Accumulation of vata
A disorder characterized by impaired movements of vata in the gastrointestinal tract, reduced gastrointestinal motility; stagnated bowel movements; abdominal fullness.
वातातपिकरसायनम् ( vātātapikarasāyanam )

Rejuvenation therapy with exposure to wind and sunlight
Rejuvenation therapy administered while the person continues to follow their normal avocations.
वाताभिष्यन्दः ( vātābhiṣyandaḥ )

Conjunctivitis due to vitiated vata, subacute catarrhal conjunctivitis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a pricking sensation in the eyes; inability to move eyes; horripilation; sensation of a foreign body; roughness of eyes; burning sensation in head; dryness of eyes; cold tears; fullness of nose; less swelling; pain in temporal region; pricking type of pain in eyes; pain in region of eyebrows; pain in forehead; pulsation in temples; flickering of eyelids; flickering of eyebrows; pulsation of forehead; splitting pain in temples; splitting pain in eyes; splitting pain in eyebrows; splitting pain in forehead; dry rheum; reduced secretion of rheum; secretion of clear tears; shifting pain; difficulty in opening and closing; formication; eyes appear swollen; feeling as if being spread with tiny arrows; relief from use of hot and unctuous substances.
वाताशयः ( vātāśayaḥ )

Receptacle for vāta
The most prominent site of vāta, mainly the large intestine.
वाताष्ठीला ( vātāṣṭhīlā )

Benign prostatic hyperplasia
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: distension of urinary bladder; distension in the rectum; obstruction to passage of urine; obstruction to passage of faeces; severe pain; obstruction to passage of flatus; urine and faecal matter; stony-hard globular swelling/ gland below navel; upwardly extended prominent gland in navel.
वाताष्ठीला ( vātāṣṭhīlā )

Globular swelling near the urinary bladder resembling benign prostatic enlargement
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: distension of urinary bladder; distension in the rectum; obstruction to passage of urine; obstruction in passage of faeces; severe pain; obstruction to passage of flatus; urine and faecal matter; stony hard globular swelling/ gland below navel; upwardly extended prominent gland in navel.
वाताहत-वर्त्म ( vātāhata-vartma )

Lagophthalmos
A disorder characterized by the palpebral fissure remaining open; loss of mobility of lids; nonclosing of eyelids; eyes remaining closed; painful or painless.
वातिक-अम्लपित्तम् ( vātika-amlapittam )

Type of hyperacidity due to vitiated vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: tremors; excessive talking/irrelevant speech/ incoherent speech; syncope or swooning; tingling sensation; bodily exhaustion or tiredness; colicky pain in abdomen; feeling of transient black-outs; dizziness/confusion;/ infatuation; horripilation.
वातिक-असृग्दरः ( vātika-asṛgdaraḥ )

Dysfunctional uterine A gynaecological disorder characterized by painful frothy bleeding due to vitiated menses; painful scanty; painful dry; painful blackish; painful vata reddish-brown; painful reddish resembling palasha flower water; frothy but without pain; scanty but without pain; dry but without pain; blackish but without pain; reddish-brown but without pain; reddish resembling palasha flower water but without pain; severe back pain; severe groin pain; pain in cardiac region; pain in sides of chest/flanks; pain in back; severe pain in pelvis; scanty menstrual flow; discharge associated with vāta types of pain; discharge resembling meat washings.
वातिक-आमवातः ( vātika-āmavātaḥ )

Vata-predominent polyarthritis due to ama
A disorder characterized by severe pain.
वातिक-लिङ्गनाशः ( vātika-liṅganāśaḥ )

Mature cataract due to vitiated vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: the mandala appearing reddish; mandala becoming unstable; irregular manḍala; unclear vision as if through dust and smoke; clear reddish discoloration of dṛṣṭi; enlarged pupil; small-sized pupil; loss of vision.
वातिकज्वरपूर्वरूपम् ( Vātikajvarapūrvarūpam; )

Prodromal symptoms of fever due to vitiated vata
A disorder characterized by yawning as presenting complaint.
वातिकपरिणामशूलः ( vatavātikapariṇāmaśūlaḥ )

Abdominal colic occurring during digestion of food due to vitiated vata
वातिकयोनिकन्दः ( vātikayonikandaḥ )

Round-shaped abscess in vagina due to vitiated vata
A gynaecological disorder characterized by a dry swelling in the external female genital organs; discoloured swelling in external genital organs; cracked swelling in external genital organs.
वातिकरक्तदुष्टिः ( vātikaraktaduṣṭiḥ )

Blood vitiated by vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: slightly red-coloured blood; clear blood; frothy blood; thin/dilute blood or reduced in quantity; black-coloured blood; blood with less viscocity; fast-flowing blood; noncoagulating blood; dark, brown-coloured blood; clear blood; blood with less unctuousness; blood with an astringent taste; blood with a metallic smell; blood with speedy oozing; blood at subnormal temperature.
वातिकषण्डः ( vātikaṣaṇḍaḥ )

Anorchidism
Structural damage to the testes in intrauterine life owing to vitiated vāyu and agni.
वादः ( vādaḥ )

Doctrine
A statement which aims to establish authoritative knowledge based on affirmation or refutation of its evidence; in general Sanskrit literature it means a debate/thesis/ proposition/ argument.
वादमार्गः ( vādamārgaḥ )

Rules for debate
Technical rules for an argument or debate.
वानस्पत्य ( vānaspatya )

Plant bearing flowers and fruits
A plant which bears visible flowers and fruits such as Mangifera indica (amra) or Syzyigium cumini (jambu).
वानस्पत्यकायः ( vānaspatyakāyaḥ )

Person with lazy, unintelligent temperament
The characteristics of the person with a lazy, unintelligent temperament are a preference for being sedentary, an excess craving for food, a lack of feeling for tranquillity, soft deeds, no inclination for righteous or religious activities, a lack of passions and no desire for wealth.
वाप्यम् ( vāpyam )

Step well water
A type of water obtained from step wells.
वामकधूमपानम् ( vāmakadhūmapānam )

Medicated smoking with emetic effect
The procedure of medicated smoking to remove morbid dosha through the oral cavity.
वायव्यरोगः ( vāyavyarogaḥ )

Diseases caused by vata
A disease caused by vitiation of vata in the body such as arthritis, sciatica or paralysis.
वायसतुण्डसन्धिः ( vāyasatuṇḍasandhiḥ )

Condyloid joint
वायुः ( vāyuḥ )

Air element
Responsible for movement, acts as the substratum of touch perceived by skin.
वायुमार्गः, अनिलायनम् ( vāyumārgaḥ, anilāyanam )

Respiratory passages
वारणम् ( vāraṇam )

Rebuffing of disease
The process by which a disease is warded off or deflected. Synonym of treatment.
वारुणकायः ( vāruṇakāyaḥ )

Person with brave, patient temperament
The characteristics of the person with a brave, patient temperament is a liking for the cold, tolerance, reddish-brown hair and pleasant discourse.
वार्धक्यजन्यराजयक्ष्मा/जराशोषः ( vārdhakyajanyarājayakṣmā/ jarāśoṣaḥ )

Consumption due to old age
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: emaciation/thinness/malnourishment; little virility/energy; mental dullness/stupidity; reduced physical strength; decreased ability of sense organs; tremors; loss of taste/afflicted with loss of taste; voice resembling the sound produced by a crackled bell or metal pot; minimal phlegm; afflicted with heaviness; watery discharge from the mouth; watery discharge from the nose; watery discharge from the eyes; dull appearance; passage of dry faeces; severe distress/discontent/restlessness.
वार्धक्यम् ( vārdhakyam )

Senility
The characteristics of this state are: diminution of structural components on a day-by-day basis; diminished perceptiveness of sense organs; diminished physical strength; diminished potency or semen; diminished energy; wrinkles; greying of hair; baldness; cough; breathlessness or difficulty breathing; inability to perform the full range of activities; diminished digestive, metabolic capacity; aggravated vata; loss of distinction of a particular structural component; loosened muscles, joints and bones; hardness or roughness of skin; body curvature; shivering or trembling; excessive nasal discharge or drooling.
वालुकायन्त्रम् ( vālukāyantram )

Sand bath
वासनम् ( vāsanam )

Infusing or perfuming
A type of food processing which involves transferring properties by keeping food items in contact with another substance.
विकर्षणकर्म ( vikarṣaṇakarma )

Holding and extraction
A procedure by which an impacted foreign body is held manually or by other extractive means such as vacuum or magnetic extraction.
विकल्पनम् ( vikalpanam )

Optional instructions
A statement that allows several discretionary options.
विकल्पसम्प्राप्तिः ( vikalpasamprāptiḥ )

Fraction-specific pathogenesis
Pathogenesis subclassification based on which one or fraction of the three dosha predominates.
विकारः ( vikāraḥ )

Disorder
A disorder refers to a set of dysfunctions in any body system which is evaluated from associated signs, symptoms or findings. Each disorder may be defined by its symptomology, etiological explanation, course and outcome, treatment response or linkage to interacting environmental factors.
विकाशी ( vikāśī )

Substance damaging tissue and loosening joints
Example: deleterious effects of chewing Areca catechu L. .
विकृतिः ( vikṛtiḥ )

Abnormal state
Not typical, usual or regular; differing in any way from the normal state, structure or condition.
विकृतिविषमसमवेतसन्निपातजरोगः ( vikṛtiviṣamasamavetasannipātajarogaḥ )

Disease symptoms in discord with dosha
A disease or condition due to coexistence of aggravated three dosha , in which dosha dominance cannot be understood based on symptoms.
विगृह्यसंभाषा ( vigṛhyasaṃbhāṣā )

Unproductive, hostile debate
विचर्चिका ( vicarcikā )

Skin disease with excessive exudation
A skin disease characterized by itching; papules/eruptions; blackish discoloration; excessive/copious discharge; excessive watery discharge.
विचारः ( vicāraḥ )

Reasoning
The application of reason in critical analysis.
विचित्रप्रत्ययारब्धद्रव्यः ( vicitrapratyayārabdh adravyaḥ )

Substance with properties inconsistent with the five basic elements in its composition
Substance with properties inconsistent with the five basic elements in its composition as deducted from its perceivable attributes such as taste and qualities. Although barley and wheat possess the properties of sweetness and heaviness (which ideally should alleviate vata), wheat alleviates vata while barley aggravates it. In this instance, barley is an example of a substance with properties inconsistent with the five basic elements in its composition
विज्ञानम् ( vijñānam )

Applied knowledge
Skill in the practical application of knowledge.
विटपः (मर्म) ( viṭapaḥ (marma) )

Vulnerable location(s) in the groin
Two in number which when injured leads to reduced fertility.
विडलवणम् ( viḍalavaṇam )

Artificially made salt
विड् -विघातः ( viḍ-vighātaḥ )

Passage of urine mixed with faecal matter
A disorder characterized by passage of urine smelling of faeces; difficult micturition.
वितण्डा ( vitaṇḍā )

Hostile debate, offensive argument
A debate in which no counter-thesis is affirmed, and views are refuted without objective examination.
वितस्तिः ( vitastiḥ )

Distance between extended tips of thumb and little finger
Measure of length equal to the distance between the tip of thumb and the tip of little finger spread out: approximately 9 inches or 22.86 cm, equivalent to 12 angula (23.4 cm).
वितानबन्धः ( vitānabandhaḥ )

Cephalic bandage
A type of bandage applied over the scalp or head region.
विदग्धाजीर्णम्/ पित्तजाजीर्णम् ( vidagdhājīrṇam/ pittajājīrṇam )

Indigestion due to putrefaction of gastric juices
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: incomplete digestion; acid reflux; thirst; confusion/delirium; giddiness or dizziness; sour belching/ eructations; burning sensations; syncope or swooning; various other disorders; smoky and acidic eructations; perspiration.
विदग्धाम्लम् ( vidagdhāmlam )

Eye disorder due to over-consumption of sour foods
A disorder characterized by moistening/soddening; itching; dirtiness.
विदारिका ( vidārikā )

Abscess resembling Puraria tuberosa rhizome
A disorder characterized by a round papule resembling a tuber or vidārī; circular lesion resembling vidārikanda in axilla; circular lesion resembling vidārikanda in groin.
विदारिका-प्रमेहपिडका ( vidārikā-pramehapiḍakā )

Carbuncle
A disorder characterized by a hard boil similar to the tuber Pueraria tuberosa or vidārīkanda.
विदारी ( vidārī )

Neoplasm of pharynx
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: burning sensation inside the throat; needling pain; swelling; inflammation with putrified flesh; putrefied swelling inside the throat; person sleeping mostly on one side; copper-coloured swelling.
विदाही ( vidāhī )

Substance producing belching, thirst, burning sensation and difficult to digest
विद्धः ( viddhaḥ )

Penetrating or puncturing deep injury
A disorder characterized by a foreign body which may remain either protruding or have exited through the wound.
विद्या ( vidyā )

Knowledge, discipline
Systematized knowledge, learning or science.
विद्युदशनिकृतरोगः ( vidyudaśanikṛtarogaḥ )

Disorders caused by natural disasters
Diseases and conditions subsequent to natural disasters such as thunder, lightning, asteroid impacts and meteor showers on the terrestrial surface.
विद्रधिः ( vidradhiḥ )

Abscess
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a deep-seated swelling which is broad-based; painful and round or else elongated, located in the bones and affecting skin; blood; muscles and fat; with the gradual production of excessively severe inflammatory swelling due to vitiated dosha. Generally, the condition advances to an open ulcer.
विद्रधिका/ विद्रधि-प्रमेहपिडका ( vidradhikā/ vidradhipramehapiḍakā )

Carbuncle with symptoms including abscess
विद्रधिशूकरोगः ( vidradhiśūkarogaḥ )

Penile abscess
विद्रुमम् ( Duly processed vidruma is employed as a stand-alone medicine vidrumam or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations. )

Coral
विधानम् ( vidhānam )

Sequential narration or enumeration
The narration of a topic in the correct logical sequence.
विधिः ( vidhiḥ )

Mandatory injunction
An instruction or procedure stipulated in a text.
विधिसम्प्राप्तिः ( vidhisamprāptiḥ )

Classification-based pathogenesis
Pathogenesis subclassification based on various prognostic aspects such as whether a disease or condition can be classified as easily curable, incurable or difficult to cure.
विधुरा (मर्म) ( vidhurā (marma) )

Vulnerable location(s) in the depression behind the ear
Two in number (one on each side) which when injured leads to loss of hearing.
विनता-प्रमेहपिडका ( vinatā-pramehapiḍakā )

Carbuncle characterized by large size and blue-coloured lesion
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a blue-coloured boil; deep-rooted on back; deep-rooted on abdomen; painful eruption; moistening/ soddening eruption; large vesicular swelling.
विनमनकर्म ( vinamanakarma )

Depression
A therapeutic measure in which elevated parts are pressed downwards.
विनयः ( vinayaḥ )

Humility
A term that expresses proper conduct, decency, modesty or mildness.
विपक्षः ( vipakṣaḥ )

Context in which a cause-and-effect relationship is negated
Figuratively, an adversarial context or environment.
विपरीतार्थकारी ( viparītārthakārī )

Treatment with interventions known to be cause of disease
विपर्ययः ( viparyayaḥ )

Implying the opposite meaning
A statement whose meaning suggests the opposite of its ostensible expression.
विपाकः ( vipākaḥ )

Post digestive state
Taste of a substance after undergoing complete digestion and transformation. There are three types: sweet, sour and astringent.
विपादिका ( vipādikā )

Cracks in palms and soles
A skin disease characterized by cracks in the skin of hands and feet; severe pain; less itching; redness/congestion; associated with eruptions.
विप्रकृष्टहेतुः ( viprakṛṣṭahetuḥ )

Distant etiological factor
A distant or indirect causative factor which is less influential in giving rise to a disease or condition.
विबन्धः ( vibandhaḥ )

Multi-tailed bandage
A type of bandage used in regions such as the back, abdomen, and chest.
विबन्धव्यापत् ( vibandhavyāpat )

Condition of constipation due to faulty purgative therapy
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: obstruction of flatus; obstruction to passage of urine/retention; obstruction/retention of faeces; gurgling intestinal sounds/borborygmi; burning sensation; fever; severe pain.
विभागः ( vibhāgaḥ )

Division
The quality of being able to divide or subdivide a particular substance.
विभु ( vibhu )

Omnipresent
Being everywhere, all pervading, an attribute of atma.
विभ्रंश:-वमनव्यापत् ( vibraṃśaḥ-vamanavyāpat )

Condition of rectal prolapse or mental perversion due to faulty emetic therapy
विभ्रंशविरेचनव्यापत् ( vibhramśavirecanavyāpat )

Condition of rectal prolapse due to faulty purgative therapy
A condition characterized by severe itching..
विमलम् ( vimalam )

Iron pyrite
Ferrous disulfide (FeS2). In calcinated form vimalam is used as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral formulations.
विमार्गगमनम् ( vimārgagamanam )

Body channel dysfunction involving displacement of contents
Diversion to the flow of the contents and movement in the wrong body channels.
विम्लापनकर्म ( vimlāpanakarma )

Gentle massage for management of pre-ulcerative inflammation
A localized, gentle massage carried out using bamboo reeds, palms or the thumb to resolve inflammation.
विम्लापनकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( vimlāpanakarma (vraṇacikitsā) )

Gentle therapeutic massage for wound management
Therapeutic application of a gentle massage.
विरिक्तस्य नस्य व्यापदः ( viriktasya nasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition due to inhalation therapy administered to person who has taken purgation therapy
A condition characterized by affliction of the sense organs.
विरुद्धान्नभोजनम् / विरुद्धाहारः ( viruddhānnabhojanam/ viruddhāhāraḥ )

Disorder due to intake of incompatible foods
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: impotence; blindness; spreading cellulitis/ erysipelas; signs of dakodara; blisters; insanity; anal fistula; syncope or swooning; insanity; abdominal distension; choking sensation in throat; clinical features of pāṇḍu; āmaviśa; kilāsaḥ; skin disease; grahaṇī dosha; oedema; amlapitta; fever; cold catarrh; congenital anamolies in offsprings; death.
विरुद्धाहारः/ विरुद्धान्नम् ( viruddhāhāraḥ, viruddhānnam )

Incompatible foods
Types of food which should not be eaten together, examples of incompatible combinations include examples of incompatible combinations include milk and salt, milk and fish, honey and ghee in equal amounts.
विरूढधानाः, विरूढाढकः ( virūḍhadhānāḥ, virūḍhadhakaḥ )

Sprouted grains
Varieties of sprouted grains such as green gram or chickpea.
विरे कम् (विषोपक्रमः) ( virekam (viṣopakramaḥ) )

Purgation for detoxification
Therapeutic induction of purgation for removal of poison.
विरे चनकर्म ( virecanakarma )

Removal of foreign body by purgation
The removal of a loosely impacted foreign body by purgation.
विरे चनकर्म ( virecanakarma )

Therapeutic purgation
A therapeutic process for the controlled induction of purgation along with a series of pre- and postintervention measures.
विरे चनकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( virecanakarma (vraṇacikitsā) )

Therapeutic purgation Therapeutic induction of purgation for wound management. for wound management
विरे चनधूमपानम्/ वैरेचनिकधूमपानम् ( virecanadhūmapānam/ vairecanikadhūmapānam )

Medicated smoking with expulsive effect
The procedure of medicated smoking to remove morbid dosha through the nasal cavity.
विरेचन-कर्म, रेचनकर्म ( virecana-karma, recana-karma )

Therapeutic purgation
A therapeutic purgation to eliminate vitiated dosha which are drawn to the stomach by preparatory panchakarma procedures.
विरेचनकर्म-चिकित्सापचारः ( virecanakarmacikitsāpacāraḥ )

Condition due to improper purgation therapy
विरेचनव्यापत् ( virecanavyāpat )

Condition of improper administration of purgative therapy
विरेचनातियोगः ( virecanātiyogaḥ )

Signs of excessive administration of purgation therapy
विरेचनायोगः ( virecanāyogaḥ )

Condition of insufficient purgation
विलंघितदुर्बलेन्द्रियाल्पाग् निनिरूढ-विरेचनव्यापत् ( vilaṃghitadurbalendriyālpāgnini )

Condition caused by purgation therapy administered to person who is fasting
विलेपी ( vilepī )

Thick rice gruel
A rice gruel preparation which contains a greater solid than liquid portion; it is prepared by adding 4 parts water to one part broken rice and boiling until the rice becomes soft.
विवरणकर्म ( vivaraṇakarma )

Dilatation
A procedure to widen a tract or orifice for diagnostic and/or therapeutic purposes.
विवर्णरे तोदोषः ( vivarṇaretodoṣaḥ )

Discoloured semen
Semen disorder characterized by its abnormal colour.
विवर्तनकर्म ( vivartanakarma )

Twisting movement
A special type of twisting movement required to disimpact or extract a foreign body.
विवर्तित-सन्धिमुक्तम् ( vivartita-sandhimuktam )

Dislocation with lateral displacement
A lateral dislocation of a joint characterized by lateral displacement of the joint; deformity; pain.
विवाहसंस्कारः ( vivāhasaMskāra )

Marriage ceremony
A ceremony marking the beginning of married life.
विवृतदन्तः ( vivṛtadantaḥ )

A kind of abnormal dentition
An abnormal type of dentition presenting as an outward protrusion of teeth with malocclusion and incomplete closure of lips.
विवृता ( vivṛtā )

Papules resembling a ripe fig
A disorder characterized by lesion resembling a ripe fig fruit; intense burning sensation; lesion with wide opening; roundshaped; fever.
विवेकः ( vivekaḥ )

Discrimination
The ability to distinguish and classify things according to their absolute properties.
विंशतिशस्त्राणि ( viṃśatiśastrāṇi )

Twenty sharp surgical instruments
The 20 sharp instruments used in surgical procedures.
विशदः ( viśadaḥ )

Conspicuous-ness, leanness, shininess
The quality of a substance which is responsible for purging and keeping tissues free of vitiated substances.
विशल्यघ्नमर्म ( viśalyaghnamarma )

Vulnerable location(s) where manipulation entails death
Marma which if injured by a foreign body may lead to death if it is removed: the person remains alive if the foreign body is left in situ.
विशिखानुप्रवेशः ( viśikhānupraveśaḥ )

Formal entry into medical profession
Formal entry into the medical profession after completion of education and training.
विशुष्कशुक्रम् ( viśuṣkaśukram )

Scanty semen
A decreased volume of semen.
विशेषपूर्वरूपम् ( viśeṣapūrvarūpam )

Specific prodrome
A specific symptom pertaining to a particular dosha. The term also denotes those premonitory symptoms which indicate the onset of a particular disease or clinical condition.
विशेषम् ( viśeṣam )

Particularity, distinct feature
The unique individuality of the substances. An attribute that causes depletion or decrease (hrasahetu), as well as diversity and dissimilarity (pṛthaktva).
विश्लिष्ट-सन्धिमुक्तम् ( viśliṣṭa-sandhimuktam )

Subluxation or incomplete dislocation
A derangement or incomplete dislocation of joints characterized by mild swelling; persistent pain; derangement of the joints.
विश्वाची ( viśvācī )

Brachial neuralgia
A disorder characterized by loss of upper extremity functioning.
विषः ( viṣaḥ )

Poisoning
विष-अधिष्ठानम् ( viṣa-adhiṣṭhānam )

Substratum of poison
The various sites at which poisons are located in animals or plants.
विषकन्या ( viṣakanyā )

Poisonous lady
A young woman habituated to ingesting small amounts of food mixed with powerful poisons thereby rendering them toxic: anybody encountering these women can die instantly.
विषगरवैरोधिकचिकित्सा ( viṣagaravairodhikacikitsā )

Management of poison
The practices adopted to deal with various poisons and their immediate and delayed effects.
विषघ्नम् (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( viṣaghnam (vraṇacikitsā) )

Neutralization of poisons
Therapeutic neutralization of wounds due to poisons of all kinds.
विषघ्नलेपः ( viṣaghnalepaḥ )

External application of antipoisonpaste
A type of ointment or lepa with an antipoisonous effect.
विषचिकित्सा, गरचिकित्सा ( viṣacikitsā, garacikitsā )

Toxicology
The clinical speciality of Ayurveda dealing with the treatment of poisoning .
विषजमूर्च्छा ( viṣajamūrcchā )

Syncope due to poison
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: shivering/tremors; sleepiness; thirst; blackouts; specific to the respective poisons concerned.
विषजशोफः ( viṣajaśophaḥ )

Oedema due to poison
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: oedema in the dependent parts; migratory oedema/shifting in nature; burning sensation; soft oedema; painful; oedema developing rapidly.
विषजोन्मादः ( viṣajonmādaḥ )

Psychosis due to poison
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: bloodshot eyes; loss of strength; loss of sensory and motor organ functioning; loss of lustre; withered appearance; blackish discoloration of face; loss of lustre/ charm; loss of strength; loss of functioning of sensory and motor organs; confusional state.
विषप्रदाता ( viṣapradātā )

Poisoner
The person who poisons.
विषमज्वरः ( viṣamajvaraḥ )

Intermittent fever, fever with no fixed course or pattern
A disorder characterized by initiation of a feeling of hotness, temperature at specific body parts such as head or feet; varied temperature, e.g. high temperature alternating with profuse sweating and coldness; intermittent pattern of temperature spike.
विषमाग्निः ( viṣamāgniḥ )

Irregular digestive, metabolic factors
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: ability to digest properly at times proper digestion of food of varied quantity and improper digestion in spite of proper quantity of food; abdominal distension; colicky pain in abdomen; upward movement of gases with retention of stool and urine; diarrhoea; heaviness in the abdomen; borborygmi/gurgling intestinal sounds; straining at defecation.
विषमाग्निः ( viṣamāgniḥ )

Irregular state of digestive, metabolic factors
A state in which the action of transformative factor is rendered erratic (either excessive, diminished or fluctuating) due to the dominant influence of vata.
विषमाशनजराजयक्ष्मा ( viṣamāśanajarājayakṣmā )

Consumption due to untimely food habit
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: cold catarrh; excessive salivation; cough; vomiting; loss of taste; fever; burning sensation in the shoulders/scapula; haemoptysis; pain in sides of chest/flanks; headache; altered voice; colicky pain in abdomen; generalized body aches; ruined/broken voice; crushing type of pain in shoulders; diarrhoea; burning sensation inside the body; heaviness of head; traumatic chest/pulmonary trauma; weakness.
विषमाशनम् ( viṣamāśanam )

Unsuitable timing and amount of food intake
Food items that are antagonistic to the structural components; food items which partially agitate dosha without eliminating it and eventually become antagonistic to the structural components.
विषम् ( viṣam )

Poison, toxin
Any harmful or deadly substance which spreads rapidly and damages the body.
विषयोनिः ( viṣayoniḥ )

Source of poison
A poison source may be plant, mineral or animal in nature.
विषवेगान्तरः ( viṣavegāntaraḥ )

Intervening period during spread of poison
The interval taken by a poison to penetrate from one membrane (kala) to another (transition period when a poison spreads from one tissue to another).
विषसङ्कटम् ( viṣasaṅkaṭam )

Critical or fatal poisoning
A fatal condition in poisoning when various deleterious factors combine during a specific period.
विषहर-अगदः ( viṣahara-agadaḥ )

Antidote
A medication with an antipoison effect which is beneficial in poisoning
विषोपक्रमः ( viṣopakramaḥ )

Management of poisoning
Various treatments for poisoning.
विष्टब्धाजीर्णम्, वातजाजीर्णम् ( viṣṭabdhājīrṇam, vātajājīrṇam )

Indigestion due to vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: severe needling type of pain; severe colicky pain; obstructed flatus; reverse movements of vata due to obstruction; constipation; abdominal distension; bodily exhaustion or tiredness; various other vata disorders; non passing of the flatus; rigidity,stiffness; confusion,delirium; body aches.
विष्यन्दः ( viṣyandaḥ )

Substance liquefying and causing oozing of body fluids
विसर्जिनी ( visarjini̅ )

Inferior rectal fold
One of the transverse folds of the rectum or plicae recti.
विसर्पः ( visarpaḥ )

Dermatological condition with very fast spreading skin lesions, erysipelas
A disorder characterized by swelling spreading all over the body; swelling spreading suddenly; swelling covering wide area; swelling not very raised.
विसूचिका ( visūcikā )

Acute, severe gastroenteritis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a needling type of pain in body; expulsion of āma from upper and lower orifices; i.e. mouth and anus; syncope or swooning; diarrhoea; vomiting; thirst; colicky pain in abdomen; giddiness or dizziness; cramps; yawning; generalized body aches; dryness of mouth; excessive talking/ irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; sunken eyes; severe headache; severe pain in cardiac region; contraction movement of head; rigidity of head; loss of thirst; impairment of agni; stiffness of sides of chest; stiffness of back; burning sensation; discoloration; intoxication; tremors; pain in precordial region/angina pectoris; headache; borborygmi with distension; rigidity/stiffness; fever; feeling of heaviness in body; impediment of speech/dysphasia; spitting/excessive expectoration; loss of taste; excessive salivation; bodily exhaustion or tiredness/inability to perform physical activities; indigestion; fever with chills; lethargy.
विसूचिका-उपद्रवः ( visūcikā-upadravaḥ )

Complications of gastroenteritis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: insomnia; distress/discontent/restlessness; tremors; retention of urine; loss of consciousness.
विस्फोटकः ( visphoṭakaḥ )

Skin disorder with pustules covered with thin membrane
A disorder characterized by lesions resembling burnt scars; blisters; associated with fever.
विस्फोटककुष्ठः ( visphoṭakakuṣṭhaḥ )

Skin disease with pustules covered with thin skin
A skin disease characterized by reddish white blisters or bullae; thin wound margins.
विस्रावणकर्म ( visrāvaṇakarma )

Drainage, bloodletting
The procedure of draining any accumulated fluid or bloodletting by various methods.
विस्रावणकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( visrāvaṇakarma (vraṇacikitsā) )

Therapeutic bloodletting
Therapeutic blood removal to promote wound healing.
विहारः ( vihāraḥ )

Activities
Activities related to the body, senses, mind and speech.
विहारवैषम्यम् ( vihāravaiṣamyam )

Disorders due to improper lifestyle
वीरुध ( vīrudha )

Small plant
A herb or shrub, e.g. country mallow (Sida cordifolia L.) (bala).
वीर्यम्, शक्तिः ( vīryam, śaktiḥ )

Potency
The innate quality of a substance, its ability to effectuate a change, or act on the body and mind. Broadly categorized into two categories: hot and cold potency.
वीर्यवाहिनीसिराछेदनजन्यक्लैब्यम् ( vīryavāhinīsirāchedanajanyaklaibyam )

Traumatic impotency
Impotency due to trauma to the ejaculatory tract.
वृक्कः, कालेयम्, कालेयकम्, कुक्षिगोलकः ( vṛkkā, kāleyam, kāleyakam, kukṣigolakaḥ )

Kidney
वृक्षः ( vṛkṣaḥ )

Tree
A tree, e.g. Indian banyan (Ficus benghalensis L.) (vaṭa).
वृत्तस्नायुः ( vṛttasnāyuḥ )

Tendon
वृत्तिकरः ( vṛttikaraḥ )

Life-sustaining
वृद्धिः ( vṛddhiḥ )

Hydrocoele and related disorders
A disorder characterized by penile and scrotal swelling; roughness; dryness.
वृद्धिपत्रशस्त्रम् ( vṛddhipatraśastram )

Scalpel
A surgical instrument with a blade used for incision or excision.
वृन्दः ( vṛndaḥ )

Pharyngeal abscess
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a prominent round swelling; severe burning; on the lateral side of throat; hyperpyrexia; pricking pain.
वृश्चिकविषः ( vṛścikaviṣaḥ )

Poisoning due to scorpion bite
Poisoning characterized by a burning sensation resembling fire; rapidly spreading in an upward direction; pain remaining at bite site; instantly severe pain; brownish discoloration at bite site; pricking type of pain at bite site; splitting type of pain at bite site.
वृषणः, मुष्कः, फलम्, अण्डः, अण्डकोषः, फलकोशः, कोषः, कोशः ( vṛṣaṇaḥ, muṣkaḥ, phalam, aṇḍaḥ, aṇḍakoṣaḥ, phalakośaḥ, koṣaḥ, kośaḥ )

Scrotum including testicles
वृषणकच्छूः ( vṛṣaṇakacchūḥ )

Scrotal dermatitis
A disorder characterized by itching in the scrotal region; sudden appearance of blisters; presence of secretion from blisters.
वृषता ( vṛṣatā )

Virility
Generative power, potency to produce a healthy progeny.
वृष्यः ( vṛṣyaḥ )

Treatment promoting vigour with aphrodisiac effect
Substances which promote the formation of semen; an aphrodisiac.
वृष्यम् ( vṛṣyam )

Substance enhancing the reproductive element in both quality and quantity
वेगः ( vegaḥ )

Urges
The natural urges are considered to be of two types: suppressible and non-suppressible
वेगरोधजराजयक्ष्मा ( vegarodhajarājayakṣmā )

Consumption due to withholding of natural urges
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: cold catarrh; cough; hoarseness of voice; loss of taste; pain in sides of chest/flanks; headache; fever; crushing type of pain in shoulders; generalized body aches; frequent vomiting; diarrhoea/loose motions; depletion of purisha or faeces; irritation in the throat; irritation in the chest; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing.
वेगावरोधः ( vegāvarodhaḥ )

Disorder due to suppression of natural urges
वेतसपत्रशस्त्रम् ( vetasapatraśastram )

Curved scalpel
A type of surgical scalpel which is slightly curved and sharp on its inner edge, used for puncturing or curetting.
वेदिनी ( vedinī )

Fifth layer of skin
वेध्यरोगः ( vedhyarogaḥ )

Eye disorders for bloodletting
वेल्लितकम् ( vellitakam )

Curved suture
A continous suture, the opposite of interrupted or separate sutures.
वेशवारः ( veśavāraḥ )

Boneless meat prepared with certain condiments
A preparation in which boneless meat is cooked, then ground and mixed with ghee and spices such as pepper and garlic, before being made into flattened balls which are steam cooked.
वैकल्यकरमर्म ( vaikalyakaramarma )

Vulnerable location(s) leading to deformity
Marma which if injured may lead to disability rather than death.
वैकृतदोषः ( vaikṛtadoṣaḥ )

Abnormal dosha as a cause of disease
A deviation of dosha from its normal physiological state of equilibrium, involving a disorder of its functional, qualitative or quantitative aspects: this is the basis of disease.
वैकृतापहकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( vaikṛtāpahakarma (vraṇacikitsā) )

Cosmetic corrections after wound healing
Restoration of normal scar conditions, i.e. restituting normal skin colour and encouraging regrowth of local hair.
वैक्रान्तम् ( vaikrāntam )

Fluorspar and tourmaline
Calcium fluoride (CaF2). In calcinated form vikrantam is used as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral formulations.
वैडूर्यम्/वैदूर्यम् ( vaiḍūryam/vaidūryam )

Cat’s eye
Chrysoberyl (BeAl2O4). Duly processed vaiduryam is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
वैतरणबस्तिः ( vaitaraṇabastiḥ )

Enema for obstinate diseases
A type of enema formulated with the specified ingredients for a specific purpose.
वैद्यः ( vaidyaḥ )

Physician
The physician or medical practitioner is expected to have the following qualities: to be an expert in medical treatment (daksha), academically qualified (trirthashastrartha), experienced (drishtakarma), in good physical and mental health (shuci) and able to fully appreciate the state of health or illness of the patient.
व्यक्तिः ( vyaktiḥ )

Stage of clinical manifestation of a disease
The fifth stage of disease manifestation, when a disease or condition becomes clinically manifest.
व्यञ्जकहेतुः ( vyañjakahetuḥ )

Aggravating cause of disease
An etiological factor that sustains, aggravates and stimulates progression of a disease or condition.
व्यतिरे कव्याप्तिः ( vyatirekavyāptiḥ )

Negative invariable concomitance
A condition pertaining to the logical conditions of inference in which minor terms do not exist in all loci with major terms.
व्यधनकर्म ( vyadhana karma )

Puncture
The procedure of puncturing a body part.
व्यधनविस्रावणकर्म ( vyadhanavisrāvaṇakarma )

Drainage by puncturing
Therapeutic drainage of a wound by puncture.
व्यपेताहिक्का/यमलाहिक्का ( vyapetāhikkā/ yamalāhikkā )

Dual or successive hiccups
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: hiccups increasing after food digestion; excessive talking/irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; vomiting; diarrhoea; thirst; senselessness/unconsciousness; yawning; eyes bathed or dimmed with tears; dryness of mouth; body bent/flexed; abdominal distension; hiccups originating from jatru; suppression of breath/death; hiccups in two bouts; shaking of the head and neck.
व्यभिचारिहेतुः ( vyabhicārihetuḥ )

Mild yet potential causative factor
A nondominant causative factor: it cannot independently give rise to a disease or condition but may contribute to it when the apposite situation arises in the body.
व्यवसायः ( vyavasāyaḥ )

Decision
Arriving at a clear and unambiguous decision.
व्यवाय व्यायाम पानक्लान्तानां नस्य व्यापदः ( vyavāya vyāyāma pānaklāntānāṃ nasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition due to inhalation therapy administered to person fatigued by excessive indulgence in sexual activities; exercise or alcohol
A condition characterized by pain in head; pain in shoulders; pain in eyes; pain in chest.
व्यवाय-वैषम्यम्/ मैथुनापचारम् ( vyavāya-vaiṣamyam/ maithunāpacāram )

Disorders due to faulty sexual practices
व्यवायजन्यराजयक्ष्मा ( vyavāyajanyarājayakṣmā )

Consumption due to excessive copulation
A disorder characterized by pallor; signs of depletion of semen; depletion of earlier dhātu.
व्यवायमिथ्यायोगः/ मिथ्याव्यवायम् ( vyavāyamithyāyogaḥ/ mithyāvyavāyam )

Disorder due to deviated sexual activity
व्यवायातियोगः ( vyavāyātiyogaḥ )

Disorder due to excessive sexual activity
व्यवायी ( vyavāyī )

Substance spreading all over the body before being digested
Example: intoxication with Cannabis sativa L. and Papaver somniferum L.
व्याख्या ( vyākhyā )

Explanation, commentary
An exegetical commentary on, or explanation of, Ayurvedic texts.
व्याख्यानम् ( vyākhyānam )

Lucid explanation
A statement which develops a subject matter in detail.
व्याधिः ; आमयः ; गदः ; आतङ्क ; यक्ष्मा ; समुच्चय ; ज्वर ; विकारः ; रोग ; पाप्मा ( vyādhiḥ; āmayaḥ; gadaḥ; ātaṅkaḥ; yakṣmā, samuccaya; jvara; vikāraḥ; roga; pāpmā. )

Disease
Ayurveda uses several terms as synonyms for diseases, based on the different perspectives under which diseases are understood: Disease, a condition which causes various types of pain and distress to the body and mind; Origin of diseases from ama; Illness due to multiple factors; Illness as obtrusive to life; Syndrome; Fever as a generic term for disease; Disorder, ailment; Discomfort, disease; A disease-state originating from the individual’s physical or mental transgressions or demerits in present or past life.
व्याधिक्षमत्व ( vyādhikṣamatva )

Immunity
व्याधिक्षमत्वम् ( vyādhikṣamatvam )

Inherent capacity of the body to resist diseases
The inherent resisting power of the body, which strives to arrest the occurrence, progress and re-occurrence of diseases.
व्याधिबलविरोधितत्वम् ( vyādhibalavirodhitatvam )

Inherent capacity of the body to resist diseases
A natural, nonspecific type of immunity which defends the body whenever any disease occurs for the first time.
व्याधिभेदः ( vyādhibhedaḥ )

Types of disease
The categorization of diseases based on various established criteria.
व्याधिविनिश्चयः, रोगविनिश्चयः ( vyādhiviniścayaḥ, rogaviniścayaḥ )

Diagnosis
Arrived at through careful consideration of information and the application of knowledge. Information is provided by the patient’s narrative, the exploration of signs and symptoms and the results of patient examination. The knowledge derived from the learning and expertise of the physician is applied to this information to arrive at a diagnosis
व्याधिविपरीतः ( vyādhiviparītaḥ )

Antagonistic to disease
The judicious use of medicines, regimens and dietetics that are antagonistic to the nature of the disease or condition itself.
व्याधिविपरीतचिकित्सा ( vyādhiviparītacikitsā )

Treatment antagonistic to disease
One of the threefold classifications of treatment antagonistic to the disease.
व्याधिविपरीतार्थकारी ( vyādhiviparītārthakārī )

Treatment with interventions usually considered to be disease-aggravating factors
The judicious use of medicines, regimens and dietetics that are known to aggravate the signs and symptoms of the disease or condition temporarily but can provide relief from the disease itself.
व्याधिसङ्कर ( vyādhisaṅkaraḥ )

Comorbidity
The presence or co-existence of more than one disease or condition at a given time.
व्याधिसङ्करः ( vyādhisaṅkaraḥ )

Comorbidity
A disease that gives rise to another disease while continuing to exist; it may also signify two or more diseases which coexist owing to a similarity of etiology or pathogenic mechanism.
व्याधिहरम् ( vyādhiharam )

Disease elimination
Cure of disease. Synonym of treatment.
व्याधिहेतुः ( vyādhihetuḥ )

Disease-specific causes
Factors that give rise to a disease or condition irrespective of the dosha involved.
व्याध्युद्पादप्रतिबन्धकत्वम् ( vyādhyudpādapratibandhakatvam )

Inherent capacity of the body to resist diseases
The defence mechanism of the body which intervenes to resist the occurrence or re-occurrence of diseases.
व्यानः ( vyānaḥ )

Circulating vata
Subtype of vata seated in the cardiac region (hrdaya), which circulates or diffuses through the body. It performs the function of circulating of fluids through heart to all parts of the body, as well as transporting various materials from one body part to another.
व्यानवातकोपः ( vyānavātakopaḥ )

Aggravation of circulating vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a decrease in virility/semen; decrease or lack of enthusiasm/energy; diminution of physical strength; oedema; excitement; fever; quadriplegia; pricking type of pain; horripilation; numbness of body parts; skin disease; spreading cellulitis or erysipelas; diseases affecting whole body.
व्यापद् ( vyāpad )

Adverse event
A harmful or prejudicial event occurring during a therapeutic intervention.
व्यापन्नऋतु, ऋतुविपर्ययः ( vyāpannaṛtu, ṛtuviparyayaḥ )

Abnormal seasonal pattern
व्यापन्नर्तुकृतरोगः ( vyāpannartukṛtarogaḥ )

Diseases resulting from untimely climatic changes or sudden variations
Diseases and conditions that manifest in the body due to unexpected changes in climate.
व्याप्तिः ( vyāptiḥ )

Invariable concomitance
A condition pertaining to the logical conditions of inference in which minor terms uniformly exist in the same loci as major terms.
व्यामः ( vyāmaḥ )

Distance between tips of middle fingers of outstretched upper limbs
Measure of length equal to the distance between the tip of the middle fingers of both outstretched upper limbs: 72 inches or 182.88 cm.
व्यायामः ( vyāyāmaḥ )

Sweating induced by exercise
A type of sudation therapy in which diaphoresis is achieved by doing exercise.
व्यायामः ( vyāyāmaḥ )

Therapeutic exercise
The process of making the person take exercise as a therapeutic measure.
व्यायाम-वैषम्यम् ( vyāyāma-vaiṣamyam )

Disorders due to improper exercise
व्यायामजन्यराजयक्ष्मा ( vyāyāmajanyarājayakṣmā )

Consumption due to overexercise
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pain in chest; haematemesis; typical type of excessive cough; haematuria; stiffness of sides of chest; stiffness of back; stiffness of lumbar region/lower back; clinical features of traumatic chest/pulmonary trauma without injury.
व्यायोजिमः ( vyāyojimaḥ )

Lobuloplasty type 8
A type of lobuloplasty indicated when one flap of the divided earlobe is thick and the other one thin or when one is regular and the other irregular.
व्यालकृतरोगः ( vyālakṛtarogaḥ )

Diseases caused by wild animals
Diseases and conditions caused by physical attack and bites from both tame and wild animals; it includes injuries caused by nails, horns, bites, snake poison and bee stings.
व्यूहनकर्म ( vyūhanakarma )

Dislodging of foreign body
The removal of a foreign body by retracting or elevating with a probe prior to removal.
व्योमाश्मः ( vyomāśmaḥ )

Jade
Duly processed vyomashma is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbomineral pharmaceutical formulations.
व्रणः ( vraṇaḥ )

Ulcer
An ulcer is an open sore on an external or internal surface of the body; caused by a break in the skin or mucous membrane which fails to heal; ranging from small; painful sores in the mouth to bedsores and serious lesions of the stomach or intestine.
व्रण-अपचारः ( vraṇa-apacāraḥ )

Condition due to due to improper wound care
व्रण-रोपणः ( vraṇa-ropaṇaḥ )

Wound-healing
व्रण-शोधनम् ( vraṇa-śodhanam )

Wound cleansing
व्रणजन्यराजयक्ष्मा ( vraṇajanyarājayakṣmā )

Consumption due to wounds
A disorder characterized by diminution of rakta, pain.
व्रणधूपनम् ( vraṇadhūpanam )

Fumigation of ulcers and wounds
The therapeutic procedure of fumigating wounds or ulcers.
व्रणधूपनम् ( vraṇadhūpanam )

Medicated fumigation for wound management
Therapeutic fumigation of a wound.
व्रणपाचनकर्म ( vraṇapācanakarma )

Induction of suppuration
Various procedures that help to induce ripening or suppuration of the inflammation.
व्रणशोफः ( vraṇaśophaḥ )

Pre-ulcerative inflammation
A condition characterized by widespread or nodular (localized) inflammation; regular or irregular; due to accumulation of vitiated dosha in the skin and muscles which may manifest in any part of the body. May develop independently leading to ulcer formation at a later stage or be preceded by vidradhi (abscess).
व्रणशोफस्यसप्तोपक्रमाः ( vraṇaśophasyasaptopkramāḥ )

Seven therapies for management of pre-ulcerative inflammation
The seven therapeutic measures for management of an inflammatory swelling: gentle massage, bloodletting, poultice application, incision, wound cleaning, wound healing and cosmetic measures.
व्रणस्यषष्टि-उपक्रमाः ( vraṇasyaṣaṣṭi-upakramāḥ )

Sixty therapeutic measures for wound management
Sixty therapeutic measures for management of wounds and ulcers.
व्रण्यः ( vraṇyaḥ )

Substance promoting wound-healing
व्रीहिमुखशस्त्रम् ( vrīhimukhaśastram )

Trocar
A pointed sharp instrument used for puncturing or surgical drainage.
शकुनीग्रहः ( śakunīgrahaḥ )

Symptom complex resembling bacterial infection of the skin due to external invisible factors
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a smell of birds emanating from the body; generalized discharging lesions; flaccidity/laxity; blisters with burning sensation spread over body; blisters with suppuration spread over body; afflicted with skin lesions due to injuries or trauma; diarrhoea; tongue ulcer; palate ulcer; throat ulcer; repeated blisters on joints; manifesting at any time; stomatitis; proctitis; fever; smelling of shakuni (a type of bird).
शंखः ( śaṃkhaḥ )

Conch shell
Calcium carbonate (CaCO3). Duly processed shankha is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
शंखावर्तसन्धिः ( śaṃkhāvartasandhiḥ )

Convoluted shell-like joint
शङ्काविषम् ( śaṅkāviṣam )

Doubt about being poisoned
The fear or suspicion of being poisoned or bitten by a poisonous animal or snake may develop into symptoms which resemble those of being poisoned when no poison is involved.
शङ्खः ( śaṅkhaḥ )

Temple
One of the ten sites in the body where vital life force is predominantly located.
शङ्खकः ( śaṅkhakaḥ )

Severe pain at temporal region
शङ्खप्रदेशः ( śaṅkhapradeśaḥ )

Temple
शतघ्नी ( śataghnī )

Retro-pharyngeal abscess
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a solid swelling ) obstructing the throat; associated with multiple fleshy buds; various types of pain; raised; numerous overlying muscular growths; muscular growths resembling varti; severe thirst; hyperpyrexia; severe heaadache; pain resembling śataghni.
शतपदी-दष्टः ( śatapadī-daṣṭaḥ )

Reaction due to sting of centipede
Poisoning characterized by oedema; pain; burning sensation in precordial/cardiac region; burning sensation; syncope or swooning; appearance of whitish papules.
शतपोनकः ( śataponakaḥ )

Boils with multiple tiny openings around the penis
A disorder characterized by the external opening becoming occluded due to heaped boils.
शतपोनकभगन्दरः/ वातजभगन्दरः ( śataponakabhagandaraḥ/ vātajabhagandaraḥ )

Anal fistula with multiple openings
A fistula in the anal tissues characterized by the appearance of slightly red-coloured eruptions; pricking pain; full of multiple minute pores resembling a sieve; suppurating if left untreated; wound always moist owing to close proximity to urinary bladder; heavy discharge through openings; clear discharge through openings; frothy discharge through openings; excessive discharge through openings; whipping pain; tearing pain; biting pain; pricking pain; splitting sensation in anus; flatus; urine; faeces and semen oozing from openings if left untreated; minute openings.
शतारुकुष्ठः ( śatārukuṣṭhaḥ )

Skin disease with several ulcerated red, black or browncoloured patches
A skin disease characterized by reddish ulcerative lesion; bluish-black colour; lesion associated with burning sensation; pain; multiple ulcerative lesions; broad-based; excessively moist/wet discharge; full of worms; usually appears at joints.
शनैर्मेहः ( śanairmehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with very slow voiding rate
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: urination with reduced flow; difficulty in micturition/dysuria; slow elimination of urine; elimination of mucus-mixed urine; elimination of slimy urine.
शब्दः ( śabdaḥ )

Sound
Trait of space element.
शब्दवहाधमनी ( śabdavahādhamanī )

Artery related to perception of sound
शब्दानुवहा, शब्दाभिवहा, शब्दपथः, शब्दवहस्रोतस् ( śabdānuvahā, śabdābhivahā, śabdapathaḥ, śabdavahasrotas )

Conduits carrying sound
शमनकवलः/प्रसादनकवलः ( śamanakavalaḥ/ prasādanakavalaḥ )

Palliative mouth gargle
A type of gargle with the property of pacifying morbid dosha.
शमनगण्डू षः ( śamanagaṇḍūṣaḥ )

Retention of palliative medications in the oral cavity
Full mouth retention of liquid medications with the property of pacifying morbid dosha for a specific time.
शमनधूमपानम् ( śamanadhūmapānam )

Palliative medicated smoking
The procedure of medicated smoking aimed at pacifying morbid dosha.
शमननस्यम् ( śamananasyam )

Intranasal therapy with pacifying effect
A type of nasya therapy which helps in treatment by pacifying morbid doṣa.
शमनम् [वातशमनम्, पित्तशमनम्, कफशमनम्] ( śamanam [vāta-śamanam, pitta-śamanam and kaphaśamanam] )

Restoring normalcy or pacifying action
Substances with the ability to restore normalcy, i.e. vata-pacifying, pitta-pacifying and kapha-pacifying .
शमीधान्यवर्गः/ शिम्बीधान्यवर्गः, वैदलवर्गः ( śamīdhānyavargaḥ, śimbīdhānyavargaḥ, vaidalavargaḥ )

Group of pulses and legumes
The group of seeds from plants covered with pods such as black gram, green gram, horse gram, green pea, pigeon pea or chickpea.
शम्बूकावर्तभगन्दरः/ सन्निपातजभगन्दरः ( śambūkāvartabhagandaraḥ/ sannipātajabhagandaraḥ )

Anal fistula with orifice resembling a snail’s shell (horseshoeshaped fistula)
A fistula characterized by a hallux-sized nodule; pricking pain; burning sensation; itching; suppurating if left untreated; discharge with various/invariable colours; resembling a snail’s ridges; tracts damaging soft tissues; boil resembling a cow’s teat; different types of pain; different colours; excessive/ copious discharge.
शरारिमुखशस्त्रम् ( śarārimukhaśastram )

Scissors
A double-bladed sharp instrument for cutting in surgery.
शरावः ( śarāvaḥ )

Earthen cupel or saucer
A utensil generally used for refining metals and minerals, and for calcinating metals and minerals using graded heat.
शराविका-प्रमेहपिडका ( śarāvikā-pramehapiḍakā )

Carbuncle resembling earthenware vessel with flat cover
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a boil with raised margins; bluish-black lesions; accompanied by wetness/dampness; pain; resembling an earthen saucer; a boil with a depressed centre.
शरीरः, देहः, कायः, तनुः, गात्रम्, वपुः ( śarīraḥ, dehaḥ, kāyaḥ, tanuḥ, gātram, vapuḥ )

Body
शरीरवृद्धिकरभावः ( śarīra-vṛddhikara-bhāvaḥ )

Factors responsible for body growth
Body growth is determined by four factors: appropriate time, innate nature, proper nutrition and absence of obstructing or impairing factors.
शरीरसम्पत् ( śarīra-sampat )

Healthy body and mind
The state in which all fundamental structural components of the body or dhatu are functioning normally.
शरीराधिष्टानम् ( śarīrādhiṣṭānaṃ )

Physical body as seat of disease
A disease or condition in which the body is first affected followed by the mind.
शरीरार्धम् ( śarīrārdham )

Body half
शर्कराजमूत्रकृच्छ्रम्, शर्करा-अश्मरी ( śarkarājamūtrakṛcchram, śarkarā-aśmarī )

Difficulty in urination due to urinary gravel
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: precordial pain/cardiac pain; shivering/ tremors; colicky pain in abdomen; diminution of agni; syncope or swooning; severe dysuria; lessening of pain when gravel passed in urine flow.
शर्करार्बुदः ( śarkarārbudaḥ )

Granulated tumour
A disorder characterized by a swelling of variegated coloration; moistening/soddening; foul smell; sudden occurrence of bleeding; honey-like discharge; clarified butterlike discharge; discharge resembling fat.
शलाका ( śalākā )

Ophthalmic probe
A probe used for various procedures in diseases of the head and neck region .
शलाकायन्त्रम् ( śalākāyantram )

Blunt, probe-like instruments
Instruments used in surgical and parasurgical procedures such as probing, mobilization, extraction and the application of medications.
शल्यगतिः ( śalyagatiḥ )

Route of foreign body entry and movement
Site of entry and movement of a foreign body in affected body tissue.
शल्यचिकित्सा ( śalyacikitsā )

Surgery
The clinical speciality of Ayurveda dealing with the removal of internal or external foreign bodies (shalya) through surgical intervention(s).
शल्यतन्त्रम् ( śalyatantram )

Surgery
One of the eight clinical branches of Āyurveda which deals with surgery.
शल्यनिमित्तजनाडीव्रणः ( śalyanimittajanāḍīvraṇaḥ )

Deep ulcer with fistula formation due to injury with foreign body
A sinus ulcer characterized by a frothy clear discharge as if churned; sanguineous discharge; warm discharge; constant pain; blood-mixed pus discharge; thin discharge; reduced quantity of discharge, e.g. pilonidal sinus.
शल्यम् ( śalyam )

Foreign body or substance that must be removed surgically or by other means
Any foreign body or factor which discomfits or obstructs the body and mind.
शल्यार्दित-विरेचनव्यापत् ( śalyārdita-virecanavyāpat )

Condition caused by purgation therapy administered to person afflicated with foreign body
A condition characterized by vata localized in the injured part leading to death.
शष्कुलिः ( śaṣkuliḥ )

Type of cake
A large round cake composed of ground rice, sugar and sesame, which is cooked in oil.
शष्कुली ( śaṣkulī )

Cochlea
शस्त्रकर्म-अपचारः ( śastrakarma-apacāraḥ )

Condition of improper surgical intervention
शस्त्रकर्मयोग्यवैद्यलक्षण: ( śastrakarmayogyavaidyalakṣaṇa )

Qualities of ideal surgeon
The qualities or attributes required by the ideal surgeon.
शस्त्रकृतरोगः ( śastrakṛtarogaḥ )

Diseases caused by sharp instruments
Diseases and conditions caused by weapons or instruments such as swords, surgical instruments, stones or wood.
शस्त्रदण्डहते नस्य व्यापदः ( śastradaṇḍahate nasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition due to inhalation therapy administered to person injured by sharp and blunt weapon
A condition characterized by excruciating pain.
शस्त्रदोषः ( śastradoṣaḥ )

Defects of sharp instruments
The eight types of defects affecting sharp instruments which make them unsuitable for the respective surgical procedures: crooked, blunt, fissured, rough, very thick, very thin or small, too long and too small.
शस्त्रधारा ( śastradhārā )

Degree of sharpness of instruments
The degree of the sharpness of instruments for various surgical procedures is as follows: instrument with a cutting edge similar to that of a single split lentil for incising or cutting, half a single split lentil for scarification or curetting, a strand of hair for puncturing and draining, and half a strand of hair for excision.
शस्त्रपायना ( śastrapāyanā )

Tempering of sharp surgical instruments
There are three types of tempering for sharp instruments: with caustic liquids, water and oil
शस्त्रम् ( śastram )

Sharp surgical instruments
Instruments with sharp or cutting edges used for surgical purposes.
शस्त्रविभ्रमः ( śastravibhramaḥ )

Condition due to faulty surgical procedure
शस्त्रविस्रावणम् ( śastravisrāvaṇam )

Bloodletting with a surgical instrument
Procedures for bloodletting by making small cuts or venesection .
शस्त्रसम्पत् ( śastrasampat )

Qualities of ideal sharp surgical instruments
The qualities of ideal sharp surgical instruments which make them suitable for surgical procedures are: having a good handle, made of quality metal, fine blade, excellent appearance and face well positioned.
शस्त्रसाध्य ( śastrasādhya )

Conditions amenable to surgery
A disease or condition that requires, and which can be treated and managed by surgical techniques.
शाकवर्गः ( śākavargaḥ )

Group of vegetables
The group of vegetables comprising leaf, root or tuber, flower, stem and fruit.
शाकुनिकायः ( śākunikāyaḥ )

Person with intolerant, The characteristics of the person with an intolerant, unsteady unsteady temperament temperament are overindulgence in sexual activity, incessant eating, intolerance or impatience, and unsteadiness of mind.
शाखा ( śākhā )

Branch of knowledge
Ayurveda is considered a branch of knowledge because it is derived from other Indian knowledge systems such as the Vedas.
शाखा ( śākhā )

Upper and lower limbs
Five prominences in the developing fetus which correspond to the four limbs and head.
शाखागतिः ( śākhāgatiḥ )

Shifting of dosha from gut to structual components
Physiological or pathological movements of dosha towards the structural components; diseases become manifest when the vitiated dosha gets dislodged in structural components .
शाखामर्म ( Śākhāmarma )

Vulnerable location(s) in the limbs
Marma located in the limbs.
शाखाश्रितकामला ( śākhāśritakāmalā )

Jaundice affecting body tissues such as blood and limbs
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: yellow-coloured eyes; yellowish discoloration of urine; yellow-coloured skin; whitish stools; gurgling intestinal sounds/borborygmi; constipation/abdominal fullness; heaviness of heart region; pitta entering into tvaca and dhātu with gradual development of weakness; gradual development of pain in sides of chest; gradual development of hiccups; gradual development of breathlessness; gradual development of loss of taste; gradual development of fever.
शारीरः ( śārīraḥ )

Knowledge pertaining to the body
The study of the body in all its aspects from origin to death.
शारीर-गुणाः/गुर्वादिगुणाः ( śārīra-guṇāḥ/gurvādiguṇāḥ )

Physical attributes, properties or qualities
The property of a substance which is related to body tissues; it is extensively used for selecting and preparing Ayurveda medicines and applying them successfully.
शारीरशल्यम् ( śārīraśalyam )

Endogenous internal obstruction
An obstruction originating from factors such as vitiated excretory products and morbid matter or a calculus.
शारीरिकहेतुः ( śārīrikahetuḥ )

Somatic cause
Causes leading to disturbances in the anatomy and physiology of the body.
शालाकिन्/शलाकी ( śālākin/ śalākī )

Specialist in diseases of the head and neck region
A person who has expertise and practice in diagnosing and treating diseases of the head and neck or śalākāyantraṁ.
शालाक्यतन्त्र, ऊर्ध्वाङ्गचिकित्सा ( śālakyatantra, ūrdhvāṅgacikitsā )

Head and neck medicine
The clinical speciality of Ayurveda dealing with the treatment of diseases affecting the head and neck region (including ophthalmology, otorhinolaryngology and dentistry) .
शालाक्यतन्त्रम्/ उर्ध्वाङ्गचिकित्सा/ जत्रूर्ध्वचिकित्सा/ उत्तमाङ्गचिकित्सा ( śālākyatantram/ urdhvāṅgacikitsā/ jatrūrdhvacikitsā/ uttamāṅgacikitsā )

Branch of Āyurveda dealing with diseases of the head and neck region
One of the eight branches of Āyurveda which deals with the diseases affecting the supraclavicular regions of the body, i.e. eye, ear, nose, throat and oral cavity, as well as their management; it includes dentistry, ophthalmology, orthodontics, otolaryngology and the treatment of various types of scalp- and head-related conditions such as headaches including migraine.
शालिधान्य-अतियोगः ( śālidhānya-atiyogaḥ )

Disorder due to excessive intake of cereals, e.g. rice
शालिसक्तुः ( śālisaktuḥ )

Flour of roasted rice
A dietetic preparation made by adding sugar and water to the flour of roasted rice.
शास्त्रगुणाः ( śāstraguṇāḥ )

Qualities of technical writing
Good technical writing following structured sets of rules or instruments such as devices for composition and analysis of technical treatises (tantrayukti), sources of meaning (arthashraya), compositions (kalpana), inclinations (tacchilya) and explanations (vyakhya). These are literary devices to assist in comprehending the technical and hidden meanings of classical texts.
शास्त्रम्, सूत्रम्, शाखाविद्या, ज्ञानम्, तन्त्रम्, विधिः, विज्ञानम्, लक्षणम् ( śāstram, sūtram, śākhāvidyā, jñānam, tantram, vidhiḥ, vijñānam, lakṣaṇam )

Knowledge system or treatise
A knowledge system is concise and informative and offers both theoretical and practical knowledge in its many subdisciplines. Ayurveda is considered as a knowledge system.
शिण्डाकी ( śiṇḍākī )

Type of fermented beverage
A specific preparation resulting from a process of fermentation.
शिरः, मूर्धा, उत्तमाङ्गम्, मस्तकम् , कपालः , शङ्खः , ललाटम्, अलिकम् ( śiraḥ, mūrdhā, uttamāṅgam, mastakam, kapālaḥ, śaṅkhaḥ, Forehead, lalāṭam, alikam )

Head
The uppermost and chief part of the body; head, the site where life force and the sense organs are situated.
शिरःकपालम् ( śiraḥkapālam )

Skull
शिरःपिचुः ( śiraḥpicuḥ )

Therapeutic procedure A type of external application of oil to the head in which a pad of placing an oil-soaked of oil-soaked cloth or cotton is kept on the scalp for a defined tampon on head period.
शिरःशूलःवमनस्य व्यापदः ( śiraḥśūlaḥ vamanasya vyapadaḥ )

Condition caused by emetic therapy administered to person with headache
शिरःसेकः ( śiraḥsekaḥ )

Therapeutic streaming of medicated fluids to head
A type of external application of oil to the head in which oil is poured in a fine stream over the forehead in a meticulous manner, either observing pendulous movements or at a constant point.
शिरो-अर्तिबस्तिव्यापत् ( śiro-artibastivyāpat )

Condition of headache due to faulty enema therapy
A condition characterized by symptoms afflicting the heart.
शिरोपिचुः ( śiropicuh )

Application of tampon to the head
A procedure in which a tampon is soaked in oil or other substances and applied to the baby’s head.
शिरोबस्तिः ( śirobastiḥ )

Therapeutic retention of oil over head for specific duration
A procedure involving medicated oil being retained over the head region for a specific duration.
शिरोभिघातः ( śirobhighātaḥ )

A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: torticollis/stiffness of neck; facial paralysis; agitation of eyes; confusion/delirium; cramps; loss of motor activities; cough; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; lockjaw/catching sensation over jaw; muteness/inability to speak; stuttering/stammmering; closure of eyelids; twitching of cheek muscles; yawning; excessive salivation; aphasia; facial grimaces.
शिरोमर्म, जत्रूर्ध्वमर्म ( Śiromarma, jatrūrdhvamarma )

Vulnerable location(s) in the head and neck
Marma located in the head and neck..
शिरोरोगः/ शिरःशूलम्/ शिरस्तापः/ शिरोभितापः ( śirorogaḥ/ śiraḥśūlam/ śirastāpaḥ/ śirobhitāpaḥ )

Disorders of head
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: clinical features of all types of dosha; severe pain; severe pricking pain in both temporal regions; severe pricking pain at nape of neck; breaking pain at both temporal regions; breaking pain at nape of neck; burning sensation in middle of eyebrows; burning sensation in forehead; severe pain between both eyebrows; severe pain in forehead; puncturing pain in both ears; tininitus; feeling as if eyes being extracted; feeling as if head spinning; sensation of luxation in skull region; pulsating sensation over vascular plexus; stiffness of neck; sudden onset of pain; pulsating sensation; severe headache without apparent cause; severe headache at night; headache relieved by bandage; headache relieved by fomentation; heaviness of head; locked jaw; intolerance of light/ photophobia; rhinorrhoea; sudden relief of pain; softness generated by massaging; softness generated by oil; softness generated by sudation; softness generated by bandaging.
शिरोरोगचिकित्सा ( śirorogacikitsā )

Management of diseases of head
The treatment of diseases related to the head.
शिरोविरे चननस्य-अयोगः/ शिरोविरे चननस्य-हीनयोगः ( śirovirecananasyaayogaḥ/ śirovirecananasyahīnayogaḥ )

Condition due to suboptimal or inadequate dosage of evacuatory snuff
A condition characterized by derangement/impairment of vāta; dryness of sense organs; failure to obtain relief from the disease.
शिरोविरे चनम् ( śirovirecanam )

Type of intranasal administration used for shodhanakarma
A type of cleansing therapy that uses the nasal route.
शिरोविरे चनम् (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( Śirovirecanam (vraṇacikitsā) )

Errhine medication for nasal cleansing for wound management
Application of errhine therapy for its cleansing effect specifically for wound management.
शिरोविरेचननस्य-अतियोगः ( śirovirecananasyaatiyogaḥ )

Condition due to overdosage of evacuatory snuff
A condition characterized by protrusion of brain matter; features of increased vāta; abnormal sense organ functioning; feeling of emptiness in the head.
शिरोऽभ्यङ्गः ( śirobhyaṅgaḥ )

Application of oil to head
A type of external application of oil to the head.
शिलाजतु ( śilājatu )

Black bitumen
Black bitumen in powder form is used as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbomineral formulations.
शिशुः ( śiśu )

Baby
An infant up to the age of one year.
शीतः ( śītaḥ )

Coldness
The quality of a substance which is responsible for promoting coldness and stiffness (staṃbhana).
शीतपित्तम् ( śītapittam )

Vata-predominant urticaria
A skin disease characterized by lesions resembling an insect/ wasp sting; itching; severe pricking type of pain; vomiting; fever; internal burning sensation; oedematous lesions appearing on skin; dominance of vata dosha.
शीतपूतनाग्रहः ( śītapūtanāgrahaḥ )

Assymmetric body temperature, excess sleep due to external invisible factors
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: diarrhoea; cough; weakness; vomiting; eye diseases; bad odour; frequent trembling of body; agitated; tremors; crying; involuntary sideways glance; thirst; borborygmi; smell of raw meat/animal fat; cold on one side but warm on other side of body; obstructed; clinging to mother and sleeping.
शीतप्रशमनम्, शीतापनयनम् ( Śītapraśamanam, śītāpanayanam )

Substance pacifying cold sensation
शीतमेहः ( śītamehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with excessive or cold urine (phosphaturia)
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: excessively cold urination; excessively sweet urination; profuse urination.
शीतादः ( śītādaḥ )

Spongy gums
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: sudden bleeding from gums; bleeding without any cause; bad odour of gums; blackishness of gums; soddening of gums; softening of gums; decaying of gums; suppuration of gums; blackish gums.
शीताभिहतः ( śītābhihataḥ )

Frostbite
शीतोदक/ उष्णोदकमुखपरिषेकः ( śītodaka/ uṣṇodakamukhapariṣekaḥ )

Sprinkling water over the face
A step in neonatal resuscitation in which tactile stimulation is provided by sprinkling lukewarm or cold water (depending on the season) on the baby’s face.
शुक्तम् ( śuktam )

Vinegar
A kind of sour liquid prepared from roots and fruits by first steeping them in oil and salt, then drying them before placing them in water to undergo acetous fermentation.
शुक्तिः ( śuktiḥ )

Measure of weight approximately equal to 24 g
Measure of weight equal to 2 karsha.
शुक्तिः ( śuktiḥ )

Pearl oyster
Calcium carbonate (CaCO3). Duly processed shukti is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
शुक्तिः ( śuktiḥ )

Xerosis
A disorder characterized by blackish fleshlike dots; dots resembling muscle tissue; dots having the lustre of a pearl shell; blackish spots; yellowish spots; resembling a dirty mirror; burning sensation; pain; altered bowels/loose stools; thirst; fever.
शुक्रक्षयः ( śukrakṣayaḥ )

Diminution of semen
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: weakness or loss of physical strength; dryness of mouth; pallor/pale colour of body parts; exhaustion/tiredness of body and mind; inability to perform sexual act/impotence; inability to ejaculate semen/ suppression of semen; penile pain; scrotal pain/severe scrotal pain; inability to perform sexual act; delayed ejaculation; ejaculation of semen along with blood; black-outs; pricking type of scrotal pain; smoky sensation in penis.
शुक्रक्षयजन्य-क्लैब्यम्, पुंस्त्वोपघातजक्लैब्यम् ( śukrakṣayajanyaklaibyam, puṁstvopaghātajaklaibyam )

Impotency due to reduced semen
Condition characterized by impotency due to reduced semen.
शुक्रक्षयजन्यक्लैब्यम्, सौम्यधातुक्षयजक्लैब्यम् ( śukrakṣayajanyaklaibyam; saumyadhātukṣayajaklaibyam )

Impotency due to reduced semen
Impotency due to reduced seminal constituents or sperm .
शुक्रगतमसूरिका ( śukragatamasūrikā )

Lentil-shaped pox disease localized in semen
Lentil-shaped eruptive disorder is characterized by the suppurating appearance of the eruptions); unctuous apprearance of eruptions; minute eruptions; extremely painful; sensation of being covered with a wet cloth; distress/ discontent/restlessness; unconsciousness/confusion; burning sensation; associated with insanity; causing death.
शुक्रगतवातः ( śukragatavātaḥ )

Aggravation of vata in seminal tissue
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: delayed labour/postterm delivery, miscarriage/ abortion/preterm delivery; delayed ejaculation; premature ejaculation; congenital anomalies in offspring; inability to ejaculate.
शुक्रगतवातः ( śukragatavātaḥ )

Channels of male seed affected by vāta
A pathological condition in which vitiated vata enters the semen enriching channels, leading to various abnormal conditions.
शुक्रजननम् ( śukrajananam )

Semen-producing
शुक्रजननम् ( śukrajananam )

Semen-producing measure
A therapeutic measure for spermatogenesis.
शुक्रजननम् ( śukrajananam )

Treatment promoting semen production
Therapy or medicines with semen-forming properties (spermatogenesis).
शुक्रजन्यमूत्रकृच्छ्रम् ( śukrajanyamūtrakṛcchram )

Difficulty in urination due to vitiated semen
A disorder characterized by difficulty in passing urine; stiffness of scrotum; penile pain; pain in bladder region.
शुक्रधराकला ( śukradharākalā )

Sukra-bearing membrane
शुक्रधातुः ( śukradhātuḥ )

Reproductive fluids; semen
The seventh of the seven fundamental structural components. It is responsible for reproductive function, and is generally equated with reproductive cells (semen, ovum). It occurs in two forms: the first which pervades the entire body and the second which fertilizes the ovum.
शुक्रधातुगतज्वरः ( śukradhātugatajvaraḥ )

Fever due to vitiated seminal tissue
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: spermatorrhoea; death; death; persistent penile priapism; black-outs; impacts/damage to marmasthāna.
शुक्रधात्वग्निः ( śukradhātvagniḥ )

Metabolic factors located in semen
The transformative factor which converts bone marrow to reproductive fluids and semen .
शुक्रप्रसादनम् ( śukraprasādanam )

Semen-improving therapy
Therapy or medicines which normalize spermatogenesis and produce normal and healthy sperm.
शुक्रमेहः ( śukramehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with semen-mixed urine
A disorder characterized by urine resembling semen; semenmixed urination; frequent micturition.
शुक्रलः ( śukralaḥ )

Promoting optimum semen quantity
The therapeutic action of a drug which increases semen.
शुक्रलः ( śukralaḥ )

Semen-increasing therapy
Therapy or medicines to increase the semen.
शुक्रवहस्रोतः ( śukravahasrotaḥ )

Channel carrying structural components of reproduction
The pathway for structural components of reproduction. Entities related to this channel are the testicles and penis.
शुक्रवहस्रोतोदुष्टिः ( shukravahasrotoduṣṭiḥ )

Vitiation of channels carrying semen
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: impotency, sterility, abortion and congenital deformities.
शुक्रवहस्रोतोविद्ध ( śukravahasrotoviddha )

Injury to the channels of the genital system
A disorder characterized by inability to perform the sexual act/ impotence; delayed ejaculation; blood-tinged semen.
शुक्रविकृतिः ( śukravikṛtiḥ )

Seminal abnormalities
Abnormal or pathological state of semen or sperm.
शुक्रविवर्धनम् ( śukravivardhanam )

Treatment increasing amount of semen
Therapy or medicines able to increase the amount of semen.
शुक्रवृद्धिः ( śukravṛddhiḥ )

Morbid increase of semen
A disorder characterized by seminal calculi/crystals; excessive ejaculation of semen; excessive desire for intercourse with women.
शुक्रवेगरोधः ( śukravegarodhaḥ )

Disorder due to withholding of ejaculation
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: penile pain; scrotal pain; generalized body aches; precordial pain/cardiac pain; obstruction to passage of urine/retention/oliguria; bladder swelling; anal swelling; scrotal swelling; pain in bladder; pain in anus; seminal calculi/ crystals; seminal discharge; swelling of genitals; fever; breaking type of pain in body; scrotal enlargement; impotence.
शुक्रवैषम्यम् ( śukravaiṣamyam )

Disproportion of semen
Changes in the normal quantity and quality of seminal tissue.
शुक्रशोधनम् ( śukraśodhanam )

Semen-purifying therapy
Therapy or medicines to purify the semen.
शुक्रशोधनम् ( śukraśodhanam )

Substances that cleanse or purify semen
A qualitative improvement of semen.
शुक्रशोधनम् ( śukraśodhanam )

Treatment improving quality of semen
Therapy or medicines with semen-purifying properties.
शुक्रसंवाहकः ( śukrasaṁvāhakaḥ )

Ejaculation-promoting therapy
Therapy or medicines to boost ejaculation.
शुक्रसारः ( śukra-sāraḥ )

Person with predominance or essence of semen
Characterized by features such as, gentleness; milky-looking eyes; enthusiasm; smooth and pleasant voice; large buttocks; strength; happiness; prosperity; health; wealth and many progeny.
शुक्रस्तम्भनिमित्तजक्लैब्यम् ( śukrastambhanimittajaklaibyam )

Obstruction to semen flow or formation
Decreased production of sperm in semen owing either to an obstructed ejaculatory tract or decreased motility.
शुक्रस्रुतिकरम् ( śukrasrutikaram )

Treatment stimulating ejaculation
Therapy or medicines promoting the ejaculation of semen.
शुक्रहरः, शुक्रघ्नम् ( śukraharaḥ, śukraghnam )

Substance that is harmful for semen production
शुक्राप्यायनम् ( śukrāpyāyanam )

Maintaining and promoting normal semen production
Therapeutic measures which maintain the normal production of sperm and semen.
शुक्राभिघातज-उदावर्तः ( śukrābhighātaja-udāvartaḥ )

Disorders of reversed or altered visceral movement due to suppression of ejaculation
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pain in bladder; anal pain; scrotal pain; swelling in bladder; anal swelling; scrotal oedema; urinary retention; seminal calculi/crystals; premature ejaculation.
शुक्राश्मरी ( śukrāśmarī )

Urinary calculus due to crystallization of semen
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: dysuria; pain in urinary bladder or basti; swelling of scrotum; disappearing with passage of semen.
शुक्रोत्पादकः ( śukrotpādakaḥ )

Spermatogenic measure
A therapeutic action that generates semen and androgens.
शुक्रोपचयः ( śukropacayaḥ )

Semen qualityincreasing measure
Therapy or medicines with spermatogenesis-increasing potency.
शुक्लकृष्णसन्धिः ( śukla-kṛṣṇa-sandhiḥ )

Sclerocorneal junction
शुक्लमण्डलम्, श्वेतमण्डलम् ( śuklamaṇḍalam, śvetamaṇḍalam )

Sclera
शुक्लमेहः ( śuklamehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with excessive whitish urine
A disorder characterized by elimination of floury whitish urine; increased urinary frequency.
शुक्लवर्गः, सुधावर्गः ( śuklavargaḥ, sudhāvargaḥ )

Group of whitecoloured substances
A group of whitish substances of mineral, plant and animal origin which contain natural calcium.
शुक्लार्म ( śuklārma )

Pinguecula
A disorder characterized by a soft muscular growth; whitish muscular growth; even muscular growth; gradual growth of tissue.
शुद्धव्रणः ( śuddhavraṇaḥ )

Clean ulcer
An ulcer resembling the tongue surface; excessively soft; glossy; and moist; mild or no pain; healing in the normal pattern; without any discharge; no tridosha signs or symptoms; bluish-coloured edges; nodular appearance of wound base; slightly raised mid-portion; slightly red-coloured; slightly pale-coloured; not having blackish discoulration; not overly raised; nondepressed base.
शुद्धिः ( śuddhiḥ )

Cleansing
Internal and external purifications.
शुष्काक्षिपाकः ( śuṣkākṣipākaḥ )

Xerophthalmia
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: closed eyelids; hard eyelids; closed hard dry eyelids; blurred vision; difficulties in opening eyes; rubbing friction; pricking pain; breaking type of pain; excessive discharge of rheum; difficulty in opening eyelids; difficulty in closing eyes; dryness of eyes; desire for cold; pain; inflammation/suppuration; burning eyelids.
शुष्कार्शः/लोहितार्शः ( śuṣkārśaḥ/ lohitārśaḥ )

Granuloma or polyp-like growth
A disorder characterized by long; rough; firm and troublesome bud-like projections; rough; stiffness of eyelids; occurring on inner side of eyelids
शूकधान्यवर्गः ( śūkadhānyavargaḥ )

Group of grains from grass seeds with awn
The group of grains derived from grass seeds having awn and spikes.
शूकरोगः ( śūkarogaḥ )

Complications of due to forced increase of penile size
A group of disorders developing due to a forced increase in the size of the penis using external measures.
शूर्पः ( śūrpaḥ )

Measure of weight approximately equal to 24 kg and 576 g
Measure of weight equal to 2048 karsha or 2 drona.
शूलः ( śūlaḥ )

Abdominal colic
A disorder characterized by pain in abdomen; painful expiration; afflicted with pain; severe pain as if pierced by a nail.
शूलप्रशमनम् ( śūlapraśamanam )

Anti-colic
शृङ्गाटकम् (मर्म) ( śrṛṅgāṭakam (marma)

Vulnerable location(s) at confluence of nose, ear, eye and tongue vessels
Four in number. Injury to this point leads to immediate death.
शेफसेवनी ( śephasevanī )

Frenulum of the penis
शोकः ( śokaḥ )

Grief, sorrow or misery
A state of affliction caused by various determinants (vibhava) such as the death of a loved person, loss of wealth or personal misfortune.
शोकजन्यराजयक्ष्मा ( śokajanyarājayakṣmā )

Consumption due to excessive grief
A disorder characterized by a constant thoughtful mood; flaccidity/laxity; pallor.
शोकजोन्मादः ( śokajonmādaḥ )

Psychosis due to grief
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a person irrelevantly describing imagined things; improper perception/unconsciousness; singing; laughing; crying suddenly; stupefaction due to improper perception; pallor/paleness; timidity or apathy; fainting repeatedly; weeping and making sounds such as “ha-ha”; dying; overestimating; mind disturbed by sorrow; thinking; alert; doing inappropriate acts.
शोणितजकृमिः/ रक्तजकृमिः [केशादः, रोमादः/ लोमादः, लोमविध्वंसः, लोमद्वीपः, सौरसः, औदुम्बरः] ( śoṇitajakṛmiḥ/ raktajakṛmiḥ [keśādaḥ, romādaḥ/ lomādaḥ, lomavidhvaṃsaḥ, lomadvīpaḥ saurasaḥ, audumbaraḥ,] )

Worm formed in blood and affecting blood vessels
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a bristling sense, paraesthesia at wound site or hyperaesthesia; itching, pain, and feeling of creeping/ crawling of worms at wound site; devouring of skin; devouring of vessels; devouring of tendons; devouring of muscle worms; devouring of cartilage; loss of hair; loss of moustache; loss of nails; loss of body hairs; loss of eyelashes; diseases of blood/ bloodborne diseases.
शोणितार्बुदः ( śoṇitārbudaḥ )

Boils with blackreddish blisters on the penis
A disorder characterized by blackish blisters; boil associated with blood; severe pain at the lesion site.
शोणितास्थापनकर्म ( śoṇitāsthāpanakarma )

Haemostatic measure
Therapeutic measures adopted to achieve haemostasis.
शोथहरः, शोथघ्नः, श्वयथुघ्नः, श्वयथुहरः ( śothaharaḥ, śothaghnaḥ, śvayathughnaḥ, śvayathuharaḥ )

Substance alleviating inflammation
शोधनकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( śodhanakarma (vraṇacikitsā)

Wound-cleansing measures
Therapeutic measures aimed at cleansing the wound and its periphery by applying medicines.
शोधनकवलः ( śodhanakavalaḥ )

Mouth gargle with cleansing property
A type of gargle with the property of removing morbid dosha.
शोधनगण्डू षः ( śodhanagaṇḍūṣaḥ )

Retention of medications with cleansing property in the oral cavity
Full mouth retention of liquid medications with the property of removing morbid dosha for a specific time.
शोधनधूमपानम् ( śodhanadhūmapānam )

Medicated smoking with cleansing effect
The procedure of medicated smoking to remove morbid dosha through the nasal and/or oral cavity.
शोधनम् ( śodhanam )

Processing raw ingredients to optimize safety and efficacy
शौर्यम् ( śauryam )

Valour
शौषिरः ( śauṣiraḥ )

Dental apical or root abscess
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: swelling of a tooth root; painful teeth; excessive salivation; itching sensation.
श्मश्रु ( śmaśru )

Beard and moustache
श्याव-वर्त्म ( śyāva-vartma )

Ecchymosis, haematoma of lid
A disorder characterized by the eyelid appearing blackish externally and internally; blackish on inside; swelling; associated with pain; burning sensation; itching; moistness.
श्यावदन्तकः ( śyāvadantakaḥ )

Discoloured, bluishblack tooth
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a tooth becoming permanently damaged; bluishness of teeth; blackishness of teeth.
श्रमश्वासवेगरोधः ( śramaśvāsavegarodhaḥ )

Disorder due to withholding of breath on exertion
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: palpable glandular enlargement in the abdomen/abdominal lump; heart diseases; unconsciousness/confusion.
श्रवणस्रोतस् ( śravaṇasrotas )

Ear cavity
श्रान्तपिपासितक्षुधितेषु वमनस्य व्यापदः ( śrāntapipāsitakṣudhiteṣu vamanasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition caused by emetic therapy administered to person who is tired, thirsty and hungry
A condition characterized by mental damage.
श्रामार्तमत्तमूर्च्छितानाम नस्य व्यापदः ( śrāmārtamattamūrcchitānāma nasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition due to inhalation therapy administered to person with fatigue; intoxication or syncope
श्रृङ्गावचरणम् ( śrṛṅgāvacaraṇam )

Bloodletting using horn
Bloodletting by means of an animal horn.
श्रोणिः ( śroṇiḥ )

Pelvis
श्रोणीकर्णः ( śroṇīkarṇaḥ )

Ala of the sacrum
श्रोणीप्रदेशः ( śroṇīpradeśaḥ )

Pelvic region
श्रोत्रेन्द्रियम् ( śrotrendriyam )

Auditory sense faculty
One of the sensory faculties : the faculty responsible for perception of sound or hearing.
श्लक्ष्णः ( ślakṣṇaḥ )

Smoothness, slipperiness
The quality of a substance which is responsible for smoothness.
श्लीपदः ( ślīpadaḥ )

Filariasis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: painful swelling associated with fever; swelling usually affects the limbs; preponderantly the lower limbs with an origin in the groin and spreading to legs.
श्लेषककफः ( śleṣaka-kaphaḥ )

Lubricating kapha
Subtype of kapha seated in the joints which provides lubrication.
श्लेष्मजव्रणः ( śleṣmajavraṇaḥ )

Ulcer due to vitiated kapha
An ulcer characterized by constant severe itching; thick wound margins; covered with rigid membranous vessels and ligamentous tissue; rigid (base); pale appearance; mild pain; whitish discharge; dense copious discharge; cold discharge; excessive slimy discharge; feeling of heaviness; thick/dense discharge; mild pain; feeling of being wrapped in a wet cloth; mild soddening only; taking a long time to suppurate.
श्लेष्मधराकला ( śleṣmadharākalā )

Synovial membrane
श्लेष्मभुवः ( śleṣmabhuvaḥ )

The hard areas on both sides of the neck
श्लेष्मा-स्रावः ( śleṣmā-srāvaḥ )

White, sticky discharge from corners of eye
A disorder characterized by white-coloured discharge; thick discharge; slimy discharge; painless discharge; profuse discharge.
श्लेष्मा, कफ ( śleṣmā, kapha )

Kapha, doṣha responsible for cohesiveness
One of the three regulatory functional factors responsible for stability, unctuousness, lubrication, immunity and cohesion. The predominant basic elements in kapha are earth and water.
श्लैष्मिक-असृग्दरः ( ślaiṣmika-asṛgdaraḥ )

Dysfunctional uterine bleeding due to vitiated kapha
A gynaecological disorder characterized by slimy menses; pale coloured; heavy menstrual flow; unctuous; cold in nature; thick in consistancy; mild pain; vomiting; loss of taste; nausea; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; cough; discharge resembling semi-digested food mixed with gastric fluids; unctuous discharge resembling extract of śālmali; discharge resembling rice water.
श्लैष्मिक-लिङ्गनाशः ( ślaiṣmika-liṅganāśaḥ )

Mature cataract due to vitiated kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: large-size cataracts; smooth/unctuous/oily; off-white colour resembling a conch; colour resembling a jasmine flower; colour resembling the moon; mandala widening when eyes are rubbed; loss of vision; mandala resembling a shining drop of water on a moving lotus leaf; pupil constricting on sunlight; pupil dilating in shade; whitish colour resembling a lotus; whitish colour resembling a quartz crystal.
श्लैष्मिकरक्तदुष्टिः ( ślaiṣmikaraktaduṣṭiḥ )

Blood vitiated by kapha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: yellowish, white-coloured blood; slimy in nature; thready appearance of blood; blood with a thick consistency; blood resembling a solution of red ochre/gairika; blood of an unctuous nature; blood which is cold to touch; thick voluminous blood; blood which oozes for long time/ delayed coagulation; blood as thick as muscle fibres; blood coloured like a kovidara flower; blood which clots easily; blood which blocks a wound opening; blood with a salty taste; blood smelling of vasa.
श्वयथुः/शोथः/शोफः ( śvayathuḥ/ śothaḥ/ śophaḥ )

Oedema
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a feeling of heaviness; unstable/inconsistent/ shifting in nature; swelling; warmth; prominence of vessels; horripilation; discoloration; swelling between tvak and māṃsa.
श्वासः ( śvāsaḥ )

Dyspnoea
A disorder characterized by difficult and hurried respiration.
श्वासहरः ( śvāsaharaḥ )

Substance relieving dyspnoea
श्वित्रः ( śvitraḥ )

Vitiligo; skin disease with morbid white patches on skin
A skin disease characterized by patches of hypopigmented, white-coloured skin lesions; without discharge.
श्वेता ( śvetā )

Third layer of skin
षट् -यन्त्रप्रकारः ( ṣaṭ-yantraprakāraḥ )

Six types of blunt instruments
The sixfold classification of blunt surgical instruments.
षट्-पदार्थाः ( padārthāḥ )

Six ontological categories of an object
The object of experience is subdivided into six fundamental categories: generality (samanyam), particularity (vishesham), substance (dravyam), quality (gunaḥ), action (karma), and inherence (samavayaḥ).
षडङ्गम् ( ṣaḍaṅgam )

The six anatomical areas of the body
The six sections of the body comprise the four limbs, the trunk, and the head and neck region.
षड्रिपुः ( ṣaḍripuḥ )

Six internal enemies
Six mental attributes or inner faults that lead to bondage of the soul, namely: desire, anger, greed, delusion, arrogance and jealousy.
षड्विधपरीक्षा ( ṣaḍvidhaparīkṣā )

Six ways of clinical examination
Examination of a patient based on analysis of information acquired by the physician using his or her five senses and by interview.
षड्विधोपक्रमाः ( ṣaḍvidhopakramāḥ )

Six types of treatment modalities
A subdividing of therapeutic measures into six categories: br̥ ṁhaṇam, snehanam, stambhanam, laṁghanaṁ, svedanam and rūkṣaṇaṁ.
षष्ठमासगर्भः ( ṣaṣṭamamāsa-garbhaḥ )

Sixth month of pregnancy
This month is characterized by an excessive increase in foetal strength; an increase in foetal complexion; appearance of intellect; appearance of tendons; appearance of veins; appearance of body hair; appearance of nails; appearance of skin; the pregnant woman loses her strength and complexion.
षाडवः ( ṣāḍavaḥ )

Confectionery
Various type of preparations made of sweet, sour, and salty substances.
षाण्ढ्यकरः, पुम्स्त्वोपघातिन्, पुम्स्त्वनाशनः ( ṣāṇḍhyakaraḥ, puṃstvopaghātīn, puṃstvanāśanaḥ )

Substance inducing sterility
सक्तुः ( saktuḥ )

Toasted grain flour
A dietetic preparation made by adding sugar and water to the flour of roasted grains such as barley, wheat, Bengal gram or parched rice.
सक्थि ( sakthi )

Lower limb
सक्थिमर्म ( Sakthimarma )

Vulnerable location(s) in the lower limbs
Marma located in the lower limbs.
संख्या ( saṃkhyā )

Number, enumeration, tally
The quality that enables determination of amounts and calculations.
सग्रासम्, ग्रासम् ( sagrāsam, grāsam )

Administration of medicine with a morsel of food
संघातबलप्रवृत्तरोगः ( samghātabalapravṛttarogaḥ )

Traumatic physical injury
Diseases and conditions caused by trauma and injuries.
सङ्करस्वेदः ( saṅkarasvedaḥ )

Sweating induced by medicated bolus
A type of sudation therapy in which diaphoresis is achieved by external application of prewarmed medicine in bolus form, with or without a covering cloth.
सङ्कल्पः ( saṅkalpaḥ )

Evaluation
The process of assessing merits and demerits.
सङ्क्षिप्त: ( saṅkṣipta )

Lobuloplasty type 11
A type of lobuloplasty indicated when the pinna is atrophied, and one flap of the divided ear lobule is absent and the other one very small.
सङ्ख्यासम्प्राप्तिः ( saṅkhyāsamprāptiḥ )

Number of subtypes of pathogenesis
Number of pathogenesis subtypes characteristic of a disease or condition.
सङ्गः ( saṅgaḥ )

Body channel dysfunction involving obstruction
Obstruction of the body channels with restriction of movement; sometimes resulting in the formation of a collateral pathway.
संज्ञाप्रबोधनम् ( samjñāprabodhanam )

Reviving consciousness
Measures to revive a person from unconsciousness.
संज्ञास्थापनम् ( saṃjñāsthāpanam )

Substance restoring consciousness
संज्ञास्थापनम् (विषोपक्रम) ( saṁjñā-sthāpanam (viṣopakrama)

Resuscitation
Therapy or medicines administered to restore consciousness.
सञ्चयः ( sañcayaḥ )

Stage of a dosha increasing in its own location
The first stage of disease manifestation, when dosha increases in its own place or site.
सञ्चारस्थानम् ( sañcārasthānam )

Transit destinations of dosha
Spread or migration of vitiated dosha.
सततविषमज्वरः ( satataviṣamajvaraḥ )

Intermittent fever spiking twice daily
A disorder characterized by a fever spike twice every twenty-four hours
सत्त्वकायः ( sattvakāyaḥ )

Person with tranquil, harmonious temperament
The mental and physical characteristics of the person with a tranquil, harmonious temperament are purity, bravery and tolerance.
सत्त्वम् ( sattvam )

Tranquillity, harmony
Characterized by lightness, knowledge and enlightenment, it is a stable state of mind and does not vitiate the same.
सत्त्वसारः ( sattva-sāraḥ )

Person with predominance or essence of strong willpower
Characterized by features such as good memory; devotion; gratefulness; wisdom; pure in body thought words and deeds; great enthusiasm; erudition and knowledge; courage; valour in fighting; absence of sorrow; proper gait; depth of wisdom; relevance of activities; sincerity and virtuousness of acts.
सत्यबुद्धिः ( satyabuddhiḥ )

Perception of truth
State of self-realization of ultimate reality, which eliminates all worldly miseries and leads to liberation and the emergence of true knowledge in which the soul transcends the ego.
सत्वावजयचिकित्सा ( satvāvajayacikitsā )

Counselling and selfempowerment
Psychotherapy and counselling treatment by means of which the mind is supported to restrain itself from wrong preoccupations; treatment by which the mind and mental health are supported through talking therapy.
सद्यःक्षतघ्नम् ( sadyaḥkṣataghnam )

Substance healing fresh wounds
सद्यःप्राणहरमर्म ( sadyaḥprāṇaharamarma )

Vulnerable location(s) leading to imminent death
Marma which if injured may lead to death within a period of seven days.
सद्यस्नेहः ( sadyasnehaḥ )

Instant oleation
An unctuous substance administered internally which induces rapid oleation.
सद्योगर्भः ( sadyogarbhaḥ )

Early signs of conception
The characteristics of this state are exhaustion or fatigue; fatigue in mind and body; thirst; weakness or fatigue of the thighs; conjoining of ovum and sperm; quivering of vagina; retention of sperm and ovum in the vagina; satiety; heaviness; pulsating sensation; heart palpitations; drowsiness or lassitude; horripilation.
सद्योजातः/जातमात्रः ( sadyojāta/ jātamātraḥ )

Newborn
The neonate soon after birth.
सद्योजातशिशुपरिचर्या ( sadyojātaśiśuparicaryā )

Care of the newborn baby
Various procedures undertaken in neonatal care soon after birth.
सद्योव्रणः ( sadyovraṇaḥ )

Acute ulceration due to injury
An injury to living tissue caused by a cut; blow or other impact; typically, one in which the skin is cut or broken Types: incised or surgical wound; stab injury or wound; puncture wound; lacerated wound; contused wound; abrasion.
सद्वृत्तम् ( sadvṛttam )

Harmonious way of living
सद्हेतु ( sadhetu )

Cause or variable, independent variable
A cause possessing all formal characteristics which allow it to act as a sufficient reason for the inference of its marked object; the independent variable influencing the dependent variable.
सन्ततविषमज्वरः ( santataviṣamajvaraḥ )

Continuous fever
A disorder characterized by continuous fever without a break.
सन्तर्पणम् ( santarpaṇam )

Nourishing therapy
A procedure of disease alleviation by nourishment of bodily tissues.
सन्दंशयन्त्रम् ( sandaṃśayantram )

Forceps
Forceps with or without catchlocks used in surgical and parasurgical procedures such as extraction of foreign bodies from the skin, muscles, veins and nerves.
सन्धानकरः ( sandhānakaraḥ )

Tissue-binding, union-promoting
Substance aiding in fracture union or wound healing.
सन्धानकर्म ( sandhānakarma )

Procedure for wound healing and closing (unification)
Therapeutic approximation of wound margins; a type of haemostatic procedure.
सन्धानम् ( sandhānam )

Fermentation
सन्धानम् ( sandhānam )

Haemostasis by applying sutures or pressure bandage
A method of haemostasis based on pressure and containment.
सन्धानीय ( sandhānīya )

Tissue-binding, union-promoting
सन्धायसंभाषा ( sandhāyasaṃbhāṣā )

Productive debate
सन्धिः ( sandhiḥ )

Joint, articulation
सन्धिगत-शल्यः ( sandhigata-śalyaḥ )

Foreign body in the joints
A disorder due to presence of foreign body in the joints; characterized by loss of joint functions; inability to perform flexion/extension movements.
सन्धिगतवातः ( sandhigatavātaḥ )

Aggravation of vata in joints
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: swelling as if filled with air on palpation; swelling in joints; flexion and extension of joints with pain; joint pain; loss of joint mobility.
सन्धिमर्म ( sandhimarma )

Vulnerable location(s) in which the main structural component is joint
Marma where joints are structurally prominent.
सन्धिलेपनम् ( sandhilēpanam )

Sealing of vessel joint
Sealing of the vessel containing the processed substance, usually with a paste of clay and cloth.
सन्निकर्षः ( sannikarṣaḥ )

Contact
The process in which the object of cognitive organ(s) (indriyartha),cognitive organ (indriya), mind (manas) and soul (atma) acquire direct perception of an object.
सन्निकृष्टहेतुः ( sannikṛṣṭahetuḥ )

Proximate cause
A cause from which a disease or condition results as a direct and uninterrupted consequence, e.g. a dry or astringent diet is the proximate cause of fever due to the predominance of vata.
सन्निपातः ( sannipātaḥ )

Coexistence of aggravated three dosha
Simultaneous or stagewise involvement of all three aggravated dosha in the pathogenesis of a disease.
सन्निपातज-अपस्मारः ( sannipātaja-apasmāraḥ )

Epilepsy due to vitiated tridosha
A disorder characterized by clinical features of all three types.
सन्निपातज-अरोचकः ( sannipātaja-arocakaḥ )

Anorexia due to vitiated tridosha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: clinical features of all types of arocaka; loss of taste/altered taste, not just one type of taste; different types of pain.
सन्निपातज-उदररोगः ( sannipātaja-udararogaḥ )

Abdominal enlargement due to vitiated tridosha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: nails of different colours; eyes of different colours; different colours appear on face; urine of different colours; skin of different colours; faeces of different colours; abdominal linings of different colours; veins over abdomen of different colours; aggravation of features on cold and windy days; aggravation of features on cloudy days; burning sensation; constant syncope/fainting; pallor/pale; emaciated/ thin/malnourished; dryness due to thirst; severe form of disease; dreadful; quickly leading to ascites or jalodara.
सन्निपातज-उपदंशः ( sannipātaja-upadaṃśaḥ )

Sexually transmitted penile inflammation due to vitiated tridosha
A disease characterized by clinical features of all types of dosha; cracking of penile skin; appearance of kṛmi; scrotal oedema; severe pain; rapidly suppurating; discharge of various colours; pain of different types; death.
सन्निपातज-ओष्ठप्रकोपः ( sannipātajaoṣṭhaprakopaḥ )

Disorders of lip due to vitiated tridosha, aphthous ulcer
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: clinical features of all types of dosha; occasionally black lesions; occasionally yellow lesions occasionally whitish lesions; multiple nodules; nodules of various colors; foul-smelling discharge; slimy nodule; suddenly dry nodule; oedematous lips; painful lips; invariably ripening nodule.
सन्निपातज-प्रतिश्यायः ( sannipātaja-pratiśyāyaḥ )

Rhinitis due to vitiated tridosha
A disorder characterized by repeated/intermittent reoccurrences, disappearing suddenly with or without undergoing inflammation. स्नान-वैषम्यम्
सन्निपातज-योनिरोगः ( sannipātaja-yonirogaḥ )

Vaginal disease due to vitiated tridosha
A gynaecological disorder characterized by mixed features; burning pain; colicky pain; whitish discharge; slimy menstrual flow; clinical features of all types of dosha; complications.
सन्निपातज-शिरोरोगः ( sannipātaja-śirorogaḥ )

Headache due to vitiated tridosha
Headache characterized by pain; giddiness or dizziness; shaking of head; burning sensation; intoxication; thirst; heaviness; drowsiness/lassitude; all symptoms seen/complete expression of disease symptoms.
सन्निपातजकर्णरोगः/ सान्निपातिककर्णशूलम् ( sannipātajakarṇarogaḥ/ sānnipātikakarṇaśūlam )

Ear disorder due to vitiated tridosha, complicated otalgia
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: discharge according to the predominant dosha; clinical features of all types of dosha; alternating preference for hot and cold; impaired hearing; associated with swelling; fever; severe pain; exudation of white discharge after suppuration; exudation of blackish discharge after suppuration; exudation of bloody discharge after suppuration; exudation of thick discharge after suppuration.
सन्निपातजक्षीरदोषः ( sannipātajakṣīradoṣaḥ )

Breast milk vitiated by tridosha
सन्निपातजगुल्मः ( sannipātajagulmaḥ )

Lumps or growths due to vitiated tridosha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: clinical features of all three dosha; clinical features of all types of gulma; severe/excruciating pain; associated with severe burning sensation; stony compactness; stony elevation; quick sloughing; severity; reduced body strength; reduced intellectual strength; reduced strength of agni; thick, raised, dense lesion, suppurating quickly.
सन्निपातजग्रहणीरोग ( sannipātaja grahaṇīroga )

Chronic diarrhoea with malabsorption of nutrients due to vitiated tridosha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: indigestion; defecation of blue, yellowcoloured stools; defecation of yellow-coloured stools; stools liquid in nature; putrid eructations; sour belching/eructations; burning sensation in the precordial/cardiac region; burning sensation in the throat; loss of taste; thirst.
सन्निपातजछर्दिः ( sannipātajachardiḥ )

Vomiting due to vitiated tridosha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: colicky pain in abdomen; indigestion; loss of taste; burning sensation; thirst; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; fainting/severe confusion; forceful vomiting; continuous vomiting; vomitus salty in taste; sour vomiting; blue-coloured vomitus; thick vomitus; vomitus hot in nature; vomitus with blood; signs/symptoms of all types of chardi.
सन्निपातजज्वरः ( sannipātajajvaraḥ )

Fever due to vitiated tridosha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: all the clinical features mentioned above; a fluctuating feeling of burning and coldness; tinnitus; otalgia; cough; non-emaciation; dumbness/aphasia; heaviness of abdomen; insomnia; giddiness or dizziness; breathlessness/ difficulty in breathing; drowsiness/lassitude; numbness of body; loss of taste; thirst; confusion/delirium; intoxication; rigidity/stiffness; burning sensation; feeling of cold/chills; precordial pain/cardiac pain; delayed suppuration of dosha; insanity; brown-reddish teeth; roughness of tongue; blackishness of tongue; pain in joints; headache; bone pains; curved/stooping of eyes; turbid eyes; tinnitus; otalgia; excessive talking/irrelevant speech/incoherent speech; inflammation in srotasa; constant cooing sound from throat; loss of consciousness; minimal sweating; diminished micturition/oliguria; decreased defecation; prolonged sweating; micturition after a long time; defecation after a long time; repeated burning sensation; repeated cold/chills; excessive daytime sleep; sleeplessness at night; constant sleepiness; sleeeplessness; severe perspiration; anhidrosis/ lack of sweating; perverted singing/dancing/laughing; watery eyes/eyes filled with tears; turbid eyes; reddish-coloured eyes; curved/stooping of eyes; eyes with shaking/trembling eyelids; pain in calf muscles; pain in sides of chest/flanks; severe headache; pain in small joints; pain in bones; sensation in the throat as if full of bristles; tongue looks as if burnt; roughness of tongue; heaviness of body; flaccidity/ laxity; loose joints; spitting of blood; spitting of pitta; spitting of kapha; wagging of head; appearance of kotha; appearance of reddish brown circular patches; appearance of reddish circular patches; obstruction to passage of faeces; scanty faeces; excessive defecation; unctuous face; diminution of physical strength; loss of voice.
सन्निपातजनाडीव्रणः ( sannipātajanāḍīvraṇaḥ )

Deep ulcer with fistula formation due to vitiated dosha
A sinus ulcer characterized by a burning sensation; fever; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; syncope or swooning; dryness of mouth; fatal; like the night of death.
सन्निपातजनासार्शः ( sannipātajanāsārśaḥ )

Nasal polyp due to vitiated tridosha
सन्निपातजपाण्डुरोगः ( sannipātajapāṇḍurogaḥ )

Anaemic syndrome due to vitiated tridosha
सन्निपातजमूर्च्छा ( sannipātajamūrcchā )

Syncope due to vitiated tridosha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: clinical features of all three types of dosha; fainting resembling an epileptic fit; falling down suddenly without a hideous manifestation.
सन्निपातजयोनिकन्दः ( sannipātajayonikandaḥ )

Round-shaped abscess in vagina due to vitiated tridosha
A gynaecological disorder characterized by clinical features of all types of vitiated dosas in yonikanda.
सन्निपातजरोहिणी ( sannipātajarohiṇī )

Diphtheria due to vitiated tridosha
A disorder characterized by deep-seated suppuration; of uncontrollable progress or nature; clinical features of all types of dosha.
सन्निपातजविद्रधिः ( sannipātajavidradhiḥ )

Abscess due to vitiated tridosha
A type of abscess characterized by a swelling of variegated colours; various types of pain; associated with varied discharges; markedly raised; uneven and extensive; irregular nature; broad/extensive; suppurating irregularly; mixed features.
सन्निपातजविसर्पः ( sannipātajavisarpaḥ )

Erysipelas, spreading cellulitis due to vitiated tridosha
Cellulitis characterized by symptoms of all the three dosas with a high rate of fatality
सन्निपातजविस्फोटकः ( sannipātajavisphoṭakaḥ )

Bullous eruptions due to vitiated tridosha
सन्निपातजव्रणशोफः ( sannipātajavraṇaśophaḥ )

Pre-ulcerative inflammation due to vitiated tridosha
A condition characterized by a reddish swelling; soft oedema; roughly indurated swelling; nonfixed/movable swelling; soft oedema; hard swelling; unctuous swelling; cold swelling; suppuration without delay; suppuration taking a long time; pricking pain; breaking pain; cutting type of pain; burning sensation; severe burning sensation; smoky/fuming sensation; itching; heaviness; numbness.
सन्निपातजशोफः ( sannipātajaśophaḥ )

A disorder characterized by various colours on the nails; stretch marks; varied colours on the abdomen and other body parts.
ITA-5.44.6
सन्निपातजहृद्रोगः ( sannipātajahṛdrogaḥ )

Heart disease due to vitiated tridosha
A disorder characterized by clinical features of different types of dosha-predominant heart disorders.
सन्निपातजार्शः ( sannipātajārśaḥ )

Haemorrhoids due to vitiated tridosha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a hard polyp at the anus; polyp of dry nature; polyp of various sizes; severe pain; convulsive movements; pricking pain; pulsating sensation; anal region hyperaesthesia; relief with unctuous treatment; relief with hot treatment; abdominal distension; penile stiffness; scrotal stiffness; stiffness of urinary bladder or basti; stiffness of groin region; excessive stiffness of cardiac region; severe body aches; heart palpitations; constant suppression of flatus; constant suppression of urine; pain in thighs; low back pain; pain in sacroiliac region; pain in sides of chest/flanks; pain in abdomen; pain in urinary bladder or basti; burning sensation in the head; cold catarrh; cough; upward movement of vata due to obstruction; stretching of body; dryness/wasting/ emaciation; oedema; syncope or swooning; loss of taste; dysgeusia/loss of taste; errors of refraction/partial blindness; itching; nasal pain; earache; pain in temporal region; suppression of voice; dark-coloured nails; dark-coloured eyes; dark-coloured face; dark-coloured skin; dark-coloured urine; dark-coloured faeces; slightly reddish-coloured nails; slightly reddish-coloured eyes; slightly reddish-coloured face; slightly reddish-coloured skin; slightly reddish-coloured urine; slightly reddish-coloured faeces; rough nails; roughness of eyes; roughness of mouth/face; rough/dry skin; roughness of urine; roughness of faeces; dry anal sprouts; reddish anal sprouts; discoloured anal sprouts; anal sprouts with irregular growth; tubular anal sprouts; flowerbud-sized anal sprouts; anal sprouts resembling sharp needles; painful defecation; defecation of hard stools; penile pain; proctalgia; pain in umbilical region; dissimilar appearances in different haemorrhoid masses; dry anal sprouts; anal sprouts with a tingling sensation; dirty looking anal sprouts; blackish anal sprouts; reddish anal sprouts; noncompressible haemorrhoids; clear anal sprouts; rough anal sprouts; rough peduncle in perianal region; twisted; sharp tipped; cracked; opened-mouthed; resembling the bimbi fruit; resembling the kharjūra fruit; resembling the karkandhu fruit; resembling the karpasi fruit; resembling the kadamba flower; resembling siddhārthaka; severe pain in head; severe pain in sides; pain in scapular regions; pain in waist; severe pain in thighs; pain in groin region; sneezing; eructations; constipation/abdominal fullness; constricting pain in cardiac region; loss of taste; cough; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; impairment of agni; tinnitus; giddiness or dizziness; scybalous faeces; faeces in small amounts; stool with production of sound; stool passed with griping; stool passed with pain; stool passed with froth; mucilaginous stool passage; impacted stool; blackish discoloration of skin; blackish discoloration of nails; blackish discoloration of faeces; blackish disoloration of urine; blackish discoloration of eyes; blackish discoloration of faeces; blackish discoloration of teeth; raising suspicion of gulma; raising suspicion of splenomegaly; raising suspicion of ascites; raising suspicion of prostatic enlargement; irregular centre; about cotton-plant size.
सन्निपातजोन्मादः ( sannipātajonmādaḥ )

Psychosis due to vitiated tridosha
A disorder characterized by clinical features common to all three types.
सन्निपातमूत्रकृच्छ्रम् ( sannipātamūtrakṛcchram )

Difficulty in urination due to vitiated tridosha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: clinical features of all types of dosha; burning sensation; cold/chills; pain; urine of different colours; frequent micturition; distress; difficulty in micturition.
सन्निपातिक-असृग्दरः (रक्तप्रदरः) ( sannipātika-asṛgdaraḥ (raktapradaraḥ) )

Dysfunctional uterine bleeding due to vitiated tridosha
A gynaecological disorder characterized by symptoms of all three dosha; discharge resembling honey in colour; ghṛta-like discharge; discharge resembling haritala in colour; bone marrow-like discharge; menstrual blood with a cadaveric smell.
सन्निपातिकरक्तपित्तम् ( sannipātikaraktapittam )

Haemorrhage due to vitiated tridosha
A disorder characterized by the mixed symptoms of all types of raktapitta.
सन्निरुद्धगुदः ( sanniruddhagudaḥ )

Anal stenosis
A disorder characterized by difficulty in defecation; narrowed anal opening.
संन्यासः ( saṃnyāsaḥ )

Coma
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: falling like a log of dead wood; loss of life if not treated early/or if emergency treatment support withdrawn.
सपक्षः ( sapakṣaḥ )

Context in which a cause-and-effect relationship is affirmed
Figuratively, an accommodating context or environment.
सपिण्डिकः ( sapiṇḍikaḥ )

Fritter-like preparation with sweet honey stuffing
A preparation similar to a fritter with sweet stuffing in which honey is additionally mixed and prepared in bolus form.
सप्तममासगर्भः ( saptamamāsa-garbhaḥ )

Seventh month of pregnancy
This month is characterized by nourishment of all foetal elements; fatigue of the pregnant woman; complete foetal development; clear manifestation of all body parts and organs; full formation of body parts.
समवायः ( samavāyaḥ )

Inherence
Coexistence or concomitance, an intimate and constant relation between the whole and its parts or the basic elements (mahabhuta) and their qualities.
समवायिकारणम् ( samavāyikāraṇam )

Inherent cause
Of the three types of cause (karana), inherent cause is the most essential: it denotes the causal substrate or substance in which an effect occurs (through inherence).
समशनम् ( The consumption of wholesome and unwholesome foods at the samaśanam same time, e.g. intake of green gram (considered wholesome) and black gram (considered unwholesome). )

Combining wholesome and unwholesome foods
समाग्निः ( samāgniḥ )

Normal state of digestive, metabolic factors
A state in which the action of transformative factor is normal due to all three dosha being in functional balance.
समानः ( samānaḥ )

Kindling vata
Subtype of vata seated at the navel (between stomach and intestines) and close to digestive fire: it is responsible for metabolism and transformation.
समानप्रत्ययारब्धद्रव्यः ( samānapratyayārabdhadravyaḥ )

Substance with properties aligned to the five basic elements in its composition
Substance with properties aligned to the five basic elements in its composition as deducted from its perceivable attributes such as taste and qualities. Although barley and wheat possess the properties of sweetness and heaviness (which ideally should alleviate vata), wheat alleviates vata while barley aggravates it. In this instance, wheat is an example of a substance with properties aligned to the five basic elements in its composition.
समानवातकोपः ( samānavātakopaḥ )

Aggravation of kindling vata
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: palpable glandular enlargement in abdomen/ abdominal lump; diminution of digestive fire; diarrhoea; colicky pain in abdomen; structural and functional impairment of duodenum; diseases of or originating in distal gastrointestinal tract; diseases of or originating in stomach.
समाहितयन्त्रः ( samāhitayantraḥ )

Ideal blunt instruments
Instruments which have the ideal qualities making them suitable for their respective purposes.
समुच्चयः ( samuccayaḥ )

Enlisting one by one
A phrase or paragraph in which things with common characteristics are grouped together and enumerated.
संमूढपिडका ( saṃmūḍhapiḍakā )

Vesicles due to excessive friction on the skin of the penis
A disorder characterized by papules/eruptions on the penis.
सम्प्राप्तिः, जातिः, आगतिः ( samprāptiḥ, jātiḥ, āgatiḥ )

Evolution or natural course of disease
The sequence of events from etiology to manifestation of a disease, which is classified into six stages.
सम्प्राप्तिभेदः ( samprāptibhedaḥ )

Classification of pathogenesis
सम्भवः ( sambhavaḥ )

Statement indicating a source
A statement specifying when and where an event occurred.
सम्मोहः ( sammohaḥ )

Delusion
A mental state characterized by infatuation or being led astray.
सम्यक् -दग्धः ( samyak-dagdhaḥ )

Proper cauterization
A superficial burn lesion bearing the colour of the ripe fruit of Borassus flabellifer (tala-phala).
सम्यग्रूढव्रणः ( samyagrūḍhavraṇaḥ )

Properly healed ulcer
An ulcer characterized by healed edges; no indurated swelling; nonoedematous ulcer; painless ulcer; ulcer of same colour as skin; level with skin.
संयोगः ( saṃyogaḥ )

Combination
A combination or amalgam of two or more substances.
सरः ( saraḥ )

Instability, mobility
The quality of a substance which is responsible for stimulation and mobility (preraṇa), and which governs normal movements such as peristalsis.
सर्पकायः ( sarpakāyaḥ )

Person with The characteristics of the person with a simultaneously brave simultaneously brave and timid temperament are strength or sharpness of action, and timid temperament laboriousness, cowardice, angriness, deceptiveness, and quickness of action and behaviour.
सर्पिः (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( sarpiḥ (vraṇacikitsā)

Application of medicated ghee for wound management
Topical application of medicated ghee to a wound.
सर्वसरमुखरोगः ( sarvasaramukharogaḥ )

Global oral cavity disorder Disorders of the ear
सर्वसारः, ओजस्सारः ( sarva-sāraḥ, oja-sāraḥ )

Characterized by features such as strength; happiness; ability to tolerate suffering; self-confidence in all undertakings; sincerity and virtuousness in acts; firm, well-built body; correct gait; melodious, soft and pleasant voice; attainment of happiness, prosperity, wealth and longevity; having many progeny and resistant to diseases.
सर्वाङ्गः ( sarvāṅgaḥ )

Whole body
सर्वाङ्गवातः/सर्वाङ्गरोगः ( sarvāṅgavātaḥ/ sarvāṅgarogaḥ )

Paraparesis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: flickering/twitching of various parts of body; bursting type of pain in joints; feeling as if limbs are being broken; severe pain; pricking pain; breaking type of pain; pulsating sensation; stiffening of body; convulsions; joint contraction; joint trembling.
सर्वाङ्गाभिहतः ( sarvāṅgābhighataḥ )

Multiorgan injuries
सर्वोपघातशमनीयरसायनम् ( sarvopaghātaśamanīyarasāyanam )

Rejuvenation therapy for pacifying all ailments
Rejuvenation therapy in its broad aspects as a curative for all ailments.
सर्षपिका ( sarṣapikā )

Boils resembling white mustard seeds on the penis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: boils resembling white mustard seeds; eruptions resembling white mustard seeds in shape and size; thick and firm lesion; mustard seed-sized boil.
सर्षपिका-प्रमेहपिडका ( sarṣapikāpramehapiḍakā )

Carbuncle characterized by lesions resembling white mustard seeds
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a not very big boil suppurating quickly; very painful; resembling a heap of white mustard seedsized eruptions.
संवत्सरः ( saṃvatsaraḥ )

Time equivalent to one year
Time equal to two ayana.
संवरणी ( saṃvaraṇī )

Intermediate rectal fold
One of the transverse folds of the rectum or plicae recti.
सवर्णकरणम् (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( savarṇakaraṇam (vraṇacikitsā) )

Normalizing scar with skin colour
A procedure to modify scar colour so that it blends with surrounding skin.
संवाहनम् ( saṁvāhanam )

Gentle massage
A massage procedure involving light pressure.
सविकल्पकम् ( savikalpakam )

Determinate perception
Direct perception, observation with specific details of the cognitive process.
सविष-जलौकादष्टः ( saviṣa-jalaukādaṣṭaḥ )

Poisonous leech bite
Poisoning characterized by itching; oedema; fever; syncope or swooning.
सविष-मत्स्यदष्टः ( saviṣa-matsyadaṣṭaḥ )

Contact with or consumption of poisonous fish
Poisoning characterized by burning sensation; swelling at the site; pain in situ.
संवृतदन्तः ( saṃvṛtadantaḥ )

A kind of abnormal dentition
An abnormal type of dentition which is prone to early decay.
संवॄत कोष्ठ वमनस्य व्यपदः ( samvṝta koṣṭha vamanasya vyapadaḥ )

Condition caused by emetic therapy administered to person whose gut is occluded
A condition characterized by erysipelas; rigidity/stiffness; dullness/frigidity/inactivity; mental perversion; death.
सव्रणशुक्रः/क्षतशुक्लः ( savraṇaśukraḥ/ kṣataśuklaḥ )

Corneal ulcer
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a depression ulcer of the cornea; feeling of being pierced by needle; profuse warm discharge; severe pain; pricking pain; tear secretion; reddish discoloration of eyes; resembling ripe jambū fruits; slightly depressed.
संशमन-कर्म ( saṃśamana-karma )

Palliative action
A drug which neither eliminates aggravated doṣha nor aggravates normal dosha but restores irregular dosha to normalcy.
संशमनम् ( saṁśamanam )

Conservative therapy
Therapy which aims to mitigate the disease by pacifying dosha (in contrast to purifying therapies, which remove dosha from the body).
संशयः ( saṃśayaḥ )

Inconclusive statement
An indefinite statement which leaves its ultimate conclusion in doubt.
सशल्यव्रणः ( saśalyavraṇaḥ )

Ulcer with foreign body.
A wound characterized by a pricking sensation; numbness; heaviness; excessive sensation of being struck; oedema; severe pain; patient always protecting the affected part.
संशोधनकर्म, शोधनकर्म, शोधन चिकित्सा ( saṁśodhanakarma, śodhanakarma, śodhana cikitsa )

Cleansing therapy
Treatment modality based on the principle of removing vitiated doṣa.
संशोधनार्हः ( saṁśodhanārhaḥ )

Patient fit for cleansing threrapy
Patient who has no contraindications and is fit to undergo cleansing therapy.
सशोफपाकः ( saśophapākaḥ )

Panophthalmitis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: itching of the eyes; rheum; associated with watering; eyes resembling ripe udumbara; burning sensation; gooseflesh-like feeling in eyes; coppery discoloration; oedema; pricking type of pain; heaviness; repeated discharge; frequent hot tear secretion; frequent cold tear secretion; swelling of eyes; inflammation/suppuration of eyes; severe pain; spitting/excessive expectoration; frequent clear tear secretion; frequent slimy tear secretion; frequent thin tear secretion; frequent thick tear secretion.
संसर्ग ( saṃsarga )

Disease caused by more than one dosha
A disease or condition caused by the combination of two dosha.
संसर्गजरोगः ( samsargajarogaḥ )

Contagious diseases
Diseases and conditions that arise in individuals and are transmitted by close contact with other persons affected by diseases such as leprosy and conjunctivitis.
संसर्जनक्रमः ( saṁsarjana-kramaḥ )

Posttherapy dietary regimen for revival of digestion
The dietary regimen for restoration of agni after cleansing therapy .
संस्कारः ( saṃskāraḥ )

Alteration of properties
The quality of being able to induce a change or transformation in the original properties of any substance.
संस्कारः ( saṁskāraḥ )

Medical sociospiritual rituals, ceremonies
The rituals and ceremonies performed at various junctures in a lifetime which indicate major milestones or rites of passage.
संस्कृतलाजमण्डः ( saṃskṛtalājamaṇḍaḥ )

Processed liquid portion of parched grain gruel
The liquid portion of parched grain gruel which is processed with oil or ghee, and spices.
सस्यकः/तुत्थः ( sasyakaḥ/tutthaḥ )

Bornite and peacock ore
Bornite and peacock ore have the chemical composition Cu3FeS4 and Cu5FeS4 respectively; copper sulfate is also known as tutthaḥ. In calcinated form tuttha is used as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral formulations.
सहजबलम् ( sahaja-balam )

Innate strength
Innate strength or immunity present since birth.
सहजार्शः ( sahajārśaḥ )

Congenital haemorrhoids
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: tender anal sprouts; tenderness in anal sprouts; perspiring; wet; bluish tips; reddish coloration; yellowish-coloured haemorrhoidal mass; blackish-coloured anal sprouts; thin sanguinous discharge; yellowish discharge; haemorrhoidal mass with blood discharge; with blood flow; itching; pain; pricking type of pain; relief with cold; faeces in large quantity; excessive urination/polyuria; black-outs; unconsciousness/confusion; aversion to food; bluish tips; spreading; yellowish; diarrhoea with blood; yellowish teeth; foul odour; few in number; soft haemorrhoidal mass; elongated/lax; resembling a parrot’s tongue; resembling a piece of liver; resembling a leech’s mouth; burning sensation; inflammation/suppuration; fever; perspiration; thirst; syncope or swooning; loss of taste; confusion/delirium; hot; stools liquid in nature; bluish stool; hot stools; yellowish stools; passage of unformed. faeces; stools with blood; barleyshaped in the middle; green coloration of skin and nails; green-coloured urine; green-coloured eyes; green coloration of face; yellowishness of skin; yellowish nails; yellowish stools; yellowish urine; yellowish eyes; yellow coloration of face; yellow-coloured skin; yellow-coloured nail; yellowcoloured faeces; yellowish discoloration of urine; yellowcoloured eyes; yellow-coloured face; anal sprouts smelling of raw meat; passage of unformed faeces.
साक्षी ( sākṣī )

Witness of all actions
The soul (atma) not actively participating in any action but performing the duty of a witness.
साग्नि-उपनाहस्वेदः ( sāgni-upanāhasvedaḥ )

Sweating induced by application of a medicated herbal paste or powder
Sudation achieved with the application of a prewarmed paste.
सात्म्यम् ( sātmyam )

Agreeable to nature or natural constitution
Agreeable to nature or natural constitution; excellence or abundance of suitable qualities: food that is fully compatible with the individual and which is completely digested and accepted by the body.
साधकपित्तम् ( sādhakapittam )

Pitta for intellect
Subtype of pitta seated in the heart which is responsible for driving the higher mental functions involving decisions and actions for accomplishments.
साधन ( sādhana )

Independent variable
Another term for the independent variable.
साधनम् ( sādhanam )

Treatment instrument
Tool or means by which a disease is cured, and health restored. Synonym of treatment.
साधारणरसः ( sādhāraṇarasaḥ )

Group of supplement- A group of mineral substances which serve a supplementary ary mineral substances role in the processing of mercury: kampillakaḥ, gaurīpāṣāṇam, narasāraḥ/navasādaraḥ, kapardakaḥ, vahnijāraḥ, girisindūraḥ, hiṅgulam and mṛddāraśrṛṃgaḥ.
साध्य ( sādhya )

Dependent variable
The effect or dependent variable influenced by the independent variable.
साध्यरोगः ( sādhyarogaḥ )

Diseases that are treatable
Diseases and conditions with a good prognosis.
साध्यासाध्यता ( sādhyāsādhyatā )

Prognosis
The classification of diseases based on their prognosis as either curable or incurable.
सानुबाधनम् ( sānubādhanam )

Detrimental to health in the long term
One of the two types of hazardous substance which give rise to disease, e.g. long-term adoption of incompatible food and unhealthy practices.
सान्द्रः ( sāndraḥ )

Density, viscidity
The quality of a substance which is responsible for density.
सान्द्रप्रसादमेहः ( sāndraprasādamehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with dense and clear urine (belluria)
A disorder characterized by urine separating on sedimentation into a transparent and a turbid moiety.
सान्द्रमेहः ( sāndramehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with high density urine (chyluria)
A disorder characterized by urine which when kept overnight undergoes sedimentation; turbid urination; thick coarse urine.
सान्निपातिक-दन्तनाडी ( sānnipātika-dantanāḍī )

Alveolar sinus due to tridosha, complicated sinus
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a burning sensation; fever; breathlessness/ difficulty in breathing; syncope or swooning; dryness of mouth.
सान्निपातिक-लिङ्गनाशः ( sānnipātika-liṅganāśaḥ )

Mature cataract due to vitiated tridosha
A disorder characterized by a multicoloured cataract.
सान्निपातिकरक्तदुष्टिः ( sānnipātikaraktaduṣṭiḥ )

Blood vitiated by tridosha
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: gruel-coloured blood; blood with a very bad odour; coppery, blue-coloured blood; impure blood; turbid blood.
सान्निपातिकशूलः ( sānnipātikaśūlaḥ )

Abdominal colic due to vitiated tridosha
A disorder characterized by clinical features of all types of doṣa in śūla.
सामदोषः ( sāmadoṣaḥ )

Dosha associated with ama
Dosha associated with ama undergoes qualitative and functional alterations and becomes capable of giving rise to diseases.
साममलः ( sāmamalaḥ )

Excretory products associated with incomplete digestion, transformation or metabolism
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: obstruction in srotas or channels; diminution of physical strength; heaviness; suppression of movements of vata; lethargy; indigestion; spitting; obstruction of faecal passage; loss of taste; exhaustion without exertion.
सामान्यजविकारः ( sāmānyajavikāraḥ )

Disease caused by one or more dosha
A disease or condition of generic etiology, i.e. due to derangement of one or more dosha.
सामान्यपूर्वरूपम् ( sāmānyapūrvarūpam )

General prodrome
General premonitory symptoms. The term also denotes those premonitory symptoms which may indicate the impending disease or condition without providing any information about dosha predominance.
सामान्यम् ( sāmānyam )

Generality, shared feature
Denotes the universal or class-essence. The principle of similarity may identify a commonality among different substances, qualities and actions.
सामुद्गदन्तः ( sāmudgadantaḥ )

A kind of abnormal dentition
An abnormal type of dentition which is prone to early loss.
सामुद्गम् ( sāmudgam )

Administration of medicine immediately before and after meals
सामुद्गसन्धिः ( sāmudgasandhiḥ )

Box-like joint
सामुद्रजलम् ( sāmudrajalam )

Surface water
Surface water which is very prone to contamination with dust, soot, toxic substances, and other environmental impurities.
सामुद्रलवणम् ( sāmudralavaṇam )

Sea salt
Sodium chloride (NaCl)
सारः ( sāraḥ )

Predominance of a particular fundamental structural component in a person
सार-विषः ( sāra-viṣaḥ )

Poisonous resinous exudates
Poisoning characterized by halitosis; roughness/dryness; headache; secretion of mucus.
सारसम् ( sārasam )

Lake water
A type of water obtained from lakes.
सावशेषौषधव्यापत् ( sāvaśeṣauṣadhavyāpat )

Condition due to incomplete elimination of purgative drugs
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: exhaustion without exertion; burning sensation; bodily exhaustion or tiredness/inability to perform physical activities; giddiness or dizziness; syncope or swooning; headache; distress/discontent/restlessness; loss of physical strength or weakness; manifestations due to residual drug in therapeutic purgation; thirst; pain in sides of chest/ flanks; vomiting; breaking type of pain in small joints; nausea; foul eructations.
सिकतामेहः ( sikatāmehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with gravel urine
A disorder characterized by minute gravel in urine; painful micturition; passage of saliva-like urine containing shreds.
सिद्धबस्तिः ( siddhabastiḥ )

Enema for strength, complexion and growth
A type of specially medicated enema which can cure certain diseases and boost longevity.
सिद्धान्तः ( siddhāntaḥ )

Theory
An established theory that has been critically examined and accepted by qualified investigators. It may be common to all schools of thought, scripture and branches of science (sarvatantrasiddhantaḥ) or particular to any one of them (pratitantrasiddhantaḥ).
सिध्मः ( sidhmaḥ )

Skin disease with lesions resembling bottle gourd flower
A skin disease characterized by lesions resembling bottle gourd flowers; rough/dry; reddish in colour; broken/shattered; thin outside; unctuous inside; whitish and reddish tinge; numerous; mild pain; minimal itching; minimal burning sensation; minimal pus discharge; reduced watery discharge; light onset; fewer complications; fewer worms; dust on itching; resembling daugdhika flowers; usually affecting upper part of body.
सिरा ( Sirā )

Vein
Any tubular conduit of the body, commonly referring to veins.
सिरागत-शल्यः ( sirāgata-śalyaḥ )

Foreign body in the veins
A disorder due to presence of foreign body in the veins; characterized by engorgement; pain in veins; swelling.
सिरागतवातः ( sirāgatavātaḥ )

Aggravation of vata in veins
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: mild pain; mild oedema; dryness/emaciation of body; presence or absence of pulsation in blood vessels; thinness or excessive thickness and narrowing or dilatation of blood vessels; sharp pain; contraction/narrowing of blood vessels or sira; bulky/prominent blood vessels; fullness of blood vessels; emptiness of blood vessels.
सिराग्रन्थिः ( sirāgranthiḥ )

Body channel dysfunction involving bulging or growth
Occurrence of a knot-like or nodular growth in the lumen of the body channels.
सिराग्रहः ( sirāgrahaḥ )

Obstructed blood vessel
A disorder characterized by blackish discoloration; dryness; associated with pain. In certain cases where the vessels of head are affected the condition becomes complicated (difficult to treat).
सिराजग्रन्थिः ( sirājagranthiḥ )

Nodular swelling, cyst of vascular origin
A disorder characterized by a raised round swelling; nonpulsatile nodule; painless micturition.
सिराजपिडका ( sirājapiḍakā )

Phlyctenular keratoconjunctivitis
A disorder characterized by papules; network of veins; situated near the cornea; vessels associated with burning sensation; vascular growth leading to friction; increased vascular network; eruptions resembling mustard seeds.
सिराजालः ( sirājālaḥ )

Haemangioma
A disorder characterized by an extensive branched network of rigid veins full of blood; covered with hard vessels; broad/ extensive; associated with blood; large network of veins; thick network of veins; reddish vascular network; raised vascular network.
सिराजालम् ( sirājālam )

Network of veins
सिराप्रहर्षः ( sirāpraharṣaḥ )

Hyperaemia of the eyeball
A disorder characterized by thick coppery-coloured tears; thick clear tears; difficulty in vision; increased vascularity in comparison with episcleritis.
सिरामर्म ( Sirāmarma )

Vulnerable location(s) in which the main structural component is vein
Marma where vessels are structurally prominent.
सिराविद्धः ( sirāviddhaḥ )

Penetrating or puncturing deep injury to vessels
सिरावेधः ( sirāvedhaḥ )

Venesection
Bloodletting by means of venesection.
सिरोत्पातः/शिरोत्पातः ( sirotpātaḥ/ śirotpātaḥ )

Episcleritis
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: absence of pain; associated with pain; coppery-coloured lines; frequent discoloration; covered with red streaks; burning sensation with sweating and restlessness; pain; absence of swelling; absence of excessive tear secretion; absence of excessive secretion of rheum.
सीमन्तः ( sīmantaḥ )

Boundary region
सीमन्तः (मर्म) ( sīmantaḥ (marma)

Vulnerable location(s) on the skull resembling the cranial sutures
Five in number and leads to fear, insanity and death when injured.
सीवनकर्म ( sīvanakarma )

Suturing procedure
Suturing procedure for wound closure.
सीवनभेदः ( sīvanabhedaḥ )

Types of sutures
Various types of sutures such as vellitaka, gophanika, tunnasevani and rujugranthih.
सीवनम् ( sīvanam )

Suturing
The procedure of approximating the edges of a wound by suturing.
सीवनी, सेवनी ( Sīvanī, sevanī )

Suture, frenulum
A structure with a suture-like appearance of which there are seven: five in the head, one under the tongue and one on the penis..
सुकुमार वमनस्य व्यपदः ( sukumāra vamanasya vyapadaḥ )

Condition caused by emetic therapy administered to sensitive person
A condition characterized by haemorrhage through upward and downward tracts.
सुकुमार-विरेचनव्यापत् ( sukumāra-virecanavyāpat )

Condition caused by purgation therapy administered to people with fragile bodily constitution
A condition characterized by haemorrhage through the upward and downward tracts.
सुखम् ( sukham )

Pleasure, happiness
A favourable perception including happiness, delight, joy and pleasure.
सुखसाध्यरोगः ( sukhasādhyarogaḥ )

Diseases that are easily treatable
Easily curable diseases and conditions which have fewer causative factors, lesser vitiation of dosha and develop in body tissues which are comparatively less depleted.
सुखायुः ( sukhāyuḥ )

High quality of life
A lifestyle characterized by a high quotient of happiness.
सुभग-विरेचनव्यापत् ( subhaga-virecanavyāpat )

Condition caused by A condition characterized by haemorrhage through the purgation therapy upward and downward tracts. administered to person in delicate health
सुरा/प्रसन्ना ( surā/prasannā )

Distillate
सुरामेहः ( surāmehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with urine resembling arrack or spirituous liquor
A disorder characterized by urine resembling arrack, an alcoholic beverage that is distilled from fermented mash of malted rice with toddy or molasses. In this event the upper portion of the urine appears transparent and lower portion turbid.
सुवर्णप्राशनम् ( suvarṇaprāśanam )

Therapeutic administration of gold
The administration of gold in specific form (with or without other medicines) together with honey and ghee to the child after birth to enhance intellect and immunity.
सुषिरस्नायुः ( suṣirā-snāyuḥ )

Porous membrane
Membranes located in stomach, intestines and bladder.
सूक्ष्मः ( sūkṣmaḥ )

Minuteness, penetrating
The quality of a substance which is responsible for minuteness and consequent ability to pass through barriers.
सूचीशस्त्रम् ( sūcīśastram )

Surgical needle
A surgical needle used for suturing or venepuncture.
सूतिका ( sūtikā )

Mother in puerperium
सूतिकारोगः ( sūtikārogaḥ )

Puerperal disorder
A disorder characterized by generalized body aches; fever; tremors; thirst; heaviness of body; swelling of body; colicky pain in abdomen; diarrhoea.
सूत्रम् ( sūtram )

Aphorism, summarized A short, unambiguous sentence or aphoristic rule, as well as knowledge a term of summarized knowledge relating to a particular discipline.
सूप्यम् ( sūpyam )

Suitable for preparation Pulses which are beneficial in soup preparations such as of soup green gram.
सूर्यकान्तः ( sūryakāntaḥ )

Sun stone
Sun stone is plagioclase feldspar which when viewed from certain directions exhibits a spangled appearance. Duly processed suryakanta is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
सूर्यक्षारः ( sūryakṣāraḥ )

Salt petre
Potassium nitrate (KNO3).
सूर्यचन्द्रदर्शनसंस्कारः ( sūryacandradarśanasaṁskāraḥ )

Exposure of a baby to the sun and moon
A ceremony in which the infant is exposed to the sun and moon for the first time within a month of birth.
सूर्यावर्तः ( sūryāvartaḥ )

Headache worsening and subsiding with strength of sun
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: headache worsening as the day progresses; reducing towards end of day; mild pain in eyes at sunrise; mild pain in eyebrows at sunrise; severe pain in eyes;. worsening in sunlight; subsiding with cold; sometimes subsiding with hot treatment; pulsating pain in temporal region at sunrise; pulsating pain in eyes at sunrise; pulsating pain in eyebrows at sunrise; pulsating pain in forehead at sunrise; worsening at midday; pain worsening on an empty stomach; uncertain comfort with cold; uncertain comfort with hot; pain subsiding later; pain subsiding at sunset.
सृक्कणी, ओष्ठप्रान्तः ( sṛkkaṇī, oṣṭhaprāntaḥ )

Corners of mouth
सेकः ( sekaḥ )

Continuous streaming of liquid medicines over the eyes
A procedure involving gentle pouring of a thin stream of medicated solution over the closed eyelids for a stipulated period.
सेवनी-छेदः ( sevanī-chedaḥ )

Injury to perineal raphe
सैन्धवलवणम् ( saindhavalavaṇam )

Rock salt
सौम्यरसः ( saumyarasaḥ )

Taste exerting a cooling effect
Taste exerting a cooling effect due to the predominance of water element.
सौम्यरोगः ( saumyarogaḥ )

Diseases caused by kapha
A disease caused by vitiation of kapha in the body such as anorexia.
सौवर्चललवणम् ( sauvarcalalavaṇam )

Black salt
स्कन्दग्रहः ( skandagrahaḥ )

Neurological symptoms due to external invisible factors
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: the sudden onset of agitation in the baby; sudden onset of fearfulness in baby; sudden onset of crying; gouging or scratching wet-nurse or mother; biting wet-nurse or mother; scratching or gouging own body; biting him or herself; upward movement of eyes; teeth-gnashing; cooing sound; yawning; hasty movements of eyebrows; teethgrinding; drooping of lips; frothy vomiting; severe weakness; staying awake at night; swelling of eyes; altered stools/loose motions; hoarse voice; smelling of meat and blood; aversion to food/breast milk; lacrimation from one eye; convulsive movements of limbs; sweating; body smelling of blood; diminished crying; facial paralysis; fearfullness; aversion to breast milk; twitching of limbs; smelling of wound; ptosis of one eye; flickering of one eye; anxious; quickening of eye movements; constipation; frequent shaking of head; hemiplegia/hemiparesis; stiffness of body; bending/drooping of neck; crying with hoarse voice; vomiting of saliva; odour of animal fat; odour of blood; making fists; hard stool; movement of one eye brow; movement of one cheek; reddness of both eyes; lameness; death.
स्कन्दनम् ( skandanam )

Haemostasis by application of cold
A method of haemostasis by the application of cold (ice and other cooling materials).
स्कन्दापस्मारः ( skandāpasmāraḥ )

Epilepsy-like symptoms due to external invisible factors
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: frequent episodes of unconsciousness; pricking of hairs; drooping of neck; bending of body; yawning; faecal excretion; urination; frothy vomiting; upward movement of eyes; involuntary movements of hands; involuntary movements of eyebrows; biting of mother’s breast; biting of own tongue; inflammation; fever; sleeplessness; odour of pus and blood; excessive crying after regaining consciousness; episodes of unconsciousness; involuntary movements of hands and feet; body smelling of pus or blood; frothy vomitus.
स्तनः, स्तनपिण्डः, पयोधरौ, कुचौ. ( stanaḥ, stanapiṇḍaḥ, payodharau, kucau )

Breast
स्तनमूलम् (मर्म) ( stanamūlam (marma)

Vulnerable location(s) on the anterior part of the chest below the nipple
Two in number (one on either side of the chest) and leads to death due to difficulty in breathing due to accumulation of kapha in the chest when injured.
स्तनरोहितम् (मर्म) ( stanarohitam (marma) )

Vulnerable location(s) on the anterior part of the chest above the nipple
Two in number (one on either side of the chest) and leads to death due to cough and difficulty in breathing due to accumulation of blood in the chest when injured.
स्तन्यक्षयः ( stanyakṣayaḥ )

Diminution of breast milk
A disorder characterized by emaciated breasts/loss of shapliness of breasts; suppression of lactation; reduced lactation.
स्तन्यजननम्, स्तन्यकृत् ( Stanyajananam, stanyakṛt )

Galactagogue, substance promoting lactation
स्तन्यम् ( stanyam )

Breast milk
Supportive structural component of primary circulating nutrient fluid. It is composed predominantly of the basic element water and nourishes the baby.
स्तन्यवृद्धिः ( stanyavṛddhiḥ )

Morbid increase of breast milk
A disorder characterized by fully extended/large breasts; frequent secretion of milk; pricking pain.
स्तन्यवैषम्यम् ( stanyavaiṣamyam )

Vitiation of breast milk
स्तन्यशोधनम् ( stanyaśodhanam )

Breast milk purifier
स्तन्यापनयनम् ( stanyāpanayanam )

Weaning
A method for the gradual withdrawal of breast feeding.
स्तम्भः-वमनव्यापत् ( stambhaḥ-vamanavyāpat )

Condition of body rigidity due to faulty emetic therapy
A condition characterized by retention of flatus; stiffness of anal region; proctalgia; in which morbid dosha is eliminated only in small quantities.
स्तम्भन-अतियोगः ( stambhana-atiyogaḥ )

Condition of excessive astringent therapy
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: blackish appearance; stiffness of body; upward movement of vāta; rigidity of jaw; bradycardia; nonexcretion of faeces.
स्तम्भन-अपचारः ( stambhana-apacāraḥ )

Condition due to improper astringent therapy
स्तम्भनम् ( stambhanam )

Inhibition of excess flow or secretions
The action of a dry, cold, and astringent substance is to increase vata and check its flow through or out of the body; it therefore has a styptic action.
स्तम्भनम्/स्तम्भनकर्म ( stambhanam/ stambhanakarma )

Astringent therapy
One of the six types of treatment modalities: a procedure or medicine causing arrest of secretion or allowing control of bleeding.
स्तम्भविरेचनव्यापत् ( stambhavirecanavyāpat )

Condition of rigidity due to faulty purgative therapy
A condition characterized by retention of flatus; stiffness of anal region; proctalgia; morbid dosha eliminated only in small quantities.
स्त्रीबीजम् ( strībījam )

Female seed
Female factors responsible for conception. Generally referred to along with menstrual fluid.
स्थगिकाबन्धः ( sthagikābandhaḥ )

Stump bandage
A type of bandage used for the tip of the thumb, finger or penis.
स्थपनी (मर्म) ( sthapanī (marma) )

Vulnerable point located near the glabella (area between eyebrows)
One in number which when injured by a foreign body may lead to death if it is removed.
स्थानसंश्रयः ( sthānasamśrayaḥ )

Stage of a dosha localizing outside its location
The fourth stage of disease manifestation, when aggravated and migrant dosha lodges in a different location from its original one and gives rise to prodromal symptoms.
स्थानान्तरगतदोषः ( sthānāntaragatadoṣaḥ )

Displaced dosha
Aggravated dosha which has migrated or been relocated from its original site. Synonym: āgantu-dosha.
स्थानिकदोषः ( sthānikadoṣaḥ )

Correctly located dosha
Dosha residing in its own place.
स्थापना ( sthāpanā )

Proving the proposed hypothesis
Justifying a proposition based on sound reason, illustration and conclusion.
स्थालकम् ( sthālakam )

Head of the rib
स्थालकार्बुदम् ( sthālakārbudam )

Tubercle of the rib
स्थालीपाकः ( sthālīpākaḥ )

Cooking in a vessel
स्थावरः/अन्तश्चेतनः ( sthāvaraḥ/antaścetanaḥ )

Stationary in form, inner sentience
A division of the natural world which refers to living beings which have internal awareness or inner sentience not manifested externally, i.e. trees and plants.
स्थावरविषः ( sthāvaraviṣaḥ )

Vegetable poison
Poisoning characterized by fever; hiccups; tenderness or sensitive teeth/dental hyperaesthesia; choking sensation in throat; frothy vomiting; restlessness; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; syncope or swooning.
स्थावरविष-अधिष्ठानम् ( sthāvaraviṣaadhiṣṭhānam )

Substrata of poison in plants and minerals
The various sites at which poisons are located in plants such as the root, leaf, fruit, flower, bark, pith, gum, latex, petal or bulb.
स्थिरः ( sthiraḥ )

Stability, immobility
The quality of a substance which is responsible for maintaining stability and position .
स्थिरसन्धिः ( sthirasandhiḥ )

Immovable or slightly movable joints
स्थूलः ( sthūlaḥ )

Grossness, bulkiness
The quality of a substance which is responsible for bulkiness and consequent ability to fill spaces.
स्थूलान्त्रम्, कट्यन्त्रम् ( sthūlāntram, kaṭyantram )

Large intestine
स्थूलास्थि ( sthūlāsthi )

Large bone
स्थैर्यकरः ( sthairyakaraḥ )

Substance promoting firmness, stability
स्नातशिरसः नस्य व्यापदः ( snātaśirasaḥ nasya vyāpadaḥ )

Condition due to inhalation therapy administered to person who has taken a head bath
A condition characterized by cold catarrh.
स्नान-वैषम्यम् ( snāna-vaiṣamyam )

Disorder due to improper bathing habits
snāna-vaiṣamyam
स्नायुः ( snāyuḥ )

Sinews
Tendons, ligaments and other fibrous connective tissue.
स्नायुगत-शल्यः ( snāyugata-śalyaḥ )

Foreign body in the ligaments, and tendons
A disorder due to presence of foreign body in the ligaments; characterized by redness/congestion/inflammation; forceful flow of fluid on cutting tendons; associated with severe pain.
स्नायुगतवातः ( snāyugatavātaḥ )

Aggravation of vata in tendons and ligaments.
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: external bending of body, internal bending of body; shooting pain in extremities; kyphosis; quadriplegia; monoplegia; rigidity/stiffness; tremors; sharp pain; convulsions; sciatica.
स्नायुजालम् ( snāyujālam )

Network of tendons
Collyrium to reduce complications of high potency collyrium
स्नायुप्रतानः ( snāyupratānaḥ )

Network of sinews
स्नायुमर्म ( Snāyumarma )

Vulnerable location(s) in which the main structural component is tendon
Marma where fibrous connective tissue is structurally prominent
स्नायुविद्धः ( snāyuviddhaḥ )

Penetrating or puncturing A disorder characterized by a flexion deformity/humpback; deep injury to ligaments inability to move; a slowly healing wound; severe pain; weakness of limbs.
स्नाय्वर्म ( snāyvarma )

Tumour of conjunctiva
A disorder characterized by rough muscular growth; excessively white muscular growth; muscular growth resembling tendons; spreading in nature; swelling associated with abundant fleshy tissue; dry tissue; fixed swelling.
स्निग्धः ( snigdhaḥ )

Unctuousness, oiliness
The quality of a substance which is responsible for imparting smoothness, oiliness and moisture.
स्निग्धगण्डू षः ( snigdhagaṇḍūṣaḥ )

Retention of unctuous medications in oral cavity
Full mouth retention of liquid medications with unctuous properties for a specific time.
स्नेहं अशनावॄतं स्नेह बस्ति व्यापद् ( snehaṃ aśanāvṝtaṃ sneha basti vyāpad )

Condition of obstruction of unctuous enema emulsion obstructed by food
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: vomiting; syncope or swooning; loss of taste; fatigued mind and body; colicky pain in abdomen; sleep; generalized body aches; signs of āma; burning sensation.
स्नेहं पित्तावॄतं स्नेह बस्ति व्यापद् ( snehaṃ pittāvṝtaṃ sneha basti vyāpad )

Condition of obstruction A condition characterized by some or all the following signs of unctuous enema and symptoms: burning sensation; redness/congestion; thirst; emulsion by pitta confusion/delirium; black-outs; fever.
स्नेहं वातावॄतं स्नेह बस्ति व्यापद् ( snehaṃ vātāvṝtaṃ sneha basti vyāpad )

Condition of obstruction A condition characterized by some or all the following signs of unctuous enema and symptoms: generalized body aches; fever; abdominal emulsion by vata distension; feeling of cold; rigidity/stiffness; pain in thighs; pain in sides of chest/flanks; cramps in sides of chest.
स्नेहं विडावॄतं स्नेह बस्ति व्यापद् ( snehaṃ viḍāvṝtaṃ sneha basti vyāpad )

Condition of obstruction A condition characterized by some or all the following signs of unctuous enema and symptoms: retention of faeces; obstruction to passage of emulsion by stool urine/retention; obstruction to passage of flatus; pain; heaviness; abdominal distension; stiffness of cardiac region.
स्नेहं श्लेश्मावॄतं स्नेह बस्ति व्यापद् ( snehaṃ śleśmāvṝtaṃ sneha basti vyāpad )

Signs of obstruction of unctuous enema emulsion by kapha
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: drowsiness/lassitude; fever with chills; lethargy; excessive salivation; loss of taste; heaviness; syncope; fatigued mind and body.
स्नेहकर्म, स्नेहन ( snehakarma, snehana )

Oleation
स्नेहन-अतियोगः ( snehana-atiyogaḥ )

Condition of excessive oleation
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: pallor; heaviness; dullness/frigidity/inactivity; unformed stools; drowsiness/lassitude; loss of taste; nausea/ provocation of dosha; aversion to food; salivation; burning sensation in anus; dysentery; excessive elimination of faeces; clinical features of pāṇḍu; bodily exhaustion or tiredness/ inability to perform physical activities; nasal discharge; anal discharge; vomiting; syncope or swooning; thirst; dry eructations; giddiness or dizziness; breathlessness/difficulty in breathing; cough.
स्नेहन-अपचारः ( snehana-apacāraḥ )

Condition of improper oleation therapy
स्नेहन-अयोगः ( snehana-ayogaḥ )

Condition of subnormal oleation
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: hard compact stools; dry stools; perplexed vata; weak agni; harshness/sharpness of body parts; dryness of body parts.
स्नेहन-आश्च्योतनम् ( snehana-āścyotanam )

Instillation of eye drops for unctuous effect
The instillation of liquid medications in the eye for unctuous effect.
स्नेहननस्य-अतियोगः ( snehananasya-atiyogaḥ )

Condition due to overdosage of oily snuff
A condition characterized by mucoid expectoration; heaviness of the head; abnormal sense organ functioning.
स्नेहननस्य-अयोग/ स्नेहननस्यहीनयोगः ( snehananasya-ayoga/ snehananasyahīnayogaḥ )

Condition due to suboptimal or inadequate dosage of oily snuff
स्नेहनपुटपाकः ( snehanapuṭapākaḥ )

Retention of specially prepared heat extract bolus with unctuous effect
A therapeutic procedure in which an herbal extract (expressed from a warm bolus of herbs) is retained over the eyes for a stipulated period for unctuous effect.
स्नेहनमिथ्यायोगः/ मिथ्यास्नेहनम् /स्नेहनव्यापदः /स्नेहविभ्रमम् ( snehanamithyāyogaḥ/ mithyāsnehanam/ snehana-vyāpadaḥ/ snehavibhramam )

Condition of improper administration of oleation therapy
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: drowsiness/lassitude; nausea/provocation of dosha; borborygmi with distension; fever; rigidity/stiffness; improper perception/unconsciousness; skin diseases; itching; pallor; oedema; haemorrhoids; loss of taste; thirst; obstinate abdominal diseases; diseases due to malfunctioning grahaṇī; sensation of being covered with a wet cloth; suppression of speech; colicky pain in abdomen; diseases of āma.
स्नेहनम्/स्नेहनकर्म ( snehanam/snehanakarma )

Therapeutic oleation
One of the six types of treatment modalities which involves administration of oils or fats both internally and externally.
स्नेहनसेकः ( snehanasekaḥ )

Continuous streaming of liquid medicines over the eyes for unctuous effect
A procedure involving gentle pouring of a thin stream of medicated solution over the closed eyelids for a stipulated period for unctuous effect.
स्नेहपानकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( snehapānakarma (vraṇacikitsā) )

Internal oleation for wound management
Therapeutic intake of a medicated unctuous substance.
स्नेहबस्तिः ( snehabastiḥ )

Therapeutic ghee or oily enema
A medicated unctous enema, the amount of which is usually a quarter that of a decoction enema.
स्नैहिककवलः ( snaihikakavalaḥ )

Mouth gargle with unctuous medications
A type of gargle with unctuous properties.
स्नैहिकधूमपानम् ( snaihikadhūmapānam )

Unctuous medicated smoking
The procedure of medicated smoking with unctuous effect.
स्पर्शः ( sparśaḥ )

Touch
Trait of air element.
स्पर्शवहाधमनी ( sparśavahādhamanī )

Artery related to perception of touch
स्पर्शहानिः ( sparśahāniḥ )

Loss of sensation due to vitiated blood in the penis
A disorder characterized by numbness.
स्फटिकः ( sphaṭikaḥ )

Quartz
Rock crystal (SiO2); duly processed sphatika is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
स्फिक् , नितम्बः, प्रोथौ, कटी-प्रोथः ( sphik, nitambaḥ,prothau, kaṭī-prothaḥ )

Buttock
स्फुटित-भग्नः ( sphuṭita-bhagnaḥ )

Fissured fracture
A fracture characterized by distension and a sensation of being filled with bristles; multiple cracks on bone.
स्मरमन्दिरम् ( smaramandiram )

Pudendum
स्मरातपत्रम्, मदनातपत्रम् ( smarātapatram, madanātapatram )

Clitoris
स्मृतिः ( smṛtiḥ )

Memory, recollection
The faculty of recollection, remembrance of things directly perceived or heard (scriptures) which results from a particular conjunction between soul and mind.
स्मृतिवर्धकः ( smṛtivardhakaḥ )

Memory enhancer
Therapies or medicines beneficial for increasing memory power.
स्रंसन-कर्म ( sraṃsana-karma )

Mild laxative
A type of purgative which does not allow unformed excreta to adhere to the alimentary canal but expels them.
स्रावः ( srāvaḥ )

Epiphora
A disorder characterized by discharge at the inner canthus; painless discharge.
स्रुतिवृध्दिकरम् ( srutivṛdhdikaram )

Treatment promoting amount and flow of semen
Therapy or medicines able to increase both the amount and flow of semen.
स्रोतः ( srotaḥ )

Channel, conduit
Channels for the transportation of substances from one part to another.
स्रोतोदुष्टिप्रकारः ( srotoduṣṭiprakāraḥ )

Types of body channel deformities
The various types of the deformity affecting the body channels.
स्रोतोदुष्टिहेतुः ( srotoduṣṭihetuḥ )

Functional alteration of body channels
A structural and/or functional alteration of the body channels due to vitiated dosha or ama.
स्रोतोरोधः ( srotorodhaḥ )

Obstructive pathology
A complete or partial obstruction in the body channels leading to their malfunctioning.
स्रोतोविद्धः ( srotoviddhaḥ )

Injury or damage to the body channels
स्रोतोवैगुण्यम् ( srotovaiguṇyam )

Functional alteration of body channels
A functional and/or structural alteration of the body channels leading to a pathological process.
स्रोतोवैषम्यम् ( srotovaiṣamyam )

Vitiation of channels
Deleterious changes in the structure and function of channels (srotas) carrying vital life force; water; food; seven tissues; menstrual flow-carrying channel; excretory products: stools, sweat and urine.
स्रोतोऽञ्जन ( srotoñjana )

Stibnite used as collyrium
A type of collyrium containing antimony sulfide.
स्वतन्त्र ( svatantra )

Independent
Autonomy; an attribute of soul (atma).
स्वतन्त्र ( svatantra )

Primary disorder
A disease entity of independent etiology and pathology which has a direct bearing on associated conditions in terms of ultimate treatment outcome:
स्वप्नजननम् ( svapnajananam )

Somniferous, soporific
Substance tending to induce sleep
स्वप्नम् ( svapnam )

Dream
svapnam
स्वभावः ( svabhāvaḥ )

Natural removal of foreign body
The removal of a loosely impacted foreign body by natural means.
स्वभावबलप्रवृत्तरोगः ( svabhāvabalapravṛttarogaḥ )

Conditions resulting from physiological variations or the ageing process
Diseases and conditions brought about by the natural progression of bodily processes such as hunger, thirst, sleep and old age.
स्वभावव्याधिप्रतिषेधीयरसायनम् ( svabhāvavyādhipratiṣedhīyarasāyanam )

Rejuvenation therapy counteracting natural diseases
Rejuvenation therapy to prevent natural diseases such as hunger, thirst or greying of hair.
स्वरघ्नम् ( svaraghnam )

Paralysis of vocal cords
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: a feeling of entering into darkness constant respiratory distress; hoarseness of voice; dryness of throat; uncontrolled throat; obstructed/suffocated voice.
स्वरभेदः ( svarabhedaḥ )

Hoarse voice, altered voice
स्वरसः ( svarasaḥ )

Juice
स्वर्जिक्षारः, सर्जिक्षारः, सर्जिकाक्षारः ( svarjikṣāraḥ, sarjikṣāraḥ, sarjikākṣāraḥ. )

Alkali containing mainly sodium bicarbonate
स्वर्णम् ( svarṇam )

Gold
Au (Aurum). Duly processed svarna is employed as a standalone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
स्वर्यम् ( svaryam )

Substance enhancing the voice
स्वसञ्ज्ञा ( svasañjñā )

Technical terminology limited to a school of thought
A technical terminology devised and used by only one school of thought.
स्वस्तिकबन्धः ( svastikabandhaḥ )

Figure-of-eight bandage
A type of bandage applied to joints which resembles a figure of eight.
स्वस्तिकयन्त्रम् ( svastikayantram )

Cruciform instruments
Cruciform instruments used in surgical and parasurgical procedures such as removal of an impacted foreign body in bone.
स्वस्त्ययनम् ( svastyayanam )

Blessings from elders
A type of therapeutic ritual: treatment of a disease by receivingblessings (aśirvada) to cure the ailment.
स्वस्थः ( svasthaḥ )

Healthy person
An individual in a balanced state of dosha, metabolism, structural components and excretion, with pleasantly functioning senses, mind and consciousness, all acting in harmony.
स्वस्थवृत्तः ( svasthavṛttaḥ )

Routine(s) for health maintenance
Daily, seasonal and ethical regimens for the maintenance of health.
स्वस्थवृत्तहितम् ( svasthavṛttahitam )

Maintaining well-being and good health
स्वस्थस्योर्जस्करम् ( svasthasyorjaskaram )

Health-promoting
A medicine or regimen which boosts health in a healthy person; a feature of rejuvenative therapy.
स्वाङ्गशीतम् ( svāṅgaśītam )

Left to cool, self-cooling
स्वार्थानुमानम् ( svārthānumānam )

Inference for self
Obtaining the proof of inference for oneself.
स्वास्थ्यम्, आरोग्यम् ( svāsthyam, ārogyam )

Positive attributes of health
A healthy state of body, mind and soul.
स्वेदः ( svedaḥ )

Sweat
The mala of fat, the function of which is to withhold moisture in the skin.
स्वेदक्षयः ( svedakṣayaḥ )

Diminution of sweat
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: stiff/rigid body hairs; wasting/contracture of skin; abnormality in touch perception; loss of perspiration; hair loss; tearing/cracking of skin; numbness of skin; hardness/ roughness of skin.
स्वेदजः ( svedajaḥ )

Creatures generated by humidity
An insect species which thrives in a sweaty or humid environment e.g. flies, mosquitos, ants or worms.
स्वेदजननम् ( svedajananam )

Diaphoretic
Substance inducing perspiration.
स्वेदन ( svedana )

Fomentation
स्वेदन-अतियोगः ( svedana-atiyogaḥ )

Condition of excessive sudation
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: clinical features of pitta prakopa; syncope or swooning; flaccid body/exhaustion; thirst; burning sensation; weak voice; weakness; joint pains; appearance of blisters; clinical features of pitta and rakta prakopa; confusion/ dizzines; exhaustion without exertion; loss of voice; bodily exhaustion or tiredness/inability to perform physical activities; appearance of brownish red circular patches.
स्वेदन-अपचारः ( svedana-apacāraḥ )

Condition due to improper sudation
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: giddiness or dizziness; loss of physical strength or weakness; impairment of sense organs; dullness/ frigidity/inactivity; stiffness due to āma.
स्वेदन-अयोगः ( svedana-ayogaḥ )

Condition of subnormal sudation
स्वेदनकर्म (व्रणचिकित्सा) ( Svedanakarma (vraṇacikitsā)

Therapeutic fomentation for wound management
Application of a poultice to enhance the wound-healing process.
स्वेदनम् ( svedanam )

Sudation of mercury
स्वेदवहस्रोतोदुष्टिः ( svedavahasrotoduṣṭiḥ )

Vitiation of channels carrying sweat
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: complete lack of sweating. or excess sweating; dryness or excess stickiness of skin; burning sensation of limbs; horripilation.
स्वेदवृद्धिः ( svedavṛddhiḥ )

Morbid increase of sweat
A disorder characterized by bad skin odour; itching; increased perspiration.
स्वेदवैषम्यम् ( svedavaiṣamyam )

Derangement of sweat
स्वेदापनयनः ( svedāpanayanaḥ )

Anti-diaphoretic
Substance reducing perspiration.
हताधिमन्थः ( hatādhimanthaḥ )

Atrophic bulbi following acute congestive glaucoma
A disorder characterized by severe pain; sudden shrinking of eyeball; different types of pain; injury to the visual faculty; loss of vision.
हनुः ( hanuḥ )

Jaw, mandible
हनुग्रहः ( hanugrahaḥ )

Lockjaw; trismus
A disorder characterized by difficulty in chewing; difficulty in speaking; mouth remaining open; lack of pain; mouth remaining closed/trismus.
हनुसन्धिः ( hanusandhiḥ )

Temporo-mandibular joint
हन्वस्थि, हनुकास्थि ( Hanvasthi, hanukāsthi )

Mandible
हरितवर्गः ( haritavargaḥ )

Group of greens
The group of vegetables which should be consumed fresh such as salads, leafy vegetables and certain spices: Zingiber officinale Roscoe (ardraka), Raphanus sativus L. (mulaka), Mentha spicata L.(putiha), Coriandrum sativum L.(dhanyaka) or Allium cepa L. (palandu).
हरितालम् ( haritālam )

Orpiment, yellow arsenic
Arsenic trisulfide (As2S3). Duly processed haritalam is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
हरिद्रमेहः ( haridramehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with urine resembling turmeric water
A disorder characterized by passage of acrid urine; passage of turmeric-coloured urine; burning micturition.
हर्षः ( harṣaḥ )

Removal of foreign body by creating exhilaration
The removal of a loosely impacted foreign body by creating joy, happiness, cheer or exhilaration.
हलीमकः (लोढरः) ( halīmakaḥ (loḍharaḥ) )

Advanced stage of jaundice
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: green discoloration of the skin; yellowish discoloration of skin; bluish tinge to skin; blackish discoloration of skin; giddiness or dizziness; thirst; uninterested in sexual activity; mild fever; drowsiness/ lassitude; diminution of physical strength; diminution of agni; loss of vigour; generalized body aches; burning sensations; loss of taste.
हंसोदकम् ( haṃsodakam )

Water detoxified by exposure to the rays of sun and moon and Canopus star
Water purified by the rays of the sun and moon and detoxified by the effect of Canopus or “cleanser of waters” star (agastyanakṣatra) which is seen in autumn (sharad ṛtu).
हस्तः ( hastaḥ )

Cubit
Measure of length equal to the distance from the tip of the middle finger to the olecranon process or elbow: 18 inches or 45.72 cm.
हस्ततलम्, पाणितलम् ( hastatalam, pāṇitalam )

Palm
हस्ताग्रम् ( hastāgram )

Distal part of the hand
हस्तिमेहः ( hastimehaḥ )

Polyuria disorder with uncontrolled passage of urine; urinary incontinence
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: urinary incontinence; described as passing urine like an unrestrained elephant in rut; urine flow is weak and obstructed but continuous in nature; occurring without any voluntary effort from the patient; consistency of urine slimy as if mixed with lymph.
हिक्का (हिध्मा) ( hikkā (hidhmā) )

Hiccup
A disorder characterized by vayu repeatedly and forcefully brought out, accompanied by sound; feeling as if liver; spleen and intestines are being expelled through the mouth; making noise, and causing sudden death.
हिक्कानिग्रहणः ( hikkānigrahaṇaḥ )

Hiccup-relieving
हिक्काबस्तिव्यापत् ( hikkābastivyāpat )

Condition of hiccups due to faulty enema therapy
A condition characterized by hiccups.
हिक्कावेगरोधः ( hikkāvegarodhaḥ )

Disorder due to withholding of hiccups
हिङ्गुलम् ( hiṅgulam )

Cinnabar, red sulfide of mercury
Mercuric sulfide (HgS). Duly processed hingulam is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
हितम् ( hitam )

Salutary to health
Wholesome food, all activities such as a daily routine and medications which are conducive to health. Synonym of treatment.
हितायुः ( hitāyuḥ )

Salutary life
A mode of life that is advantageous for oneself and generally beneficial.
हिमकषायः, शीतकषायः, हिमः, शीतः ( himakaṣāyaḥ, śītakaṣāyaḥ,himaḥ,śītaḥ )

Cold infusion
हीनकर्णः ( hīnakarṇaḥ )

Lobuloplasty type 12
A type of lobuloplasty indicated when both flaps of the split earlobe are lacking a base and little musculature is present in or around the cheek.
हीनदग्ध-अर्शः ( hīnadagdha-arśaḥ )

Condition due to inadequate cautery of haemorrhoids
A condition characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: bluish-black colour; small wound; itching; impairment of vāta; impairment of sense organs; failure to resolve.
हीनमात्राहारः ( hīnamātrāhāraḥ )

Disorder due to insufficient or suboptimal food intake
A disorder characterized by some or all the following signs and symptoms: emaciation; insatiability; upward movement of vāta; death; impotence; lack of vigour/energy; affliction of body; affliction of manas/mind; affliction of buddhi/intellect; affliction of sense organs; loss of sāra; loss of wealth/beauty; eighty types of vāta diseases; constipation.
हीरकम्, वज्र ( hīrakam, vajra )

Diamond
Duly processed hiraka is employed as a stand-alone medicine or as an ingredient in the preparation of polyherbo-mineral pharmaceutical formulations.
हृत्प्राप्तिबस्तिव्यापत् ( hṛtprāptibastivyāpat )

Condition of discomfort A condition characterized by symptoms afflicting the heart. in precordial region due to faulty enema therapy
हृदयम्, अर्थः, क्रोडः, महत्, रसस्थानम् ( hṛdayam, arthaḥ,kroḍaḥ,mahat, rasasthānam )

Heart
हृदयस्थानम् ( hṛdayasthānam )

Cardiothoracic region
हृदयावरणम् (विषोपक्रमः) ( hṛdayāvaraṇam (viṣopakramaḥ)

Protection of heart from poison
Administering antipoison medications to protect the heart from toxic effects.
हृद्बस्तिः ( hṛdbastiḥ )

Therapeutic retention of oil over cardiac region
A procedure which involves holding medicated oil over the cardiac region for a specific duration.
हृद्यम् ( hṛdyam )

Substance enhancing health and functioning of the heart, mindpleasing
हृद्रोगः ( hṛdrogaḥ )

Heart disease
हॄदयोपसरणम्/ हॄदग्रहः-वमनव्यापत् ( hṝdayopasaraṇam/ hṝdagrahaḥvamanavyāpat )

Condition of tightness in precordial region, due to faulty emetic therapy
हॄदयोपसरणम्/ हॄदग्रहविरेचनव्यापत् ( hṝdayopasaraṇam/ hṝdagrahavirecanavyāpat )

Condition of migration to precordial region due to faulty purgative therapy
हॄद्रोगि वमनस्य व्यापदः ( hṝdrogi vamanasya vyapadaḥ )

Condition caused by emetic therapy administered to person with heart disease
हेतु ( hetu )

Cause or variable
A cause or reason; the immediate cause of an observable event; the pivotal element in the inferential process.
हेतुविपरीतः ( hetuviparītaḥ )

Antagonistic to etiology
The judicious use of medicines, regimens and dietetics that are antagonistic to the etiology of the disease or condition.
हेतुविपरीतचिकित्सा ( hetuviparītacikitsā )

Treatment antagonistic One of the threefold classifications of treatment antagonistic to to cause the cause.
हेतुविपरीतार्थकारी ( hetuviparītārthakārī )

Treatment with interventions similar to disease etiology
The judicious use of medicines, regimens and dietetics that are similar to the etiology of the disease or condition, but capable of providing relief.
हेतुव्याधिविपरीतः ( hetuvyādhiviparītaḥ )

Antagonistic to etiology and disease
The judicious use of medicines, regimens and dietetics that are antagonistic to both the etiology and disease itself.
हेतुव्याधिविपरीतार्थकारी ( hetuvyādhiviparītārthakārī )

Pro-causative factor and disease
हेतुव्याधिविपरीतार्थकारी ( hetuvyādhiviparītārthakārī )

Treatment with interventions similar to disease etiology as well as diseaseaggravating factors
The judicious use of medicines, regimens and dietetics that are similar to both the etiology and disease, but capable of providing relief.
हेत्वन्तरम् ( hetvantaram )

Proposing the wrong reason
Proposing a fallacious or irrelevant form of reasoning in a given context.
हेत्वर्थः ( hetvarthaḥ )

Extended reasoning
Extension or extrapolation of an argument or supportive reasoning from a different context.
हेत्वाभासः ( hetvābhāsaḥ )

False positive or false negative
A fallacious inference which renders the entire inferential process invalid.
हैमम् ( haimam )

Water derived from snow
Water formed when ice melts.
होमम् ( homam )

Oblations or offerings given through fire
A type of therapeutic ritual: treatment of a disease through the process of combusting various things as offerings to cure the ailment.
होलाकस्वेदः ( holākasvedaḥ )

Sweating induced by burning substances in a pot
A type of sudation therapy in which diaphoresis is achieved by lying down on or sitting over a bed placed above a specially designed pot which generates heat by burning dry substances such as cow dung.
ह्रस्वजाड्यम् ( hrasvajāḍyam )

Retinitis pigmentosa, central opacity of lens
A disorder characterized by seeing small objects with great difficulty during daytime; pupils appearing small.

अकर्मण्यः (akarmaṇyaḥ) : Loss of motor function
अकर्मशीलता (akarmaśīlatā) : Lack of interest to do any work
अकामतः छर्दि (akāmataḥ chardi) : Vomiting without specific reason
अकामा (akāmā) : Loss of Libido, Lack of interest in sex
अकारुण्यं (akāruṇyaṁ) : Mercilessness
अकाल मृत्यु (akāla mṛtyu) : Untimely death.
अकृत (akṛta) : The food articles without seasoning i.e. without addition of oil, mustard etc.
अकृतसंज्ञता (akṛtasaṁjñatā) : Feeling of urge even after defecation
अकृतसंज्ञता मूत्रे (akṛtasaṁjñatā mūtre) : Feeling of urge even after micturition
अकृत्रिम विष (akṛtrima viṣa) : Poison from natural source.
अकोपनं (akopanaṁ) : Habit of not getting angry
अक्रोधव्रतः (akrodhavrataḥ) : Habit of not getting angry
अक्षः (akṣaḥ) : Eye, Sense organs
अक्षः (akṣaḥ) : A unit of Measurement; & synonym of Fruit of beleric mayrobalan & Synonym of karsa= synonym of karsha equivalent to 12 g of metric units
अक्षः (akṣaḥ) : Clavicle - the collar bone that articulates with the sternum and the scapula.
अक्षकः (akṣakaḥ) : Clavicle - the collar bone that articulates with the sternum and the scapula.
अक्षकसन्धि (akṣakasandhi) : Sterno-clavicular joint - the joint formed between manubrium of the sternum and the medial end of clavicle.
अक्षमत्वं (akṣamatvaṁ) : Intolerance
अक्षाणि (akṣāṇi) : Special senses, perceptive faculties, receptors various sensory nerve endings
अक्षान्ति हितोपदेशेषु (akṣānti hitopadeśeṣu) : Intolerance to advices
अक्षि (akṣi) : Eye - the organ of vision
अक्षि गोलकम् (akṣi golakam) : Eye-ball - the globe of the eye.
अक्षि घर्षणं (akṣi gharṣaṇaṁ) : Sense of friction in the eye
अक्षि बन्धानि (akṣi bandhāni) : Eye lids - the movable protective fold that when closed cover the anterior surface of the eyeball.
अक्षि विशन्ति पक्ष्माणि (akṣi viśanti pakṣmāṇi) : Inward bending of eyelashes
अक्षि हुण्डनं (akṣi huṇḍanaṁ) : Intrusion of the eye
अक्षिकनीनिका (akṣikanīnikā) : Inner canthus, Medial angle of eye. The angle at medial side of the slit between the eyelids.
अक्षिकूट (akṣikūṭa) : Orbital or Ocular margin, Eye ball or oculas. Superciliary ridge. The bony pyramid-shaped cavity of the skull that contains and protects the eyeball.
अक्षिकोष (akṣikoṣa) : Eye lid - the movable protective fold that when closed cover the anterior surface of the eyeball.
अक्षितारका (akṣitārakā) : Iris -the colored contractile membrane suspended between the lens and the cornea in the aqueous humor of the eye
अक्षिपक्ष्माणि (akṣipakṣmāṇi) : Eye -lashes - stiff hair on the margin of the eyelid.
अक्षिपुट (akṣipuṭa) : Eye lid - the movable protective fold that when closed cover the anterior surface of the eyeball.
अक्षिमर्दन (akṣimardana) : Rubbing of the eye
अक्षिराजी (akṣirājī) : Appearance of lines in the eye because of conjunctival vessels.
अक्षिरोधः (akṣirodhaḥ) : Blurred vision
अक्षिवर्त्म (akṣivartma) : Eye lid - the movable protective fold that when closed cover the anterior surface of the eyeball.
अक्षिवर्त्मकोषः (akṣivartmakoṣaḥ) : Eye lid - the movable protective fold that when closed cover the anterior surface of the eyeball.
अक्षिवैराग्य (akṣivairāgya) : Loss of color of eyes.
अक्षिव्युदासः (akṣivyudāsaḥ) : Spasmodic movement of the eye
अक्षुत् (akṣut) : Loss of hunger
अक्ष्ण्यां रक्तं (akṣṇyāṁ raktaṁ) : Bleeding through eye
अक्ष्युपरोधः (akṣyuparodhaḥ) : Blurred vision
अगद (agada) : Antitoxic medication.
अगदानां हि संयोगो विषजुष्टस्य युज्यते (agadānāṁ hi saṁyogo viṣajuṣṭasya yujyate) : Agadas should be used only in cases of poisoning.
अंगार (aṁgāra) : smokeless red hot coal
अंगारवर्ण (aṁgāravarṇa) : property to be observed as an end point in case of Putapaka swarasa
अंगुलयः (aṁgulayaḥ) : Fingers. Toes(Digits)
अंगुलास्थि (aṁgulāsthi) : Phalanges -any one of the bones of toes or fingers
अंगुलिग्रन्थयः (aṁguligranthayaḥ) : Knuckles-digital nodes or joints- The prominence of the dorsal aspect of any of the phalangeal joints.
अंगुलिपर्वाणि (aṁguliparvāṇi) : (1) Digital nodes. (2) Inter nodal lengths of the digits
अंगुल्यग्रम् (aṁgulyagram) : Tip of the finger.
अंगुष्ठ (aṁguṣṭha) : Thumb. First toe
अंगुष्ठमुलम् (aṁguṣṭhamulam) : First metacarpal - Root of the thumb. Outer end of the wrist in front.
अंगुष्ठोदरम् (aṁguṣṭhodaram) : length of the thumb, above the distal crease, area where thumb impression is taken
अग्नि (agni) : 1. Fire, the phenomenon of combustion manifested in light, flame, and heat 2. One of the five basic elements (Paṅcamahābhūtas) that make up all matter in the universe. 3. All factors responsible for digestion and metabolism / transformation. This is of three classes
अग्नि उपहति (agni upahati) : Loss of digestive power
अग्नि कर्म (agni karma) : Cauterization
अग्नि बलनाशं (agni balanāśaṁ) : Loss of digestive power
अग्नि विरुद्ध (agni viruddha) : Intake of heavy food when the power of digestion is mild (mandagni)
अग्निकृशता (agnikṛśatā) : Loss of digestive power
अग्निक्षयं (agnikṣayaṁ) : Loss of digestive power
अग्निक्षाम (agnikṣāma) : Loss of digestive power
अग्निदग्धनिभं (agnidagdhanibhaṁ) : - Color of burnt scar
अग्निदौर्बल्यम् (agnidaurbalyam) : Loss of digestive power
अग्निनाशं (agnināśaṁ) : Loss of digestive power
अग्निनिभं दिक् (agninibhaṁ dik) : Sees fire like objects in all directions darśanaṁ
अग्निपरिक्षीणं (agniparikṣīṇaṁ) : Loss of digestive power
अग्निप्रनष्टं (agnipranaṣṭaṁ) : Loss of digestive power
अग्निभ्रंश (agnibhraṁśa) : Loss of digestive power
अग्निमान्द्य (agnimāndya) : Lack of digestive power
अग्निमार्दव (agnimārdava) : Lack of digestive power
अग्निलापहरं (agnilāpaharaṁ) : Loss of digestive power
अग्निवध (agnivadha) : Loss of digestive power
अग्निवैषम्य (agnivaiṣamya) : Improper digestive power
अग्निसदन (agnisadana) : Impairment of digestive power
अग्निसन्निकर्ष (agnisannikarṣa) : Modulation of properties of food articles by cooking process. Here the raw food articles made to come in contact with fire directly or indirectly.
अग्निसाद (agnisāda) : Lack of digestive power
अग्निसिद्धं (agnisiddhaṁ) : Processed by heating
अग्निस्थानं (agnisthānaṁ) : Duodenum - Place of complete digestion, small intestine. The alimentary canal extending form duodenum to ileum.
अग्निहानि (agnihāni) : Loss of digestive power
अग्निहोत्रं (agnihotraṁ) : A vedic ritual in which an oblation is offered particularly to agni, The god of Fire
अग्नौ प्रक्षिप्तं चिटचिटायत् इन्द्रधनुर्वणं वा (agnau prakṣiptaṁ ciṭaciṭāyat indradhanurvaṇaṁ vā) : In cases of poisoning, a piece taken from the heart and thrown in fire produces a crackling sound and becomes rainbow colored, he should hold that as poisoned.
अग्न्याधिष्ठान (agnyādhiṣṭhāna) : Gastro-intestinal place of digestion
अग्न्याशयः (agnyāśayaḥ) : Pancreas - A compound acinotubular gland situated behind the stomach in front of the first and second lumbar vertebrae in horizontal position.
अग्रनासिका (agranāsikā) : tip of the nose
अग्रपर्व (agraparva) : Distal part of the finger.
अग्लानिः (aglāniḥ) : slight peace
अघ्रष्य (aghraṣya) : Shyness or does not tolerate with abusing words.
अघ्राणं (aghrāṇaṁ) : Anosmia or Absence of the sense of smell
अङ्कुरः (aṅkuraḥ) : Polypus or A small vascular growth on the surface of a mucous membrane
अङ्कुशिकः (aṅkuśikaḥ) : Pain resembling with the pulling by a hook
अङ्ग (aṅga) : (1) Body. (2) Part of the body. (3) Organ. (4) the physical part of man as distinguished from mind spirit, A part of the body having special function
अङ्गगन्धं (aṅgagandhaṁ) : Indistinct bad smell of body
अङ्गग्रह (aṅgagraha) : Pressing pain or restricted movement of the body
अङ्गग्लानि (aṅgaglāni) : Exhaustion
अङ्गचिमिचिमा (aṅgacimicimā) : Tingling sensation.
अङ्गजम् (aṅgajam) : Hair
अङ्गप्रग्रह (aṅgapragraha) : Pressing pain or restricted movement of the body
अङ्गप्रदेश (aṅgapradeśa) : different spots or areas of the body
अङ्गभंग (aṅgabhaṁga) : Loss of power of limbs.
अङ्गमर्द (aṅgamarda) : Pressing pain
अङ्गमर्दप्रशमन (aṅgamardapraśamana) : Anti-malaise; substances relieving malaise & body ache;
अङ्गशूल (aṅgaśūla) : Stabbing pain
अङ्गहर्ष (aṅgaharṣa) : Horrification
अङ्गावमर्द (aṅgāvamarda) : Pressing pain on body
अङ्गावसादनं (aṅgāvasādanaṁ) : Exhaustion
अङ्गि (aṅgi) : Foot
अचिन्ता स्वधर्मेषु (acintā svadharmeṣu) : Indifference towards own routine work
अचिन्तितारम्भ (acintitārambha) : Initiation without thinking
अचिन्त्यवीर्य (acintyavīrya) : Of inconceivable potency
अचिरः (aciraḥ) : Speedy
अचेतनं (acetanaṁ) : Loss of tactile sensation.
अचेतन द्रव्य (acetana dravya) : Non-living; inanimate substances lacking consciousness, e.g. minerals
अचेता (acetā) : Loss of consciousness
अच्छं (acchaṁ) : Clear.
अजगरः (ajagaraḥ) : Snakes of boaede family.
अजरकं (ajarakaṁ) : Indigestion
अजल्पन (ajalpana) : During meal one should indulge in talking which may lead to passage of food in to wrong tract.
अजस्रं (ajasraṁ) : Continuous
अजिघ्रत्वं (ajighratvaṁ) : Anosmia or absence of the Sense of smell
अजीर्ण (ajīrṇa) : Indigestion
अज्ञान (ajñāna) : Ignorance, Illusion
अञ्जन (añjana) : It’s a process of anointing, smearing, mixing, collyrium or black pigment used to paint the root of eye lashes. Anointment is done with a stick or pencil called as añjana shalaka. There are two types of añjana which are used by healthy individuals, one is Savira añjana should be applied to eyes daily and other is Rasanjana which is applied once in every five or eight days for stimulating secretion.
अञ्जनत्रितय (añjanatritaya) : Three Metallic sulphides; Kalanjan, Pushpanjan, Rasanjan.
अञ्जनाभं (añjanābhaṁ) : Color of collyrium.
अञ्जलि (añjali) : Indicating measure Synonym of one kudava=192 g of metric units
अञ्जलि (añjali) : A measure sufficient to fill both hands when placed side by side
अटनं (aṭanaṁ) : Wandering
अणिमा (aṇimā) : T he power of becoming extremely minute; one of the supra normal psychic power derivable from the practice of Yoga.
अणुद्वार (aṇudvāra) : Tiny or narrow opening
अणुबहुविदारित (aṇubahuvidārita) : Multiple fracture with tiny bone pieces
अणुमार्ग (aṇumārga) : Narrow pathways
अणुमुखच्छिद्र (aṇumukhacchidra) : Tiny openings faced towards internal
अण्डकोषः (aṇḍakoṣaḥ) : Scrotam - the double pouch of the male which contains the testicles and part of the spermatic cord found in most mammals.
अण्डज (aṇḍaja) : living beings originated from eggs
अण्वस्थीनि (aṇvasthīni) : Short bones.
अतसी कुसुमच्छवि (atasī kusumacchavi) : Color of linseed flower
अतसी गन्धं (atasī gandhaṁ) : Smell of Linseed
अतसी फल सन्निभं (atasī phala sannibhaṁ) : Resembles of Linseed
अति (ati) : Excessive or Hyperactive
अति तीक्ष्ण पुरिषं (ati tīkṣṇa puriṣaṁ) : Stool with excessive pungent smell
अतिकृश (atikṛśa) : Too emaciated- Hyperactivity of thyroid causes wasting of muscles and develops wasting.
अतिक्रान्तता (atikrāntatā) : Dislocation
अतिगौर (atigaura) : Being too fair or whitish skin.
अतिग्रथितं (atigrathitaṁ) : Excessive nodular or Hard
अतिदग्धं (atidagdhaṁ) : Excessive burns during cauterization.
अतिदीर्घ (atidīrgha) : Gigantism is one among the eight undesirable conditions, in this condition person become abnormally healthy and gain excessive height. He also become impotent and cannot resist disease. Gigantism – associated with the disturbance in the anterior pituitary which produce gigantism.
अतिदेशः (atideśaḥ) : such statements of the author permitting incorporation of useful knowledge from elsewhere not described by him
अतिनिद्रा (atinidrā) : Excessive sleep
अतिप्रवृत्ति (atipravṛtti) : Hyperactive
अतिप्रसक्तं (atiprasaktaṁ) : Continuous
अतिप्रादुर्भावं (atiprādurbhāvaṁ) : Hyperactive
अतिबद्धं (atibaddhaṁ) : More obstructive
अतिमहान (atimahāna) : Hyperactive
अतिमात्रं (atimātraṁ) : Excess
अतिमानुषं (atimānuṣaṁ) : Unprecedent or Super power
अतियोगः (atiyogaḥ) : Extreme contact of sense organ with their respective objects and time
अतिलोम (atiloma) : Excessive hairs/ hirrsutism- excessive hair over the body associated with dysfunction of the pituitary, adrenal cortex and gonads, also indicates the abnormalities like PCOD, PCOS etc.
अतिवर्तनं (ativartanaṁ) : Hyperactive, Hard
अतिवाहिक शरीर (ativāhika śarīra) : the subtle body which consist of manas, indriya and atma , devoid of gross body
अतिविरेचनं (ativirecanaṁ) : Hyperactive
अतिविसर्ग (ativisarga) : Hyperactive
अतिवृत्तं (ativṛttaṁ) : Hyperactive
अतिवेगं (ativegaṁ) : Hyperactive
अतिसारः (atisāraḥ) : Diarrhea
अतिसृष्टं (atisṛṣṭaṁ) : Hyperactive
अतिस्थूल (atisthūla) : Overweight; Obese
अतिह्रस्वं (atihrasvaṁ) : Dwarfism is one among the eight undesirable conditions, in this condition person become abnormally healthy and become dwarf. Dwarfism- is associated with disturbance in the pituitary. In this condition such as frolich’s syndrome and Cushing syndrome such dwarf constitution is produced.
अतीतकालम् (atītakālam) : When the matter which actually to be said earlier but is said later, and because of delayed presentation become unacceptable
अतीतावेक्षणं (atītāvekṣaṇaṁ) : methods of referring back to the earlier portion of the book for information on a particular subject without which the present topic cannot be understood properly
अतीव उत्सर्ग (atīva utsarga) : Hyperactive
अतृप्तिकरं (atṛptikaraṁ) : Unsatisfied, Insatiability
अत्यन्ताभाव (atyantābhāva) : absolute non-existence
अत्यन्ते लघ्वल्पा भोजनैः अपि (atyante laghvalpā bhojanaiḥ api) : Fullness of abdomen even taking less food.
अत्यर्थं (atyarthaṁ) : Excessive
अत्यर्थशङ्कितः (atyarthaśaṅkitaḥ) : Paranoid.
अत्याग्नि (atyāgni) : Excessive digestive power
अत्यात्म वाक् (atyātma vāk) : Speaks more than his natural capacity
अथर्वाण (atharvāṇa) : Men, learned in the lore of the Atharva Veda.
अदर्शनं (adarśanaṁ) : Loss of vision
अदृढसौहृदः (adṛḍhasauhṛdaḥ) : Unsteady in friendship
अदृश्य (adṛśya) : Invisible / unperceivable
अदृष्टम् (adṛṣṭam) : The invisible result of works done in former states of embodied existence; unseen consequences of an act.
अदृष्टि (adṛṣṭi) : Blurred vision
अधः कायः (adhaḥ kāyaḥ) : (1) Part of body below the waist. (2) part of body below the head
अधः शयन (adhaḥ śayana) : Inclination to lie always on prone position
अधः स्रोतः (adhaḥ srotaḥ) : anal or urethral passage
अधःपातन (adhaḥpātana) : a process in which material especially mercury is displaced Downwards
अधरः (adharaḥ) : (1) Lower lip. (2) Lower or inferior in position. Soft external structure that forms the boundary of the mouth.
अधरगुदं (adharagudaṁ) : Rectum & anal canal - (1) Lower part of the rectum. (2) Anus
अधरमार्गः (adharamārgaḥ) : anal or urethral passage
अधरोष्ठ (adharoṣṭha) : Lower lip or Labium. Lower half of soft external structure that forms the boundary of the mouth.
अधस्तात् स्त्रिया सिराश्चोत्तिष्ठन्ति ललाटे (adhastāt striyā sirāścottiṣṭhanti lalāṭe) : A bite by a female serpent exhibits such symptoms as downcast eyes and appearance of veins on the forehead of the victim.
अधारणीय वेग (adhāraṇīya vega) : Non- suppressible urges-Suppression of natural urges which may end up with acute and chronic diseases. Natural urges are viz urge of flatus,faeces,urine,yawning,tears,eruction,vomiting,semen,hunger,thir st,dyspnoea sleep.
अधिकमात्रावत् आहार (adhikamātrāvat āhāra) : Food intake which is more than required quantity. It depends upon the individual capacity. Excessive intake of food end up in gastro-intestinal disorders, like indigestion, abdominal colic, heaviness of abdomen etc.
अधिकरण (adhikaraṇa) : Seat of drug action.
अधिकरणम् (adhikaraṇam) : the main theme on which the entire science is build; or context of elucidation or discussion
अधिकाङ्गदर्शन (adhikāṅgadarśana) : Seeing body parts in excessive
अधिक्षिप्त (adhikṣipta) : Displacement
अधिजिह्विका (adhijihvikā) : 1. Epiglottis- A thin leaf shaped structure located immediately posterior to root of the tongue. 2. (Adenoids)-a mass of lymphatic tissue located in depressions of mucous membranes of pharynx.
अधिदन्त (adhidanta) : Excessive growth of teeth
अधिमांस (adhimāṁsa) : Fleshy growth
अधिरोहणरति (adhirohaṇarati) : Fond of climbing on heap of stones etc.
अधिष्ठानम् (adhiṣṭhānam) : seat (of poison)
अधिष्ठानम् (adhiṣṭhānam) : Substratum or place of action
अधीरता (adhīratā) : Lack of retaining capacity
अधृति (adhṛti) : Lack of retaining capacity, Cowardliness
अधो भागं तुमूलजम् (adho bhāgaṁ tumūlajam) : Gangadhar commentary on charak samhita says the tendency of poisons of plant origin is to move downwards in the body.
अधोगुरुत्व नाभेः (adhogurutva nābheḥ) : Heaviness below the umbilicus.
अधोदर्शन (adhodarśana) : Looking downwards
अधोभक्त (adhobhakta) : Administration of oral medication immediately after taking food. Such administration of medicine is advised for strengthening the body and to make person stout.
अधोभागः (adhobhāgaḥ) : lower abdomen -Lower part of the portion of the trunk located between chest and pelvis
अधोमुखी (adhomukhī) : keeping mouth of the vessel downwards/Upside down
अधोवक्त्रः (adhovaktraḥ) : Drooping of head, symptom of a rabid dog.
अधोवदनशयन (adhovadanaśayana) : Inclination to lie always on prone position
अध्यशन (adhyaśana) : Taking food over and again the previous meal (before it digested) which may end up with metabolic disorders.
अध्यस्थि (adhyasthi) : Hypertrophy of bone
अध्यात्मिक कर्म (adhyātmika karma) : Different virtuous activities like scarifying etc are included here. Bhagavat gita a holy book of Hindu describes that type of karma as act of scarify, gift and austerity or penance should not be relinquished but should be performed. Scarify gift and austerity purifies the intelligence.
अंध्रण (aṁdhraṇa) : Sealing / cementing all joints etc using specified materials to make air-tight
अनति तीक्ष्ण पुरीषं (anati tīkṣṇa purīṣaṁ) : Stool with slight pungent smell
अनतिविकृतवीभत्सचेष्टा (anativikṛtavībhatsaceṣṭā) : Slight loathsome activity
अननुबन्धन (ananubandhana) : Obstruction
अननुयोज्यम् (ananuyojyam) : The statement which does not leave any scope of question
अनभिकांक्षा (anabhikāṁkṣā) : Lack of desire
अनभिनन्दन (anabhinandana) : Lack of desire
अनभिलाष (anabhilāṣa) : Lack of desire
अनल द्वेष (anala dveṣa) : Aversion to fire (Pyrophobia)
अनलप्रभ दृष्टिमण्डल (analaprabha dṛṣṭimaṇḍala) : The color of pupil become glowing fire
अनलव्याप्तलोकदर्शन (analavyāptalokadarśana) : Sees surrounding objects in fire
अनलेक्षणः (analekṣaṇaḥ) : Fiery, dreadful eyes.
अनल्पं (analpaṁ) : Excessive
अनवस्थितरूपदर्शन (anavasthitarūpadarśana) : Objects look as unstable
अनागत (anāgata) : Partially manifestation or no manifestation of the diseases. Diseases may be communicable or non-communicable or lifestyle related.
अनागतवेक्षणम (anāgatavekṣaṇama) : the statement that points to prospective reference
अनागताबाद प्रतिषेद (anāgatābāda pratiṣeda) : Prevention of partially or not manifested diseases. This preventive measure are applied by following the Dincharya, Ritucharya, etc
अनादि (anādi) : a process or state whose beginning cannot be ascertained
अनामिका (anāmikā) : 4th or ring finger. Annularis
अनार्तवं (anārtavaṁ) : Loss of menstruation
अनालक्ष्यगन्ध (anālakṣyagandha) : Insignificant smell
अनाविलं (anāvilaṁ) : Turbid less
अनित्य (anitya) : Non eternal or Transient.
अनिद्रता (anidratā) : Diminished or loss of sleep
अनिद्रा (anidrā) : Sleeplessness, disturbed sleep
अनिमिषचक्षु (animiṣacakṣu) : Widely opened eye
अनिमिषाक्षः (animiṣākṣaḥ) : Widely opened eye
अनियतानां गिरा (aniyatānāṁ girā) : Incoherent speech
अनिर्देश्यरस (anirdeśyarasa) : Unidentifiable taste.
अनिल इच्छा (anila icchā) : Fond of sitting in wind
अनिलद्वेष (aniladveṣa) : Aversion to sit in wind
अनिलवत् (anilavat) : With flatus
अनिलायनानि (anilāyanāni) : Air passages.
अनिस्सरण (anissaraṇa) : Retention
अनीशता (anīśatā) : Loss of power
अनीश्वरः (anīśvaraḥ) : Intolerance
अनुकार स्वर (anukāra svara) : Imitation of other's speech.
अनुग्रह (anugraha) : A Favor, kindness, obligation, Assistance
अनुपदेहः (anupadehaḥ) : Lack of mucus
अनुपान (anupāna) : Any liquid which is taken soon after food. Drink should have properties opposite to that of food, but should not be incompatible with the particular food. It helps in easy movement, digestion and assimilation of the food particles.
अनुबद्ध (anubaddha) : Continuous
अनुबद्धरुक् (anubaddharuk) : Continuous pain
अनुबन्ध (anubandha) : 1. One of the synonym of life span 2.Receive or subordinate disease 3. continuity of result
अनुभूत स्वप्न (anubhūta svapna) : Dream based on the previous experiences
अनुमतः (anumataḥ) : statements of agreement with the opinion of others
अनुमानम् (anumānam) : the process through which the knowledge of the unseen facts is inferred on the basis of direct observation
अनुमिति (anumiti) : conclusion from given premises
अनुयोगः (anuyogaḥ) : enquire something relating to a scripture or a part, a question or a part with a view to testing the knowledge, power of comprehension and expression and capacity to reply to the later
अनुयोग इच्छा (anuyoga icchā) : Found of questioning others
अनुयोज्यम् (anuyojyam) : The statement which is beset with defects of speech and which requires clarification.
अनुरस (anurasa) : Rasa(Taste) of a substance which is perceived towards the end or with less intensity or which is latent;
अनुलेपन (anulepana) : Applying cosmetics, Coating
अनुलेपन (anulepana) : Mode of administration of poison through an ointment.
अनुलोमनं (anulomanaṁ) : Substances which restores & facilitates the physiological direction of various flows within the body like flatus and stool.
अनुवासन द्रव्य (anuvāsana dravya) : substances having unctuous property used in BASTI ;
अनुवासनोपग (anuvāsanopaga) : substances which are helpful to induce ANUVASANA BASTI ;
अनुष्णं (anuṣṇaṁ) : Lukewarm
अनूप (anūpa) : marshy lands
अनेकवर्ण (anekavarṇa) : Multiple color
अनेकान्तः (anekāntaḥ) : statements which are not absolute or conclusive and vary from context to context
अनेकान्तवाद (anekāntavāda) : concepts in which invariable causes are given for one effect
अनौजस्य (anaujasya) : Loss of enthusiasm
अन्तः करण (antaḥ karaṇa) : internal means of acquiring knowledge which includes manas, buddhi, indriya, ahankara
अन्तःकुक्षि (antaḥkukṣi) : Abdominal or uterine cavity. 1. Cavity of the portion of the trunk located between chest and pelvis, 2. Cavity within the muscular hollow pear shaped structure of female reproductive system.
अन्तःपुष्पम् (antaḥpuṣpam) : Ovum -the female reproductive or germ cell capable of developing into a new organism of same species.
अन्तप्रवेश (antapraveśa) : Indrawing
अन्तर भक्त (antara bhakta) : Administration of medicine in the mid day after the morning food has been digested, similarly taking afternoon medicine after the mid day meal has been digested is known as Antara bhakta. This method is useful in person who has good digestive capacity.
अन्तराधिः (antarādhiḥ) : Trunk - the body exclusive of head and limbs.
अन्तरिक्ष जल (antarikṣa jala) : Antariksha is intermediate sphere between earth and sky. Water which is originated from clouds between intermediate spheres is Rain water.
अन्तर्गलस्वर (antargalasvara) : Muffled sound
अन्तर्बहिर्विभागः (antarbahirvibhāgaḥ) : medial (internal) lateral (inward or external)
अन्तर्मुखत्वं रोम्णां (antarmukhatvaṁ romṇāṁ) : Inward bending of eyelashes
अन्तर्मुखस्रोतांसि (antarmukhasrotāṁsi) : internal channels - Internal tracts, channels, tubes, ducts
अन्तश्चेतन (antaścetana) : living beings having internal consciousness i.e. their consciousness is not externally manifested; e.g. plants
अन्तौ (antau) : Canthi, outer and inner angels of the eye. The angle at either side of the slit between the eyelids.
अन्त्राशयः (antrāśayaḥ) : Lumen of Intestine -cavity of the alimentary canal extending from the pylorus to the anus.
अन्धमूषा (andhamūṣā) : it is a type of crucible where mouth is closed/ sealed
अन्धाहिक (andhāhika) : Blind snake (non poisonous)
अन्नपान (annapāna) : Mode of administration of poison through beverages.
अन्नपीडितपुरीषं (annapīḍitapurīṣaṁ) : Stool mixed with food articles
अन्नप्रक्रिया (annaprakriyā) : A process of making food/cooking rice
अन्नप्रद्वेष (annapradveṣa) : Aversion to food
अन्नमद (annamada) : Dissatisfaction in food
अन्नमार्गः (annamārgaḥ) : Gullet, Esophagus. A muscular canal extending from the pharynx to the stomach.
अन्नमार्गरोध (annamārgarodha) : Obstruction to the path of food
अन्नरसखेद (annarasakheda) : Lack of interest to take food
अन्नविकृति द्वेष (annavikṛti dveṣa) : Aversion to the derivatives of food
अन्नविद्वेष (annavidveṣa) : Aversion to food
अन्नसम्पुट (annasampuṭa) : Stomach. A dilated sac like distensible portion of alimentary canal between the esophagus and the duodenum.
अन्नावरोध (annāvarodha) : Obstruction to food
अन्नाशयः (annāśayaḥ) : Gastro-intestinal tract pertaining to the stomach
अन्नाश्रद्धा (annāśraddhā) : Dislike to take food
अन्यनेयौ पाद (anyaneyau pāda) : Feels as pulling by others, Feels as others
अन्येन इव (anyena iva) : Feels as others
अन्योन्याभाव (anyonyābhāva) : mutual non-existence
अपकर्तनं (apakartanaṁ) : Cutting pain
अपकर्षणं (apakarṣaṇaṁ) : Stretching pain
अपक्ति शक्ति (apakti śakti) : Loss of digestive power or Indigestion
अपगमनं (apagamanaṁ) : Falling
अपगमस्मृति (apagamasmṛti) : Loss of memory
अपचय (apacaya) : Emaciation
अपतर्पन (apatarpana) : Under - nutrition-Regimen which leads to emaciation of the body, viz purification measures (Purgative , emesis, bloodletting and decoction enema treatments),fasting, basking, excessive exercise and even by taking negative calorie food. It is contrast to over-nutrition(Santarpana).
अपत्यपथः (apatyapathaḥ) : Vagina. Genital passage. A musculo membranous tube that forms the passage way between cervix uteri and the vulva.
अपत्यमार्गः (apatyamārgaḥ) : Vagina. Genital passage. A musculo membranous tube that forms the passage way between cervix uteri and the vulva.
अपथ्य (apathya) : Food and behaviors which are not conducive or not wholesome to body and mind is called as apathy. Contrast to Pathya.
अपदेशः (apadeśaḥ) : statements which point out the definite cause for an effect and that such a cause as indispensable
अपध्वंसन (apadhvaṁsana) : Falling
अपरत्व (aparatva) : Inferior Quality; one among 10 Paradi gunas;
अपरा (aparā) : Placenta - The oval or discoid spongy structure in the uterus through which the fetus derives its nourishment.
अपवर्गः (apavargaḥ) : Statements which indicate or include an exception to a general rule.
अपवर्गः (apavargaḥ) : Final beatitude, the final deliverance of the soul from bondage of matter
अपवर्तनं (apavartanaṁ) : Twisting
अपश्यन् (apaśyan) : Does not look forwards or Introvert
अपसरण (apasaraṇa) : Protrusion
अपसव्यपरिधान (apasavyaparidhāna) : Upper garment worn in a fashion so as fall on his left arm.
अपहरण (apaharaṇa) : Wasting with discoloration
अपाक (apāka) : Indigestion
अपाङ्गः (apāṅgaḥ) : Outer Canthus. The angle at lateral side of the slit between the eyelids.
अपाङ्गपुत्रिका (apāṅgaputrikā) : Tragus - cartilagenous portion in front of external meatus of the ear.
अपाङ्गसन्धि (apāṅgasandhi) : Outer junction of the eye lids. The angle at lateral side of the slit between the eyelids.
अपानः (apānaḥ) : Rectum
अपास्तबुद्धि (apāstabuddhi) : Loss of intelligence
अपास्तसंज्ञा (apāstasaṁjñā) : Unconsciousness
अपास्तस्मृति (apāstasmṛti) : Loss of memory
अपिच्छिलं (apicchilaṁ) : Rough
अपुनर्भव (apunarbhava) : One of the bhasma test -the bhasma shouldn’t reverse to its original elemental state when heated with prescribed material
अपुरीषं पुरीषं (apurīṣaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Watery stool
अपूर्वध्वनि (apūrvadhvani) : Unprecedented sound
अपृथकभाव (apṛthakabhāva) : Inseparable relationship
अपौरुष (apauruṣa) : More than one's natural capacity
अप्चर (apcara) : Animals which have made water as primary habitat or animals which resides in water comes under apacara category, it Includes those which swim about in water. Exp- Swan, Pheasant, Crane, Kingfisher etc.
अप्रतिसञ्चार (apratisañcāra) : Retention
अप्रतिहन्य वाणी (apratihanya vāṇī) : Speaking continuously
अप्रधृष्यं (apradhṛṣyaṁ) : Invincible or cannot be defeated
अप्रवर्तनं (apravartanaṁ) : Retention
अप्रवृत्तिः (apravṛttiḥ) : Retention
अप्रशान्त (apraśānta) : Agitated.
अप्रसन्नदर्शन (aprasannadarśana) : Unpleasant look
अप्रसाद इन्द्रिय (aprasāda indriya) : Weakness of sense organs
अप्रसिद्धि (aprasiddhi) : Loss of activities
अप्रहर्ष (apraharṣa) : Loss of Libido, Lack of interest in sex
अप्रीति (aprīti) : Dislike or aversion
अप्सु अवसीदति (apsu avasīdati) : Sinking in water.
अप्सु उपप्लवति (apsu upaplavati) : Floating in water
अप्सु निमज्जति (apsu nimajjati) : Sinking in water.
अप्सु प्लवति (apsu plavati) : Floating in water
अप्सु मज्जति (apsu majjati) : Sinking in water.
अप्सु मज्जति (apsu majjati) : one of the test of avaleha or gudapaka indicating relative density
अबद्धवाक् (abaddhavāk) : Incoherent speech
अबलत्व (abalatva) : Loss of physical strength.
अबहलं (abahalaṁ) : Thinness
अंबु (aṁbu) : Water, the watery element of the body
अबुद्धित्व (abuddhitva) : Lack of intelligence
अबुभुक्षा (abubhukṣā) : Loss of Appetite
अभक्तच्छन्द (abhaktacchanda) : Lack of interest to take food.
अभक्तरुक् (abhaktaruk) : Loss of appetite
अभिकाङ्क्षा (abhikāṅkṣā) : Desire
अभिकाम (abhikāma) : Desire
अभिक्ष्ण (abhikṣṇa) : Frequently
अभिताप (abhitāpa) : Heat
अभिद्रवण (abhidravaṇa) : Harass, trouble and annoy others continually or repeatedly.
अभिधा (abhidhā) : literal power of a word
अभिध्या (abhidhyā) : having a desire to get other’s wealth
अभिनन्दन (abhinandana) : Desire, Fond of
अभिनिवेश (abhiniveśa) : Desire, Found of
अभिनिस्सरण (abhinissaraṇa) : Excessive
अभिप्रायता (abhiprāyatā) : Desire, Fond of
अभिप्रेत (abhipreta) : Aimed at, intended, desired, to have in mind as a purpose, wished
अभिमान (abhimāna) : Pride (in a good sense), the quality or state of being proud, Self- respect
अभिरत (abhirata) : Desire, Fond of
अभिलाष (abhilāṣa) : Desire, Fond of
अभिवृद्धि (abhivṛddhi) : Enlargement
अभिवोढा (abhivoḍhā) : One that carries or transports
अभिषङ्ग (abhiṣaṅga) : Desire, Fond of
अभिष्यन्द (abhiṣyanda) : Discharge
अभिष्यन्दि (abhiṣyandi) : substances which cause obstruction to srotas and are slimy & heavy in nature; e.g. Curd
अभिहनन (abhihanana) : Harass, trouble and annoy others continually or repeatedly.
अभुभुक्षा (abhubhukṣā) : Loss of appetite.
अभूतदर्शन (abhūtadarśana) : Sight of non-existing things
अभेषजम् (abheṣajam) : Drugs having adverse effects
अभोजन (abhojana) : Loss of appetite
अभोजनाभिलाषी (abhojanābhilāṣī) : Loss of appetite
अभ्यङ्ग (abhyaṅga) : Manually manipulating technique in which oil is applied over various part of body to get desired effect. It’s a part of daily regimen which is adopted for preservation and promotion of health. It includes massage over the head (shiro abhyamga), massage over feet (pāda abhyamga) & oiling of ears (Karna Purana).
अभ्यञ्जन (abhyañjana) : external oleation; causing unctuousness
अभ्यनुज्ञा (abhyanujñā) : accepting the allegations made by the opponent and charging opponent with the same allegation
अभ्यन्तरत सङ्कोच (abhyantarata saṅkoca) : In drawing towards centre
अभ्यन्तरायातनेत्र (abhyantarāyātanetra) : Sunken eye.
अभ्यर्दित (abhyardita) : Painful
अभ्यवपातः (abhyavapātaḥ) : wrong identification
अभ्यवहरण शक्ति (abhyavaharaṇa śakti) : Power of ingestion - Capacity of food intake. Quantity of the food which does not disturb the physiological function of an individual. This cannot be generalized. It always differs from person to person and time to time, it directly depends on the digestive fire, taste of the prepared food and present psychological status.
अभ्यास (abhyāsa) : repetitive or habitual use
अभ्युन्नत (abhyunnata) : Elevated
अभ्रदर्शन (abhradarśana) : Sight of cloud before eyes
अभ्रसंप्लवं व्यभ्रे दर्शन (abhrasaṁplavaṁ vyabhre darśana) : Sight of un-existed moving clouds
अमनोज्ञगन्ध (amanojñagandha) : Unpleasant smell
अमनोज्ञदर्शन (amanojñadarśana) : Unpleasant appearance
अमरा (amarā) : Placenta
अमर्त्य (amartya) : More than one's natural capacity, Imperishable, Immortal
अमर्ष (amarṣa) : Intolerance
अमलं (amalaṁ) : Clear
अमात्रावत् आहार (amātrāvat āhāra) : Taking inappropriate quantity of food is of two types - deficient and excessive. Food in deficient quantity is said to be causing loss of strength, complexion & development, unsaturation, upward movement of vayu, harms the lifespan, virility, immunity etc food in excessive vitiating all dosa's. fainting, giddiness, irregularity of digestion, stiffness of flanks etc.
अमानुष (amānuṣa) : Unprecedented, Unmaly or Super power
अमृत (amṛta) : Ambrosia
अमृतीकरण (amṛtīkaraṇa) : A process adopted for the removal of remnant impurities/ toxicity
अम्बर (ambara) : Synonym of mica, agnijar and also denotes cloth
अम्बरपीयुष (ambarapīyuṣa) : A nectar-like vital entity present in the atmosphere, indicative of oxygen
अम्बु इच्छा (ambu icchā) : Desire for drinking water
अम्बुतुल्यं (ambutulyaṁ) : Resembling water
अम्बुदेन्द्रधनुस (ambudendradhanusa) : Colors like that of rain bow – fire - property of diamond
अम्बुमार्गाः (ambumārgāḥ) : Paths of circulating fluid.
अम्बुवाहीनि स्रोतांसि (ambuvāhīni srotāṁsi) : Tubes for fluid circulation.
अम्बुसम्भवम् (ambusambhavam) : Poison having its origin from jala mahabhoota.
अम्भोनिभ (ambhonibha) : Color of cloud
अम्ल (amla) : Sour; One among six Rasa;
अम्ल (amla) : Acids- medium used for various processes including purification etc
अम्ल इच्छा (amla icchā) : Fond of sour taste
अम्ल गन्ध (amla gandha) : Sour smell
अम्ल पञ्चक (amla pañcaka) : Combination of following five sour plants viz., Amlavetas (Garcinia pedunculata), Jambeer (Citrus limon), Matulunga (Citrus medica), Narang (Citrus reticulata), Nimbuk (Citrus aurantifolia).
अम्ल रस (amla rasa) : Sour taste, having the acid taste
अम्ल स्कन्ध (amla skandha) : Group of sour substances;
अम्लभक्षणाक्षम (amlabhakṣaṇākṣama) : Intolerance to sour taste
अम्लरसता (amlarasatā) : Sour taste
अम्लस्पर्शासहत्व (amlasparśāsahatva) : Intolerance to sour taste
अयानै गमनोद्यम (ayānai gamanodyama) : Riding on undesirable vehicles.
अयोग (ayoga) : Non employment , non use, non application, non performance
अयोदण्ड (ayodaṇḍa) : Iron ladle/ rod used for different processes of medicines
अरण्यगोमय (araṇyagomaya) : Cow dung obtained from forest
अरण्योपल (araṇyopala) : Natural form of dried cow dung cakes obtained from forest used in graded heating system
अरति (arati) : Restlessness due to dissatisfaction
अरत्नि (aratni) : Forearm, Anti-brachium. The portion of the arm between elbow and the wrist.
अरसग्राहिता (arasagrāhitā) : loss of gustatory sensation
अरसज्ञता (arasajñatā) : Loss of gustatory sensation
अरसज्ञान (arasajñāna) : Loss of gustatory sensation
अरसवेदिनी (arasavedinī) : It is symptom produced when poisoned food partaken produces loss of taste sensation (ageusia).
अरिष्टः (ariṣṭaḥ) : grave prognostic sign
अरिष्टा (ariṣṭā) : Tourniquet
अरु (aru) : Ulcer
अरुचि (aruci) : Loss of appetite
अरुण (aruṇa) : Downy red.
अरुणवर्ण (aruṇavarṇa) : Downy red
अरुणाः सिराः (aruṇāḥ sirāḥ) : Arteries - (small) arterial branches.
अरुणाभदर्शनं (aruṇābhadarśanaṁ) : Objects look like downy red.
अरुस् (arus) : Impetigo.
अरूंषिका (arūṁṣikā) : Ulceration
अरोचक (arocaka) : Loss of appetite
अरोम (aroma) : Absence of hair
अर्कपयोलेश निचित इव (arkapayoleśa nicita iva) : Looks as coated with juice of Arka (Calotropis gigentea) इि
अर्कपरिवेषदर्शन (arkapariveṣadarśana) : Looks circle of sun
अर्ति (arti) : Pain
अर्थ (artha) : objects of sensory perception
अर्थः (arthaḥ) : (1) Heart - a hollow muscular contractile organ, the centre of circulatory system.
अर्थप्राप्ति (arthaprāpti) : Where another unsaid idea is conveyed by the said one.
अर्थान्तरम् (arthāntaram) : varying statement or false statement
अर्थापत्ति (arthāpatti) : Statements made in such a manner which gives room for inferences of a different meaning.
अर्थाश्रय (arthāśraya) : the word or the part of sentence where the actual meaning is lying
अर्थिता (arthitā) : Desire, Fond of
अर्धपल (ardhapala) : A unit of Measurement; Synonym of one sukti=24 g of metric units
अर्धमासिक प्राणहर (ardhamāsika prāṇahara) : Harmful preparation made up of moderately toxic substances which yoga prove to be fatal in a period of 15 days.
अर्धशराव (ardhaśarāva) : indicating measure Synonym of one kudava=192 g of metric units
अर्धोभक पुट (ardhobhaka puṭa) : A graded heating system used for preparation of medicines which is equivalent to Half Gajaputa
अर्बुद (arbuda) : Tumor
अर्श (arśa) : Piles or polypus
अर्शोघ्न (arśoghna) : antihaemorrhoidals; drugs useful in treatment of piles;
अलक्ष्यपद (alakṣyapada) : Indistinguishable voice
अलङ्कारः अनलङ्कारैः (alaṅkāraḥ analaṅkāraiḥ) : Decorate with undecorable articles
अलिकं (alikaṁ) : Fore-head- The anterior part of the head below the hairline and above the eyes.
अलोभ (alobha) : Free from undue desire
अलोम (aloma) : Absence of hair; It is one among the eight un-desirable conditions. Absence of generalized body hairs is associated with dysfunction of the pituitary, adrenal cortex and gonads.
अल्प (alpa) : Less, Scanty, Diminished
अल्पनिद्रता (alpanidratā) : Loss of sleep
अल्पप्राणता (alpaprāṇatā) : Loss of mental strength
अल्पबल (alpabala) : Loss of physical strength or weakness
अल्पबुद्धि (alpabuddhi) : Lack of intelligence
अल्परुजः (alparujaḥ) : Light pain
अल्पवह्नि (alpavahni) : Certain pharmaceutical process are to be carried out over mild heat
अल्पवाक् (alpavāk) : Closemouthed, in conversable.
अल्पशः (alpaśaḥ) : Frequent and scanty
अल्पाग्नि (alpāgni) : Diminished digestive power
अल्पाल्प (alpālpa) : Frequent and scanty
अल्पाहार (alpāhāra) : Intake of less quantity of food
अवकूजनं (avakūjanaṁ) : Voice resembles the sound of pigeon
अवक्रम (avakrama) : indicating property of material which is straight
अवक्षिप्त (avakṣipta) : Hurled down from a height.
अवगाढं (avagāḍhaṁ) : Hard
अवगाहन (avagāhana) : Immersion of anointed body in to a tub of warm water. It is one among the daily regimen which nourishes whole body, bestows strength, gives stability and enhances physical resistance power.
अवगुण्ठन (avaguṇṭhana) : Likes to cover the head with hands
अवग्रह (avagraha) : Restricted movement
अवघर्षणं (avagharṣaṇaṁ) : Frequent rubbing
अवच्छिन्नं (avacchinnaṁ) : Continuous
अवज्ञा (avajñā) : Contempt
अवटुः (avaṭuḥ) : Nape of the neck - back of the neck.
अवतरणं (avataraṇaṁ) : Putrefaction
अवदरणं (avadaraṇaṁ) : Cracks of fissure
अवदातः (avadātaḥ) : a normal complexion of man , bright white in nature
अवधमन (avadhamana) : Frequent shaking movement of the body or pain in chest or irritatio in the throat
अवनुन्नत्वं (avanunnatvaṁ) : Twisting pain in chest.
अवपाटन (avapāṭana) : Uprooting pain in local area.
अवपीडकः (avapīḍakaḥ) : The use of a particular drug in excess amount.
अवपीडन (avapīḍana) : Pressing pain
अवपीडन (avapīḍana) : massaging the body parts by applying pressure. This method is used for relaxation therapy.
अवबन्धः (avabandhaḥ) : Inactive
अवभङ्ग (avabhaṅga) : Injured nose which is elicited by voice.
अवभञ्जन (avabhañjana) : Breaking pain
अवभेदक (avabhedaka) : Breaking pain
अवमर्द (avamarda) : Pressing type of pain
अवमान लब्धेषु (avamāna labdheṣu) : Disgust for food articles.
अवमोटन (avamoṭana) : Cramps
अवयवः (avayavaḥ) : Body
अवर सत्व (avara satva) : Person having poor mental tolerance/Inferior mind. They can sustain neither by themselves nor by others, although having big stature they are unable to endure even mild pain. They are associated with fear, grief, greed, confusion.
अवरोध (avarodha) : Retention or stiffness
अवरोधः (avarodhaḥ) : Shoulder - the junction of the clavicle and scapula where the arm meets the trunk.
अवरोपितम् (avaropitam) : Impaled
अवलंबक (avalaṁbaka) : One of the five subtypes of Kapha that supports and sustains the heart and other sites of Kapha.
अवलुप्यत इव (avalupyata iva) : Cutting pain
अवलुप्यते (avalupyate) : Disgust for food articles.
अवलेखन (avalekhana) : Modes of administration of poison through comb.
अवलेह (avaleha) : A pharmaceutical dosage form- confectionery the decoctions are further concentrated to semisolid consistency after adding sweetening and other substances over fire
अवशातनं (avaśātanaṁ) : Putrefaction
अवष्टम्भ (avaṣṭambha) : Resting upon; holing of body
अवसाद (avasāda) : 1. Depression 2. Sinking, fainting, Exhaustion, fatigue 3. Lacking courage and spirit
अवसृकस्त्रावण (avasṛkastrāvaṇa) : Blood circulation
अवस्था पाक (avasthā pāka) : Different three phase of Digestion that takes place within the GIT i.e. stomach, small intestine & large intestine, each stage correspondingly producing Kapha, Pitta & Vata.
अवस्था विरुद्ध (avasthā viruddha) : Regimens which are unwholesome to health status. Intake of Vata aggravating food by a person after exhaustion, sexual act and physical exercise or intake of kapha aggravating food by a person after sleep or drowsiness.
अवस्रंसनं (avasraṁsanaṁ) : Flabbiness
अवाङ्मुख (avāṅmukha) : Downward looking face
अवाञ्ची (avāñcī) : Face looking downwards.
अवाञ्छा (avāñchā) : Lack of desire
अवामि (avāmi) : Doesn’t produce nausea/vomiting- one of the test for copper containing bhasma
अविक्वं (avikvaṁ) : Indigested
अवितथ (avitatha) : Tells truth
अविद्या (avidyā) : ignorance and illusion
अविपाक (avipāka) : Impairment of digestion or metabolism
अविपाकी (avipākī) : Indigestible.
अविमलेन्द्रियत्वं (avimalendriyatvaṁ) : Weakness of sense organs
अविमुक्त (avimukta) : Incomplete
अविवर्ण (avivarṇa) : Colorless
अविशुद्ध (aviśuddha) : Bad
अविष/ निर्विष् (aviṣa/ nirviṣ) : Detoxified state
अविषलिंगम् (aviṣaliṁgam) : Absence of sign of poison, a bite a non- venomous serpent is marked by the absence of any of the specific symptoms of poisoning.
अविसर्ग (avisarga) : Retention
अवेक्षा पाण्योओः (avekṣā pāṇyooḥ) : Looks towards palms frequently without any specific cause
अवेगं (avegaṁ) : Involuntary or without reflex
अव्यक्त (avyakta) : Unmanifestated state, unapparent, indistinct, invisible, imperceptible. A feature of Vāta.
अव्यक्त दर्शनं (avyakta darśanaṁ) : Blurred vision
अव्यक्तवाक् (avyaktavāk) : Indistinct Speech
अव्यय (avyaya) : Not liable to change; Imperishable, A synonym of Ātmā
अव्यवस्थित (avyavasthita) : Irregular
अशक्ति (aśakti) : Lack of capacity to do properly
अशक्ति क्रियासु (aśakti kriyāsu) : Loss of motor function
अशन (aśana) : eatables;
अशन इच्छा (aśana icchā) : Desire to take food
अशब्दं (aśabdaṁ) : Soundless
अशब्दश्रवणम् (aśabdaśravaṇam) : Acousma or hearing non existing sound
अशीतोष्ण (aśītoṣṇa) : Neither hot nor cold
अशुचि (aśuci) : Absence of cleanliness; Impure
अशुद्धि (aśuddhi) : Dirty
अशुद्धि हृदयस्य (aśuddhi hṛdayasya) : Feeling of fullness in the epigastric region.
अशुभ (aśubha) : Ominous; Harmful for health
अशैत्य (aśaitya) : Heat generating property of poison.
अश्मगर्भं इव (aśmagarbhaṁ iva) : Stony hardness
अश्मगर्भाभ (aśmagarbhābha) : Stony hardness
अश्मरीघ्न (aśmarīghna) : litholyptic; substances useful in treatment of calculi;
अश्मावृतोपं (aśmāvṛtopaṁ) : Feeling of heaviness like bearing of stone
अश्रद्धा (aśraddhā) : Lack of interest, especially to take food
अश्रवणं (aśravaṇaṁ) : Loss of hearing
अश्रु (aśru) : Lacrimal fluids (Tears) - The liquid excreted into the eyes by the lacrimal glands
अश्रु वाहिण्यौ (aśru vāhiṇyau) : Lacrimal Canaliculi - small canals concerned with conduction of tears from the lacrimal puncta to the lacrimal sac.
अश्रुति (aśruti) : Loss of hearing
अश्रुमार्गः (aśrumārgaḥ) : Lacrimal apparatus - structures concerned with secretion and conduction of tears
अष्ट गिरिण्ड (aṣṭa giriṇḍa) : 8 dried cow dung cakes obtained from forest used in graded heating system
अष्ट निन्दित पुरुस्ह (aṣṭa nindita purusha) : Eight types of undesirable constitutions are there, those are as fallows
अष्टमांस (aṣṭamāṁsa) : indicating to quantity of material equivalent to 1/8th part
अष्टवर्ग (aṣṭavarga) : Combination of following Rhizomes of Eight Plants
अष्टवेगम् (aṣṭavegam) : The action of poison is manifested in eight virulent stages or impulses (vega).
अष्ठीला इव (aṣṭhīlā iva) : Stone like excessive hardness
अष्ठीलावत जिव्हा (aṣṭhīlāvata jivhā) : Stone like swelling and numbness of the tongue.
अष्ठीलावत् (aṣṭhīlāvat) : Stony hard
अंसः (aṁsaḥ) : Shoulder
अंसfअलकः (aṁsafalakaḥ) : Scapula - the large flat triangular bone that forms the posterior part of shoulder.
अंसकूट (aṁsakūṭa) : Acromion - the lateral triangular projection of the spine of the scapula.
असकृत निद्रता (asakṛta nidratā) : Improper sleep
असंज्ञकल्पं (asaṁjñakalpaṁ) : Unconsciousness
असंज्ञिता (asaṁjñitā) : Unconsciousness.
असंतोष (asaṁtoṣa) : Dissatisfaction
असत् ज्वलनज्वालदर्शनं (asat jvalanajvāladarśanaṁ) : Sees non-existing flames
असत् तारका दर्शनं (asat tārakā darśanaṁ) : Sees the non-existing stars
असत् दीपदर्शनं (asat dīpadarśanaṁ) : Sees non-existing light in
असत् रुपदर्शनं (asat rupadarśanaṁ) : Sees non-existing objects
असत्कार्यवाद (asatkāryavāda) : the ideology which believes that the effect is not present in the cause
अंसदेशः (aṁsadeśaḥ) : Shoulder - the junction of the clavicle and scapula where the arm meets the trunk.
अंसपिण्डः (aṁsapiṇḍaḥ) : Deltoid Prominence
अंसपिण्डिका (aṁsapiṇḍikā) : deltoid tuberosity
अंसपीठ (aṁsapīṭha) : Top of the shoulder (glenoid cavity)
असंबद्धवचनं (asaṁbaddhavacanaṁ) : Incoherent speech
अंसबन्धनम् (aṁsabandhanam) : Ligaments (and Muscles) of the shoulder.
असमवायि (asamavāyi) : the cause which is innate for the production of effect
अंसमुलम् (aṁsamulam) : apex of the Scapula
असम्प्राप्ति (asamprāpti) : Loss of power of sense organs
असंवृतगुदं (asaṁvṛtagudaṁ) : Prolapsed anus.
असंवृतमुखं (asaṁvṛtamukhaṁ) : Wide opening
असंवेदनं (asaṁvedanaṁ) : Loss of power of sense organs
असंहत (asaṁhata) : Disunited, unconnected, not formed into a mass
असहत्व (asahatva) : Intolerance
असहिष्णुत्व (asahiṣṇutva) : Intolerance
असात्म्येन्द्रियार्थसंयोग (asātmyendriyārthasaṁyoga) : Incompatible contact of the sense organs with their objects
असाधारण हेतु (asādhāraṇa hetu) : Factors of the disease which are not generalized to all peoples but they are specific to specific individuals. Impact of these factors depends on age, strength, constitution etc.
अंसाभिताप (aṁsābhitāpa) : Warmth in shoulder
असामर्थ्यं (asāmarthyaṁ) : Incapability
असार (asāra) : Undernourished
असित (asita) : Black color
असिद्धिः (asiddhiḥ) : consequence of having no practical result
असुखम् (asukham) : Discomfort or unpleasantness, If agadas (antitoxic medicines) are used in healthy, non poisoned persons it would produce all kinds of discomfort.
असुखी (asukhī) : Unhappy disposition
असूयन वाक् (asūyana vāk) : Interrupted speaking
असृकष्ठीव (asṛkaṣṭhīva) : Spitting of blood (Haemoptysis)
असृक् इच्छा (asṛk icchā) : Desire for blood
असृक् गन्ध (asṛk gandha) : Smell of blood
असृक् छर्दि (asṛk chardi) : Vomiting of blood (Haemetemesis)
असृक् निमग्नारिष्टाभ दर्शन (asṛk nimagnāriṣṭābha darśana) : Objects look as if dipped in blood.
असृक् पूर्णता (asṛk pūrṇatā) : Intra abdominal bleeding
असृग (asṛga) : Blood
अस्कन्दी रक्त (askandī rakta) : Uncoagulable blood
अस्थान वाक् (asthāna vāk) : Speaking at inappropriate place
अस्थि (asthi) : Bone - specialized form of dense connective tissue consisting of bone cells embedded in a matrix made of calcified intercellular substance.
अस्थि धातु (asthi dhātu) : Fifth of the seven basic Dhātus, whose function is to provide stability to the body. It is predominant of Pṛthvi and Ākāśa Mahābhūtas. Designative of Bone Tissue.
अस्थिनिभ (asthinibha) : Color of bone
अस्थिपर्वाणि (asthiparvāṇi) : Bony Nodes, joints - an articulation, the point of juncture between two bones.
अस्थिपिञ्जर (asthipiñjara) : Bony skeleton - the bone framework of the body.
अस्थिविवरम् (asthivivaram) : Medullary canal - cavity within the bone containing marrow
अस्थिसङ्घाताः (asthisaṅghātāḥ) : Clumps of the bones.
अस्थिसन्धयः (asthisandhayaḥ) : Articulation, joints - the point of juncture between two bones.
अस्थिसारम् (asthisāram) : Bone marrow - the soft organic material that fills the cavities of the bones.
अस्थिस्नेहः (asthisnehaḥ) : Bone marrow - the soft organic material that fills the cavities of the bones.
अस्पर्शसह (asparśasaha) : Intolerance with touch.
अस्र (asra) : indicating the borders of materials
अस्रकल्पं (asrakalpaṁ) : Color of normal blood
अस्रग्वहाः (asragvahāḥ) : Blood Vessels - the veins, arteries and capillaries.
अस्रवणं (asravaṇaṁ) : Loss of recreation
अस्राक्षि (asrākṣi) : Lacrimation
अस्वप्न (asvapna) : Sleeplessness
अस्वप्न इच्छा (asvapna icchā) : Desire to awaking
अस्वस्थचित्त (asvasthacitta) : disturbed mind
अस्वास्थ्य (asvāsthya) : Discomfort, Disease
अस्वेदनं (asvedanaṁ) : Loss of Sweating
अहङ्कारः (ahaṅkāraḥ) : The material principle of egoist or existence having three inherent properties of sattva, raja and tama; one of the principles of the evolution as per classical indian philosophy
अहर्ष (aharṣa) : Loss of Libido; Erectile dysfunction, Impotent.
अहसन (ahasana) : During meal one should not indulging in laugh, it may lead to passage of food in to wrong tract.
अहित आहार (ahita āhāra) : Non - conductive food- Food which disturbs the Tri-doshas and physiological functions of the body. It is contrary t to Hita.
अहितायु (ahitāyu) : the kind of human life which is not beneficial for the self or the society
अहेतु (ahetu) : fallacious semblance of an argument
अहोरात्र (ahorātra) : 1 Day and 1 night = 24 hours
आकाङ्क्षा (ākāṅkṣā) : Desire
आकाश (ākāśa) : 1. A free or open space, the subtle and ethereal fluid (supposed to fill and pervade the universe and to be the peculiar vehicle of life and of sound). 2. One of the five basic elements (Paṅcamahābhūtas) that make up all matter in the universe.
आकाशीय द्रव्य (ākāśīya dravya) : substances having akaśa as the predominant mahabhuta;
आकुञ्चनं (ākuñcanaṁ) : Contraction
आकुलता (ākulatā) : Perplexity or confusion
आकृष्ट (ākṛṣṭa) : collection / procurement of raw materials
आकृष्य (ākṛṣya) : A process of extraction through which specified component may be extracted
आक्ῡजनं (ākῡjanaṁ) : Cooing (voice resembles the sound of pigeon), Lament
आक्रोशनं (ākrośanaṁ) : Wailing
आक्षेप (ākṣepa) : Convulsion, Harassing.
आगङ्तुः व्रणः (āgaṅtuḥ vraṇaḥ) : traumatic wound
आगङ्तुजरोग (āgaṅtujaroga) : Exogenous diseases caused by trauma, infections and other external factors
आगन्तुकी (āgantukī) : Adventitious, Accidental, Incidental
आगम (āgama) : time tested expert opinions in concerned classical texts or authoritative testimony
आगारध्ῡमाभं (āgāradhῡmābhaṁ) : Smoky color
आगारसन्निभं (āgārasannibhaṁ) : Smoky color
आंगिरसी (āṁgirasī) : one among four categories of medicines described in Atharva Veda
आग्न्ēय (āgnēya) : Predominance of the fire-element
आचमन (ācamana) : Sipping of water - It’s a part of daily regimen to maintain personal hygiene, in which clean water is held in the palm of the hand with the thumb closely bent towards the center and water is sipped. It’s usually done after cleaning hand and feet, after the act of excretion, before and after food, after chariot ride, etc.
आचार (ācāra) : A customary conduct which is to be followed in accordance with various prescribed rules in various contexts.
आचार रसायन (ācāra rasāyana) : Conductible virility -Customary law, codes and conducts/ behavior which prevents the psychosomatic ailments. It includes principles explained in the context of dhāraṇīya Vega & Sad vritta Pālana.
आचार विभ्रमं (ācāra vibhramaṁ) : Improper manner and conduct
आतता त्वक् (ātatā tvak) : Stretched skin
आतनता (ātanatā) : Stretched skin
आतोप (ātopa) : Painful distension of abdomen accompanied by rumbling noise
आतोप सन्धि (ātopa sandhi) : Crackling sound in joints
आत्मा (ātmā) : Soul or spirit
आत्मानमाभिसमीक्ष्य (ātmānamābhisamīkṣya) : After due consideration to the self-one should indulge in taking food. Individual should keenly assess quantity and quality of the food with respect to his constitution and self. This helps to yield the healthy effect over the body.
आथर्वनी (ātharvanī) : one among four categories of medicines described in Atharva Veda
आदंश (ādaṁśa) : Area near a bite or sting.
आदंशशोफः (ādaṁśaśophaḥ) : Swelling around the site of bite
आदान (ādāna) : Period of time when moisture, unctuousness and strength of the body gets depleted and absorbed by environment by virtue of climate; includes 6 months of winter, spring and summer seasons.
आदाय (ādāya) : Collection of drugs
आदीप्तगुणदर्सनं (ādīptaguṇadarsanaṁ) : Looks of sun like objects
आदीप्तरूपदर्शनं (ādīptarūpadarśanaṁ) : Looks of glowing things
आद्यपुष्प (ādyapuṣpa) : A Group of flowers containing one part each of Chandan (Santalum album) and Vari/sugandhabala (Juniperus communis) and three parts of Kumkum (Crocus sativus).
आधक (ādhaka) : A unit of Measurement; -Four prastha are equal to one adhak= 3.073 kg of metric units - used for both solids & liquids
आधमातकङ्धरा (ādhamātakaṅdharā) : Feeling of fullness in neck.
आधमानं (ādhamānaṁ) : Distention of abdomen due to gas.
आधाराः (ādhārāḥ) : Base - Some particular organs, or group of organs which are container of some biological matter
आधिदैविकः (तापः) (ādhidaivikaḥ (tāpaḥ)) : One of the three kinds of miseries, that which is caused by rain, sun and other such natural inanimate cause and agencies
आधिभौतिकः (तापः) (ādhibhautikaḥ (tāpaḥ)) : One of the three kinds of miseries, which are caused by various sorts of living creatures.
आध्मातं इव (ādhmātaṁ iva) : Feeling of fullness
आध्मातग्रीवं (ādhmātagrīvaṁ) : Feeling of fullness in neck.
आध्यात्म (ādhyātma) : the psycho-spiritual
आध्यात्मिकः (तापः) (ādhyātmikaḥ (tāpaḥ)) : One of the three kinds of miseries, being that which is intrinsic and consist of mental and spiritual ailing.
आनति ग्रीवा (ānati grīvā) : Forward bending of neck
आनद्धवस्तिः (ānaddhavastiḥ) : distension of bladder
आननम् (ānanam) : Face
आनाह (ānāha) : distention of abdomen due to incomplete evacuation of stool, urine and flatus
आनील (ānīla) : light blue
आन्तरिक्ष उदक (āntarikṣa udaka) : rain water collected directly before reaching earth surface and is considered to be the best among all water
आन्तिकस्थं दूरस्थं दर्शन (āntikasthaṁ dūrasthaṁ darśana) : Remote appearance of a near object.
आन्त्र (āntra) : Small intestine
आप (āpa) : 1. Water; 2. One of the pancha mahabhuta which is responsible for binding all particles within a substance; 3. Synonym of Jala
आपान Vआयु (Apāna Vāyu) : One of the five subtypes of Vāyu (Vāta), situated in the pelvic region. It performs the functions like defecation, micturition, parturition, menstruation, and ejaculation.
आपीनत्व (āpīnatva) : Corpulent
आपूपा (Apūpā) : Which is made out of Barley, it removes ailments such as Udāvarta, Pratishaya( coryza), Kasa (Cough), Gala Roga (Throat diseases) etc.
आप्त (āpta) : authoritative person
आप्तवाक्यम् (āptavākyam) : Authoritative speech
आप्तोपदेशः (āptopadeśaḥ) : the unimpeachable truth of enlightened men; the 1st proof of justifying knowledge
आप्य द्रव्य (āpya dravya) : substances having jala (water) as the predominant mahabhuta;
आभक्त (Abhakta) : On empty stomach; Before taking any food or drinks.
आभुग्नं (ābhugnaṁ) : Slight bending
आभ्यन्तर कण्डरः (ābhyantara kaṇḍaraḥ) : Deep tendons - flexor tendons of the hand.
आम (āma) : 1. Raw, uncooked, unbaked, immature, unripe 2. May be associated with food or other physiological entities to mean incomplete transformation or metabolism causing a harmful effect on health.
आम पुरीषम् (āma purīṣam) : Stools which are undigested, immature, not formed
आमगङ्ध (āmagaṅdha) : Smell of raw flesh
आमपक्वाषयः (āmapakvāṣayaḥ) : gastro-intestinal tract - The digestive tube from stomach and intestines
आमपाक (āmapāka) : The initial partially cooked stage of processing of oil/ ghee, which is not useful for therapeutics
आममत्स्यगङ्ध (āmamatsyagaṅdha) : smell of live fish
आमलपाङ्दु (āmalapāṅdu) : Color of pale myrobalan
आमविश (āmaviśa) : It is a kind of disorder which results from incompatible food or from eating before digestion of previous meals, similar to intestinal toxemia because it simulates the symptoms of toxemia.
आमान्य-विशेष सिद्धान्त (āmānya-viśeṣa siddhānta) : An applied principle of āyurveda which is used for maintaining the equilibrium of the body constituent; Doctrine of similar and Opposites
आमाशयः (āmāśayaḥ) : Stomach -A dilated sac like distensible portion of alimentary canal between the esophagus and the duodenum which contains partially digested food. It is a major seat of Pitta.
आमिश (āmiśa) : 1. One of the useful parts of animal (flesh) 2. Commonly used for all Non-vegetarian diet??
आमिशं इच्छा (āmiśaṁ icchā) : Fond of taking flesh
आयाम (āyāma) : Stretching of vein
आयास (āyāsa) : Physical exertion, Toil
आयास इच्छा (āyāsa icchā) : Desire for Exercise
आयु (āyu) : 1. Span of life, 2. continuous combination of sattva, atma, sharira, indriya
आयुर्वेद (āyurveda) : The Science and Knowledge of life, which describes all substances of the universe in terms of their being beneficial, harmful, pleasant and unpleasant to life
आयुष्यः (āyuṣyaḥ) : substances which enhance life span
आर (āra) : Sharp big nail like sting.
आरक्त छर्दि (ārakta chardi) : Haematemesis
आरम्भवाद (ārambhavāda) : the ideology which believes that effect is produced sequentially after the sequential destruction of the cause
आरम्भसामर्थ्य (ārambhasāmarthya) : Action initiating ability of substances, which is specific to substances because substances only can initiate any action, not their properties;
आरोग्य (ārogya) : Literal meaning is disease free state; health, lightness of body, efficiency of limb and that which brings about happiness. Happiness which arises from equilibrium of the body constituents. Health is extolled as necessary for achievement of all the four objectives of life viz virtue, wealth, pleasure and Salvation (Dharma, Artha, Kama and Moksha).
आरोत (ārota) : A process of compounding of mercury in which Purified mercury is used to make the body disease free, strong & stable
आर्त स्वर (ārta svara) : Feeble voice
आर्तव (ārtava) : One of the Upadhātus of Rasa Dhātu. Indicative of either Menstrual fluid or Ovum. It is dominant of Agni Mahābhūta.
आर्तवजनन (ārtavajanana) : substances stimulating menstrual blood flow or ovulation;
आर्तवशोणितम् (ārtavaśoṇitam) : menstrual blood or ovum
आर्तवह स्रोताङ्सि (ārtavaha srotāṅsi) : Fallopian or Uterine tubes. Oviduct. / Channels with physiological importance in regulation of menstrual cycles - hypothalamo-pituitary- ovarian axis.
आर्तवाघातम् (ārtavāghātam) : Retention of Menstrual blood
आर्दिताकृतिकरण (ārditākṛtikaraṇa) : Twisting of face resembling facial paralysis
आर्द्र (ārdra) : Moist; Collection of herbal Materials in wet / fresh condition
आर्द्रचर्मावनद्ध (ārdracarmāvanaddha) : Feels as draped with wet clothing.
आलक्तकसन्निभं (ālaktakasannibhaṁ) : Color of the juice of Lac
आलस्य (ālasya) : Loss of enthusiasm, idleness , want of energy, apathetic, Reluctance to work or make an effort, laziness
आलाबुपुष्पसङ्काश (ālābupuṣpasaṅkāśa) : Color of the flower of Alābu (Lagrnaria vulgaria)
आलालतङ्तुबद्धं (ālālataṅtubaddhaṁ) : Looks like saliva
आलुञ्चनं (āluñcanaṁ) : Tearing in pieces
आलेपं (ālepaṁ) : Coating
आलेहं (ālehaṁ) : Licking
आलोचक पित्त (ālocaka pitta) : One of the five subtypes of Pitta that is responsible for vision and perception
आवरणं (āvaraṇaṁ) : enveloping raw material with same or other material
आवर्तचल दृष्टिमण्डल (āvartacala dṛṣṭimaṇḍala) : Unsteady Pupil
आवस्थिक Kअल (Avasthika Kala) : Conditionally moving time is that which is concerned with the various stages diseases manifestation. Like Acute or Chronic stages.
आवाप (āvāpa) : A process in which the powdered material has to be sprinkled into the molten material
आविजनन (āvijanana) : Substances inducing labor pain.
आविद्धशिरः (āviddhaśiraḥ) : Bending of head
आविल (āvila) : Turbid
आविलदर्शन (āviladarśana) : Blurred vision
आवृत्त नाभिः (āvṛtta nābhiḥ) : Tortuous Umbilicus
आशयाः (āśayāḥ) : Some particular organs, or group of organs which are container of something
आशु (āśu) : Fast or rapid.
आशुकारि (āśukāri) : 1. Operating quickly, swiftly 2. Of sudden onset /acute
आशुकारी (āśukārī) : 1. Fast acting or fast moving attributed to the action of the substance.
आशुत्वादाशु तद्धन्ति (āśutvādāśu taddhanti) : Due to speedy property of poison it proves speedily fatal.
आशुपाक (āśupāka) : Quick digestion
आशुमृतक (āśumṛtaka) : Case of sudden death.
आश्रयत्व (āśrayatva) : Substratum; an attribute of the substances which is the substratum of properties and actions;
आश्वासकर (āśvāsakara) : refreshing, satisfactory feeling
आश्वासन (āśvāsana) : In the condition of fear of poison, psychological morale boosting of the patient is advised by consoling the patient.
आसन (āsana) : Physical Postures
आसवतुल्य पुरीषम् (āsavatulya purīṣam) : Stool resembles āsava in color and smell
आंससङ्धिः (Aṁsasaṅdhiḥ) : Shoulder Joint - the joint formed by humerus and glenoid cavity of scapula
आसेक्य (āsekya) : Person getting sexual gratification after oral sex.
आस्थापन द्रव्य (āsthāpana dravya) : substances used in BASTI;
आस्थापनोपग (āsthāpanopaga) : Adjuvant of corrective BASTI; substances used to facilitate corrective BASTI.
आस्फालन भूमि (āsphālana bhūmi) : Striking the ground.
आस्फोतन अस्थाने (āsphotana asthāne) : Clapping at inappropriate occasions
आस्फोतनम् अक्षि (āsphotanam akṣi) : Bursting pain in the eye
आस्यम् (āsyam) : Mouth
आस्योपदेहः (āsyopadehaḥ) : coating in the mouth
आस्राव (āsrāva) : Exudates; Secretion
आहतात् (āhatāt) : Plant materials not infested with insects, cold, hot climate etc.
आहार (Āhāra) : Any substance which is masticated and swallowed for the purpose of nutrition and energy, it includes all eatables, bitable, drinkable and lickables.
आहार परिणामकर भाव (āhāra pariṇāmakara bhāva) : These are Factors leading to transformation of food from solid complex food to small digestible and absorbable form, which include various actions starting from mastication, swallowing, and enzymatic action to absorption of nutrients and water from the colon. They include all the actions from oral cavity to the colon. Usma (Heat) digests, Vayu absorbs, Kleda (moisture) loosens, Sneha (unctuousness) softens, Kāla (time) brings sufficiency & balanced use of all these brings about the equilibrium of Dhātu's which are products of digestion.
आहार मात्र (āhāra mātra) : Optimal digestible quantity of food consumed by a healthy individual. This cannot be generalized. It always differs from person to person and time to time, it directly depends on the digestive capacity and psychological status.
आहार योगि (āhāra yogi) : an attribute of lavana rasa; substances used with the diet;
आहार योगि वर्ग (āhāra yogi varga) : group of food adjuvant to be used for the preparation of diet or taken along with the principal diet like different oils and spices;
आहार रस पाक (āhāra rasa pāka) : It is a stage indicating the completion of digestion process after which drugs should be administered
आहार शक्ति (āhāra śakti) : Power of assimilation-this is examined by the power of ingestion as well as digestion, strength & life depends upon diet.
आहार संपत् (āhāra saṁpat) : Excellence of diet- it indicates that food with all required nutrition in an adequate quantity, helps in preservation and promotion of health, gives strength, vitality, endurance and improves immunity.
आहारनाश (āhāranāśa) : Intake of less quantity of food
आहारविधिविशेषायतन (āhāravidhiviśeṣāyatana) : Basic factors to be considered while preparing and consuming diet. The eight such factors are
इक्षु वर्ग (ikṣu varga) : Group of sugar cane products;
इक्षुविकार (ikṣuvikāra) : Sugarcane products;
इङ्गितज्ञो मनुष्याणां वाक्चेष्टामुख वैकृतैः (iṅgitajño manuṣyāṇāṁ vākceṣṭāmukha vaikṛtaiḥ) : Kinesics expert should identify poisoner by observing variations in speech, actions and facial expressions.
इच्छा (icchā) : Refers to desired attributes- requisition of whatever is not available with us is desire. Is a spiritual attribute. Desire is produced from pleasure. Derived from the enjoyment of garlands, women etc.
इच्छाद्वेषौ अनिमित्ततः (icchādveṣau animittataḥ) : Like and Dislike without any reason
इतराह्वय (itarāhvaya) : Others; plants are also named on basis of many other parameters.
इतस्ततः दर्शनं (itastataḥ darśanaṁ) : Looking in all directions
इन्दुपरिवेष दर्शन (indupariveṣa darśana) : Sees circular patch like moon before eyes
इन्दुपाण्डुर दृष्टिमण्डल (indupāṇḍura dṛṣṭimaṇḍala) : Moon like pale pupil
इन्दुभि आजितं इव (indubhi ājitaṁ iva) : Sees things as covered by the light of moo darśanaṁ दशशनॊ
इन्द्रगोपक (indragopaka) : A kind of insect of red color
इन्द्रगोपाभ रक्तं (indragopābha raktaṁ) : Blood with the color of earthworm
इन्द्रधनुषप्रभरक्त रक्तं (indradhanuṣaprabharakta raktaṁ) : Blood with multicolor like rainbow
इन्द्रधनुषिं दर्शनं (indradhanuṣiṁ darśanaṁ) : Sees rainbow in objects
इन्द्रिय (indriya) : organs of motor action and sensory perception
इन्द्रियबलहानि (indriyabalahāni) : loss of strength of sensory faculty
इन्द्रियबुद्धि (indriyabuddhi) : perceived sense as an outcome of the direct perception
इन्द्रियाणां च वैकृत्यं (indriyāṇāṁ ca vaikṛtyaṁ) : Food mixed with poison on it reaching stomach give rises to derangement of the sense organs.
इन्द्रियाधिष्ठान (indriyādhiṣṭhāna) : The seat of sense organ like Ear for auditory sensation etc.
इन्द्रियान्तर संचार (indriyāntara saṁcāra) : Rapid conjugation of mind with sensory or motor organs
इन्द्रियार्थसन्निकर्षः (indriyārthasannikarṣaḥ) : sequential interaction between the sensory organ with object
इन्द्रियार्थाः (indriyārthāḥ) : The objects of sense organs like sound, touch, vision, taste and smell, which are perceived through the sense organs.
इप्सा (ipsā) : Desire
इष्ट देश अश्नियात (iṣṭa deśa aśniyāta) : In favorable place-place where we have to take should be lonely, neat & clean, with full concentration on meal.
इष्ट सर्वोपकरण अश्नियात (iṣṭa sarvopakaraṇa aśniyāta) : With all the favorable accessories- all type of utensils, products, and workers should be present there to serve you.
इष्टता (iṣṭatā) : Desire
इष्टिका (iṣṭikā) : Brick
इष्टिकाचुर्णसंकाशं (iṣṭikācurṇasaṁkāśaṁ) : Resembling brick powder -indicating the color of bhasma of mica & ideal property of dust of fruit of Mallatos philipensis
ईर्ष्यक (īrṣyaka) : Voyeur.
ईषत् (īṣat) : Diminished quantity
ईषत् रसकल्क (īṣat rasakalka) : The presence of moisture in the paste in the preparation of medicated oil
ईषत्कठिन (īṣatkaṭhina) : Partial dryness of the paste indicating the exhaustion of moisture content
उखा (ukhā) : (1) infra clavicular fossa. (2) Hollow on the side of the hip.
उग्र उच्छवास (ugra ucchavāsa) : Difficulty in expiration or labored breathing.
उग्र गन्धिरक्तं (ugra gandhiraktaṁ) : Blood with pungent smell
उग्र वाक् (ugra vāk) : Hard hitting speech
उग्ररुक् (ugraruk) : Severe pain
उच्चभवन इच्छा (uccabhavana icchā) : Fond of residing in big building
उच्चारात् बिना अधोवायु (uccārāt binā adhovāyu) : Flatus without sound
उच्चैः उच्छवास (uccaiḥ ucchavāsa) : Very prolonged expiration.
उच्छवास (ucchavāsa) : Breath, expiration
उच्छवास आरोध (ucchavāsa ārodha) : Suppressed expiration.
उच्छवास निरोध (ucchavāsa nirodha) : Suppressed expiration.
उच्छवास रोध (ucchavāsa rodha) : Suppressed expiration.
उच्छवास संरोध (ucchavāsa saṁrodha) : Suppressed expiration
उच्छवासमार्ग (ucchavāsamārga) : Respiratory tract.
उच्छवासहतं (ucchavāsahataṁ) : Death due to suffocation.
उच्छिष्ट इच्छा (ucchiṣṭa icchā) : Fond of remnants
उच्छून (ucchūna) : Raised, Elevated
उच्छ्रायं (ucchrāyaṁ) : Raised, Elevated
उच्छ्रिताक्षः (ucchritākṣaḥ) : Protrusion of the eye
उण्डुकः (uṇḍukaḥ) : Cecum. A blind sac.
उत्कम्प (utkampa) : Tremor
उत्कर्तन (utkartana) : Incision of bitten part/ affected part through which the spread of poison can be stopped .
उत्कारिका (utkārikā) : Poultice- like preparation prepared with anti venomous drugs to soothe or aggravate and release the local Doṣas (impure body elements).
उत्क्लिष्ट (utkliṣṭa) : Wet
उत्क्लेद (utkleda) : Wet
उत्क्लेद (utkleda) : Nausea, vomiting.
उत्क्लेश (utkleśa) : Nausea.
उत्क्षेपणं (utkṣepaṇaṁ) : Throwing upwards; expulsing upwards
उत्क्षेपणं स्नायुजालस्य (utkṣepaṇaṁ snāyujālasya) : Contraction of tendon.
उत्क्षेपनिग्रहः (utkṣepanigrahaḥ) : Restricted forward movement
उत्क्षेपनिग्रहः सक्थि (utkṣepanigrahaḥ sakthi) : Restricted foreward movement of lower limb
उत्तमाङ्गम् (uttamāṅgam) : Head or head & neck
उत्तरं (uttaraṁ) : Rejoinder or reply
उत्तरदन्तः (uttaradantaḥ) : Tooth of the upper jaw.
उत्तरपादः (uttarapādaḥ) : Dorsum of the foot.
उत्तराधर विभागः (uttarādhara vibhāgaḥ) : Superior (proximal) and Inferior (distal)
उत्तरायण/आदान काल (uttarāyaṇa/ādāna kāla) : Ascent of sun or northward movement of sun. this movement reduces the moisture (Saumya) from the earth, even it takes out the strength from living beings. Śiśira, Vasanta & Grișma ŗtu together constitute Uttarāyana which brings about reduction of strength.
उत्तरीय (uttarīya) : Resembles sacred thread wore by Brahmans in India, generally wore by brāhmins
उत्तरोष्ठ (uttaroṣṭha) : Upper lip or labium. upper half of soft external structure that forms the boundary of the mouth.
उत्तुण्डितं (uttuṇḍitaṁ) : Elevated skin.
उत्थापन (utthāpana) : a process of recovering of mercury etc from previous mūrcchanā process / regaining in the original form
उत्पत्तिः (utpattiḥ) : originate or evolve
उत्पाटनं (utpāṭanaṁ) : Uprooting pain.
उत्पाटयत इव (utpāṭayata iva) : Uprooting pain.
उत्पाटितः (utpāṭitaḥ) : Pulled up by the roots , Eradicated.
उत्पात (utpāta) : Natural calamities – are of 3 types celestial, mundane and atmospheric weeping of idoles, appearance of magical cots etc. Mundane are earth quakes etc while falling of stars etc are atmospheric. These are also considered as cause of pestilence.
उत्रस्तदृष्टि (utrastadṛṣṭi) : Rolling of the eye
उत्रास (utrāsa) : Trembling
उत्विण्डिताक्षं (utviṇḍitākṣaṁ) : Protrusion of the eye
उत्शोष पुरीषं (utśoṣa purīṣaṁ) : Dry stool
उत्सङ्गं (utsaṅgaṁ) : Elevated
उत्सन्नं (utsannaṁ) : Elevated
उत्सादन (utsādana) : The act of rubbing the body with unctuous substances in opposite direction, i.e opposite to hair follicles. Rubbing is done even with unctuous paste.
उत्साह (utsāha) : Enthusiasm, motivation, effort, activeness, to have willingness to do adventure.
उत्साहक्षय (utsāhakṣaya) : Loss of enthusiasm
उत्साहभ्रंश (utsāhabhraṁśa) : Loss of enthusiasm
उत्साहहानि (utsāhahāni) : Loss of enthusiasm
उत्सेधं (utsedhaṁ) : Elevation
उदकं इव पुरीषं (udakaṁ iva purīṣaṁ) : Watery stool
उदकपुर्णोदर (udakapurṇodara) : Stomach full of water as in cases of drowning.
उदकसदृशं मुत्रं (udakasadṛśaṁ mutraṁ) : Watery urine
उदकहतम् (udakahatam) : Drowned.
उदकोपमं मूत्रं (udakopamaṁ mūtraṁ) : Watery urine
उदञ्ची (udañcī) : Habit of upward looking
उदबंध (udabaṁdha) : Death by hanging.
उदबंधनीकृत कण्ठ (udabaṁdhanīkṛta kaṇṭha) : Hanging a corpse of murdered person to simulate suicide.
उदयन्तं आदित्य दर्शनं (udayantaṁ āditya darśanaṁ) : Sees the rising sun
उदरपर्श्वम् (udaraparśvam) : Side of abdomen; flank
उदरफलकम् (udaraphalakam) : Abdominal wall. (antero-lateral part)
उदरमाध्मापयति (udaramādhmāpayati) : distends the abdomen
उदरम् (udaram) : Abdomen
उदरोदरः सन्धानम् (udarodaraḥ sandhānam) : Abdominothoracic arch or boundary in front. (Costal arch)
उदर्द (udarda) : Shivering by cold or Urticaria
उदर्द प्रशमन (udarda praśamana) : Substances pacifying udard (urticaria, itching & allergy) 2. frost bite
उदश्वित (udaśvita) : a curd is churned by adding 1/2 of the water after removing the butter
उदान वायु (udāna vāyu) : One of the five subtypes of Vāta (Vāyu) that is seated in thorax. It performs the functions like effort, strength and recollection required for the production of speech,
उदावर्त पुरीषप्रवर्तनम् (udāvarta purīṣapravartanam) : Constipated or upward movement of stool
उदाहरणम् (udāharaṇam) : Categorical examples
उदीर्ण अक्षि (udīrṇa akṣi) : Protruction of the eye
उदुम्बर (udumbara) : 1. A unit of Measurement; Synonym of one karșa=12g of metric units 2. Ficus glomerata 3. copper
उदुम्बरफलसङ्काशं (udumbaraphalasaṅkāśaṁ) : Color of ripened fig fruit
उदुम्बरफलाभास (udumbaraphalābhāsa) : Color of ripened fig fruit
उद्गतं (udgataṁ) : Protruded or raised
उद्गताक्षि (udgatākṣi) : Protrusion of the eye
उद्गार (udgāra) : Belching
उद्गार अवरोधं (udgāra avarodhaṁ) : Suppression of belching
उद्गार प्राचुर्यं (udgāra prācuryaṁ) : Excessive belching
उद्गार बाहुल्यं (udgāra bāhulyaṁ) : Excessive belching
उद्गार भूरिता (udgāra bhūritā) : Excessive belching
उद्गार रोध (udgāra rodha) : Suppression of belching
उद्गार विघातनं (udgāra vighātanaṁ) : Supression of belching
उद्गार विनिग्रह (udgāra vinigraha) : Suppression of belching
उद्गार विबन्ध (udgāra vibandha) : Suppression of belching
उद्गारप्रबल छर्दि (udgāraprabala chardi) : Vomiting with excessive belching
उद्गारसङ्ग (udgārasaṅga) : Suppression of belching
उद्घर्षण (udgharṣaṇa) : The act of rubbing the body with powder opposite direction ie. opposite to hair follicles.
उद्देशः (uddeśaḥ) : Concise statement; statements briefly enunciating a theme or an object
उद्धस्त दर्शनः (uddhasta darśanaḥ) : Abnormal look
उद्धस्त बाहु (uddhasta bāhu) : Raised upper limb
उद्धारः (uddhāraḥ) : Re-affirmation; statements which are reaffirmed after refuting the views of others
उद्धूयमान (uddhūyamāna) : Tremor
उद्ध्वंस कण्ठ (uddhvaṁsa kaṇṭha) : Irritation in the throat
उद्भिदज (udbhidaja) : organisms believed to be originated from soil
उद्यानं इच्छा (udyānaṁ icchā) : Fond of Garden
उद्वमनं (udvamanaṁ) : Vomitting
उद्वर्तनं चर्मस्य (udvartanaṁ carmasya) : Tortuous skin
उद्वस्त्र (udvastra) : Nudity or Exibitinalism
उद्वहन भ्रू (udvahana bhrū) : Frowning of the eyebrow
उद्वृत (udvṛta) : Raised or elevated
उद्वेग (udvega) : Inopportune excitement; anxiety
उद्वेपन (udvepana) : Tremor
उद्वेष्टन (udveṣṭana) : Cramps in the body
उन्दुर (undura) : Rats.
उन्नत (unnata) : Raised or elevated
उन्निद्रता (unnidratā) : Sleeplessness
उन्मत्तचित्तत्वं (unmattacittatvaṁ) : Perplexed mind
उन्मत्तलीलाकृति (unmattalīlākṛti) : Intoxicated disposition
उन्मर्दन (unmardana) : Massaging in upward direction or opposite to hair root, towards the heart is unmardana. Also called as Kneading
उन्मीलनाक्षम (unmīlanākṣama) : Restricted movement of eyelid
उन्मुख (unmukha) : Upward looking face
उन्मेष (unmeṣa) : Opening of eyelids
उन्मेषण्यः सिराः (unmeṣaṇyaḥ sirāḥ) : Nerves of the levator palpebrae superioris (from occulomotor)
उपक्लेद (upakleda) : Wet / moistening; an action attributed to Jala mahābhūta
उपघात (upaghāta) : Pain or loss of function
उपचय (upacaya) : Increase in growth; anabolism; an action attributed to pṛthvī mahābhūta
उपचार विरुद्ध (upacāra viruddha) : Prescription – cold things after taking ghee etc will come under the unwholesome of prescription.
उपजिह्विके (upajihvike) : Palatine tonsils. A mass of lymphatic tissue that lies in tonsillar fossa on each side of oropharynx between glosso palatine and pharyngio-palatine arches.
उपताप (upatāpa) : Weakness
उपद (upada) : Generally translated as Allurement. Allurement is the greatest cause of all sorts of miseries and the abode of miseries. Renunciation eliminates all sorts of miseries.
उपदेशः (upadeśaḥ) : Authoritative instructions; statements of enlightened persons which are in the form of advice or injunction
उपदेह (upadeha) : Feeling of Coating
उपधातु (upadhātu) : The minor structural components that stabilize and sustain the body.
उपधान (upadhāna) : A modality for treatment of poisoning Incision made on scalp (vertex) resembling the feet of the crow and then applying medicated paste or placing meat of goat, cow or buffalo over the incised scalp, which will absorb the poison from the body.
उपनखम् (upanakham) : Nail fold. A groove in the cutaneous tissue surrounding the margins and proximal edges of nail
उपनयः (upanayaḥ) : step of discussion and interpretation of hypothesis which bring the argument nearer to the truth
उपनासिका सिरा (upanāsikā sirā) : Anterior facial vein, near the nose.(Angular vein)
उपनाह (upanāha) : Poultice- application of these poultice which are prepared by substances which are unctuous, heavy, hot in properties, helps to pacify the vitiated vata.
उपप्लवः (upaplavaḥ) : Affliction
उपभोग (upabhoga) : Enjoyment, eating, Use, consuming
उपमा (upamā) : Simility; a basis for nomenclature of plants
उपमानम् (upamānam) : Analogy ; one of the tools of examination or investigation
उपयोक्ता (upayoktā) : One who consumes the food according to the prescribed method of dietics for the healthy & the sick
उपयोगसंस्था (upayogasaṁsthā) : Denotes the rules for Eating. It depends on the digested food.
उपरत्न (uparatna) : A class of following semi precious stones
उपरम (uparama) : Weakness or Loss
उपरोध (uparodha) : Suppression, Diminished
उपलेप (upalepa) : Coating
उपविषः (upaviṣaḥ) : A class of following semi poisonous plants
उपशोष (upaśoṣa) : Wasting
उपशोषणं (upaśoṣaṇaṁ) : substances that absorbs secretions
उपसरण (upasaraṇa) : Melting like feeling
उपसंरोध (upasaṁrodha) : Supression, Diminished
उपस्तम्भ (upastambha) : Supression, Diminished
उपस्तम्भ (upastambha) : It is made out of two words Upa and Stambha, it means Sub pillars. Pillars which supports, strengthens and supports life. It includes Āhara(Food), Nidra(Sleep) and Bramhacharya(celibacy).
उपस्थः (upasthaḥ) : Male or female external genital organs.
उपस्नेह (upasneha) : Coating
उपहति (upahati) : Diminished function
उपायः (upāyaḥ) : Methods , techniques
उपायः (upāyaḥ) : mode and mechanism of drug action
उपालम्भः (upālambhaḥ) : Censure or reproach; the loop-holing of another's reasons with regard to fallacies and invalid reasoning’s
उरः (uraḥ) : Thorax. The part of the human body enclosed by the ribs and sternum. The major seat of Kapha.
उरःकोष्ठः (uraḥkoṣṭhaḥ) : Thoracic cavity. the space lying above the diaphragm and closed within the walls of the thorax.
उरोग्रीवम् (urogrīvam) : Thorax and neck. the part of the body between the base of the neck superiorly and the diaphragm inferiorly.
उर्ध्वत्रिकम् (urdhvatrikam) : Intra scapular region. Area between the scapulae
उर्वीसंज्ञे सिरा (urvīsaṁjñe sirā) : Profunda femoris. Femoral vessels. deep seated branch of femoral artery, femoral vessel
उर्व्यां प्रसारणं सर्पवत् (urvyāṁ prasāraṇaṁ sarpavat) : Crawling.
उलूखलः (ulūkhalaḥ) : A kind of mortar & pesle especially used for pounding of material
उलूखलः (ulūkhalaḥ) : Socket (ball and socket joint. Peg and socket joint). A joint in which the round end of one bone fits into the cavity of other
उल्बण (ulbaṇa) : Chronic/ serious/
उष्ट्रीक्षीर (uṣṭrīkṣīra) : The milk of camel
उष्ण (uṣṇa) : heat/hotness; one of the 20 gurvadi gunas; caused due to activated agni mahābhūta; denotes physiological & pharmacological hotness; manifested by increased agni, improved appetite & digestion, increased motion in channels, pacifies vata, kapha, increases pitta. An attribute of Pitta.
उष्णवर्ज्यो विधिः (uṣṇavarjyo vidhiḥ) : Treatment without heat generating property.
उष्णवातातपैर्दग्धे (uṣṇavātātapairdagdhe) : Sunburn.
उष्णासह (uṣṇāsaha) : Intolerance to heat
उष्णोदक (uṣṇodaka) : water is boiled & reduced to 1/8th or 1/4th or 1/2th of the quantity after boiling
उष्ण्माश्नियात् (uṣṇmāśniyāt) : Hot food treatment- indicated for those who suffer from diseases of kapha, & vata , who have purgation’s, who are in oleation therapy & who's body is free from moisture should be treated with hot foods.
उष्मायनं (uṣmāyanaṁ) : Hotness; Heat
उह्यम् (uhyam) : Deduction; such meaning which are to be reasoned out or guessed from the statement by one's own intelligence
ऊरुः (ūruḥ) : Thigh (femur)
ऊरुनलकः (ūrunalakaḥ) : Femur. the thigh bone extending from hip joint to knee joint
ऊरुपिण्डिका (ūrupiṇḍikā) : Quadricipatal Prominence of the thigh.
ऊरुमूअलम् (ūrumūalam) : Groin, inguinal region. Inguin. the depression between thigh and the trunk
ऊर्जस्करं (ūrjaskaraṁ) : substances that are primarily used for promoting health;
ऊर्ध्वकायः (ūrdhvakāyaḥ) : Upper part of the body
ऊर्ध्वकोष्ठः (ūrdhvakoṣṭhaḥ) : Part of the alimentary canal up to the stomach.
ऊर्ध्वजत्रु (ūrdhvajatru) : Head & neck. Part above the sternum.
ऊर्ध्वदंतपन्क्ति (ūrdhvadaṁtapankti) : Upper row of the teeth.
ऊर्ध्वदृष्टि (ūrdhvadṛṣṭi) : Looking upwards
ऊर्ध्वपातन (ūrdhvapātana) : A process of materi by which mercury etc. Materials are made to sublime in upward sublimation apparatus
ऊर्ध्वभागं तु मूलजम् (ūrdhvabhāgaṁ tu mūlajam) : The tendency of poison of plant origin is to move upwards and affect the upper body .
ऊर्ध्वाङ्गम् (ūrdhvāṅgam) : Head & neck
ऊर्वस्थि (ūrvasthi) : Femur. The thigh bone extending from hip joint to knee joint
ऊषा (ūṣā) : Burning sensation with restlessness
ऊषा पान (ūṣā pāna) : It’s made up to two words Ushā – early morning, dawn, day break and refers to drink. Pāna - Water which is consumed in the early morning empty stomach.
ऊष्णं अश्नीयात (ūṣṇaṁ aśnīyāta) : Eating warm food – it taste well the eaten food stimulates the digestive fire.
ऊष्णीष धारण (ūṣṇīṣa dhāraṇa) : Wearing head wear- wearing ușnīșa bestows complex, is good for hairs, and prevents dust& wind.
ऊष्मा (ūṣmā) : Hotness; Heat
ऋतु सन्धि (ṛtu sandhi) : Seasonal juncture, transitional period between two seasons - last seven days of a season and the first seven days of next season. In this period, one should taper the regimens of the previous rtu and practice those of the next Rtu in gradual, phased manner. Immediate abandoning and adoptionof regimens will cause various diseases due to improper adoptation.
ऋतुचर्यअ (ṛtucaryaa) : Two months together are called a ŗtu. Ŗtucarya denotes the work or duties which are to be carried out during each Rtu, it includes seasonal food intake, seasonal activities and Seasonal cleansing process(Rtu Anusara śodhana)
एककाल भोजन (ekakāla bhojana) : Food should be given once a day in order to stimulate digestive fire. In certain condition to ignite the digestive fire in Agnimandy condition, this process of having meal per day is adopted.
एकदंष्ट्रार्दित (ekadaṁṣṭrārdita) : If bitten by poisonous frog (toad), then there will be the mark of only one fang.
एकदेशसाध्यत्व (ekadeśasādhyatva) : Different parts different effects; properties & actions are specific to the part of the substance;
एकपिण्डम् (ekapiṇḍam) : Making the material in homogenous mass by the process of grinding , rubbing, pounding 2.in the form of solid doses
एकवासरः (ekavāsaraḥ) : the preparations or medicated oil & gudpaka etc. are advised not to process in a single day
एकान्तः (ekāntaḥ) : Statements which are absolute, not differing from context to context and could not be modified.
एभ्योऽन्यथा चिकित्स्याः (ebhyo'nyathā cikitsyāḥ) : Poisoned patients without the signs of (imminent) death should be treated. धचक्रकत्स्मा्
ऐतिह्यम् (aitihyam) : Historical authoritative testimony.
ऐश्वर्य (aiśvarya) : 1. Supremacy, Sovereignty 2. of such powers as vision , audition , cogitation , discrimination , and omniscience ; and of active powers such as swiftness of thought , power of assuming forms at will , and faculty of expatiation
ओकसात्म्य (okasātmya) : The daily activities and food which are adapted to the body by habitual use.
ओजस् (ojas) : The essence of all seven Dhātus, that is vital for life. Also indicates Bala (immunity). It is of two types
ओजस्कर (ojaskara) : the substance or process which promotes immunity and vitality
ओजस्विन् (ojasvin) : Enthusiastic
ओदन (odana) : Rice preparation- Prepared with 5 parts of water and 1 part of rice. Prepared of well cleaned grains, devoid of water, well cooked and warm and light.
ओष (oṣa) : Burning sensation with sweating and restlessness. Localized burning sensation.
ओष्ठः (oṣṭhaḥ) : Lips
ओष्ठ क्षेप (oṣṭha kṣepa) : Biting lips
ओष्ठप्रान्तौ (oṣṭhaprāntau) : Angles of the mouth
ओष्ठसन्दशनम् (oṣṭhasandaśanam) : Biting of lips
ओष्ठौ (oṣṭhau) : Lips or Labia. Soft external structure that forms the boundary of the mouth.
ओसध (Osadha) : Those varieties of vegetable kingdom which are self destroyed soon after maturity of their fruit. Such as wheat, paddy, Sorghum etc which perish after harvesting
औत्सुक्य (autsukya) : Excitement
औदक मांस (audaka māṁsa) : Flesh of aquatic variety
औद्भिद गन (audbhida gana) : All substances of plant origin organized and unorganized.
औद्भिद जल (audbhida jala) : Artesian well – water which springs from the earth and flows like a large spring.
औद्भिद लवण (audbhida lavaṇa) : Salts derived from plants
औपनासिक्य सिरा (aupanāsikya sirā) : veins of the nose-Anterior facial vein, near the nose.(Angular vein)
औपम्यम् (aupamyam) : the statement based on similarity
औपसर्गिक रोग (aupasargika roga) : A clinically manifested disease of man resulting in the spread to another person; Communicable Disease
औपाधिक (aupādhika) : relating to or depending on special qualities , limited by particular conditions , valid only under particular suppositions
औषध (auṣadha) : medicine / drug
औषधि (auṣadhi) : herbs having limited life cycle till fruiting or maturity i.e. annual plants
औषधि युक्त भोजन (auṣadhi yukta bhojana) : Medicine mixed with food- for those who have aversion to words the medicines, for them food should be given mixed with medicine. Childrens and alpa Satva persons will come under this categories.
औष्ण्य (auṣṇya) : Hotness
कक्षः कक्षा वा (kakṣaḥ kakṣā vā) : Axilla, Armpit
कचाः (kacāḥ) : Hairs
कचान्तः (kacāntaḥ) : Boundary where the hairs end.
कंचुक (kaṁcuka) : Thin film formed due to oxidation of associated impurities especially seen in mercury
कच्छपसंस्थान (kacchapasaṁsthāna) : Elevated like the shape of tortoise
कज्जली (kajjalī) : A Black sulphide of mercury prepared by rubbing the gandhak etc in different proportions with mercury in a mortar and pestle
कटकटायनत्व (kaṭakaṭāyanatva) : Gnashing of the teeth
कटिः / कटी (kaṭiḥ / kaṭī) : (1) Loins, lumbus. (2) Pelvis. (3) Waist
कटि कपालः (kaṭi kapālaḥ) : Hip bone
कटिसन्धिः (kaṭisandhiḥ) : Hip joint
कटी प्रोथः (kaṭī prothaḥ) : Natis. Buttock. Gluteal Prominence. Haunch.
कटु (kaṭu) : 1. Pungent; One among six rasa. 2. Synonym of Katuki(Picrorrhiza kurroa) and Rajika(Brassica juncea).
कटु रसता (kaṭu rasatā) : Pungent taste or Taste of Chillies
कटु स्कन्ध (kaṭu skandha) : Group of drugs having actions attributed to pungent taste.
कट्यन्त्रम् (kaṭyantram) : Large intestine
कट्वर (kaṭvara) : curd is churned without adding water along with butter
कठिन (kaṭhina) : Hardness; one among 20 gurvadi gunas. Caused due activated prithvi; denotes physiological & pharmacological hardness; causes hardening/ consolidation.
कणभ (kaṇabha) : Hornet.
कण्टक (kaṇṭaka) : spines of a plant
कण्टक शोधनम् (kaṇṭaka śodhanam) : Criminal investigation & legal punishment of offenders.
कण्ठः / कण्ठं (kaṇṭhaḥ / kaṇṭhaṁ) : (1) Larynx. (2) Front of the neck. (3) Throat
कण्ठ कूजनं (kaṇṭha kūjanaṁ) : Voice resembles the sound of pigeon
कण्ठेश्वयथु (kaṇṭheśvayathu) : Laryngeal oedema which is produced by Rajimān (kraits) snake bite.
कण्ठोध्वंस (kaṇṭhodhvaṁsa) : Irritation in the throat.
कण्ठोपलेप (kaṇṭhopalepa) : Mucus coating in throat
कण्ठ्य (kaṇṭhya) : Promoter/beneficial for Throat or Voice
कण्डराभा (kaṇḍarābhā) : Color of tendon.
कण्डितं (kaṇḍitaṁ) : made into small pieces
कण्डू (kaṇḍū) : Itching
कण्डेक्षुतुल्य (kaṇḍekṣutulya) : Resembling cane sugar juice
कथा इच्छा (kathā icchā) : Fond of gossip.
कनक (kanaka) : Element Gold-Aurum with symbol Au at At. no 79
कनिष्ठिका कनिष्ठा वा (kaniṣṭhikā kaniṣṭhā vā) : Little finger or toe
कनीन कनीनकौ वा (kanīna kanīnakau vā) : Inner canthus, Medial angle of eye
कनीन सन्धिः (kanīna sandhiḥ) : Inner canthus, Medial angle of eye
कन्द (kanda) : Rhizome / Bulb / Tuber
कन्द वर्ग (kanda varga) : Group of rhizome/bulb/tuber;
कन्दुक यंत्र (kanduka yaṁtra) : An apparatus in which the cinnabar is bundled and legated with threads to make it like ball for extraction of mercury.
कन्धरः (kandharaḥ) : Neck
कपालः (kapālaḥ) : Scalp
कपिल (kapila) : Tawny color
कपोत इव कूजनं (kapota iva kūjanaṁ) : Voice resembles the sound of pigeon
कपोत वर्ण प्रतिमा (kapota varṇa pratimā) : Color of pigeon
कपोताभ (kapotābha) : Color of pigeon
कपोलः (kapolaḥ) : Cheek. Side of the face forming the lateral wall of the mouth below the eye
कफ (kapha) : A synonym for Śleṣmā. One of the three bodily Doṣas responsible for stability, unctousness, lubrication, immunity, and cohesion. This is predominant of Pṛthvi and Jala Mahābhūtas. The attributes of Kapha are
कफ कोपन (kapha kopana) : Substances that vitiates Kapha dosha
कफ सम्पूर्ण इव (kapha sampūrṇa iva) : Feels as chest filled with mucus
कफ संशमन (kapha saṁśamana) : Substances that pacify vitiated Kapha dosha
कफ संस्राव (kapha saṁsrāva) : diQlalzko% diQ"Bhoua (Vij.M.N.10.3), diQlalzko% 'ys"elzqfr (Dal.S.U.57.5)
कफदिग्ध शिरः (kaphadigdha śiraḥ) : Feels as head filled with mucus
कफनिष्ठीव (kaphaniṣṭhīva) : Mucus spitting
कफप्रसेकः (kaphaprasekaḥ) : Mucus discharge through mouth; Salivation
कफप्रसेवः (kaphaprasevaḥ) : Mucus discharge through mouth
कफमव्यक्तरसत्वाद् अन्नरसांश्चानुवर्तते शीघ्रम् (kaphamavyaktarasatvād annarasāṁścānuvartate śīghram) : Because of indistinct taste property of poison it causes aggravation of kapha and it quickly disturbs taste of food.
कफरुद्ध कण्ठ (kapharuddha kaṇṭha) : mucus discharge through mouth
कफस्थानानि (kaphasthānāni) : Seats of the kapha as described in the text.
कफस्रुति (kaphasruti) : Mucus discharge through mouth
कफाधिकं (kaphādhikaṁ) : Mucus in excess
कफानुगतं (kaphānugataṁ) : Mucus followed by stool
कफानुविद्धं छर्दि (kaphānuviddhaṁ chardi) : Mucus along with Vomit
कफाशयः (kaphāśayaḥ) : Kaphasthanani especially chest, stomach & head.
कफोणिः (kaphoṇiḥ) : Elbow. The joint of the arm and the forearm
कफोत्क्लेश (kaphotkleśa) : Mucus discharge through mouth
कफोपदिग्ध कण्ठ (kaphopadigdha kaṇṭha) : Mucus coating in throat
कमल पत्र वर्ण (kamala patra varṇa) : Color of lotus leaf
कम्प (kampa) : Tremor, to vibrate
कयुष्ठवर्ण (kayuṣṭhavarṇa) : Color of Garcinia morella
करः (karaḥ) : Hand or Manus. the part of the body attached to the forearm at wrist
करजाः (karajāḥ) : Nails. A horny cell structure of the epidermis forming flag plates upon the dorsal surface of the terminal phalanges.
करण (karaṇa) : The means or instrument by which an action is effected , the idea expressed by the instrumental cause, instrumentality
करण (karaṇa) : Processing in the making /refinement of the natural products which means imparting other properties. These properties are infused by contact of water & fire, cleaning, churning,time,utensils etc.
करणम् (karaṇam) : 1. Subordinate cause 2. Sensory and motor organ 3. medicines
करणानि (karaṇāni) : Intellectual, sensory and some functioning organs of the faculties.
करभकपिल (karabhakapila) : Tawny color like camel
करमध्य (karamadhya) : A unit of Measurement; Synonym of one karsha=12g of metric units
करमूलम् (karamūlam) : Wrist. the joint between the arm and the forearm
करवीरक (karavīraka) : Nerium odorum and Thevetia nerifolia, both are varieties of karveer plant, which is mentioned in poisonous plants having poison in its roots (all parts are poisonous as per toxicology).
कराल दन्त (karāla danta) : Uneven teeth
करीर (karīra) : Fleshy growth
करीषग्नि (karīṣagni) : Fire of cow dung applied for mild & consistent heating
कर्कश (karkaśa) : Rough
कर्कशता (karkaśatā) : Roughness
कर्ण (karṇa) : Ear. One of the five sense organs. Hearing apparatus.
कर्णः (karṇaḥ) : Ear. The organ of hearing
कर्ण शब्द (karṇa śabda) : Flute like sound in the ear.
कर्ण स्रोतः (karṇa srotaḥ) : External auditory meatus. the canal which transmits the sound waves from the exterior to the tympanic membrane
कर्णक्ष्वेडः (karṇakṣveḍaḥ) : Tinnitus
कर्णनाडी (karṇanāḍī) : External auditory canal. The canal which transmits the sound waves from the exterior to the tympanic membrane
कर्णनादं (karṇanādaṁ) : Flute like sound in the ear.
कर्णनासक्षि हीन दर्शनं (karṇanāsakṣi hīna darśanaṁ) : Sees objects with defective organs before eyes
कर्णपीठं (karṇapīṭhaṁ) : (1) Bottom of the conche. (2) Lobule of the ear
कर्णपुत्रकः (karṇaputrakaḥ) : Tragus. The cartilaginous projection in front of the exterior meatus of the ear
कर्णपुत्रिका (karṇaputrikā) : Antitragus (Tragus - Sen). a projection on the ear of the cartilage of auricle in front of the tail of the helix, posterior to tragus
कर्णपृष्ठम् (karṇapṛṣṭham) : Mastoid region. A process of the temporal bone.
कर्णपोओरन (karṇapoorana) : It’s a part of daily regimen in this process oil is poured in to ears. It prevents ailments of head and neck.
कर्णमर्दन (karṇamardana) : Rubbing of ear
कर्णमूलम् (karṇamūlam) : Parotid region (Parotid mould or bed). The region located near to the ear
कर्णलतिका (karṇalatikā) : Lobule of the ear
कर्णशष्कुलिका (karṇaśaṣkulikā) : Pinna. Auricle. The auricle or the projected part of external ear
कर्णावटुः (karṇāvaṭuḥ) : Cavum, concha of the ear. the concavity on the median surface of the auricle of ear
कर्णिका (karṇikā) : Spike like projection
कर्णिका (karṇikā) : Polyp like granulomatous growth developed when there is bite of poisonous insect/ rat.
कर्णिकापातनं (karṇikāpātanaṁ) : Removal or excision of granulomatous growth in the wound which is caused due to bite by the insects, spiders & rats.
कर्तन (kartana) : Cutting
कर्तनं (kartanaṁ) : Cutting pain.
कर्ता (kartā) : implies for physician or synonymous of soul
कर्दम इव (kardama iva) : Resembles wet mud
कर्दमाभं (kardamābhaṁ) : Color of wet mud
कर्दमांभोनिभं (kardamāṁbhonibhaṁ) : Color of wet mud
कर्दमोपम (kardamopama) : Resembles wet mud
कर्पर पाचन (karpara pācana) : A method of Cooking, is classified under Krittana Varga in which hot pans are used, e.g. Pancakes, Dosa etc.
कर्पूरः (karpūraḥ) : Elbow. The joint between the arm and forearm.
कर्बुर (karbura) : Multiple color
कर्म (karma) : 1. One among the six causative factors which resides in substance and responsible for pharmacological action 2. efforts done by body senses and mind
कर्म (karma) : action; mainly pharmacological action arising out of breakdown & resynthesis at the mahabhautika level;
कर्म उपरति (karma uparati) : Loss of motor function
कर्मक्षय (karmakṣaya) : Loss of motor function
कर्मोपरमः (karmoparamaḥ) : Loss of motor function.
कर्षः (karṣaḥ) : A unit of Measurement; Two kolas will make one karsha= 12 g of metric units
कलश (kalaśa) : A unit of Measurement; Synonym of one drona=12.288 kg/l of metric units
कलह इच्छा (kalaha icchā) : Fond of quarrelling
कला (kalā) : 1. A covering membrane 2. A division of time
कलांश (kalāṁśa) : It is a measure indicating 1/16th part, Shodash kala
कलि इच्छा (kali icchā) : Fond of quarrelling
कलुषः (kaluṣaḥ) : Turbid
कलुष दर्शनं (kaluṣa darśanaṁ) : Hazy vision
कल्क (kalka) : Paste prepared by grinding with or without addition of water on stone slab/ machine
कल्पित स्वप्न (kalpita svapna) : Dreams of imagination
कवचाभर्णेषु (kavacābharṇeṣu) : Mode of administration of poison via armour and ornaments.
कवल (kavala) : Holding the little quantity of liquid (medicinal decoctions/ Luke warm water/medicinal oils) in buckle cavity, make it move briskly inside and spitting out.
कवलग्रह (kavalagraha) : A unit of Measurement; Synonym of one karsha=12g of metric units
कशेरुका (kaśerukā) : Vertebra - Any of the 33 bony segments of the spinal column.
कषण कण्ठ (kaṣaṇa kaṇṭha) : Irritation
कषाय (kaṣāya) : Boiled & filtered decoction of herbs, used for the therapeutics & pharmaceutical manufacturing
कषाय (kaṣāya) : Astringent; One among the six Rasas.
कषाय वस्त्र (kaṣāya vastra) : These kinds of clothes have qualities like cold, decreases heat, decreases pitta dosa. It is best suited in summer season, also used by saint’s priests during perform ritual acts, yaga etc.
कषाय स्कन्ध (kaṣāya skandha) : Group of Drugs having actions attributed to astringent taste.
कषायवर्णं (kaṣāyavarṇaṁ) : Color of decoction
कषायानुरसं (kaṣāyānurasaṁ) : Astringent taste in lesser grade
कंसनील (kaṁsanīla) : Bluish color like in dirt of bronze.
कंस्यसमछाय दृष्टिमण्डल (kaṁsyasamachāya dṛṣṭimaṇḍala) : Bronze colored pupil
कंस्याभ दृष्टिमण्डल (kaṁsyābha dṛṣṭimaṇḍala) : Color of Abrus precatorius
काकतुल्यगन्ध (kākatulyagandha) : Smell of crow
काकपदं (kākapadaṁ) : If there is no remedy for poisoning, it is the last line of treatment, in which incision is made on the scalp of the shape of crow’s feet, and on that the medicine is kept.
काकलं / काकलकं (kākalaṁ / kākalakaṁ) : Uvula. Small soft structure hanging from free edge of soft palate in the midline above the root of the tongue
काकवत् पूर्ति (kākavat pūrti) : Smell of crow
काङ्क्षा (kāṅkṣā) : Desire
काङ्क्षाविनाश (kāṅkṣāvināśa) : Lack of interest
काचकूपी (kācakūpī) : Glass flask
काचनीलाभ (kācanīlābha) : Bluelish glass colored
काचभाजन (kācabhājana) : Glass bottle
काच्चिकाभ (kāccikābha) : Color of gruel
कांजिक (kāṁjika) : Acidic fermented gruel/vinegar it is used for different pharmaceutical process
कांजी (kāṁjī) : Prepared by using cereals( rice & horse gram) and pulses and fermented till it attains acidity
काठिन्यं (kāṭhinyaṁ) : Hardness
काठिन्यचर्मकोश (kāṭhinyacarmakośa) : Hardness of the foreskin of the penis
काण्डं/ काण्डो (kāṇḍaṁ/ kāṇḍo) : Bone, especially shaft of the bone. Dense connective tissue
काण्डेक्षु इव (kāṇḍekṣu iva) : Resembling cane sugar juice
काण्डेक्षु सङ्काशं (kāṇḍekṣu saṅkāśaṁ) : Resembling cane sugar juice
कादम्बरी (kādambarī) : This is the denser layer of liquid below prasanna
काम (kāma) : Enjoyment
कामता (kāmatā) : Desire
कामिता (kāmitā) : Desire
कामुकत्व (kāmukatva) : Desire
काम्बलिक (kāmbalika) : It is a kind of yusha (soup) preparation, in which the 1 part of whey (Dadhimastu) and 1/8th part of green gram are boiled. When pulses get boil completely then powder of salt, ginger, cumin seeds, pepper etc are added, mixed well and used.
कायच्छिद्राणि (kāyacchidrāṇi) : Apertures of the body.
कायाग्नि (kāyāgni) : All factors responsible for digestion and metabolism / transformation.
कार (kāra) : it is a source of water which comes under Antariksha Jala( rain water). Water which is drawn after liquefication of hail stones. Qualities of this water are pure and soft.
कारण द्रव्य (kāraṇa dravya) : Causative substances that are said to be the cause of manifestation of all other substances; nine in number.
कार्कश्य (kārkaśya) : Rough
कार्य (kārya) : the objective of physician to maintain the equilibrium of the body humors
कार्य द्रव्य (kārya dravya) : Effectual substances that are manifestations of the 9 causal substances, e.g. Tinospora cordifolia, Withania somnifera
कार्यफलं सुखावाप्ति (kāryaphalaṁ sukhāvāpti) : Result of the act is attainment of happiness. It is known by satisfaction of mind intellect, sense organs & the body.
कार्यफलम् (kāryaphalam) : the outcome of intervention in the form of healthy state
कार्ययोनिः (kāryayoniḥ) : Intimate cause of illness
कार्याकार्यविभागज्ञः (kāryākāryavibhāgajñaḥ) : Loss of knowledge.
कार्श्य (kārśya) : Thinness, emaciation, leanness
कार्ष्ण (kārṣṇa) : Blackish discoloration of the skin
काल (kāla) : Time in general ,the point or period when something occurs , Proper time or occasion, time of the death
काल (kāla) : Kala is of two types Nityaga and Avasthika Kala.Externally moving time is Nityaga and conditional moving time is Avasthika.
काल मृत्यु (kāla mṛtyu) : Timely death, death in due time which means the life force residing in the body being endowed with full vitality by nature and maintained in the right manner will come to an end only with the complete wearing out of itself.
काल रात्रि (kāla rātri) : The night of all destroying time, night of destruction, the end of the world, and the night of man’s death. This context is explained while describing the ill effect of sleep, i.e. excessive, untimely and negatively take away the happiness and life like other death night.
काल वाक् (kāla vāk) : Indistinct speech
काल विरुद्ध (kāla viruddha) : It is a type of incompatibility (Virudda).Intake of cold and dry substances in winter; pungent and hot substance in the summer is a timely unwholesome diet/ drugs.
कालखण्ड (kālakhaṇḍa) : Liver. largest organ in the body situated on the right side below the diaphragm
कालज बल (kālaja bala) : Temporal strength, acquired immunity
कालप्रकर्ष (kālaprakarṣa) : Keeping the food articles for certain time and duration to get desirable modulation in properties. It a type of Samskara.
कालवर्ण (kālavarṇa) : Black color
कालान्तर विपाकी (kālāntara vipākī) : Poison with delayed action, garavisha as it takes some time to get assimilated in the body to produce its toxic effects.
कालियकं / कालेयकं (kāliyakaṁ / kāleyakaṁ) : Pancreas. A compound acino tubular gland situated behind the stomach in front of first and second lumbar vertebra
काष्ठे रश्मिभिर्वा हतम् (kāṣṭhe raśmibhirvā hatam) : One bespattered with blood, with limbs broken or dislocated should be regarded as slain with sticks or whip. हतभ ्
काष्ठौषधि (kāṣṭhauṣadhi) : Materials from Herbal kingdom
कास (kāsa) : Cough
कासहर (kāsahara) : Substances that relieve cough;
किटिभ (kiṭibha) : A manifestation of dushivisha which has characteristics similar to psoriasis.
किट्ट (kiṭṭa) : 1. Slag obtained in the process of satvapatana 2. type of iron oxide - mandura and other metals
किट्ट (kiṭṭa) : Waste products
किणः अघर्षणाग्रन्थिः (kiṇaḥ agharṣaṇāgranthiḥ) : Rough skin resembles callous or cicatrix.
किणखरस्पर्श (kiṇakharasparśa) : fd.kor~ [kjLi'kZ ;Lr rr~ fd.k[kjLi'k±] fd.k% oz.kLFkkua (Chakra.C.Ci.7.22)
किण्वक (kiṇvaka) : Synonym of surabija-seed
किंशुकोदकसङ्काशं (kiṁśukodakasaṅkāśaṁ) : Color of washing of Ervethrina indica
किंशुकोदकाभ (kiṁśukodakābha) : Color of washing of Ervethrina indica
कीट (kīṭa) : These are different types of insects which have powerful sting organs with which they inject poison into the body.
कीटका सर्पन्ति इव (kīṭakā sarpanti iva) : Formication
कीटविषेचापि स्वेदो न प्रतिषिध्यते (kīṭaviṣecāpi svedo na pratiṣidhyate) : Measure of fomentation (sweda) is not forbidden in a case of insect bite because the poison of an insect is mild and applications of heat do not increase its potency.
कीटैर्दष्टानुग्रविषैःसर्पवत् समुपाचारेत् (kīṭairdaṣṭānugraviṣaiḥsarpavat samupācāret) : A bite by a strongly poisoned insect should be treated like poisoned snake bite to all intents and purposes.
कीलं (kīlaṁ) : Fleshy growth, Piles in rectum
कीलकौ (kīlakau) : Clavicles. The collarbone, curved like the letter 'f' which articulates with sternum and scapula.
कीलाट (kīlāṭa) : Coagulated milk is a solid part prepared by adding milk to buttermilk or curd.
कुकुन्दरौ (kukundarau) : (1) Highest nerve of the iliac crest, on both sides (2) Ischial tuberosity
कुकूलपाचन (kukūlapācana) : Cooking with steam exp- Iddali, Ata, Puttu etc
कुक्कुटपुट (kukkuṭapuṭa) : A graded heating system- heat applied with cow dung cakes on surface of the earth
कुक्षि (kukṣi) : (1) Abdomen, (2) Flank. The portion of the trunk located between the pelvis and the thorax.
कुक्षिगोलकौ (kukṣigolakau) : Kidneys. Renes. Paired retroperitoneal organs on each side of vertebral column.
कुक्षिग्रह (kukṣigraha) : Gripping pain in abdomen
कुचः (kucaḥ) : Breast
कुचौ (kucau) : Breast, Mammary glands. Compound alveolar gland consisting of 15 to 20 lobes of glandualr tissue
कुञ्चनं (kuñcanaṁ) : Gurgling sound
कुटिलं (kuṭilaṁ) : Asymmetrical, blended, Curled
कुटिल सिरा (kuṭila sirā) : Varicose vein. Enlarged twisted superficial vein.
कुटिलोपस्थं (kuṭilopasthaṁ) : Blended penis
कुट्कास्थि (kuṭkāsthi) : Coccyx or Sacrum coccyx. Small bone at the base of vertebral column.
कुट्टयित्वा (kuṭṭayitvā) : Pounding
कुडव (kuḍava) : A unit of Measurement; Four pala are equal to one kudava = 192 g of
कुणपं (kuṇapaṁ) : Dead body
कुणपगन्ध (kuṇapagandha) : Cadaverous smell
कुणपप्रकाशं (kuṇapaprakāśaṁ) : Cadaverous smell
कुणित्व (kuṇitva) : Opened eyelid.
कुण्ठकोणाग्रम् (kuṇṭhakoṇāgram) : A property of material
कुण्डल दर्शनं (kuṇḍala darśanaṁ) : Sees ear ring like objects before eyes
कुण्डलानि (kuṇḍalāni) : Coils or loop of the intestine.
कुथित कफ (kuthita kapha) : Sputum with fetid smell
कुधान्य वर्ग (kudhānya varga) : Group of inferior quality grain.
कुन्थता (kunthatā) : Loss of motor function of hand
कुन्दकुसुमैः आचितं (kundakusumaiḥ ācitaṁ) : Sees objects covered by the color of Jasmine iva darśanaṁ इि दशशनॊ
कुन्दपाण्डुर दृष्टिमण्डल (kundapāṇḍura dṛṣṭimaṇḍala) : Jasmine like pale colored pupil
कुन्दाकृति अवभास (kundākṛti avabhāsa) : Color of Jasmine bud
कुप्यत्येभ्रेशु निर्हृतम् (kupyatyebhreśu nirhṛtam) : The poison of venomous rat/ mole even though apparently eliminated from the system may, sometimes, still get aggravated repeatedly on cloudy days or in foul weather.
कुमुदिनि (kumudini) : one of the synonym of crucible used for different pharmaceutical processes such as in extraction of metals
कुमुदैः आचितं इव (kumudaiḥ ācitaṁ iva) : Sees objects covered by the color of white water lily darśanaṁ
कुम्भ (kumbha) : 1. A unit of Measurement; Two combined drona will make one kumbha= 24.576 kg/l of metric units 2. an earthen pot used for processing & storing the material
कुम्भीक (kumbhīka) : The man who first becomes a passive member of an act of sodomy to gain erection and then commits the act of sex with a woman is called kumbheek.
कुयुमवण (kuyumavaṇa) : Color of saffron flower
कुर्याद (kuryāda) : Prepare
कुष्ठघ्न (kuṣṭhaghna) : Substances indicated for skin disorders.
कुष्णतां मांस (kuṣṇatāṁ māṁsa) : Putrefaction of flesh
कुसेशयदलच्छायं (kuseśayadalacchāyaṁ) : Resembles the color of the petals of red lotus -ma property of mineral
कुहणिका (kuhaṇikā) : Elbow. The joint between the arm and the forearm.
कूजति (kūjati) : Voice resembles the sound of pigeon
कूजनं (kūjanaṁ) : Cooing Sound
कूपिका (kūpikā) : Glass flask/ bottle
कूपित उच्छवास (kūpita ucchavāsa) : Laboured breath
कूयकं (kūyakaṁ) : Hair follicles. An invagination of the epidermis from which a hair develops.
कूर्चिका (kūrcikā) : Milk is heated and mixed with buttermilk or curd to obtain koorcikā is a uniformly semi-solid substance. Best used in Vataja and Pittaja disorders.
कूर्परः (kūrparaḥ) : Elbow
कूर्परास्थि (kūrparāsthi) : Olecranon process. Hook like projection on the superior end of ulna.
कूर्मपृष्ठवत् कठिन (kūrmapṛṣṭhavat kaṭhina) : Hardness like the outer side of tortoise
कूर्माभ (kūrmābha) : It is a characteristic feature of darvikara snake (group of cobra snake variety) bite having swelling resembling with shell of tortoise.
कूर्मोन्नता जिह्वा (kūrmonnatā jihvā) : Elevated like the shape of tortoise
कृकण्टक (kṛkaṇṭaka) : It is chameleon, belonging to reptile family, containing poison in its saliva.
कृकलाभ (kṛkalābha) : Chameleon
कृच्छ्र (kṛcchra) : Difficult functioning
कृच्छ्रपाकः (kṛcchrapākaḥ) : Delayed digestion
कृच्छ्रलक्ष्याक्षरं (kṛcchralakṣyākṣaraṁ) : Indistinguishable voice
कृच्छ्रोन्मीलनं (kṛcchronmīlanaṁ) : Difficulty in opening eye.
कृत (kṛta) : material is fried by using ghee or oil by addition of pungents, mustard, asa foetida & turmeric etc.
कृतघ्नः (kṛtaghnaḥ) : Ungrateful
कृतान्न वर्ग (kṛtānna varga) : Group of prepared foods;Panak, Peya, Krishara
कृत्रिम विष (kṛtrima viṣa) : Artificial/ synthetic poison
कृत्स्न (kṛtsna) : All, Whole, entire
कृमि रोग (kṛmi roga) : Worm infestation
कृमिघ्न (kṛmighna) : Anthelmentics/Antimicrobials; substances indicated in management of worm infestation; both macro- & micro-scopic
कृशता (kṛśatā) : Wasting, Leanness
कृशरा (kṛśarā) : To prepare kṛśarā rice, gram, salt, ginger, asafetida are taken in appropriate quantity and boiled together to obtain. Also called as Khicadi/ Khara Pongal/ one pot preparation. It enhances the Agni (digestive fire) and alleviates Vataja and Pittaja disorders.
कृष्णं चातिस्रवत्यसृक् (kṛṣṇaṁ cātisravatyasṛk) : Bite by a rabid animal results in copious flow of dark blood from the site of bite.
कृष्ण वर्ग (kṛṣṇa varga) : Group of 10 substances that colors mercury viz. Kadali(Musa paradisiacal), Karavellaka(Momordica charantia), etc.
कृष्णतारका (kṛṣṇatārakā) : Iris. The colored contractile membrane suspended between lens and cornea
कृष्णमण्डलम् (kṛṣṇamaṇḍalam) : Iris. The colored contractile membrane suspended between lens and cornea
कृष्णा (kṛṣṇā) : Black color
कृष्णारुणकपाल वर्ण (kṛṣṇāruṇakapāla varṇa) : Color of blackish red
केवलव्यतिरेकि अनुमानं (kevalavyatireki anumānaṁ) : Purely negative concomitance
केवलान्वयि अनुमानं (kevalānvayi anumānaṁ) : Purely positive concomitance
केश (keśa) : Hair
केशपतन (keśapatana) : Falling of hair which is a sign of (imminent) death of poisoned patient.
केशप्रसादन (keśaprasādana) : One among the daily regimen, combing is good for hairs; it removes dust, louse and dirt. Maintains hygiene of head.
केशभूमिः (keśabhūmiḥ) : Field of hairs. Field of hairs
केशयन्त्र (keśayantra) : An apparatus resembling the filter prepared out of the hairs useful for filtration
केशशात् (keśaśāt) : A bad prognostic condition in the patient of snake bite where the hair come off the body, even on the slightest pull.
केश्य (keśya) : 1. Beneficial for the hair. 2. Synonym of Krishnagaru(Aqualaria agollacha) & Bhringaraja (Eclipta alba)
कोकिल (kokila) : Wood charcoal
कोकिलः स्वरवैकृत्यं (kokilaḥ svaravaikṛtyaṁ) : On being poisoned the voice of cuckoo becomes abnormal and hoarse.
कोच (koca) : Contraction
कोटरः (koṭaraḥ) : Orbit or orbital cavity. The bony pyramid shape cavity the skull containing and protect the eyeball.
कोठ (koṭha) : Wheels on the skin.
कोठाः (koṭhāḥ) : It is a symptom seen in third impulse of poisoning which means urticaria.
कोण (koṇa) : A property of minerals and metals
कोथ (kotha) : Suppuration and sloughing, It is a symptom produced by insect of dooshivisha category (causing chronic poisoning).
कोपन (kopana) : Anger
कोपन (kopana) : Aggravating; substances aggravating or initiating the vitiation of doshas.
कोरसन्धयः (korasandhayaḥ) : Condyloid and hinge joints
कोल (kola) : A unit of Measurement; Eight seeds of masha/ two sana will make one seed of kola= 6 g of metric units
कोविदारपुष्पवर्णं (kovidārapuṣpavarṇaṁ) : Color of Bauhinia flower
कोषः (शः) (koṣaḥ (śaḥ)) : Sac/Scrotum/Prepuce. (1)Bag like part of the organ (2) the double pouch of the male hich contains the testicles and part of spermatic cord. (3) The fore skin or fold of skin over the glans penis
कोष्ट विरुद्ध (koṣṭa viruddha) : Bowel unwholesome –Administration of a mild purgative in a small dose for a person of costive bowel and administration of strong purgatives in strong doses for a person having laxed bowel.
कोष्ठ (koṣṭha) : 1. A closed space or area, typically indicative of organs in the abdominal, thoracic and pelvic cavities 2. Physiologically, koṣṭha is also indicative of gastro intestinal tract. Dependending on the dominance of Doṣa, depending on the ability to digest the food, and depending on the bowel movements, the koṣṭha of an individual can be classified as Krūra (hard bowel movements) Mṛdu (soft bowel movements) and Madhya (normal bowel movements).
कोष्ठकं/कोष्ठकास्थि (koṣṭhakaṁ/koṣṭhakāsthi) : Clavicle. Collar bone, which joins acromion of scapula and sternum.
कोष्ठाङ्ग (koṣṭhāṅga) : Viscera/Splanchna. Internal organs enclosed within the cavity especially the abdominal organs.
कोष्ठी (koṣṭhī) : A heating device
कौण्य (kauṇya) : Loss of motor function of hand
कौप (kaupa) : This kind of well water more alkaline due to excessive minerals, which enhance Pitta and Agni. This kind of water is useful in Spring and Summer seasons.
कौब्ज्य (kaubjya) : Dwarfism.
कौर्परसन्धिः/कूर्परसन्धिर्वा (kaurparasandhiḥ/kūrparasandhirvā) : Elbow joint. The joint between arm and forearm
क्रथनं (krathanaṁ) : ØFkua Do.kua (Arun.Ah.N.4.13), ØFku~ dwtu~ (Hem.Ah.N.4.13), ØFku~ ukl;k v‰qra 'kCn oqQoZu~ (???)
क्रन्तनं इच्छा (krantanaṁ icchā) : Fond of walking
क्रम विरुद्द (krama virudda) : Order unwholesome- if a person takes food before his bowel and emptying his urinary bladder or when he does not have an appetite or after his hunger has been aggravated.
क्रमापेक्षित्व (kramāpekṣitva) : Properties and actions of a substance depends upon its current state;
क्रामण (krāmaṇa) : Material is made to spread all over by using various measures.
क्रियाकाल (kriyākāla) : Various stages of evolution of the disease during which a proper intervention can prevent the progress of the disease.
क्रियाक्षयं (kriyākṣayaṁ) : Loss of motor function.
क्रियानिवर्तनं (kriyānivartanaṁ) : Loss of motor function
क्रियासन्निरोधः (kriyāsannirodhaḥ) : Loss of motor and sensory function; Suppressed physical & mental activities
क्रियासु अशक्ति (kriyāsu aśakti) : Loss of motor function
क्रियास्तम्भः (kriyāstambhaḥ) : Loss of motor function
क्रियाहरत्वं बाहु (kriyāharatvaṁ bāhu) : Loss of motor function of upper limb
क्रियाहीनः (kriyāhīnaḥ) : Loss of motor function
क्रुद्धशूरं अक्रुद्धभीरु (kruddhaśūraṁ akruddhabhīru) : Violent when angry and fearful when anger subsides, an indication of mental constitution.
क्रूर कोष्ठ (krūra koṣṭha) : A physiological type of Koṣṭha produced because of the dominance of Vāta. The individual with this type of Koṣṭha, passes hard stools and has irregular digestive ability.
क्रोडः (kroḍaḥ) : Cardiac region. The region contained the heart.
क्रोडपुट (kroḍapuṭa) : A graded heating system- heat given with cow dung cakes equivalent to Varaha puta
क्रोध (krodha) : Anger.
क्रोध (krodha) : Anger
क्रोधविषम् (krodhaviṣam) : Poisoning due to anger Powerful enemies and even the servant and relations of the sovereign in a fit of anger poison the king.
क्रोधेन भासाक्षि (krodhena bhāsākṣi) : Wrathful eye
क्रोशनं श्ववत् (krośanaṁ śvavat) : Making sound of dog
क्रौञ्च (krauñca) : Heron.
क्लम (klama) : Exhaustion without exertion or Feeling of weakness in heart.
क्लमं (klamaṁ) : It is a symptom produced in animate type of poisoning which means mental exhaustion (fatigue).
क्लान्तः (klāntaḥ) : Restless
क्लिन्न (klinna) : Wetting of the material by using prescribed liquids
क्लिन्नं (klinnaṁ) : Moistened, Wet
क्लिप्तीभाव (kliptībhāva) : Retention
क्लीब (klība) : Impotent, neuter, emasculated,
क्लेद (kleda) : Moistened, Wet
क्लेदः (kledaḥ) : Life
क्लेदक कफ (kledaka kapha) : One of the five subtypes of Kapha that causes moistening and loosening of the food particles to help in the process of digestion.
क्लेशयते चिरम् (kleśayate ciram) : Affects for a long time.
क्लैब्यम् (klaibyam) : Impotence; Inability to perform sexual act.
क्लोम (kloma) : Pancreas
क्लोमनाडी (klomanāḍī) : Larynx, Trachea, Bronchi. (1)The enlarged upper end of trachea below the root of trunk. (2) Cylindrical cartilaginous tube. (3) Two main branches leading from the trachea to the lungs.
क्वणनं (kvaṇanaṁ) : Snoring sound
क्वाथ (kvātha) : synonym of kashaya - boiled & filtered liquid of herbs for specific time used for the therapeutics & pharmaceutical manufacturing
क्षणभङ्गुरवाद (kṣaṇabhaṅguravāda) : the ideology which believe that nothing is stable or permanent and every things undergoes through continuous process of decaying
क्षणात् छर्दि (kṣaṇāt chardi) : Sudden vomiting
क्षत (kṣata) : Ulceration
क्षतं (kṣataṁ) : Laceration.
क्षतजं (kṣatajaṁ) : Blood
क्षतजं क्षताच्च नायाति (kṣatajaṁ kṣatācca nāyāti) : It is a sign of death of a poisoned person in which there is absence of bleeding from ulcers.
क्षतजाभः (kṣatajābhaḥ) : Reddish
क्षपयेच्चविकाशित्वाद्दोषान्धातून्मलानपि (kṣapayeccavikāśitvāddoṣāndhātūnmalānapi) : Because of disintegration property of poison it annihilates the root principles dosas (dhatus) and the malas (excreta) of the body.
क्षमा (kṣamā) : Patience, forbearance, forgiveness, Resistance
क्षय (kṣaya) : Loss; a state of loss of anybody constituent resulting in a negative balance.
क्षरति (kṣarati) : The blood transudates when vitiated due to dushivisha.
क्षवः (kṣavaḥ) : Sneezing
क्षवथु (kṣavathu) : Sneezing
क्षामः (kṣāmaḥ) : Exhaustion
क्षामस्वरा (kṣāmasvarā) : Feeble voice.
क्षार (kṣāra) : Alkaline substances obtained from plants through a specific procedure.
क्षार (kṣāra) : The dried materials are burnt in open air and the white ash is dissolved in prescribed quantity of water decanted & crystallised- Used as a medium for purification etc processes of the material and also in manufacturing of Ksharsutra including therapeutics.
क्षार वर्ग (kṣāra varga) : Group of alkaline substances;
क्षारतोयवत् (kṣāratoyavat) : Resembling alkaline water
क्षारत्रय (kṣāratraya) : Group of Three sources of alkaline drugs Sajjikshar, Yavkshar, and Tankan.
क्षारद्वय (kṣāradvaya) : Combination of following 2 sources of alkaline drugs; Sarjikshara,
क्षारपञ्चक (kṣārapañcaka) : Group of five sources of alkaline drugs; Sarja (Vateria indica), Palash (Butea monosperma), Tila (Sesamum indica), Yavās (Alhagi camelorum).
क्षारषटक (kṣāraṣaṭaka) : Group of Six sources of alkaline drugs Dhab (Anogeissus latifolia), Apamarga (Achyranthes aspera), Tila (Sesamum indicum), Langali (Gloriosa superba), and Kutaja (Holarrhena antidysenterica).
क्षाराष्टक (kṣārāṣṭaka) : Combination of following eight sources of alkaline drugs; Palāsh(Butea frondosa), Apamarga(Achyranthes aspera), Tila(Sesamum indicum), Snuhi(Euphorbia neriifolia), Arka(Calotropis procera), Chincha(Tamarindus indica), Yavakshar, Sajjikshar
क्षारोक्षितक्षत अक्षि (kṣārokṣitakṣata akṣi) : Eye resembling color or ulcer produced by alkali
क्षारोदक (kṣārodaka) : kshara is to be dissolved in 6 times of water and filtered for 21 times
क्षालण (kṣālaṇa) : Washing drugs with running water to remove the external impurities & contaminations like dust.
क्षिपन् इव अक्षि (kṣipan iva akṣi) : Feeling of protrusion of eye
क्षिप्तम् (kṣiptam) : adding some excipients to increase palatability
क्षिप्रं (kṣipraṁ) : Spontaneous, Sudden
क्षिप्रमोक्ष (kṣipramokṣa) : Premature ejaculation
क्षीण (kṣīṇa) : Weak, Feeble
क्षीर (kṣīra) : Milk; Synonym of Dugdha.
क्षीर (kṣīra) : Latex of plants; milky exudation
क्षीर वर्ग (kṣīra varga) : Group of milk obtained from different animals.
क्षीरतुल्यम् (kṣīratulyam) : Milky
क्षीरत्रय (kṣīratraya) : Class of following 3 latex producing plants; group of latex plants viz. Snuhi(Euphorbia neriifolia), Ashmantak(Ficus rumphii), Arka(Calotropis procera)
क्षीरपाक (kṣīrapāka) : Milk extract/drugs extracted out by adding milk and water and reducing over fire till milk remains.
क्षीररूपं (kṣīrarūpaṁ) : Milky
क्षीराभम् (kṣīrābham) : Milky
क्षीराष्टक (kṣīrāṣṭaka) : Class of Eight milk producing animals.cow, buffalo, sheep, goat, horse, elephant, human.
क्षुण्णं (kṣuṇṇaṁ) : a process of powdering the material by pounding
क्षुति (kṣuti) : Sneezing
क्षुत् (kṣut) : Hunger
क्षुत् असहत्व (kṣut asahatva) : Irritation to hunger
क्षुत् नाश (क्षुन्नाश) (kṣut nāśa (kṣunnāśa)) : Loss of Appetite
क्षुत् प्रणाश (kṣut praṇāśa) : Loss of Appetite
क्षुद्रान्त्रम् (kṣudrāntram) : Small intestine. The alimentary canal extending from the pylorus to the caecum
क्षुद्रान्त्रावयवः (kṣudrāntrāvayavaḥ) : Loop of small intestine. Convoluted parts of small intestine.
क्षुधा (kṣudhā) : Hunger, an uneasy sensation occasioned by the lack of food
क्षुधाभावः (kṣudhābhāvaḥ) : Loss of Appetite
क्षुप (kṣupa) : Herb
क्षेपः भ्रू (kṣepaḥ bhrū) : Spasmodic movement of the eyebrow
क्षेपनिग्रह सक्थि (kṣepanigraha sakthi) : Restricted foreward movement of lower limb.
क्षोद (kṣoda) : Synonym of curna- fine form of herbal powder- a solid doses forms used for therapeutics
क्षोदं इव पृष्ठ (kṣodaṁ iva pṛṣṭha) : Powdering like pain
क्षोभ (kṣobha) : Fluid thrill
क्षौद्र (kṣaudra) : Variety of honey collected from small type of honey-bee, it’s of brownish color. It’s of ununctuous and astringent taste and cold in potency. It aggravates Vata and alleviator of Pitta.
क्षौद्रनिभं (kṣaudranibhaṁ) : Honey colored
क्षौद्ररूप (kṣaudrarūpa) : Honey colored
क्षौद्रवर्ण (kṣaudravarṇa) : Honey colored
क्षौद्रवर्णरसं (kṣaudravarṇarasaṁ) : Honey colored and taste
ख (kha) : Akaśa; Space, synonym of Srotas
खञ्जता (khañjatā) : Limbing
खञ्जत्वं (khañjatvaṁ) : Limbing
खटावखादी (khaṭāvakhādī) : Striking in bed by limbs
खडा (khaḍā) : Is a special kind of Soup (Yusha) prepared out of 4 parts of Takra (Butter milk) and 1/16 part of Samidhanya (pulse) like Green gram, black gram, horse gram etc, boiled together. When pulses are cooked completely salt, ginger, pepper are added and seasoned with ghee and cumin seeds.
खद्योतगुण दर्शनं (khadyotaguṇa darśanaṁ) : Sees fire fly before eye
खर (khara) : Rough tongue
खर (khara) : Roughness/coarseness; one among 20 gurvadi gunas; caused due activated vayu; denotes physiological & pharmacological roughness & harshness; causes depletion.
खरपाक (kharapāka) : Completion of the process beyond the optimal stage
खरस्पर्शत्व (kharasparśatva) : Rough in touch
खराग्नि (kharāgni) : Strong heat
खरातप (kharātapa) : Scorching sun used for various pharmaceutical processes such as purification, drying and impart addition qualities in medicines.
खर्जूरसदृश (kharjūrasadṛśa) : Resembles as Date (Phoenix sylvestris)
खर्पर (kharpara) : One of the mineral of zinc
खल्व यन्त्र (khalva yantra) : An apparatus of various shapes and made of different materials used for grinding and rubbing of the materials
खसत्व (khasatva) : The extract /product obtained from extraction from mica
खाञ्ज्यं (khāñjyaṁ) : Limbing
खानि निरुध्य (khāni nirudhya) : The blood vitiated due to poison transudates and obstructs the channels of blood circulation, leading to death of the patient.
खारि (khāri) : A unit of Measurement; Four combined droni are equals to one khari=196.608 kg/l of metric units
खालित्यं (khālityaṁ) : Baldness
खुडकः / खुलको (khuḍakaḥ / khulako) : Ankle joint/Heel. The joint between tibia, fibula and talus bones.
खुड्डाक (khuḍḍāka) : brief , small or little
खुड्डुका (khuḍḍukā) : Ankle joint/Heel. The joint between tibia, fibula and talus bones.
खुरखुर स्वरः (khurakhura svaraḥ) : Hoarse voice, resembling the sound of Khur Khur
खुरा (khurā) : Hooves
खेचर (khecara) : Literal meaning is hovering in sky; the other meaning is making the materials micro fine so as to pass through any minute channels/pores which produce lightness in the body.
खेभ्यः रक्तं (khebhyaḥ raktaṁ) : Bleeding from hair follicles
खै अधोवायु (khai adhovāyu) : Passing flatus through ulcer
खैः पुरीषप्रवर्तनं (khaiḥ purīṣapravartanaṁ) : Passing stool through ulcer
खोट (khoṭa) : It is process of compounding mercury in which the mercury is made thermo stable
गगन (gagana) : A synonym of Mica
गंगाम्बुसम्भुतं (gaṁgāmbusambhutaṁ) : Originated in river Ganges
गजदन्त (gajadanta) : Tusk of elephant
गण्डः (gaṇḍaḥ) : Zygoma/Cheek - The long arch that joins zygomatic processes of the temporal and molar bones on the sides of the skull.
गण्डकः (gaṇḍakaḥ) : Groin. The depression between thigh and trunk.
गण्डूपदमुखसदृश करीर (gaṇḍūpadamukhasadṛśa karīra) : Sprout like projection resembling the mouth of earth worm
गण्डूष (gaṇḍūṣa) : Filling the mouth to its full capacity with liquid (medicinal decoctions/Luke warm water/medicinal oils) without allowing its movement.
गतरसम् (gatarasam) : Indicating the complete elution/ extraction /exhaustion of the herbal material
गतायु (gatāyu) : the patient who is about to die
गति (gati) : Motion, moving, gait
गतिक्षय (gatikṣaya) : Inability to walk
गतिनिवारण आहार (gatinivāraṇa āhāra) : Difficulty in deglutition or dysphasia
गतिसंग (gatisaṁga) : Restricted gait
गद्गदः (gadgadaḥ) : Stuttering
गन्ध (gandha) : Smell
गन्ध (gandha) : Smell
गन्ध अज्ञानं (gandha ajñānaṁ) : Anosmia or loss of the sense of smell
गन्ध इच्छा (gandha icchā) : Desire for fragrances
गन्ध रहितं पुरीषं (gandha rahitaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Stool without smell
गन्ध विज्ञानहरं (gandha vijñānaharaṁ) : Anosmia or loss of the sense of smell
गन्धकं (gandhakaṁ) : Element sulphur with chemical symbol S with At.no 16
गन्धवहे धमन्यौ (gandhavahe dhamanyau) : Olfactory nerves. The nerves supplying the nasal olfactory mucosa.
गमन (gamana) : Motion, gait, process, or instance of changing place
गमनारम्भे कम्प (gamanārambhe kampa) : Tremor while starting walk
गमने अनीशता (gamane anīśatā) : Inability to walk.
गम्भीर (gambhīra) : Solemn disposition. Somber
गम्भीर (gambhīra) : Deeply rooted, lying deep
गम्भीर रोम (gambhīra roma) : Deep rooted hair
गरमणि (garamaṇi) : Different types of gems which are antidotes of poisons.
गरसंज्ञम् (garasaṁjñam) : Garavisha is considered as one of the form of kritrim visha (artificial poison) which gets formed by the combination of two or more poisonous or non poisonous drugs and ultimately affects the whole body by vitiating all the dhatus (tissues) in the body. It can go to such extent that it alleviates the dhatus drastically which in turn could prove to be fatal. A phenomenon similar to drug interaction.
गरसंयोगजं (garasaṁyogajaṁ) : Artificially prepared poison by the combination of various substances.
गर्भकोष (garbhakoṣa) : Bag of fetal membrane
गर्भकोष्ठः (garbhakoṣṭhaḥ) : Uterus/Bag of fetal membrane. The organ of female reproductive system for containing and nourishing the embryo.
गर्भच्छिद्रं (garbhacchidraṁ) : Os uteri. Mouth of uterus.
गर्भद्रुति (garbhadruti) : It is one of the mercurial process where the material is made to melt inside the mercury
गर्भनाभिनाडी (garbhanābhināḍī) : Umbilical cord. The attachment connecting the fetus with the placenta
गर्भशय्या (garbhaśayyā) : Uterus. The organ of female reproductive system for containing and nourishing the embryo.
गर्भापत्ति (garbhāpatti) : Conception.
गर्भाशयः (garbhāśayaḥ) : Uterus. The organ of female reproductive system for containing and nourishing the embryo.
गर्भिणी (garbhiṇī) : Pregnant woman
गर्भोत्पाद (garbhotpāda) : Conception, fertilization, production of progeny
गलः (galaḥ) : Oropharynx/Throat - Central portion of the pharynx lying between soft palate and upper portion of epiglottis
गलग्रहम् (galagraham) : Spasm in throat.
गलज्जलघटीध्वनि (galajjalaghaṭīdhvani) : Abnormal sound like the shaking water in a pot
गलनं (galanaṁ) : Crack on skin
गलनलकम् (galanalakam) : Trachea -The enlarged upper end of trachea below the root of trunk
गलबाह्यम् (galabāhyam) : Front of neck
गलमणि (galamaṇi) : Uvula - Small soft structure hānging from free edge of soft palate in the midline above the root of the tongue
गलमार्ग (galamārga) : Throat-passage
गलशुण्डिका (galaśuṇḍikā) : Uvula - Small soft structure hanging from free edge of soft palate in the midline above the root of the tongue
गलसन्धिः (galasandhiḥ) : Isthmus of faucets. The constricted opening leading from the mouth and the oral pharynx
गलित्वा (galitvā) : Being melted
गल्लः (gallaḥ) : The long arch that joins zygomatic processes of the temporal and molar bones on the sides of the skull.
गवीनी (gavīnī) : Ureter. The tube that carries urine from kidney to the bladder.
गांग जल (gāṁga jala) : Type of water which is not contaminated with dust, soot, and toxic
गाढं पुरीषं (gāḍhaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Hard stool
गाढ विट्कता (gāḍha viṭkatā) : Hard stool
गाढमुष्टि (gāḍhamuṣṭi) : Closed fist
गात्रः (gātraḥ) : Body
गात्रपञ्चकम् (gātrapañcakam) : Four extremities ,Head &neck
गात्राणां सदनं (gātrāṇāṁ sadanaṁ) : Exhaustion in the body parts
गान्धर्वचित्त (gāndharvacitta) : Fond of music
गीत इच्छा (gīta icchā) : Fond of singing
गीत करणं अस्थाने (gīta karaṇaṁ asthāne) : Singing at inappropriate place.
गीतप्रवृत्ति अस्थाने (gītapravṛtti asthāne) : Singing at inappropriate place.
गुऋअ इच्छा (guṛa icchā) : Fond of jaggery
गुऋअगुऋआयन (guṛaguṛāyana) : Diminished resistance
गुऋअशुक्त (guṛaśukta) : The fermented liquid using the jaggery on attaining acidity
गुंजा (guṁjā) : A unit of Measurement; ,Abrus seed/ratti four/ six barley grains are equal to one seed of abrus equivalent to 125 mg of metric units
गुंजाफलसदृशं रक्तं (guṁjāphalasadṛśaṁ raktaṁ) : Blood with the color of Abrus seed
गुंजाबीज समच्छायं (guṁjābīja samacchāyaṁ) : Resembles the color of the abrus seeds
गुटि (guṭi) : Synonym of vatak- is a final solid doses form in round shape generally prepared from herbs, minerals, animal products by using the natural binding materials
गुण (guṇa) : properties of a substance; present in the substance as a co inherent factor to perform a definite set of actions; might be physical, chemical, pharmacological, etc. but mainly pertains to the pharmacological properties.
गुणसञ्चयम् (guṇasañcayam) : Accumulation of properties- during the preparation of oil, ghee, guda & fermented products.
गुणान्तराधानम् (guṇāntarādhānam) : modulation of property
गुण्ठनं (guṇṭhanaṁ) : Hiding of head
गुदः (gudaḥ) : Rectum
गुद अधिमांस (guda adhimāṁsa) : Piles in Rectum
गुद कील (guda kīla) : Piles in Rectum
गुद भ्रंश (guda bhraṁśa) : Prolapsed rectum
गुदङ्कुरः (gudaṅkuraḥ) : Piles in Rectum
गुदनिस्सरणं (gudanissaraṇaṁ) : Prolapsed rectum
गुदपार्श्वक्षेत्र (gudapārśvakṣetra) : Ischiorectal fossa. Space on either side of lower end of the rectum and anal canal.
गुदमांसकील (gudamāṁsakīla) : Piles in Rectum
गुदमांसाङ्कुर (gudamāṁsāṅkura) : Piles in Rectum
गुदशोफ (gudaśopha) : Piles in Rectum
गुदात् रक्तं (gudāt raktaṁ) : Bleeding per rectum
गुदास्थिविवर (gudāsthivivara) : Outlet of pelvis
गुदोपस्थ देशः (gudopastha deśaḥ) : Perineum. The structures occupying the pelvic outlet and constituting the pelvic floor
गुरू (gurū) : 1. Heavy / heaviness; one among 20 guravdi guna. caused due to activated prithvi & jala mahabhuta; denotes physiological & pharmacological heaviness; manifested by causing heaviness in the living system, difficult to digest, diminishes the Agni(digestive & metabolic enzymes), increases all body tissues, pacifies Vata, increases kapha; excessive use can cause fatigue, obesity. 2. Synonym of Kapikachhu (Mucuna pruritus Linn.) 3. A spiritual parent or preceptor
गुरूत्व (gurūtva) : Heaviness, Gravity
गुर्वादि गुण (gurvādi guṇa) : Group of 20 pharmacological properties of the medicinal substances;
गुल्फः (gulphaḥ) : Ankle. The joint between tibia, fibula and talas bones.
गुल्फकर्णौ/ गुल्फौ (gulphakarṇau/ gulphau) : Malleoli-medial & lateral. Tubercle on Lower end of tibia and fibula
गुल्फसन्धिः (gulphasandhiḥ) : Ankle joint. The joint between tibia, fibula and talas bones.
गुल्म (gulma) : plants with multiple stems arising from one root & with a drooping canopy; Shrubs
गूढ उच्छ्रास (gūḍha ucchrāsa) : Shallow expiration
गूढसम्पादितं (gūḍhasampāditaṁ) : Bite marks hidden due to elevation of margins.
गृध्रगन्ध (gṛdhragandha) : Smell of Vulture
गृध्रसी (gṛdhrasī) : Sciatic nerve - Largest nerve in the body arising from sacral flexus on either side.
गृध्रिः (gṛdhriḥ) : Desire, Greed
गृध्रिहानि (gṛdhrihāni) : Diminished interest to take more food
गृहगोधिका (gṛhagodhikā) : House lizard.
गृहधूमवर्णं (gṛhadhūmavarṇaṁ) : Smoky color
गृहधूमाभं (gṛhadhūmābhaṁ) : Resembles the color of soot
गृहीत गर्भा (gṛhīta garbhā) : Pregnant woman or gravida.
गैरिकप्रतीकाशं (gairikapratīkāśaṁ) : Blood with the color of Gairika i.e. pale red.
गैरिकोदक पाण्डु (gairikodaka pāṇḍu) : Color of Gairika water i.e. pale red.
गोक्रमण (gokramaṇa) : Grazing of cows & buffaloes, it is method to carried out to take the biological impurities of the vitiated land. There due to GOKRAMAD their will be cow dung which spread over the vitiated land will having the property of bactericidal, veridical etc which keeps land biologically free.
गोजिह्विका गोजिह्वा वा (gojihvikā gojihvā vā) : Tongue/Epiglottis - A freely movable muscular organ lying partly in the floor of the mouth and partly in the pharynx
गोणि (goṇi) : A unit of Measurement; ,Synonym of droni equivalent to 49.152 kg/l of metric units
गोधूमपिष्ट (godhūmapiṣṭa) : 1. Used for enveloping bolus in the preparation of the putapaka swrasa 2. it is also used for the preparation of boundary wall in the administration of tarpana, katibasti, shirodhara
गोपुच्छाकृति (gopucchākṛti) : projection resembles the tail of cow
गोमयवह्नि (gomayavahni) : Cow dung fire used in the preparation of medicine & bhasma
गोमायु (gomāyu) : Jackal.
गोमूत्रगंधी (gomūtragaṁdhī) : Emitting odour of cow's urine – one of the variety of shilajatu bitumen
गोमूत्रसमगन्ध (gomūtrasamagandha) : Smell of cows urine
गोमूत्राभं (gomūtrābhaṁ) : Color of cow's urine
गोमूत्राभं पीतरक्तं (gomūtrābhaṁ pītaraktaṁ) : Yellowish red like the color of cow's urine
गोमेदकोपमं मूत्रं (gomedakopamaṁ mūtraṁ) : Urine in the color of Gomedaka (Topaz).
गोमेदप्रतिकाशं (gomedapratikāśaṁ) : Urine in the color of Gomedaka (Topaz).
गोरसवर्ग (gorasavarga) : group of cow milk products;
गौर (gaura) : White, whitish
गौरचामरगौरदर्शनं (gauracāmaragauradarśanaṁ) : Sees objects white, resembles the Burch of tail of chamari deer
गौरव (gaurava) : Heavy feeling, Heaviness
गौरवर्ण (gauravarṇa) : White
गौर्यः सिराः (gauryaḥ sirāḥ) : Lymphatic vessels
ग्रथितं (grathitaṁ) : Hard
ग्रथितत्वं (grathitatvaṁ) : Nodular skin.
ग्रन्थि (granthi) : Knot like projection
ग्रन्थिप्रकाशं (granthiprakāśaṁ) : Nodular
ग्रन्थिभूतं (granthibhūtaṁ) : Nodular
ग्रन्थिलम् (granthilam) : Nodular appearance
ग्रह (graha) : Stiffness, Retention, Chocked
ग्रहणी (grahaṇī) : A part of the gut lying between the stomach and intestines, i.e., Duodenum.
ग्राम्यधर्मः (grāmyadharmaḥ) : Sexual activity
ग्रास (grāsa) : 1. One of the mercurial processes in which quantum of the material has to be decided supposed to digest 2. A kind of germ defect- opacity
ग्रासन्तर (grāsantara) : Administration of medicine between morsels. This type is adopted in patient who has aversion towards medicine because of bad taste.
ग्राही (grāhī) : Substances which increase appetite, digestive power & absorb liquid from stool; e.g. piper longum
ग्रीवा (grīvā) : Cervix or neck. A part of an organ resembling a neck.
ग्रीवाधः (ग्र) सन्धिः (grīvādhaḥ (gra) sandhiḥ) : Sternoclavicular joints. The joint space between the sternum and the medial extremity of the clavicle
ग्रीवामूलम् (grīvāmūlam) : Suprasternal notch. Notch above the sternum.
ग्लपनं (glapanaṁ) : Fatigue of mind or body, Lack of enthusiasm.
ग्लानि (glāni) : Fatigue of mind or body, or loss of enthusiasm.
ग्लापयति (glāpayati) : produces weariness
घटः (ghaṭaḥ) : A unit of Measurement; Synonym of one drona equivalent to 12.288 kg/l of metric units
घटी (ghaṭī) : A measure of time; equals 24 minutes
घट्टन हृदयं (ghaṭṭana hṛdayaṁ) : Pressing pain in heart
घण्टिका (ghaṇṭikā) : Uvula. Small soft structure hanging from free edge of soft palate in the midline above the root of the tongue
घनं (ghanaṁ) : Thick
घनता (ghanatā) : Obesity.
घनपंक (ghanapaṁka) : 1. Used to indicate semi-solid conditions of the preparations 2. for enveloping the bolus material in the preparation of the putapaka swarasa
घनवती (ghanavatī) : Thick
घनाघातक्षमम् (ghanāghātakṣamam) : Withstanding hammering, Malleable
घनासहम् (ghanāsaham) : Cannot withstand hammering- not malleable
घर्म इच्छा (gharma icchā) : Desire to warm atmosphere and warm things
घर्मयोगत (gharmayogata) : In association with scortching sun
घर्षण् (gharṣaṇ) : An act of rubbing/ grinding/ triturating material with the help of mortar & pestle
घस्मरः (ghasmaraḥ) : Glutton; Greedy for intake of more quantity of food
घुटिका / घुण्टिका (ghuṭikā / ghuṇṭikā) : Malleolus - Bone of the middle ear
घुर्घुरकं कण्ठ (ghurghurakaṁ kaṇṭha) : Making Ghurghur sound from throat
घुर्घुरकं श्वासं (ghurghurakaṁ śvāsaṁ) : Breathing with 'Ghurghur' sound
घुर्घुरायन कण्ठ (ghurghurāyana kaṇṭha) : Making Ghurghur sound from throat.
घूर्णता (ghūrṇatā) : Shivering of body
घूर्णति इव (ghūrṇati iva) : Feeling as head is rolling.
घृत (ghṛta) : Ghee
घृत वर्ग (ghṛta varga) : Group of different ghees.
घृतगन्धि (ghṛtagandhi) : Smell of Ghee
घृतमण्डाभ (ghṛtamaṇḍābha) : Looks as the color of the upper part of ghee
घृताभं (ghṛtābhaṁ) : Color of Ghee
घृष्टं (ghṛṣṭaṁ) : Rubbing
घृष्ट व्रण (ghṛṣṭa vraṇa) : Abrasions.
घृष्तं रजः किरेत् (ghṛṣtaṁ rajaḥ kiret) : Gives out fine dust if rubbed.
घोर दर्शनं (ghora darśanaṁ) : Bizarre look.
घोल (ghola) : Is obtained by churning the curd without adding water and without removing butter.
घोषवत् उच्छास (ghoṣavat ucchāsa) : Expiration with loud sound.
घोषाकृष्ट्रताम्र (ghoṣākṛṣṭratāmra) : Copper extracted/separated from the alloy bronze
घ्राण (ghrāṇa) : Smell
घ्राण (ghrāṇa) : Nose. Olfactory apparatus. One of the five sense organs.
घ्राणनाशं (ghrāṇanāśaṁ) : Anosmia or loss of the sense of smell
घ्राणमार्गः (ghrāṇamārgaḥ) : Nasal cavity - The cavity between floor of cranium and floor of the nose
घ्राणमूलम् (ghrāṇamūlam) : Upper part of nasal cavity/Root of nose
घ्राणम् (ghrāṇam) : olfactory membrane of nose
घ्राणविप्लव (ghrāṇaviplava) : Anosmia or loss of the sense of smell
चक्रीम् (cakrīm) : Making levigated material into small disc shaped pellets for preparing ashes.
चक्षु (cakṣu) : Eye. One of the five sense organs.
चक्षुष्यं (cakṣuṣyaṁ) : substances beneficial for eye health
चङ्क्रमण (caṅkramaṇa) : Person after taking food should walk for a hundred feet slowly, that way reduces the heaviness of the body and aid in easy digestion of consumed food.
चञ्चला (cañcalā) : Unsteady
चञ्चुमालकसंयुक्तं (cañcumālakasaṁyuktaṁ) : Compact beak like ring mark on skin
चटचटायनत्वं (caṭacaṭāyanatvaṁ) : Cracking sound
चटितत्वं इव (caṭitatvaṁ iva) : Cracking pain
चतुरूषण (caturūṣaṇa) : A combination of following four parts of three exothermic drugs that is Pippali and Pippali moola (Fruit and root of Piper longam), Maricha (Fruit of Piper nigrum), Shunthi (Rizome of Zingiber officinale).
चतुर्जातक (caturjātaka) : Combination of following four fragrant drugs viz. Twak (Bark of Cinnamomum zeylanicum), Ela (Fruit of Elettaria cardamomum), Patra (Leaves of Cinnamomum tamala), and Nagkesar (Androceum of Mesua ferrea).
चतुर्दंष्ट्रो (caturdaṁṣṭro) : Animals having four poisonous fangs.
चतुर्बीज (caturbīja) : A combination of following four seeds viz. Methika (Trigonella foenum- graecum), Chandrashoor (Lepidium sativum), Kalājaji (Nigella sativa), and yavanika (Trachyspermum ammi).
चतुर्भद्रा (caturbhadrā) : A group consisting of following four drugs Nagar (Rhizome of Zingiber officinale), Ativisha (Root of Aconitum heterophyllum), Musta (Rizome of Cyperus rotundus), Guduchi (Stem of Tinospora cardifolia).
चतुर्विंशत्युपक्रमम् (caturviṁśatyupakramam) : Twenty four modalities of treatment of poisoning.
चतुष्पाद (catuṣpāda) : a group consisting of following four words Bhishag (Physician), Dravya (Drugs/Medicine), Upasthata (Attendant) and Rogi (Patient)
चन्द्रकः (candrakaḥ) : Color of Peacock feather
चन्द्रकैः सन्ततं (candrakaiḥ santataṁ) : Stool as the color of peacock feather.
चन्द्रकोपगतं (candrakopagataṁ) : Stool as the color of peacock feather
चन्द्रकोपमं (candrakopamaṁ) : Stool as the color of feather of peacock
चन्द्राकृति दृष्टि मण्डल (candrākṛti dṛṣṭi maṇḍala) : Moon shaped pupil
चन्द्रार्क (candrārka) : An alloy of silver and copper in the ratio of 16
चपलचेष्टा (capalaceṣṭā) : Unsteady activities
चयः (cayaḥ) : Accumulation
चर्म (carma) : skin
चर्व्य (carvya) : Food which is consumed after chewing.
चल (cala) : To move
चल स्वरः (cala svaraḥ) : Unsteady voice
चलचेष्टा (calaceṣṭā) : Unsteady activities
चलदर्शनं (caladarśanaṁ) : Unsteady sight
चलित अग्र हस्त (calita agra hasta) : tremor of hand
चलित एक कपोल (calita eka kapola) : Trembling of one cheek
चलित भ्रू (calita bhrū) : Trembling of eyebrow
चषका (caṣakā) : A shallow saucer of clay or iron used for frying/roasting of materials
चाटालत्वं योन्या (cāṭālatvaṁ yonyā) : Dilatation of vagina.
चारण (cāraṇa) : It is one of the process of mercury where measured quantity of material has to be added for further process of digestion
चालदन्त (cāladanta) : Looseness of teeth
चाषपक्षनिभं (cāṣapakṣanibhaṁ) : Bluish colored urine.
चिकित्स्य पुरुष (cikitsya puruṣa) : the body consists of five mahabhuta and atma
चिक्कण (cikkaṇa) : Unctuous
चित्त भ्रंश (citta bhraṁśa) : Perplexed mind
चित्तविप्लव (cittaviplava) : perplexed mind
चित्तविभ्रम (cittavibhrama) : Perplexed mind
चित्तविभ्रंश (cittavibhraṁśa) : Perplexed mind
चित्तोपप्लव (cittopaplava) : Perplexed mind
चित्रं मनोनुगतं (citraṁ manonugataṁ) : Reveals secrets
चित्ररूप दर्शनं (citrarūpa darśanaṁ) : Seeing objectives in multi color.
चित्रा राग दृष्टिमण्डल (citrā rāga dṛṣṭimaṇḍala) : Multicolored pupil
चिन्तानुरुप (cintānurupa) : Imitation of thinking
चिन्तापर (cintāpara) : Thinking excessively
चिन्त्यम् (cintyam) : The subject of thought
चिपिट (cipiṭa) : Flattened
चिबुकः (cibukaḥ) : Chin
चिबुकम् (cibukam) : Chin or Mentum - Point of the lower jaw, region below lower lip.
चिमिचिमायन (cimicimāyana) : Formication
चिरपाक (cirapāka) : Delayed digestion
चिरवासस (ciravāsasa) : Wearing rags from road sides.
चिरात् (cirāt) : Delayed
चिरात् निमेषं (cirāt nimeṣaṁ) : Closing of eye with difficulty
चिरात् निषेकं (cirāt niṣekaṁ) : Delayed ejaculation
चिरात् वदनं (cirāt vadanaṁ) : Delayed speech
चुच्छुन्दरगन्ध (cucchundaragandha) : Smell of Rat
चुम्बिका (cumbikā) : A kind of magnetic iron which attracts to iron- magnetic property
चुल्लिका (cullikā) : The disappearance of color of plating after staying for some days
चूचुकम् (cūcukam) : Nipple; The conical protuberance in each breast from which the lactiferous ducts discharge in the female.
चूर्णावकीर्णाभ (cūrṇāvakīrṇābha) : Dusty appearance
चूर्णितम् (cūrṇitam) : Powdering – preparing fine powder
चूषण (cūṣaṇa) : Suction.
चूष्य (cūṣya) : It refers to suckable
चूष्यत इव बस्ति (cūṣyata iva basti) : Sucking pain in bladder.
चेतः (cetaḥ) : psyche or mind
चेतः स्थानम् (cetaḥ sthānam) : Brain - A large soft mass of nerve tissue, contained within the cranium.
चेतनः (cetanaḥ) : Conscious
चेतनद्रव्य (cetanadravya) : animate substances; substances having consciousness like plants, animals
चेतना (cetanā) : Conscious element
चेतनाच्युति (cetanācyuti) : Loss of consciousness
चेतनावान (cetanāvāna) : the conscious one
चेष्टा (ceṣṭā) : physical or mental efforts
चेष्टा (ceṣṭā) : Motion, action, function
चेष्टानुरूप (ceṣṭānurūpa) : Imitation of actions of others
चेष्टापहरत्व (ceṣṭāpaharatva) : Loss of motor function of upper limb
चेष्टापहरत्वं हस्त (ceṣṭāpaharatvaṁ hasta) : Loss of motor function of lower limb
चेष्टाभङ्गः (ceṣṭābhaṅgaḥ) : Loss of motor function
चेष्टावन्तः सन्धयः (ceṣṭāvantaḥ sandhayaḥ) : Movable joints - Joints characterized by the presence of a cavity within the capsule separating the bony elements.
चेष्टावह स्रोतांसि (ceṣṭāvaha srotāṁsi) : Motor nerves - A nerve that transmits impulses from nervous system to effectors.
चेष्टाविभ्रम (ceṣṭāvibhrama) : Improper activities.
चैतन्य (caitanya) : Consciousness
चैत्य (caitya) : Religious or sacred tree.
चोषः (coṣaḥ) : Sucking type of sensation
चौण्ट्यम् (cauṇṭyam) : Canals water – the clear water flowing through the naturally broken stones, filled with water plants having the color of blue lotus.
च्यवनं (cyavanaṁ) : Falling or dislocation
च्युतं स्थानात् हृद्यं (cyutaṁ sthānāt hṛdyaṁ) : Dislocated feeling of heart
च्युतिः (cyutiḥ) : Falling or dislocation
छछिक (chachika) : Prepared by adding large amount of water to Madhita.
छत्र धारण (chatra dhāraṇa) : Holding of umbrella- prevents from rain, wind, dust, snow etc. is wholesome for complexion, vision and ojas and has overall salutary effect.
छत्राभ दृष्टिमण्डल (chatrābha dṛṣṭimaṇḍala) : Umbrella shaped pupil
छर्दि (chardi) : vomiting
छर्दिनिग्रहण (chardinigrahaṇa) : anti-emetics
छलम् (chalam) : Fraudulent or delusive statements and unmeaning verbosity
छान (chāna) : A synonym of dried cow dung cake
छाया (chāyā) : skin reflection based on color and Complexion
छाया (chāyā) : Shade, shadow , a reflected image
छाया इच्छा (chāyā icchā) : Fond of Shade
छायाविघात (chāyāvighāta) : Diminished complexion
छिद्यते इव (chidyate iva) : Cutting pain
छिद्यन्त इव (chidyanta iva) : Cutting pain
छिद्र (chidra) : Opening; Hole
छिद्र दन्त (chidra danta) : Carries in teeth
छिद्रप्रहारी (chidraprahārī) : Attacking on other's weak points
छिद्रैः अधोवायु (chidraiḥ adhovāyu) : Passing of flatus through ulcer
छिद्रैः पुरीषप्रवर्तनं (chidraiḥ purīṣapravartanaṁ) : Passing stool through ulcer
छिद्रैः शुक्रं (chidraiḥ śukraṁ) : Passing semen through ulcer
छिनत्ति इव (chinatti iva) : Cutting pain
छिन्नं निश्शेषतः अस्थि (chinnaṁ niśśeṣataḥ asthi) : Complete cutting of broken bone
छिन्न व्रण (chinna vraṇa) : Incised wound.
छिन्ना दृष्टिमण्डल (chinnā dṛṣṭimaṇḍala) : Splitted pupil
छेद (cheda) : Cutting pain
छेदन (chedana) : A process in which material is chopped into small pieces by sharing action
छेदनं (chedanaṁ) : cut
जगल (jagala) : This is the more denser layer below the kadambari in the fermentation process
जगव्दिषण्णम् (jagavdiṣaṇṇam) : The whole world became despaired and gloomy after looking at the ferocious creature that emerged before the emergence of ambrosia during churning of the sea.
जघनकपालिनि (jaghanakapālini) : Hip bones-Innominate bones. Pelvic bone.
जघनम् (jaghanam) : Pelvis. (1)The external genitals. (2)The bony structure formed by the innomimante bones, sacrum coccyx, and the ligaments uniting them.
जङ्गमं स्यादधोभागम् (jaṅgamaṁ syādadhobhāgam) : The tendency of animate poison is to move downwards and affect the lower body more.
जङ्गमस्थावर् विष योनि (jaṅgamasthāvar viṣa yoni) : Poison is of two types one is jangam (animal origin-mobile) & another is sthavar (plant and mineral origin- immobile).
जङ्गमंस्याद् उर्ध्वभागं (jaṅgamaṁsyād urdhvabhāgaṁ) : Gangadhar commentary on charak samhita says the tendency of animate poisons is to move upwards in the body. उध्िशबागॊ
जङ्घा (jaṅghā) : Foreleg
जङ्घास्थिनी (jaṅghāsthinī) : Tibia & fibula. Bones of the leg
जठरम् (jaṭharam) : Abdomen
जडता (jaḍatā) : Less activity of body, speech and mind.
जत्रुमूलम् (jatrumūlam) : Suprasternal notch. Notch above the sternum.
जत्रुसन्धिः (jatrusandhiḥ) : Sternoclavicular joints. The joint space between the sternum and the medial extremity of the clavicle
जनपद (janapada) : Group of peoples leaving in specific location, i.e. community
जनपदोध्वंस (janapadodhvaṁsa) : It is made out of two words janapada and Dwamsa, Janapada refers to group of peoples leaving in specific location, community and Udwamsa refers to destruction, thus it Janapadodwamsa refers to the factors which destroys the health of the people living in a specific area due to pollution of Air(vayu), Water(Jala), Place(Bhumi/soil) and Time(Kala). In modern science it’s called as epidemics/Pestilence.
जनपदोध्वंसकर भाव (janapadodhvaṁsakara bhāva) : Factors involved in causing of epidemics / out breaks of certain diseases. These are 4 factors like place, time, air& water. Vitiation of these leads to epidemic outbreaks.
जपा पुष्पनिभं (japā puṣpanibhaṁ) : Resembling the color of the shoe flower- hibiscus- indicating an ideal property of Cinnabar, Copper
जम्बूपल्लव (jambūpallava) : Tender leaves of blackberry
जरण शक्ति (jaraṇa śakti) : Individual capacity to digest the consumed food. Peoples who indulge in exercise or any kind of physical activity he will be having adequate digestive fire for proper digestion of taken food.
जरा (jarā) : A stage indicating the age
जरायुज (jarāyuja) : viviparous class of creatures
जरायुज (jarāyuja) : Mammals
जल (jala) : 1. Water. 2. One of the five basic elements (Paṅcamahābhūtas) that make up all the matter in the universe. Indicative of liquidity and cohesion.
जल वर्ग (jala varga) : Group of water;
जलगर्भतम (jalagarbhatama) : A kind of germ defect produced from air bubbles/ water marks
जलचर विहंग वसा (jalacara vihaṁga vasā) : Aquatic bird's fat
जलनिधेर्जनितम् (jalanidherjanitam) : Source of pearl indicating oceanic origin
जलमृतः (jalamṛtaḥ) : Death of a person by drowning in water.
जलवाहिन्यः सिराः (jalavāhinyaḥ sirāḥ) : Lachrymal ducts. A duct that conveys tears from the lachrymal lake to the lachrymal sac
जलसंत्रास (jalasaṁtrāsa) : Hydrophobia.
जलौका (jalaukā) : It is leech, belonging to annelida group of animal kingdom, which have anticoagulant enzymes in their saliva which helps them to suck blood continuously when they bite. Some of them are non poisonous which are used for therapeutic bloodletting while someone poisonous.
जल्पः (jalpaḥ) : to argue and defend one's own view in a debate
जागरणं (jāgaraṇaṁ) : Sleeplessness
जाङ्गम (jāṅgama) : Substance of animal origin like honey, milk, flesh, blood, nail, etc.
जाङ्गम विष (jāṅgama viṣa) : The poison of animate origin in creatures like snakes, insects, spiders, scorpions, leeches, fish, frog, dogs, lion, tiger, jackal, hyena, etc.
जाठराग्नि (jāṭharāgni) : The Agni that acts on the food in the gastro intestinal tract to digest it.
जातरसम् (jātarasam) : Formation of desired qualities in the prepared medicine- indicative of the completion of process of the fermentation process
जानु (jānu) : Knee. The anterior aspect of the leg at the articulation of femur and tibia
जानुकपालिका (jānukapālikā) : Patella-knee cap. A lens shaped sesamoid bone situated in front the knee in the tendon of the quadriceps femoris muscle.
जानुसन्धिः (jānusandhiḥ) : Knee joint.
जान्वधः सन्धिः (jānvadhaḥ sandhiḥ) : Proximal tibio-fibular joint. Upper tibiofibular joint
जारण (jāraṇa) : A mercurial process made to digest without increment in the weight of the initial mercury.
जाल (jāla) : Clear manifestation of tendon network
जालकावृतम् (jālakāvṛtam) : Covered with a membrane or net.
जालधरा सिरा /जालन्धरा (jāladharā sirā /jālandharā) : Great saphenous vein. Superficial vein extending from the foot to the saphanous opening
जालानि (jālāni) : Plexus, network, interlacing or decussation. A network of nerves or veins
जालान्तरगत (jālāntaragata) : indicating the particle size
जिज्ञासा (jijñāsā) : inquiry or investigation to explore something
जिह्मं (jihmaṁ) : Tortuous, Curved, Distorted
जिह्मा दृष्टिः (jihmā dṛṣṭiḥ) : Distorted eye
जिह्माक्षः (jihmākṣaḥ) : Distorted eye
जिह्वा (jihvā) : Tongue. A freely movable muscular organ lying partly in the floor of the mouth and partly in the pharynx
जिह्वाखादनम् (jihvākhādanam) : Biting own tongue
जिह्वादंशनं (jihvādaṁśanaṁ) : Biting own tongue
जिह्वापसरणं (jihvāpasaraṇaṁ) : Protrusion of tongue
जिह्वाप्रबन्ध (jihvāprabandha) : Root of tongue. Root of the tongue
जिह्वामूलम् (jihvāmūlam) : Root of tongue, Pharyngeal part of dorsum of tongue. Root of the tongue
जिह्वाशोफ् (jihvāśoph) : Swelling of the tongue.
जिह्वासंदंशनं (jihvāsaṁdaṁśanaṁ) : Biting own tongue
जिह्वासेवनी (jihvāsevanī) : Frenulum linguae. Fold of mucous membrane that extends from the floor of the mouth to the inferior surface of the tongue along its midline.
जीर्णं अश्नियात (jīrṇaṁ aśniyāta) : Another meal should be consumed after the previous food is get digested completely, this make easier to digest the food.
जीर्णमद्य (jīrṇamadya) : Mature beverages
जीर्णावस्था (jīrṇāvasthā) : The organic process of growing older and showing the effects of increasing age.i,e.after 60 years is considered as age of growing older. During this period body tissues, sense organ, strength, energy, virility, etc, goes down. This is the stage of Vata predominance.
जीवः (jīvaḥ) : The Soul; the spirit
जीवजीवकाः (jīvajīvakāḥ) : A small bird.
जीवन (jīvana) : 1. Life 2. To give life, one of the functions of Rakta Dhātu.
जीवनीय पञ्चमूल (jīvanīya pañcamūla) : Group of following five plants having viz. Shatavari (Root of Asparagus racemosus), Jivanti (Leptadenia reticulata), Jeevak (Rhizome of Malaxis muscifera), Risbhak (Rhizome of Malaxis accuminata) Meda (Rhizome of Polygonatum verticillatum).
जीवन्मुक्ति (jīvanmukti) : Attaining eternal salvation
जीवित धामानि (jīvita dhāmāni) : Vital organs. Important organs or essential organs for life
जीवितम् (jīvitam) : Life
जीवितम् (jīvitam) : which keeps alive
जीवितायतनानि (jīvitāyatanāni) : Vital organs. Important organs or essential organs for life
जृम्भा (jṛmbhā) : It is a symptom produced in second impulse of poisoning, which means yawning.
जेन्ताक (jentāka) : Hot house
ज्ञः (jñaḥ) : Knower of the field
ज्ञान (jñāna) : Knowing, understanding, becoming acquainted with proficiency , learning
ज्ञानप्रणाशः (jñānapraṇāśaḥ) : Loss of knowledge
ज्ञानेन्द्रिय (jñānendriya) : An organ of perception, the faculty of perceiving by means of sense organs
ज्वरहर (jvarahara) : Anti-pyretic;
ज्वलनार्कसमप्रभाः (jvalanārkasamaprabhāḥ) : Characteristic of mandali (viper snake variety) snakes which means they have the glow like the fire and sun.
ज्वलन्ति इव (jvalanti iva) : Color of burnt scar.
ज्वाला (jvālā) : Flame
टंक (ṭaṁka) : A unit of Measurement; Synonym of one śāna=3 g of metric units
डमरुयंत्र (ḍamaruyaṁtra) : A dumble shaped apparatus used for extraction/sublimation of mercury etc from metals & non-metals
डोष-दूष्य संमूर्च्छना (Doṣa-dūṣya saṁmūrcchanā) : The interaction between the Doshas & Dushyas that occurs during the stage of Sthanasamshraya.
ढालन (ḍhālana) : Melting and pouring into cold/hot liquids through certain apparatuses
णित्यग कल (Nityaga kala) : Eternal moving time is that which is concerned with the day / Season.
तईक्ष्ण्य (taīkṣṇya) : Pungent
तक्र (takra) : Buttermilk- Adding 1/4th of water to Mathita, Prepared by churning the curd and removing butter from it.
तक्र कुर्चिका (takra kurcikā) : When the milk is boiled with butter milk, the solid portion is collected then it is called as takra kurcikā.
तक्र वर्ग (takra varga) : A class of different butter milks
तण्डुल वारि (taṇḍula vāri) : water obtained by washing rice
ततता लघ्वल्पा भोजनैरपि (tatatā laghvalpā bhojanairapi) : Fullness of abdomen even when less food has been taken
तत्क्षण (tatkṣaṇa) : Freshly collected –nasent
तदुणबहुमान (taduṇabahumāna) : Excessive anxiety for lost things
तद्विद्यसंभाषा (tadvidyasaṁbhāṣā) : Discussion with learned person
तनु (tanu) : Scanty, Thin. Transparent, Diluted, Delicate
तनुः (tanuḥ) : Body
तनुकं (tanukaṁ) : Watery and clear
तनुचैलावृतोपम दर्शनं (tanucailāvṛtopama darśanaṁ) : Sees obejcts covered by nice cloth.
तनुत्वं (tanutvaṁ) : Thinness
तनुरूहः (tanurūhaḥ) : Hair
तनुसिराराजी (tanusirārājī) : Thin lines of veins
तन्तुजालगवाक्षितं (tantujālagavākṣitaṁ) : Network of veins
तन्तुबद्धं इव (tantubaddhaṁ iva) : Threadlike appearance
तन्तुमत्वं (tantumatvaṁ) : test of Avaleha - Forming like threads -tearicle
तन्त्र (tantra) : System or doctrines, specially signifies system of āyurveda
तन्त्रम् (tantram) : Body as a whole, different systems of body
तन्त्रयुक्ति (tantrayukti) : methodology of describing, analyzing and understanding the texts
तन्त्रिवत् कर्णपाली (tantrivat karṇapālī) : Narrow helix
तन्द्रा (tandrā) : Drowsiness; Torpor
तन्मना भुञ्जीत् (tanmanā bhuñjīt) : Giving due respect to food and with full concentration on food we should consume food.
तन्मात्रा (tanmātrā) : subtle and pre-rudimentary state of mahābhūtas
तपनीय (tapanīya) : Red hot gold. Appearance of Rakta is similar to Tapanīya.
तपनीयाभं रक्तं (tapanīyābhaṁ raktaṁ) : Blood in golden color
तपस् (tapas) : Penance, the undergoing of religious austerities, the practice of self denial and of meditation and mental concentration helpful to self-denial.
तप्त खल्व (tapta khalva) : Hot Mortar and pestle
तम (tama) : 1. One of the three qualities (Sattva, Rajas and Tamas) or constituents of everything in creation. 2. Ignorance, illusion, lust 3. Darkness
तम प्रवेश (tama praveśa) : Black out
तमः हृदि (tamaḥ hṛdi) : Feeling of darkness
तमकः (tamakaḥ) : Black out
तमकाः (tamakāḥ) : Blackout.
तमस मज्जति इव (tamasa majjati iva) : Blackout
तमस् (tamas) : Delusion, ignorance
तमो दर्शनं (tamo darśanaṁ) : Black out
तमो वृद्धिः (tamo vṛddhiḥ) : Blackout
तरक्षु (tarakṣu) : Hyena.
तरतमयोओगानुपलब्धि (taratamayoogānupalabdhi) : Non-availability of gradation; properties & actions have gradation but not the substance;
तरुणास्थि (taruṇāsthi) : Cartilage. A specialized type of dense connective tissue consisting of cells embedded in a ground substance or matrix.
तर्क (tarka) : speculation and logic; Argument
तर्जनी (tarjanī) : Index finger. Second digit
तर्पक कफ (tarpaka kapha) : One of the five subtypes of Kapha that is situated in head, and it nourishes the different sensory organs.
तर्पण (tarpaṇa) : that which satiates
तर्षः (tarṣaḥ) : Thirst
तलम् (talam) : Palm or sole. Anterior or flexor surface of the hand from wrist to finger
ताच्छील्य (tācchīlya) : methods of diagnosis and treatment
ताडनक्षमम् (tāḍanakṣamam) : Withstands hammering – malleability
ताडयत् इव (tāḍayat iva) : Beating like pain
ताडाग (tāḍāga) : Tank / pond water- water which comes from higher levels and blocked by artificial means. Some peoples call Pushkarni’s as Tāḍāga. Sweet in taste and easy to digest.
ताडित गुण दर्शनं (tāḍita guṇa darśanaṁ) : Sees lightening before eyes
तान्तं अक्षि (tāntaṁ akṣi) : Fatigue of the eye
ताप (tāpa) : Heat; Hotness; Temperature
ताम्यतः (tāmyataḥ) : Black out
ताम्रः (tāmraḥ) : Coppery color
ताम्रवर्ण (tāmravarṇa) : Coppery color
ताम्रसिराराजी (tāmrasirārājī) : Coppery colored lines of veins
ताम्रावभासं (tāmrāvabhāsaṁ) : Coppery color
तार (tāra) : Element Silver-Argentinum with chemical symbol Ag at At.no.47
तारकर्म (tārakarma) : Transmutation of lower metals into silver/silver plating
तारका (tārakā) : Iris and cornea. The colored contractile membrane suspended between the lens and the cornea in the aqueous humor of the eye, separating the anterior and posterior chambers of the eyeball and perforated in the center by the pupil.
तालफलोपमं (tālaphalopamaṁ) : Color of Palmyra fruit
तालु (tālu) : Palate /Anterior fontanel
तालुके तालुषके वा (tāluke tāluṣake vā) : Two halves of the bones forming the anterior part of the palate supported by the maxillary and palatine bones
तालुपातः (tālupātaḥ) : Drooping of palate
तालुप्रदेश (मुर्धगः) (tālupradeśa (murdhagaḥ)) : Anterior fontanel. The junction of coronal frontal and sagittal sutures
तालुमांसं (tālumāṁsaṁ) : Soft palate. The posterior portion of the roof of the mouth
तिक्त (tikta) : Bitter; one among the six rasa. Synonym of one of the medicinal plant Parpaṭa.
तिक्तं (tiktaṁ) : Bitter taste
तिक्त स्कन्ध (tikta skandha) : Group of plants having bitter taste.
तिक्तमुखरसत्वं (tiktamukharasatvaṁ) : Bitter taste in mouth.
तिक्तरस (tiktarasa) : Bitter Taste.
तिक्तरसता (tiktarasatā) : Bitter taste in mouth
तिक्तास्यता (tiktāsyatā) : Bitter taste in mouth
तिन्दुक (tinduka) : 1.Fruit of nuxvomica, 2.A unit of Measurement; synonym of karsha=12g of metric units
तिमिरदर्शनं (timiradarśanaṁ) : Black out
तिर्यकप्रेक्षी (tiryakaprekṣī) : Squint, bite by a hermaphrodite snake makes the patients look sideways.
तिर्यक् दर्शनं (tiryak darśanaṁ) : Looks sideways
तिर्यक् पातन यन्त्र (tiryak pātana yantra) : 1. An apparatus used to distill mercury 2. for the preparation of Arka distillation of herbal drug
तिल इच्छा (tila icchā) : Found of gingelly
तिलपिष्टनिभं (tilapiṣṭanibhaṁ) : Resembles the color of grinded sesame
तिलाभ (tilābha) : Color of sesame.
तीक्ष्ण (tīkṣṇa) : the property of the substance which causes sharpness and quick penetration
तीक्ष्ण (tīkṣṇa) : Sharpness/fast; one of the 20 gurvadi gunas; caused due activated agni; denotes physiological & pharmacological quickening of processes; instrumental for eliminative therapy; pacifies kapha & vāta, increases pitta; causes irritation, burning & excretion. An attribute of Pitta.
तीक्ष्ण वीर्य (tīkṣṇa vīrya) : higher potency
तीक्ष्णधूम (tīkṣṇadhūma) : When poisonous food is put into fire, the food emits irritating fumes.
तीक्ष्णाग्नि (tīkṣṇāgni) : Excessive digestive power
तीक्ष्णाग्नि (tīkṣṇāgni) : The state in which the action of Agni is considerably intensified due to dominant influence of Pitta.
तीक्ष्णासहः (tīkṣṇāsahaḥ) : Intolerance to pungent things
तीव्र (tīvra) : Severe, Excessive, Acute
तीव्रवेग श्वास (tīvravega śvāsa) : Paroxysmal type of breathlessness
तुण्डाहत् (tuṇḍāhat) : It is a type of snake bite in which the place of contact is wet by the saliva of the snake but no marks of fangs are seen.
तुदती (tudatī) : pricking sensation
तुन्ड आर (tunḍa āra) : pincers
तुन्नसेवनी (tunnasevanī) : Sutural joint. Articulation between two bones
तुरङ्गस्थानगन्ध (turaṅgasthānagandha) : Pungent alkaline smell.
तुला (tulā) : A unit of Measurement; 100 pala are equal to one tulā i.e each pala is equal to 48 gms and 100 palas 4.8 kg of metric units
तुल्यार्थता (tulyārthatā) : Similarity or mutuality in action. A character of sāmānya
तुषाम्बु (tuṣāmbu) : This is the fermented liquid using the coarse grains of barley
तूष्णी भाव (tūṣṇī bhāva) : Less talking.
तृट (tṛṭa) : Thirst
तृट् (tṛṭ) : Thirst
तृण धान्य (tṛṇa dhānya) : Millets- Grains from graminae family which grow stray and wild. They includes Indian millet, little millet, Kodo millet etc.
तृण पञ्चमुल (tṛṇa pañcamula) : A group of five grasses viz. Desmostachya bipinnata, Arundo donax, Saccharum spontaneum, Saccharum officinarum, Imperata cylindrica; having properties like diuretic.
तृणच्छेद (tṛṇaccheda) : Cutting grass by nail
तृप्ति (tṛpti) : Early satisfaction.
तृप्तिघ्न (tṛptighna) : substances delaying satiety
तृप्त्यक्षमत्व (tṛptyakṣamatva) : Intolerance to take proper satiation.
तृष्णा (tṛṣṇā) : Thirst
तृष्णा (tṛṣṇā) : A synonym of Pipāsā. Thirst, a sensation of dryness in the mouth and throat associated with a desire for liquids.
तृष्णा निग्रहण (tṛṣṇā nigrahaṇa) : substances that quench thirst
तेजोजलम् (tejojalam) : Aqueous humor. Transparent liquid contain in the anterior and posterior chambers of the eye
तेजोजलाश्रितं बाह्यं पटलं (tejojalāśritaṁ bāhyaṁ paṭalaṁ) : Cornea. The clear transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye composing about 1/6th of its surface.
तेजोभि इव दर्शनं (tejobhi iva darśanaṁ) : Sees objects as fire
तैजसं द्रव्य (taijasaṁ dravya) : substances having teja as the predominant mahābhūta;
तैल (taila) : Oil;
तैल वर्ग (taila varga) : A class of oils obtained from different vegetable source
तैल वर्तिका (taila vartikā) : Omentum that is suspended from the curvatures of the stomach and covers the intestine like an apron
तैलगन्धि (tailagandhi) : Smell of oil
तैलतुल्यं पुरीषं (tailatulyaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Stool resembles oil
तैलप्रभ मुखं (tailaprabha mukhaṁ) : Face looks as applied with oil.
तैलरूप पुरीषं (tailarūpa purīṣaṁ) : Stool resembles oil
तैलानिभं (tailānibhaṁ) : Oil colored
तैलाभं पुरीषं (tailābhaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Stool resembles oil
तैलाभ्यक्तम् (tailābhyaktam) : Coated with oil.
तोद (toda) : Needling pain
तोयपूर्णदृति वत् (toyapūrṇadṛti vat) : Abdomen resembles like a bladder filled with water
तोयमृत्तिका (toyamṛttikā) : It is prepared by addition of aged iron oxide (manḍūr) , jaggery, calcium carbonate levigated with concentrated decoction of acasia.Material used for water proofing- Water seal
तोयसमच्छायम् (toyasamacchāyam) : property of With watery shade
तौषार (tauṣāra) : Dew water- dew drops , formed at night at cold seasons or rain water accumulated on leaves.
त्यक्त्वा (tyaktvā) : Omitted/rejected
त्यागः (tyāgaḥ) : Giving up, Renunciation
त्रसरेणुः (trasareṇuḥ) : The first perceptible unit of measurement
त्रस्तं अक्षि (trastaṁ akṣi) : Frightened eye
त्रस्तः अद्भ्यः (trastaḥ adbhyaḥ) : Trembling on seeing water
त्रस्तलोहितं अक्षि (trastalohitaṁ akṣi) : Frightened eye
त्रास (trāsa) : Trembling; Fear; Trouble
त्रासः आतपत्रतः (trāsaḥ ātapatrataḥ) : Trembling on seeing umbrella.
त्रासः सुप्तस्य (trāsaḥ suptasya) : Trembling in sleep
त्रिकटु (trikaṭu) : Four pungent; group of four parts of three plants which are punj+D461ent in taste viz., Piper nigrum, Elettaria cardamomum, Cinnamomum zeylanicum, Cinnamomum tamala
त्रिकम् (trikam) : 1. Sacral region or sacrum. The region behind the triangular bone situated dorsal and caudal from the two ilia between the fifth lumbar vertebra and coccyx. 2. region around shoulder girdle
त्रिकार्षिक (trikārṣika) : Group of three drugs taking in karshapraman[10gm] Zinziber officinale Cyperus rotundus, Aconitum heterophyllum
त्रिगुण (triguṇa) : The three primary attributes of universe and also the properties of manas
त्रिजातक (trijātaka) : Group of three fragrant drugs, Elettaria cardamomum, Cinnamomum zeylanicum
त्रिदण्ड (tridaṇḍa) : Tripod
त्रिफला (triphalā) : syn
त्रिमद (trimada) : Group of Three drugs
त्रिलोह (triloha) : Three metals; Gold, Silver, Copper.
त्रिविध कुक्षि (trividha kukṣi) : Features of three fold belly-consumer of food should make three portion of his belly ,such as one portion of the space for solid items, one for liquids & one for vata, pitta, and kapha.
त्रिवृत (trivṛta) : A class of following 3 fats
त्रिशर्करा (triśarkarā) : Group of three sweet substances; jiggery, sugar, honey
त्रिसूत्रं (trisūtraṁ) : Literally means Three Sutras
त्रिस्कन्धः (triskandhaḥ) : the three modes of description namely etiology, symptomatology and the knowledge of therapeutics through which entire āyurveda is described also known as three sutra
त्वक् (tvak) : Bark (stem / root) of a plant
त्वक् कोच (tvak koca) : Contraction of skin
त्वक् स्फोटन (tvak sphoṭana) : Cracking of the skin
त्वचा (tvacā) : Skin. One of the five sensory organs that perceives the sense of touch.
त्वच्य (tvacya) : beneficial for the skin
त्वरित गति (tvarita gati) : Brisk walk
दक्षिणयन्/विसर्गकाल (dakṣiṇayan/visargakāla) : Southern solstice -It indicates the decent of sun/ movement of sun. This movement gives strength. Movement which enhances āp principles and strength of all living beings is Visarga kala. Varsha, Sarat and Hemanta constitute the Dakshinayan.
दग्धं (dagdhaṁ) : a stage observed in the preparation of the medicines where the material is burned
दग्धगुडाभासं (dagdhaguḍābhāsaṁ) : Color of burned Jaggery
दग्धपाक (dagdhapāka) : Completion of the process over above the stage of kharpaka – charred state
दग्धस्य ह्र्दयमदग्धम् दृष्ट्वा वा (dagdhasya hrdayamadagdham dṛṣṭvā vā) : Sign of suspected poisoning meaning heart remains intact while body is burning.
दग्धाकृति भृशं पाकि (dagdhākṛti bhṛśaṁ pāki) : Symptoms produced in a spider bite causing dushivisha (slow poison), the bite place appears as a burn and it gets suppurated quickly.
दग्धाग्नि इव (dagdhāgni iva) : Color of burnt scar.
दग्धाभा दृष्टिमण्डल (dagdhābhā dṛṣṭimaṇḍala) : Pupil looks as burned
दण्ड धरण (daṇḍa dharaṇa) : Holding stick removes fear of dog, reptiles, ferocious beasts and horned animals. Protects from falling, slipping and other defects.
दत्त्वा (dattvā) : By giving / adding
दधिकूर्चिक (dadhikūrcika) : When the milk is boiled with curd it curdles. The watery portion is discarded and the solid portion is collected as Dadhi Kurcika.
दधिमस्तु (dadhimastu) : It is the supernatant liquid portion in the curd/yoghurt
दधिवर्ग (dadhivarga) : Group(8) of Yoghurts and its various stages
दध्याभं पुरीषं (dadhyābhaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Burnt like stool
दन्तः (dantaḥ) : Tooth
दन्तकाष्ठ (dantakāṣṭha) : A piece of plant, stick or twig which is used for cleaning teeth & in ancient time it was used for giving the poison.
दन्तत्वक् (dantatvak) : Enamel - A hard white dense substance forming a covering for the crown of the teeth
दन्तदशन (dantadaśana) : Gnashing of the teeth
दन्तपिण्डिका (dantapiṇḍikā) : Gum/Alveolar arch - The fleshy substance or tissue covering the alveolar processes of the jaw
दन्तप्रदशन (dantapradaśana) : Gnashing of the teeth
दन्तबन्धनं (dantabandhanaṁ) : Gum/ Gingiva - The fleshy substance or tissue covering the alveolar processes of the jaw
दन्तमांसम् (dantamāṁsam) : Gum - The fleshy substance or tissue covering the alveolar processes of the jaw
दन्तमूलम् (dantamūlam) : Root of teeth/Gum - Part of the human teeth covered by cementum/The fleshy substance or tissue covering the alveolar processes of the jaw
दन्तमूलात् रक्तं (dantamūlāt raktaṁ) : Bleeding from Gums
दन्तवल्कं (dantavalkaṁ) : Enamel - A hard white dense substance forming a covering for the crown of the teeth
दन्तवेष्टकः (dantaveṣṭakaḥ) : Alveolar arch/Gum - The fleshy substance or tissue covering the alveolar processes of the jaw
दन्तवेष्टेभ्यः रक्तं (dantaveṣṭebhyaḥ raktaṁ) : Bleeding from Gums
दन्तशैथिल्य (dantaśaithilya) : Looseness of teeth.
दन्तशोफ (dantaśopha) : Swelling of gums
दन्तसदनं (dantasadanaṁ) : Falling of teeth
दन्तहर्षः (dantaharṣaḥ) : Gnashing of teeth
दन्तहर्षं (dantaharṣaṁ) : Hypersensitivity in teeth.
दन्ताक्षेप (dantākṣepa) : Gnashing of teeth
दन्ताग्रम् (dantāgram) : Cutting margin of tooth - Crown of the tooth
दन्ताधार (dantādhāra) : Gum/Alveolar arch - The fleshy substance or tissue covering the alveolar processes of the jaw
दन्तोलुखलानि (dantolukhalāni) : Bony sockets of teeth - A dental alveolus of the maxilla or mandible, a cavity that contains the root of a tooth.
दन्त्खादन (dantkhādana) : Gnashing of the teeth
दमः (damaḥ) : self restraint
दम्भ दर्शनं (dambha darśanaṁ) : Fixed gaze
दयति (dayati) : Desire
दरः (daraḥ) : Cardiac murmur
दरण (daraṇa) : Cracks, Fissure
दरण हृदयं (daraṇa hṛdayaṁ) : Cracking pain in heart
दर्प (darpa) : Pride, arrogance
दर्वीकर (darvīkara) : Hooded snake/cobras.
दर्शन (darśana) : 1. Looking at, seeing, observing 2. Inspection / examination
दर्शन अपघात (darśana apaghāta) : Blurred vision.
दर्शन अशक्ति (darśana aśakti) : Blurred vision
दर्शन असामर्थ्यं (darśana asāmarthyaṁ) : Blurred vision.
दर्शन उपघात (darśana upaghāta) : Blurred vision
दर्शन उपरोध (darśana uparodha) : Blurred vision.
दर्शन कृशता (darśana kṛśatā) : Blurred vision.
दर्शन क्षय (darśana kṣaya) : Blurred vision.
दर्शन ग्रहणं (darśana grahaṇaṁ) : Blurred vision.
दर्शन नाश (darśana nāśa) : Blurred vision.
दर्शन रोध (darśana rodha) : Blurred vision.
दर्शन रोधनं (darśana rodhanaṁ) : Blurred vision.
दर्शन वध (darśana vadha) : Blurred vision.
दर्शन विभ्रमं (darśana vibhramaṁ) : Blurred vision.
दर्शन हानि (darśana hāni) : Blurred vision.
दर्शनविनाश (darśanavināśa) : Restricted vision or Blurred vision.
दलन (dalana) : Cracks
दवन (davana) : Hot touch.
दंश (daṁśa) : Biting
दंश विशीर्यते (daṁśa viśīryate) : Symptom of the hornet sting is suppuration of the bitten part.
दंशकोथः (daṁśakothaḥ) : Putrefaction/ suppuration of the affected part.
दशगुणम् (daśaguṇam) : Ten attributes or properties of poison by which it acts on the body and produces harmful effects.
दशगुणान्वित् (daśaguṇānvit) : A poison which proves almost instantaneously fatal (within a day) should be regarded as having all ten qualities of poison.
दंशदेश (daṁśadeśa) : site of bite/sting
दशनच्छदः (daśanacchadaḥ) : Lips
दशनच्छदौ (daśanacchadau) : Labia or lips
दशनाः (daśanāḥ) : Teeth - Hard bony projection in jaws serving as organ of mastication
दशमूल (daśamūla) : A combination of following ten roots obtained from Five trees Bilva (Aegle marmelos), Agnimantha (Premna mucronata), Shyonak (Oroxylum indicum), Pātla (Stereospermum suaveolens), Gambhari (Gmelina arborea) and Five plants Shālparni (Desmodium gangeticum), Prishnaparni (Uraria picta), Brahti (Solanum indicus), Kantkari (Solanum surattense), and Gokshura (Tribulus terrestris).
दंशा बहुत्तरवि षा भृशाः (daṁśā bahuttaravi ṣā bhṛśāḥ) : Poison coming out of the snake fangs viz., lower left, upper left, lower right and upper right is progressively more and more virulent and incurable.
दंशावदरणं (daṁśāvadaraṇaṁ) : Excoriation.
दंश्यत इव वृश्चिक (daṁśyata iva vṛścika) : Pain resembles from the bite of scorpion.
दष्ट (daṣṭa) : bitten/stung
दष्टः शीतोदकेनेव सिक्तान्यङ्गानि मन्यते (daṣṭaḥ śītodakeneva siktānyaṅgāni manyate) : It bitten by uchchiting (poisonous crab/ cricket), the person feels as if the whole body is effused with cold water. मसततान्मङ्गातन भन्मते
दष्टकम् (daṣṭakam) : It is a type of snake bite in which three marks of the fangs are seen accompanied with tearing of the muscle but not of blood vessels.
दष्टनिपीडित (daṣṭanipīḍita) : It is a type of snake bite in which four fang marks are seen with tearing of the muscles but not of the blood vessels.
दंष्ट्रा (daṁṣṭrā) : Ayurvedic term for poisonous teeth which is counted as site of poison and medium of spreading poison/infection by the way bite of animal.
दंष्ट्रानिपाताः (daṁṣṭrānipātāḥ) : Distinct impression of all the fangs on the bitten part.
दंष्ट्राविषं मौलं हन्ति (daṁṣṭrāviṣaṁ maulaṁ hanti) : Animate type of poison is neutralized by the use of inanimate poisons.
दंष्ट्रिणः (daṁṣṭriṇaḥ) : All poisonous animals.
दंष्ट्रोत्थं (daṁṣṭrotthaṁ) : The poison which originates from fangs or canines in animals.
दहत् इव (dahat iva) : Burning sensation.
दहत् इव आर्तव (dahat iva ārtava) : Menstruation with burning sensation
दहत् इव उच्छास (dahat iva ucchāsa) : Expiration with burning sensation
दहत् मूत्रं (dahat mūtraṁ) : Burning Micturition.
दहत् लिङ्गं (dahat liṅgaṁ) : Ejaculation with burning in penis
दहत्यग्निरिवादौ तु भिनत्तीवोर्ध्वमाशु (dahatyagnirivādau tu bhinattīvordhvamāśu) : In scorpion bite, there is intense burning pain in the beginning and thereafter there is pinching pain which spreads upwards instantaneously.
दारणं (dāraṇaṁ) : Cracks, Fissure
दारुण (dāruṇa) : Hard
दार्ढ्य (dārḍhya) : hardness , fixedness , stability , strength
दालन दन्त (dālana danta) : Breaking
दाल्यत इव (dālyata iva) : Cracking pain
दाहं (dāhaṁ) : Burning sensation.
दाहवत् (dāhavat) : Defecation with burning sensatio purīṣapravartanaṁ
दिक् दर्शनं (dik darśanaṁ) : Looking in all direction
दिग्ध (digdha) : Coating
दिग्धगल (digdhagala) : Mucus coating in throat
दिग्धविद्ध (digdhaviddha) : Arrow/sui poisoning.
दिनचर्या (dinacaryā) : Made out of two words, Dina and Charya. Dina refers to Day/day time/day today and Charya refers to regimen/routine work which includes Ahara (Food) and Vihara (activities), thus Dinacharaya means daily routines or day to day regimens.
दिवसद्वन्दम (divasadvandama) : Indicating the period in any process
दिवास्वप (divāsvapa) : Sleeping during day time. It should be avoided by healthy individuals otherwise it may cause increase of kapha, Meda. Except during grisma (summer) at all other time day sleep is prohibited. Day sleep is not nap.
दिवास्वप्न (divāsvapna) : Sleeping during day time
दिव्य सर्प (divya sarpa) : Mysterious mythological celestial snakes which are radiant just like fire and it is said that they always roar, cause rain, shine by themselves and always support and sustain the world, when become angry convert the world to ashes by their sight and exhalation.
दीन मुखं (dīna mukhaṁ) : Exhausted face
दीपन (dīpana) : One of the mercurial processes by which reactiveness of mercury is to be hastened
दीपन (dīpana) : 1. Stimulating / promoting digestion 2. To increase appetite
दीपनीय (dīpanīya) : Appetizer
दीप्त तेज (dīpta teja) : Very brightly shining aura
दीप्तापकसन्निभं (dīptāpakasannibhaṁ) : Color of burnt scar
दीर्घ उच्छवास (dīrgha ucchavāsa) : Very prolonged expiration.
दीर्घसूत्रता (dīrghasūtratā) : Slow activities
दीर्यत वधः (dīryata vadhaḥ) : Piercing pain.
दुःख (duḥkha) : It refers to Unhappiness, sorrow, woe, grief, misery, pain, anguish, agony, affliction, wretchedness, suffering, trouble, hardship, adversity, infliction, trial, tribulation. Any action which gives pain to Indriya (Sense-organs) and Atma due to perception of Adharma / Papa karma is Duhlha
दुःख आवेदन (duḥkha āvedana) : Loudly proclaims sorrows to others
दुःख पाकः (duḥkha pākaḥ) : Delayed digestion
दुःख पुरीषप्रवर्तनं (duḥkha purīṣapravartanaṁ) : Difficulty in defecation.
दुःख शील (duḥkha śīla) : Unhappy disposition
दुःखायु (duḥkhāyu) : A kind of life full of sorrow; Unhappy life
दुःखित (duḥkhita) : Unhappy disposition.
दुःखोपचारता (duḥkhopacāratā) : Unhappy on medical attention by others.
दुग्ध (dugdha) : Milk; Synonym of Kshira.
दुग्ध इच्छा (dugdha icchā) : Fond of Milk
दुच्छाय (ducchāya) : Diminished complexion.
दुन्दुभिस्वनीय (dundubhisvanīya) : Name of a chapter which states treatment of the patients of poisoning by the sounds of beating medicated drums because of its anti venomous virtue.
दुराध्मानं (durādhmānaṁ) : Distention of abdomen due to flatus.
दुरान्तिकस्थ दर्शनं (durāntikastha darśanaṁ) : Near appearance of remote objects.
दुरालक्ष्यतमं (durālakṣyatamaṁ) : very mild symptom (un noticeable)
दुरुपक्रम (durupakrama) : Difficult for therapeutic management due to increased risk.
दुर्गन्ध (durgandha) : Bad smell, Fetid smell
दुर्जरतां (durjaratāṁ) : processing vigorously leads to develop some unexpectable qualities
दुर्जातं (durjātaṁ) : Malunion
दुर्दग्धं (durdagdhaṁ) : Stage of a burn during agnikarma which is characterized by the eruption of a large vesicle and assumes a red color and is characterized by extreme pain of burning and drawing nature, which suppurates and takes long time to heal.
दुर्धरता ग्रीवा (durdharatā grīvā) : Weakness of neck
दुर्नाम (durnāma) : Piles in Rectum
दुर्बल अस्थि (durbala asthi) : Weakness of bone
दुर्भगः (durbhagaḥ) : Unshapely (unpleasant to look)
दुर्मन (durmana) : Loss of mental strength.
दुर्मेललोहद्वयमेलन (durmelalohadvayamelana) : Helps in alloy making of two metals ordinarily difficult to be alloyed
दुर्वर्ण (durvarṇa) : Diminished complexion
दुर्हरं (durharaṁ) : Difficult to remove.
दुष्ट (duṣṭa) : Vitiated; Turbid, Fetid, Bad
दुष्ट जल (duṣṭa jala) : Poisoned /polluted water.
दुष्टचेतसः (duṣṭacetasaḥ) : Evil minded
दूयन (dūyana) : Parching
दूर्वा वर्ण (dūrvā varṇa) : Color of fodder grass.
दूषीविषम् (dūṣīviṣam) : chronic poisoning/Either inanimate, animate or artificial poison when it becomes less potent after its treatment and when its effects are not nullified radically, because of which it resides in the body that particular less potent part of the above said poison is called dushivisha.
दूष्य (dūṣya) : Any bodily structure that gets vitiated by aggravated Doṣas
दृढ कर्णपाली (dṛḍha karṇapālī) : Hard lobe of ear
दृढ वाससा (dṛḍha vāsasā) : With strong cloth
दृढ हस्त (dṛḍha hasta) : With strong hands / with great effort
दृष्टस्वप्नं (dṛṣṭasvapnaṁ) : Dreams of past visual experiences
दृष्टान्तः (dṛṣṭāntaḥ) : Description of universal truth fully comprehensible by the wise and ignorant person
दृष्टि (dṛṣṭi) : look
दृष्टिः (dṛṣṭiḥ) : Pupil of eyeball, The contractile opening at the center of the iris of the eye
दृष्टिगोलकम् (dṛṣṭigolakam) : Eyeball - The globe of the eye
दृष्टिमण्डल (dṛṣṭimaṇḍala) : Pupil
दृष्टिवधः (dṛṣṭivadhaḥ) : Blurred vision
दृष्टिहृदयोपरोधो (dṛṣṭihṛdayoparodho) : When the poison enters the stomach, dysfunction is produced in the eye and the heart.
दृष्ट्वा (dṛṣṭvā) : a quality of teacher of experiencing or observing various preparations 2.observing end points in the preparation of various formulations
देव द्वेष (deva dveṣa) : Aversion to good
देवकर्दम (devakardama) : Combination of following four plants Shreekhand (Santalum album), Karpoor (Cinnamomum comphora), Agru (Aqualaria aggalocha), and Kāshmir (crocus sativus).
देश (deśa) : it implies to body or body part or geographical area
देश (deśa) : habitat, the place or environment where a plant or animal naturally or normally lives and grows
देशविरुद्ध (deśaviruddha) : Intake of dry and sharp substance in deserts
देश्योक्ति (deśyokti) : habitat; plants are named on basis of their place of origin
देह (deha) : The living body. Indicative of growth in the bodily tissues.
देहः (dehaḥ) : Body
देहलौहसिद्धिकर (dehalauhasiddhikara) : Make the body strong like iron
देहसिद्धि (dehasiddhi) : Making the body stronger & steady through therapeutics
दैन्यं (dainyaṁ) : Wretchedness, pathetic.
दैवव्यपाश्रय (daivavyapāśraya) : non-pharmacological management of illness applying spiritual intervention
दैवी (daivī) : one among four categories of medicines described in Atharva Veda
दोलायंत्र (dolāyaṁtra) : An apparatus used to detoxify the materials by suspending the bundle in specified liquids for a specified time period
दोष (doṣa) : Principle constituents of the body that is responsible for homeostasis, when present in the state of equilibrium. Doṣas also determine the psycho-physiological nature / constitution of an individual. Doṣas are capable of vitiating the different bodily tissues, when deviate from the state of equilibrium and can lead to diseases. These are of two classes
दोष विरुद्ध (doṣa viruddha) : Utilization of drugs, diet and regimen having similar qualities with Dosa (humours - Vata, Pitta & Kapha) but at variance with the habit of the individuals is categorized under this.
दोषज स्वप्न (doṣaja svapna) : Dreams due to aggravation of Doshas
दोषदर्शनं अदोषेषु (doṣadarśanaṁ adoṣeṣu) : Finds fault in unfaultable things
दोषनिर्मुक्त (doṣanirmukta) : Making the material free From impurities
दोषप्रशमन (doṣapraśamana) : Pacification of doshas; commonly used to denote the substances that pacify doshas.
दोषवक्ता (doṣavaktā) : Abusing others
दोषविनिग्रह (doṣavinigraha) : Retention of flatus
दोषस्थानप्रकृतीः प्राप्यान्यतमं ह्युदीरयति (doṣasthānaprakṛtīḥ prāpyānyatamaṁ hyudīrayati) : Depending upon the location of doshas and the constitution of the patient, poisons provoke other doshas.
दोहद इच्छा (dohada icchā) : Desire to take all types of food.
दौग्धिकपुष्पवत् (daugdhikapuṣpavat) : Color of the flower of Daugdhika (Oxystelma esculantum)
दौर्गन्ध्यं (daurgandhyaṁ) : Foul smell
दौर्बल्य (daurbalya) : Loss of strength.
दौर्बल्यम् (daurbalyam) : Debility, weakness, feebleness
द्योतनं नकुलस्य इव (dyotanaṁ nakulasya iva) : Pupil shining like the mongoose eye
द्रव (drava) : Liquid; one among the 20 gurvadi guna
द्रवान्न उपाचरेत (dravānna upācareta) : Treated with liquid food- person who is having dryness of the body, suffering from thirst & debility should be treated with liquid foods.
द्रव्य (dravya) : Materials of plant, animal & mineral origin
द्रव्य (dravya) : Matter; the main substratum of action and property
द्रव्य (dravya) : A substance used for therapeutic purpose / health benefits akin to drug in modern pharmacology wherein properties and actions embodies in an inseparable manner.
द्रव्यगुण (dravyaguṇa) : 1. Science that deals with substances used for health benefits in all their aspects like properties, actions, uses, sources, processing, quality, etc. 2. Branch of Ayurveda.
द्रष्टा (draṣṭā) : Synonym of Sākṣī. An attribute of Ātmā.
द्राक्षाफलोपमा (drākṣāphalopamā) : Color of grape fruit.
द्रावक गण (drāvaka gaṇa) : The agents which make the materials to melt at much lower temperatures than the original melting points.
द्रावयेद (drāvayeda) : Process of liquefying material
द्रुत गति (druta gati) : Brisk walking
द्रुत बुद्धि (druta buddhi) : Perverted intelligence
द्रुत भाषणं (druta bhāṣaṇaṁ) : Speedy talk
द्रुतद्राव (drutadrāva) : Indicates the quick melting – materials with Low Melting Point
द्रुति (druti) : Process of liquefaction of solid material – colloidal solutions
द्रोण (droṇa) : A unit of Measurement; Sixteen prastha will make one drona equivalent to 12.228 kg/l metric units
द्रोणी (droṇī) : A unit of Measurement; ,Four drona combined will make one droni equivalent to 49.152 kg/l of metric units
द्वन्द्व (dvandva) : Alloying
द्वयंगुलम् (dvayaṁgulam) : indicating measure of length One angul=3/4 inch 2 angul equivalent to 1.5 inches of metric units
द्विकाल भोजन (dvikāla bhojana) : Twice a day meal-Having meal twice a day is good for those who have normal digestive fire, by this food will get digested and assimilated easily without any interruption.
द्विजद्वेष (dvijadveṣa) : Aversion to Brahmins
द्विधा औष्ठ (dvidhā auṣṭha) : Bifurcated lips
द्विधा दर्शनं (dvidhā darśanaṁ) : Double vision.
द्वेष (dveṣa) : Aversion - it is one of the Suppresable urge. If any person fails to suppress will end up in psychological disorders.
धमनी हर्ष (dhamanī harṣa) : Enlargement of artery
धमनीजालसन्ततः (dhamanījālasantataḥ) : Prominent network of artery
धमनीजालसंवृतः (dhamanījālasaṁvṛtaḥ) : Prominent network of artery
धमनीततः (dhamanītataḥ) : Prominent network of artery
धमनीप्रतिचयः (dhamanīpraticayaḥ) : Hardening of artery
धमेद (dhameda) : Smelting
धरण (dharaṇa) : A unit of Measurement; ,Four seeds of masha are equal to one dharan and synonym of sana
धर्म (dharma) : Righteousness, justice, duty, obligations, dispostion, distinctive quality, religious observance etc. One of the four Purusharta’s (values or goals of life) according to Hindus. It is inferred by results of good conduct of a person which provides heaven and happiness is treated as dharma. Contrary to this Adharma.
धर्मस्थ (dharmastha) : Magistrate\ judge.
धवस्त (dhavasta) : Chocked
धातु (dhātu) : mineral or metal
धातु (dhātu) : The seven major structural components that stabilize and sustain the body (Rasa, Rakta, Māṃsa, Meda, Asthi, Majjā and Śukra). The previous Dhātu nourishes the next in a sequential fashion. Each Dhātu is of two forms
धातु प्रदूषण (dhātu pradūṣaṇa) : vitiation of dhatus; commonly used to denote the substances that are harmful to the living system
धातु वर्ग (dhātu varga) : group of metals;
धातुवाद (dhātuvāda) : Transmutation of lower metals into noble metals
धातुसाम्य (dhātusāmya) : Equilibrium of dhatus which is indicated by alleviation of the disorder. following criteria for DHATUSAMYA are alleviation of disorder ,normalcy of voice & complexion, development of body, increase in strength, desire for food, proper & timely digestion of the food taken, timely sleep, elimination of urine , faeces & semen overall normalcy of mind, intellect & sense organs.
धातुस्राव पुरीषं (dhātusrāva purīṣaṁ) : Stool with tissue elements
धात्वाग्नि (dhātvāgni) : Seven types of Agni those are responsible for transformation of one Dhatu into another. Seven Dhatvagnis are
धाना (dhānā) : Puffed rice-Grains are fried after dehusk. It is light in nature and easy to digest. Indicated in Jwar & Agnimandyaetc.
धान्यराशी (dhānyarāśī) : Heap of paddy husk keeping the medicines to maintain the temperature
धान्याभ्रक (dhānyābhraka) : Intermediary process in incineration of mica for removing stone, gravel etc and to make fine powder with the help of paddy & sour gruel.
धार (dhāra) : It’s a type of Antariksha jala. The water which falls from the mountain in the form of falls.
धारण (dhāraṇa) : Holding, carrying, preserving, protecting, Possessing. Common function of all Dhātus. Specific function of Asthi Dhātu.
धारण अशक्ति पुरीषप्रवर्तनं (dhāraṇa aśakti purīṣapravartanaṁ) : Inability to bear urge of defecation
धारणीयवेग (dhāraṇīyavega) : Urges which are suppressed. These urges are aimed towards the mental harmony. It includes urges like greed, grief, fear, anger, ego, shamelessness, jealousy, excessive attachment, desire for things possessed by others, speaking harsh words, back biting, lying, desire for other women & stealing.
धारि (dhāri) : the one that prevents the body from decay, a synonym of ayu
धावन (dhāvana) : Fleeing
धी (dhī) : Understanding , intelligence , wisdom
धीविभ्रम (dhīvibhrama) : Perverted intelligence
धीविभ्रंश (dhīvibhraṁśa) : Adherence to wrong discrimination eternal & non eternal as well as wholesome is known as derangement of intellect because by nature the intellect sees rightly.
धुन्वन (dhunvana) : Convulsion.
धुपस्तु पायुदेशे प्रयोजितः (dhupastu pāyudeśe prayojitaḥ) : Fumigation of perineal region.
धूप इच्छा (dhūpa icchā) : Fond of incense
धूपन (dhūpana) : Smoky sensation
धूपन (dhūpana) : Feeling of emitting fumes while speaking. Smoky sensation
धूपन (dhūpana) : Smoke is made to spread in the ambient air to maintain the purity and clean air.
धूम (dhūma) : Medicated smoke.
धूमक (dhūmaka) : Smoky sensation
धूमगन्ध (dhūmagandha) : Smell of Smoke
धूमगन्धिकं (dhūmagandhikaṁ) : Smell of Smoke
धूमधूम्र दर्शनं (dhūmadhūmra darśanaṁ) : Smoky vision
धूमनं (dhūmanaṁ) : Smoky sensation
धूमायति इव (dhūmāyati iva) : Smoky sensation
धूमायन (dhūmāyana) : Smoky sensation
धूमायन इव मुखं (dhūmāyana iva mukhaṁ) : Feeling of emitting fumes from mouth
धूमाविल दृष्टिमण्डल (dhūmāvila dṛṣṭimaṇḍala) : Smoke color Pupil
धूमावृतं इव दृष्टिमण्डलं (dhūmāvṛtaṁ iva dṛṣṭimaṇḍalaṁ) : Smoke color Pupil
धूमोपमं उच्छास (dhūmopamaṁ ucchāsa) : Smoky sensation while breathing
धूमोपहत (dhūmopahata) : Asphyxia by inhalation of smoke.
धूम्रदर्शनं (dhūmradarśanaṁ) : smoky vision
धूसरः (dhūsaraḥ) : Ash color, Grey color
धृति (dhṛti) : Controlling power of mind.
धृति क्षय (dhṛti kṣaya) : Lack of courage
धृति विभ्रंश (dhṛti vibhraṁśa) : Derangement of restraint it is not possible to control the mind indulged in sexual pleasure from the unwholesome object.
धैर्यनाश (dhairyanāśa) : Lack of courage
ध्माता मुखं (dhmātā mukhaṁ) : Puffy face
ध्मान (dhmāna) : Distention due to flatus
ध्मान नासिका (dhmāna nāsikā) : Obstruction of nostrils
ध्यान (dhyāna) : Thinking excessively
ध्यान (dhyāna) : One of the 5 types of worship of mercury
ध्यान (dhyāna) : Meditation
ध्यायति (विहगः) (dhyāyati (vihagaḥ)) : It is a symptom produced in the first of impulse of bird poisoning which means the bird gets depressed.
ध्वजभङ्ग (dhvajabhaṅga) : Loss of erection of penis
ध्वजम् (dhvajam) : Penis - The male organ of copulation and in mammals urination
ध्वंसनं रोम (dhvaṁsanaṁ roma) : Falling of hair
न बध्यन्ते (na badhyante) : Not to be bandaged, ulcers due to scalds, in lepers, fleshy condylomata due to a bite from a poisonous rat or any other poisonous ulcers should not be bandaged.
नकुल (nakula) : It is a wild animal, which is included in animate group of poison, i.e. mangoose.
नकुलनिर्जिताः (nakulanirjitāḥ) : If the snakes are afflicted by the attacks of mongoose, then the poison of such snakes is mild in nature.
नक्षत्र दर्शनं (nakṣatra darśanaṁ) : Sees star like objects
नख (nakha) : Nails.
नख (nakha) : Nail
नख भेदः (nakha bhedaḥ) : Decaying of nails
नखच्युतिः (nakhacyutiḥ) : Falling of nail
नखप्रभ (nakhaprabha) : Color of Nail
नखमांसम् (nakhamāṁsam) : Nail bed or Nail Matrix/Digital pulp. The portion of a finger or toe covered by the nail.
नखशातनं (nakhaśātanaṁ) : Falling of nails
नखशातम् (nakhaśātam) : Falling of the fingernails.
नखसदनं (nakhasadanaṁ) : Falling of nails
नखसन्धिः (nakhasandhiḥ) : Nail root & Nail fold. Root of a horny cell structure of the epidermis forming flat plates upon the dorsal surface of the terminal phalanges
नखाः नखानि वा (nakhāḥ nakhāni vā) : Nails. A horny cell structure of the epidermis forming flat plates upon the dorsal surface of the terminal phalanges
नग्नतव (nagnatava) : Nudity or exhibitionism
नत ग्रीवा (nata grīvā) : Forward bending of the neck
नदन कर्¸अ (nadana kar¸a) : Flute like sound in the ear.
नद्धत्वम् इव नासिका (naddhatvam iva nāsikā) : Feeling of fullness
नपुंसक (napuṁsaka) : Impotent.
नपुंसक (napuṁsaka) : Hermaphrodite.
नमन (namana) : Bending of the body
नमनयति (namanayati) : Ability to bend; an adverse effect attributed to excessive use (Atiyoga) of Tikta rasa.
नयन (nayana) : Eye
नयन बुदबुदः (nayana budabudaḥ) : Eye ball. The globe of the eye
नयनप्लव (nayanaplava) : Lacrimation
नर अति इच्छा (nara ati icchā) : Nymphomania; Excessive desire for sexual intercourse with males
नर द्वेष (nara dveṣa) : Aversion to males
नर्तन भ्रू (nartana bhrū) : Trembling of eyebrow
नष्ट पिष्टि (naṣṭa piṣṭi) : Loosing original shape of mercury by grinding / reducing , to a very fine state of division
नष्टच्छाया (naṣṭacchāyā) : Diminished complexion
नष्टमानसः (naṣṭamānasaḥ) : Confusion or absence of mind
नस्य (nasya) : Administration of drugs by nasal route, all drugs and measures introduced through nose spread throughout the head and its constituent drugs may influence all the Doṣas, poisons and disease situated in these parts.
नस्यधूमाञ्जनादिशु (nasyadhūmāñjanādiśu) : A way to cause harm by administering the poison through the way of nasal application, inhalation (smoking) and collyrium.
नाग (nāga) : Element Lead-Plumbum with chemical symbol Pb at at.no 82
नातिद्रुतं (nātidrutaṁ) : One should not eat food in hurry; it may leads to food improper mixing of food with saliva, indigestion and entry of food in wrong tract.
नातिविलम्बितम् (nātivilambitam) : One should not eat too slow by this one doesn't get satisfaction, eats more, food becomes cold and is digested irregularly.
नादेय उदक (nādeya udaka) : River water
नानारुजावत् पुरीषप्रवर्तनम् (nānārujāvat purīṣapravartanam) : Defecation with various types of pain
नानावर्णं (nānāvarṇaṁ) : Multi color.
नानाविधं पुरीषं (nānāvidhaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Stool in different forms
नाभिः (nābhiḥ) : Navel, Umbilicus. The depressed point in the middle of the abdomen. The Scar that marks the former attachment of umbilical cord to the fetus
नाभि बन्धनम् (nābhi bandhanam) : Umbilical end of cord. The attachment connecting the fetus with the placenta
नाभिनाडी (nābhināḍī) : Umbilical cord. The attachment connecting the fetus with the placenta.
नाभिप्रदेशः (nābhipradeśaḥ) : Umbilical region. The depressed point in the middle of the abdomen, the scar that marks the former attachment of umbilical cord to the fetus
नाभिमण्डलम् (nābhimaṇḍalam) : Round area of umbilicus. The depressed point in the middle of the abdomen, the scar that marks the former attachment of umbilical cord to the fetus.
नाभिहते दण्डराजी स्यात् (nābhihate daṇḍarājī syāt) : It is a sign of death of a poisoned person in which bruise does not occur on the skin of the person even when hit by sticks. स्मात ्
नाम (nāma) : Name/Basonym of a plant
नारी अति इच्छा (nārī ati icchā) : Excessive desire for sexual intercourse with females
नालम् (nālam) : Penis or Phallus. The male organ of copulation and in mammal’s urination.
नाशं (nāśaṁ) : Absense, Loss
नासपुटबहिर्भागः (nāsapuṭabahirbhāgaḥ) : Ala of nose. Wing of the nose, Broad portion forming the lateral wall of each nostril.
नासा (nāsā) : Nose
नासा नासिका वा (nāsā nāsikā vā) : Nose -organ of smell
नासाक्षिसन्धिः (nāsākṣisandhiḥ) : Inner canthus. The angle at the inner end of the slit between the eye lids.
नासानाडी (nāsānāḍī) : Nostril-Anterior nares. External aperture of the nose
नासारन्ध्रम् (nāsārandhram) : Nostril. One of the external aperture of the nose
नासावभङ्गश्च् (nāsāvabhaṅgaśc) : A bad prognostic sign resulting in the cases of snake bite which means that the nose bridge of the patient becomes bent or collapses.
नासाविवरम् (nāsāvivaram) : Nostril. One of the external aperture of the nose.
नासास्रोतः (nāsāsrotaḥ) : Nasal meatus. The passage or opening of nose.
नासिका (nāsikā) : Nose
नासिकापुटं वा (nāsikāpuṭaṁ vā) : Nostril-Anterior nares. External aperture of the nose
नासिकाभ्यां रक्तं (nāsikābhyāṁ raktaṁ) : Bleeding through Nose
नासिकाविषय अज्ञानम् (nāsikāviṣaya ajñānam) : Anosmia or loss of the sense of smell
निकुञ्चनं (nikuñcanaṁ) : Contraction of skin
निकोचनम् अक्षि (nikocanam akṣi) : Contraction of the eye
निकोचम् भ्रू (nikocam bhrū) : Frowning of the eyebrow
निक्षिप्त (nikṣipta) : Placing/Having poured/ To put down
निगमनम् (nigamanam) : Deduction or conclusive statement ; step of inference for re-establishment of truth
निग्रह (nigraha) : Retention, Stiffness, Restriction
निग्रहस्थानम् (nigrahasthānam) : loopholes of a competitor by which opponent can be defeated in a hostile discussion
निघण्टु (nighaṇṭu) : Lexicon; Texts containing various information of medicinal substances like synonyms, pharmacological properties and actions.
निचय पुरीषप्रवर्तनम् (nicaya purīṣapravartanam) : Retention of stool
नितम्बः (nitambaḥ) : Buttock. The external prominences posterior to the hips
नितातं आर्तव (nitātaṁ ārtava) : Continuous menses
नित्य (nitya) : Eternal which is existed for ever
नित्यगः (nityagaḥ) : Continuously going on process
नित्यग्य (nityagya) : Eternal moving time is that which is concerned with the day / Season.
नित्यत्व (nityatva) : Perpetual
निदर्शनम् (nidarśanam) : an Illustrative statements which explains a subject matter with the help of an example understandable to common man
निद्रा (nidrā) : Sleep; When the Mana (mind) & Indriya’s (sense organs) get exhausted, they withdraw themselves from the objects & the individual get sleep. Sleep is caused by Tamas, Kapha, physical and mental exertion, adventitious, as sequel to diseases and normally at night.
निद्रा अभाव (nidrā abhāva) : Sleeplessness
निद्रा नाश (nidrā nāśa) : Sleeplessness
निद्रा भ्रंश (nidrā bhraṁśa) : Sleeplessness
निद्राक्षयः (nidrākṣayaḥ) : Sleeplessness
निद्राविपर्यय (nidrāviparyaya) : Sleeplessness
निद्राहानि (nidrāhāni) : Sleeplessness
निपतन (nipatana) : Falling down
निपीदनं (nipīdanaṁ) : Pain
निमज्जनम् (nimajjanam) : Sinks in water
निमित्त (nimitta) : Means; the cause of anything.
निमित्त कारण (nimitta kāraṇa) : Auxiliary cause; Instrumental cause
निमीलनम् अक्षि (nimīlanam akṣi) : Closing of the eye or Nictation
निमेष (nimeṣa) : Closure of the eyelids, a moment, to flutter the eyelids.
निमेष एकाक्षि (nimeṣa ekākṣi) : Closing of one of the eye or Nictation
निमेष कृच्छ्रात् अक्षि (nimeṣa kṛcchrāt akṣi) : Closing of the eye with difficult
निमेषाक्षि (nimeṣākṣi) : Closing of the eye or Nictation
निमेषोन्मेषणं अक्षि (nimeṣonmeṣaṇaṁ akṣi) : Frequent closing and opening of eye.
निम्नता (nimnatā) : Depressed in the middle of tongue
नियतिः (niyatiḥ) : Destiny
नियमः (niyamaḥ) : Austerity; act of voluntary penance or meritorious piety
नियमन (niyamana) : One of the mercurial processes by which the mercury is restrained from the hyper reactive state achieved during rodhana/ bodhana process
नियोगः (niyogaḥ) : Injunction; statements in the form of command or orders which are to be followed strictly without doubt or discussion
निरपत्रता (nirapatratā) : Shamelessness
निरान्त्र (nirāntra) : Free from intestines
निरालोका दृष्टिमण्डलं (nirālokā dṛṣṭimaṇḍalaṁ) : Opacity in pupil
निरुच्छ्वास् (nirucchvās) : Breathlessness
निरुत्थ (niruttha) : One of the bhasma test –shouldn’t increase the weight of silver when mixed with bhasma
निरुद्धरक्तः (niruddharaktaḥ) : Stoppage of bleeding, after the bite of darvikar snake (group of cobra snake variety) the blood does not come out from the site of bite.
निरुद्धवाक् (niruddhavāk) : Choked voice
निरोध (nirodha) : Stiffness, Retention
निरोध हृदय (nirodha hṛdaya) : Stiffness of pericardial region
निर्गन्ध (nirgandha) : 1.Make the material free from odor/ odorless 2.Make the material sulphur free
निर्गन्धं मूत्रं (nirgandhaṁ mūtraṁ) : Urine without smell
निर्गन्धं रक्तं (nirgandhaṁ raktaṁ) : Bleeding without smell
निर्गमन जिह्वा (nirgamana jihvā) : Protrusion of the tongue
निर्घृणित्व (nirghṛṇitva) : Mercilessness or cruel disposition.
निर्जलीकरण (nirjalīkaraṇa) : A process by which the crystalline water in the materials will be evaporated making amorphous
निर्णयः (nirṇayaḥ) : Decisissive statements which establish a conclusion, settlement of a subject after detailed consideration of all relevant and related facts
निर्देशः (nirdeśaḥ) : Statements which elaborate a theme briefly said with a detail of description
निर्धूम (nirdhūma) : 1. One of the classical tests for examining the bhasma specifically for arsenic indicating no free availability of material 2. one of ideal property of shilajatu
निर्बीजं (nirbījaṁ) : Futility of semen
निर्भय (nirbhaya) : Fearlessness
निर्भुग्न (nirbhugna) : Distorted, Tortuous
निर्भुग्न अक्षि (nirbhugna akṣi) : Distorted eye or vision
निर्भुग्न दर्शनं (nirbhugna darśanaṁ) : Sees objects in distorted form
निर्भुग्न हृदय (nirbhugna hṛdaya) : Twisting like feeling in heart.
निर्भेद अक्षि (nirbheda akṣi) : Breaking pain in the eye.
निर्मथनम् अक्षि अरणिवत् (nirmathanam akṣi araṇivat) : Pain in the eye as being churned with Araṇi (Fire producing stick)
निर्मथन् (nirmathan) : Churning pain
निर्मथन् हृदय (nirmathan hṛdaya) : Stirring like feeling in heart.
निर्मलानि तेजांसि (nirmalāni tejāṁsi) : Sees objects glowing
निर्यातम् (niryātam) : A process of Extraction
निर्यास (niryāsa) : Exudate of a plant
निर्यूह (niryūha) : synonym of kashaya - boiled & filtered liquid of herbs for specific time used for the therapeutics & pharmaceutical manufacturing
निर्वचनम् (nirvacanam) : specific description with such example which could be understood by experts only
निर्विकल्पकम् (nirvikalpakam) : Non-differentiated knowledge
निर्विकार (nirvikāra) : Devoid of pathogenecity; the quality of self which is devoid of all bodily and psychological ailments.
निर्विकार (nirvikāra) : Unchangeable, uniform. A specific property of Ātmā.
निर्विष (nirviṣa) : Type of a non venomous snake bite which is marked by presence of one or more fang marks and absence of swelling and presence of slightly vitiated blood at the spot and is not attended with any change in physiological condition of the person bitten.
निर्वीर्य (nirvīrya) : The material with no potency
निर्वृत्ति (nirvṛtti) : Manifestation
निवृति (nivṛti) : It refers to Freedom from action- satya buddhi transcends all karma and affords freedom from action is Nivṛtti. This freedom from action or state of inaction is considered to be the highest achievement.
निशाचर (niśācara) : Walking in night
निशाविहार (niśāvihāra) : #NAME?
निश्चन्द्र (niścandra) : One of the classical test for examining the bhasma/kajjali indicating no free availability/complete compounding of material
निश्चेष्ट (niśceṣṭa) : Loss of motor function
निश्चेष्ट (niśceṣṭa) : Inactive
निश्वास (niśvāsa) : Breath (exhalation)
निश्वास दौर्गन्ध्यं (niśvāsa daurgandhyaṁ) : Bad smell on breathing
निश्वास वैगन्ध्यं (niśvāsa vaigandhyaṁ) : Bad smell on breathing
निश्वास संग्रह (niśvāsa saṁgraha) : Labored breathing
निश्वास संरोध (niśvāsa saṁrodha) : Labored breathing
निष्कुली (niṣkulī) : Peeling of epidermal layer in ash gourd etc
निष्क्रमण जिह्वा (niṣkramaṇa jihvā) : Protrusion of tongue.
निष्क्रिय (niṣkriya) : Inactive. A specific property of Ātmā.
निष्क्रियत इव अक्षि (niṣkriyata iva akṣi) : Feeling of displacement of eye
निष्ठनं (niṣṭhanaṁ) : Defecation with bearing and gripping pain
निष्ठा पाक (niṣṭhā pāka) : Final stage of digestion that succeeds Avastha Pāka
निष्ठीवन (niṣṭhīvana) : Spitting
निष्ठीविका (niṣṭhīvikā) : Spitting
निष्पत्रम् (niṣpatram) : Without lamellae -A property of mineral
निष्पिच्छं आर्तव (niṣpicchaṁ ārtava) : Non slimy menstrual blood
निष्पीडन् (niṣpīḍan) : Compression, It is treatment procedure of poisoning in which expelling of poison is done by squeezing the area of bite where incision is not advisable.
निष्पीड्यत इव (niṣpīḍyata iva) : Compressing type of sensation
निष्प्रभ (niṣprabha) : Lack of complexion
निष्प्रेक्ष्यं (niṣprekṣyaṁ) : Blurred vision.
निष्फलता (niṣphalatā) : Infertility; Futility of semen
निष्फलम् (niṣphalam) : 1. Without use/useless 2. without any effect
निस्तन्द्री (nistandrī) : Sleeplessness
निस्तोद (nistoda) : Needling pain
निस्पन्दन (nispandana) : The twitching in the head
निस्वनं (nisvanaṁ) : Defecation without sound purīṣapravartanaṁ
निस्संज्ञा (nissaṁjñā) : Loss of consciousness.
निस्सार (nissāra) : Ill nourishment
निस्सारणं गुद (nissāraṇaṁ guda) : Prolapsed Rectum
निस्सारणं जिह्वा (nissāraṇaṁ jihvā) : Indrawing of tongue
निहन्ति (nihanti) : Arrests/ destroys
निह्श्वाश (nihśvāśa) : Inspiration, inhalation
नीरसकोमल् (nīrasakomal) : Soft and without any moisture- indicative of the optimal stage of preparing medicated oil/ghee
नील (nīla) : Blue color
नीला दीनां तमसश्च् दर्शनं (nīlā dīnāṁ tamasaśc darśanaṁ) : Blue/dark vision It is a symptom produced in fifth impulse of poisoning which means that one’s vision becomes blue or in dark color.
नीलाभं मूत्रं (nīlābhaṁ mūtraṁ) : Bluish urine.
नीलारुणाभं पुरीक्षां (nīlāruṇābhaṁ purīkṣāṁ) : Reddish blue colored stool
नीलोष्ठ (nīloṣṭha) : Bluishness of lips due to cyanosis (asphyxia) which is sign of (imminent) death of poisoned patient.
नृत्य इच्छा (nṛtya icchā) : Fond of dancing
नृशंस इच्छा (nṛśaṁsa icchā) : Fond of cruel activities.
नेत्रः (netraḥ) : Eye
नेत्र उपदेह (netra upadeha) : Excreta of eye
नेत्र दूषिका (netra dūṣikā) : Excreta of eye
नेत्र मल (netra mala) : Excreta of the eye
नेत्र विरेचन (netra virecana) : Lacrimation
नेत्रकोशः (netrakośaḥ) : Palpebrae, Lids. Related to eye lids
नेत्रच्छादनम् (netracchādanam) : Eyelid. One of two movable protective folds that cover the anterior surface of the eyeball when closed
नेत्रनाडी (netranāḍī) : Nasolacrimal duct. A duct connecting nose to the lacrimal apparatus
नेत्रप्लव (netraplava) : Lacrimation
नेत्रान्तप्रदेशः (netrāntapradeśaḥ) : Outer canthus. The angle at the outer end of the slit between the eye lids
नेत्राभ्यां रक्तं (netrābhyāṁ raktaṁ) : Bleeding through eye
नैकमूल रोम (naikamūla roma) : Deep rooted hair
नैक् वर्ण दृष्टिमण्डल (naik varṇa dṛṣṭimaṇḍala) : Multicolored pupil
नैर्लज्ज्य (nairlajjya) : Shamelessness.
नैष्टिक हेतु (naiṣṭika hetu) : Nishṭha refers to permanently getting rid from the sufferings/ pain, and Hetu refers to cause. Diseases hinder the person from getting salvation, so diseases are considered as Naișṭhika Hetu.
नैष्टिकी चिकित्सा (naiṣṭikī cikitsā) : It’s made up of two words. Nishṭha and Chikitsa. Nishṭha refers to permanently getting rid from the sufferings / pain. Means for this is naiṣṭikī cikitsā
न्यास (nyāsa) : Indrawing
पक्ति (pakti) : The process of digestive / metabolic transformation occurring mainly because of the action of Agni.
पक्तिनाश (paktināśa) : Indigestion
पक्तिस्थानम् (paktisthānam) : Gastrointestinal tract. A tube including stomach and intestine
पक्व जम्बूफलाभं रक्तं (pakva jambūphalābhaṁ raktaṁ) : Blood with the color of the fruit of ripe rose apple.
पक्वजम्बू सङ्काशं पुरीषं (pakvajambū saṅkāśaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Black colored stool like the ripped fruit of Zyzygium jambolanum.
पक्वजाम्बव नख (pakvajāmbava nakha) : Nail with the color of ripe rose apple
पक्वपीलुफलप्रख्या (pakvapīluphalaprakhyā) : Pale color.
पक्वम् पुरीषं (pakvam purīṣaṁ) : Digested stool
पक्वलौह (pakvalauha) : a pharmaceutically best quality of lauha bhasma
पक्वशोणिताभम् पुरीषं (pakvaśoṇitābham purīṣaṁ) : Blood colored stool
पक्वस्थानम् (pakvasthānam) : Large intestine or colon. The alimentary canal extending from the ileum to the anus
पक्वादुम्बरसन्निभः (pakvādumbarasannibhaḥ) : Color of ripened fig fruit
पक्वाधानम् (pakvādhānam) : Large intestine or colon. The alimentary canal extending from the ileum to the anus
पक्वानम् अनियत पुरीषं (pakvānam aniyata purīṣaṁ) : Stool of both digested and undigested forms
पक्वामम् अन्तरान्तरा पुरीषं (pakvāmam antarāntarā purīṣaṁ) : Stool of both digested and undigested forms
पक्वाशय (pakvāśaya) : Large intestine. The major seat of Vāta.
पक्वाशयः (pakvāśayaḥ) : Large intestine
पक्वाशयः (pakvāśayaḥ) : Large intestine or colon/Caecum. The alimentary canal extending from the ileum to the anus
पक्षः (pakṣaḥ) : Implies for 1. One aspect or party of discussion 2. a specific assumption
पक्षसन्धि (pakṣasandhi) : New moon or full moon, If a snake bites someone during the conjugation of two fortnights i.e. full moon day and new moon day, and then it is incurable.
पक्ष्म (pakṣma) : Eyelashes
पक्ष्ममण्डलम् (pakṣmamaṇḍalam) : Eye lashes. Stiff hair on the margin of the eyelid
पक्ष्मवर्त्मसन्धिः (pakṣmavartmasandhiḥ) : Point of junction of cilia with lid margin
पक्ष्माग्राणि (pakṣmāgrāṇi) : Free end of eye lashes. Free end of a stiff hair on the margin of the eyelid.
पक्ष्माशयः (pakṣmāśayaḥ) : Lid/Root of eye lashes. Root of a stiff hair on the margin of the eyelid.
पङ्कगन्ध (paṅkagandha) : Smell of wet mud.
पंचेन्द्रियग्रहणत्व (paṁcendriyagrahaṇatva) : Perceptible by all 5 senses; substance can be perceived by all 5 senses;
पच्यत इव (pacyata iva) : Cauterization like sensation iVq bPNk & Fond of Salt
पच्यमानाशयः (pacyamānāśayaḥ) : Small intestine. The alimentary canal extending from the pylorus to the caecum; The site where the consumed food undergoes transformation / digestion.
पञच्वर्ण सुवर्ण (pañacvarṇa suvarṇa) : Resembles 5/16 gold= a property observed in Chalcopyrite
पञ्च महाभूत (pañca mahābhūta) : The Five Great Elements
पञ्चकषाययोनयः (pañcakaṣāyayonayaḥ) : Five substrata of decoctions viz. Madhura, Amla, Katu, Tikta, Kashaya.
पञ्चकषायशतानि (pañcakaṣāyaśatāni) : Five hundred decoctions.
पञ्चकोल (pañcakola) : Class of following five substances Zingiber officinale, Piper longum(root and fruit), Plumbago zeylanica, Piper retrofractum;
पञ्चगव्य (pañcagavya) : Group of Five substances obtained from cow and its milk; Milk, Yoghurt, Urine, Ghee, Stool.
पञ्चतिक्त (pañcatikta) : Group of following five plants having bitter taste; Tinospora cardifolia, Adhatoda vasica, Azadirachta indica, Solanum surattense, Trichosanthus dioca
पञ्चत्वग्रहणं (pañcatvagrahaṇaṁ) : Death
पञ्चपञ्चक (pañcapañcaka) : A collective term used for indicating five pentads viz. five sense organs, seats of five sense organ, object of five sense, five basic material of five senses, five type of knowledge of five senses
पञ्चपल्लव (pañcapallava) : Group of five following tender leaves Aegel marmelos, Mangifera indica, Syzygium cumini, Citrus medica, Feronia elephantano.
पञ्चवल्कल (pañcavalkala) : Combination of following five stem barks Ficus bengalensis, Ficus glomerata, Ficus religiosa, Ficus lacor, Thespesia populnae;
पञ्चसार (pañcasāra) : Group of following five substances Boiled cowmilk, Sharkara (sugarcane candy), Piper longum, Madhu (honey), Ghrita (ghee).
पञ्चसिद्धौषधि (pañcasiddhauṣadhi) : Group of Five substances; Tailakand, Sudhakand, Krodakand, Rudantika, sarpanetra
पञ्चसूरण (pañcasūraṇa) : Group of following five substances viz., Rheum emodi, Ranunculous scleratus, Alocasia indica, Amorphophallus paeoniifolius, Amorphophallus companlatus
पञ्चसौगन्धिक (pañcasaugandhika) : Group of five fragrant substances Cinnamomum camphora, Piper cubeba, Myristica fragrans, Areca catechu, Syzygium aromaticum
पञ्चान्ग (pañcānga) : Five parts of plants roots, stems, leaves, flowers & fruits collectively termed as
पञ्चामृत (pañcāmṛta) : Group of following five substances Cow Ghee, Cow Yoghurt, Cow milk, Madhu(honey), Sharkara(sugarcane candy); Synonym of Divya Panchamrita
पञ्चामृत (pañcāmṛta) : Group of following five plants; Tinospora cordifolia, Tribulus terrestris, Asparagus racemosus, Sphaeranthus indicus, Asparagus adscendens
पञ्चावयव-वाक्यम् (pañcāvayava-vākyam) : A collective term used for conveying intended inference based on five steps.
पञ्चीकरण (pañcīkaraṇa) : the process of conjugation of all the five mahābhūtas in the substance
पटलानि (paṭalāni) : Different layers or coverings of eyeball
पतति इव ह्दयं (patati iva hdayaṁ) : Dislocated feeling of heart
पतन (patana) : Fall
पताका दर्शनं (patākā darśanaṁ) : Flag like objects appears before eyes.
पत्र (patra) : Leaf
पथ्य (pathya) : Which is conducive to Patha (Way/micro and macro channels/Srotas) including the Doṣa, Dāthu and Mala? That which is conducive to the body and mind. Food or conduct which is conducive or wholesome to both body and mind. Eg. Rice, ghee, milk etc. Contrast is Apathya.
पदार्थः (padārthaḥ) : 1. The meaning of a word or group of words; 2. Substance which exists has a nomenclature and is a subject of Knowledge. This whole universe is categorized in six padarthas. Ayurveda uses the term Karana (cause) for Padartha
पद्म पत्र वर्ण (padma patra varṇa) : Color or red lotus petal
पद्म वर्ण (padma varṇa) : Lotus color
पद्मपत्राभं दृष्टिमण्डल (padmapatrābhaṁ dṛṣṭimaṇḍala) : Pupil with the color of red lotus petal
पद्मसन्निभं (padmasannibhaṁ) : Blood with the color of red lotus
पन्नगः (pannagaḥ) : Snakes.
पय (paya) : Milk; Generally denotes Cow milk; a synonym of kṣīra
पयो आभ पुरीषं (payo ābha purīṣaṁ) : Water like stool
पयोधरौ (payodharau) : Breasts, Mammary glands; Literally mean the pots containing milk.
पयोभि परीक्षा (payobhi parīkṣā) : Examination with milk.
परं (paraṁ) : Desire, Fond of
परत्व (paratva) : Relative superiority; one among 10 parādi guṅa.
परमाणु (paramāṇu) : Smallest unit of a material equivalent to 1/30th of the dust particles seen in the sun rays.
परस्परानुप्रवेश (parasparānupraveśa) : mutual entrance
परादि गुण (parādi guṇa) : Group of ten properties commencing with Para used for clinical practice.
परामर्शः (parāmarśaḥ) : a process of drawing inference based on analogy
परार्थानुमानम् (parārthānumānam) : Inference from other source
परिकर्तनं (parikartanaṁ) : Cutting pain
परिकर्तिका (parikartikā) : Cutting pain
परिकूजनं (parikūjanaṁ) : Wailing or voice resembles the sound of pigeon
परिकृन्तनं (parikṛntanaṁ) : Cutting pain
परिक्लेद (parikleda) : Wet
परिक्लेशन (parikleśana) : Aversion to anything
परिक्षयं (parikṣayaṁ) : Diminished
परिग्रह (parigraha) : Stiffness, Restricted movement
परिग्रह (parigraha) : Accounting of the individual particular food article. It indicates the individual amount of food articles in the meal plate. It is contrast to Sarvagraha. Here it refers to the caloric value of individual food articles in the meal plate.
परिच्छादम् (paricchādam) : Personal artifacts.
परिणाम (pariṇāma) : 1. Effect of time 2. Transformation
परिणामवादः (pariṇāmavādaḥ) : theory of transformation which states that all the substances get changes continuously
परिणुदन (pariṇudana) : Harassment (trouble and annoy continually or repeatedly) towards others
परितम (paritama) : Impairment of orientation
परिताप (paritāpa) : Hotness
परिदग्ध जिह्वा (paridagdha jihvā) : Tongue looks like as burned.
परिदाह (paridāha) : Burning sensation
परिदेवन (paridevana) : Crying
परिधावन (paridhāvana) : Fleeing
परिधूपन (paridhūpana) : Smoky sensation.
परिधूमन (paridhūmana) : Smoky sensation
परिध्वंसी (paridhvaṁsī) : Gives out fine dust if rubbed.
परिपाटन (paripāṭana) : Cracks or fissure
परिपीडन (paripīḍana) : Pain
परिपुटनं (paripuṭanaṁ) : Cracks
परिपूजन (paripūjana) : Offering prayers
परिपूर्णत्व शिरः (paripūrṇatva śiraḥ) : Feels as head filled with mucus
परिपोटन (paripoṭana) : Cracks or fissure
परिप्लोष (pariploṣa) : Diminished burning sensation.
परिभाव (paribhāva) : Humiliation to respected persons
परिमण्डलं (parimaṇḍalaṁ) : Circular patch
परिमन (parimana) : Quantity; one among 10 parādi guṅa
परिमर्दन (parimardana) : Rubbing
परिमर्शन (parimarśana) : a process of achieving the knowledge through sense of touch
परिमर्शन् (parimarśan) : Rubbing
परिमाणम् (parimāṇam) : see MATRA
परिम्लान (parimlāna) : Lethargic, Lazy
परिम्लायित्व (parimlāyitva) : Lethargy
परिम्लायी दृष्टिमण्डल (parimlāyī dṛṣṭimaṇḍala) : Bluish yellow pupil. दृत्ष्टभण्डर
परिवर्तन (parivartana) : Everson
परिवाद (parivāda) : Humiliation to respected persons
परिवृत्त नाभि (parivṛtta nābhi) : Tortuous
परिवृद्धि (parivṛddhi) : Enlargement
परिवेपन (parivepana) : Tremor
परिवेष्टन (pariveṣṭana) : Cramps
परिवेष्टितम् (pariveṣṭitam) : Enveloping / covering
परिशोष (pariśoṣa) : Muscular wasting
परिषेक (pariṣeka) : Sprinkling or pouring the stream of medicated decoctions, milk, oil, ghee (clarified butter), takra (buttermilk) or meat juices over the body of the patients to minimize or to treat the effect of poison and disease.
परिषेक (pariṣeka) : Fluid used to wash body parts with which may be used as a vehicle for administering poison causing harm.
परिसरण (parisaraṇa) : Wandering
परिस्फुटन (parisphuṭana) : Cracks
परिस्राव (parisrāva) : Exudation, Discharge
परिहर्ष रोम (pariharṣa roma) : Horripilaiton.
परिहारः (parihāraḥ) : correcting the defects pointed out in respect of a previous statement
परिहार विरुद्द (parihāra virudda) : Proscription - Intake of hot things after taking pork etc will comes under the unwholesome of proscription.
परीक्षा (parīkṣā) : investigation or examinations which leads to correct knowledge
परुष (paruṣa) : Rough; the property of the substance which causes hardness
पर्पटी (parpaṭī) : 1. Thin flakes/wafers – a pharmaceutical Dośage form where the materials will be made to melt over fire and sandwiched in between leaves 2. external impurities of mercury
पर्याय (paryāya) : Synonym;
पर्युषित (paryuṣita) : Stale
पर्शुकाः (parśukāḥ) : Ribs or costae. Curved Bones extending laterally and anteriorly from sides of thoracic vertebrae and forming skeletal thorax
पर्शुकाग्राणि (parśukāgrāṇi) : Anterior ends of the ribs. Cartilaginous parts of the ribs
पल (pala) : A unit of Measurement; Four karșas will make one pala i.e 48 g of metric units
पलितं रोम (palitaṁ roma) : Graying of hair
पल्लव (pallava) : Tender leaves; Synonym of leaf
पवक संस्थिता (pavaka saṁsthitā) : Keeping /placing on embers
पवित्रांगुलिः (pavitrāṁguliḥ) : Ring finger. Fouth finger
पश्चिमहानव्यदन्तः (paścimahānavyadantaḥ) : Last molar- Wisdom tooth. The last molar tooth on each side of the jaw.
पाइणितल (pāiṇitala) : A unit of Measurement; Synonym of one karșa=12g of metric units
पाक (pāka) : 1. Digestion; transformation of substances with the help of agni i.e. digestive & metabolic enzymes. 2. Suppuration 3. Ripening 4. Cooking
पाकः (pākaḥ) : Suppuration
पाकः ओष्ठे (pākaḥ oṣṭhe) : Rashes on lip or cheilitis
पाकः मुखे (pākaḥ mukhe) : Stomatitis.
पाक विरुद्द (pāka virudda) : Preparation of food etc., with a bad or rotten fuel and undercooking, overcooking or burning during the process of preparation comes under this category.
पाके छर्दि (pāke chardi) : Vomiting in the time of digestion
पाङ्गल्यं (pāṅgalyaṁ) : Paraplegia or limping
पाचक पित्त (pācaka pitta) : One of the five subtypes of Pitta that is situated in between the stomach and large intestine. Due to dominance of Agni mahābhūta, this Pitta is devoid of liquidity. This divides the food into Sāra (nutritive) and Kiṭṭa (waste) portions. This also supports other subtypes of Pitta.
पाचन (pācana) : 1. Digestives; substances having capacity to digest but not necessarily increases the appetite; 2. Wound Suppuration
पाचन (pācana) : Digestion; The process of digestive / metabolic transformation occuring mainly because of the action of Agni.
पांचभौतिक (pāṁcabhautika) : Comprising of five mahābhūtas-Akasha, Vayu, Tejas, Jala and Pṛthvī;
पाटनं (pāṭanaṁ) : Cracks or breaking pain.
पाठं इच्छा (pāṭhaṁ icchā) : Fond of recitation.
पांडुमुख (pāṁḍumukha) : Pallor on face.
पाणिः (pāṇiḥ) : Hand. The part of the body attached to the forearm at the wrist
पाणितलम् (pāṇitalam) : Palm. Anterior or flexor surface of the hand from wrist to finger
पाणिपादम् (pāṇipādam) : Hands and feet. The part of the body attached to the forearm at the wrist / The terminal portion of the lower extremity
पाणिपादहृदयानि (pāṇipādahṛdayāni) : Palms /sole. Anterior or flexor surface of the hand from wrist to finger/Under part of the foot
पाणिमूलम् (pāṇimūlam) : Wrist. The joint or region lying between the hand and the forearm
पाणिशलाकाधिष्ठानम् (pāṇiśalākādhiṣṭhānam) : Distal row of carpal bones
पाण् (pāṇ) : Hand, Arm
पाण्डु (pāṇḍu) : Pale color
पाण्डुत्वं (pāṇḍutvaṁ) : Pale color
पाण्डुर (pāṇḍura) : Pale color
पाण्दुरक्तं (pāṇduraktaṁ) : Pale red
पातः (pātaḥ) : 1. Falling 2. Drooping
पात्र (pātra) : 1. A unit of Measurement; Synonym of one Ādhak= 3.073 g of metric units 2. vessel
पाद (pāda) : Lower extremity, foot. One of the Karmendriyas.
पाद प्रक्षालन (pāda prakṣālana) : Cleaning & washing feet with water which removes dirt and diseases of feet and fatigue, clarifies vision, promotes semen, wards off evil spirit and gives pleasure.
पादकुर्चास्थीनि (pādakurcāsthīni) : Tarsal bones excluding talus and calcaneus
पादतलम् (pādatalam) : Sole. Under part of the foot
पादत्र धारण (pādatra dhāraṇa) : Regular wearing of foot wares – alleviates diseases of feet, promotes semen, ward off evil organisms, gives pleasure and comfort in moving and is wholesome for Ojas. prevents from abrasions of thorn, stone, gravels , dust etc.
पादनर्तन (pādanartana) : Dancing movement of foot.
पादंशिक क्रम (pādaṁśika krama) : Unwholesome food practices are to be tapered in quarter / quarter of quarters, and are substituted by Pathyahara (Wholesome food practice) in interval of one, two or three meal time according to condition. Substitution is to be augmented in gradual, phased manner.
पादशिष्टं (pādaśiṣṭaṁ) : Reducing to 1/4th portion of decoction
पादसदनं (pādasadanaṁ) : Fatigue of leg
पादांगुलयः (pādāṁgulayaḥ) : Toes. Digits of the foot
पादांगुष्ठः (pādāṁguṣṭhaḥ) : Toes. Digits of the foot
पादाग्रम् (pādāgram) : Fore-foot. Front of the foot
पादाघात (pādāghāta) : Body message with feet.
पादुका पादपीठेषु (pādukā pādapīṭheṣu) : Mode of administration of poison along with shoes or foot cushions.
पान (pāna) : drink; dietary substances to be drunk, e.g. juice, soup
पान इच्छा (pāna icchā) : Desire to take alcohol.
पान द्वेष (pāna dveṣa) : Aversion to take alcohol.
पानक (pānaka) : Soft drinks prepared with fruit juices (grapes, dates and jujube), sugar and spices. It is guru and visṭaṁbhi
पायस इच्छा (pāyasa icchā) : Desire to take Pāyasa (a sweet made from rice, milk and sugar.)
पायुः (pāyuḥ) : Rectum
पायुमेढान्तरम् (pāyumeḍhāntaram) : Perineum. The structures occupying the pelvic outlet and constituting the pelvic floor
पायुवलयः (pāyuvalayaḥ) : Horizontal mucous folds of rectum-Houston's valves. Mucous folds of rectum
पारद (pārada) : Mercury
पारावत इव आकूजन् (pārāvata iva ākūjan) : Voice resembles the cooing sound of pigeon
पार्थिव (pārthiva) : One of the category of substances that are of mineral origin like silver, gold, etc.
पार्थिव द्रव्य (pārthiva dravya) : substances having pṛthvi as the predominant mahābhūta; these substances are heavy, compact, hard, etc. in nature
पार्थिवम् (pārthivam) : the substance predominantly made of pṛthvi mahābhūta
पार्श्व (pārśva) : Sides of the Chest, Flanks
पार्श्वजघनम् (pārśvajaghanam) : Side of pelvis. Side of a bony structure formed by the innominate bones. The sacrum, the coccyx and the ligaments joining them
पार्श्वम् (pārśvam) : Side of thorax. Side of the part of the body between the base of the neck superiorly and diaphragm inferiorly
पार्ष्णिः (pārṣṇiḥ) : Heel. Rounded posterior portion of the foot under and behind the ankle
पार्ष्ण्यस्थि (pārṣṇyasthi) : Calcaneus. A heel bone
पालिः (pāliḥ) : Lobule. A small lobe or primary subdivision of a lobe
पालिक यंत्र (pālika yaṁtra) : A cup shaped vessel with long curved handle used for melting of low melting materials and for jarana
पावकोउपमं (pāvakoupamaṁ) : Character of poison is similar to fire so it gives rise to paittika (heat) symptoms in the body.
पाषण्डायतन् (pāṣaṇḍāyatan) : Abode of atheist, when the snake bites in the abodes of pakhandas (hermits of kapalik sect), then it is incurable.
पांसुपूर्णम् इव अक्षि (pāṁsupūrṇam iva akṣi) : Feels as eyes filled with dust
पांसुपूर्णाभं अक्षि (pāṁsupūrṇābhaṁ akṣi) : Feels as eyes filled with dust
पिङ्गल वर्ण (piṅgala varṇa) : Reddish brown color
पिचु (picu) : A unit of Measurement; Synonym of one karșa=12 g of metric units
पिच्चटिका (piccaṭikā) : Excreta of eye
पिच्चितं (piccitaṁ) : Contused lacerated wound, a part of the body with the local bone crushed between the folds of door or by a blow becomes extended and covered with blood and marrow and is called a piccita (crushed wound) or ulcer.
पिच्छः (picchaḥ) : Slimy
पिच्छानुगतं पुरीषं (picchānugataṁ purīṣaṁ) : Slimy stool.
पिच्छावत अश्रु (picchāvata aśru) : Mucoid Lacrimation
पिच्छिल (picchila) : Slimy touch, gummy, Sticky, Sliminess,
पिच्छिलः (picchilaḥ) : the property of the substance which causes Slimness and stickiness
पिच्छिलं किङ्चित् (picchilaṁ kiṅcit) : Slight slimy urine
पिञ्जर वर्ण (piñjara varṇa) : Tawny color
पिटका (piṭakā) : Papule
पिटिका (piṭikā) : Papule
पिठर यंत्र (piṭhara yaṁtra) : An apparatus used to purify the low melting metals
पिठरपाकवादः (piṭharapākavādaḥ) : concept of physical changes
पिडका (piḍakā) : Papule
पिडकोलिका (piḍakolikā) : Excreta of eye
पिडिका (piḍikā) : Papule
पिण्ड धारण (piṇḍa dhāraṇa) : Maintaining of stable body with positive health
पिण्डदर्शनं प्रेतानां (piṇḍadarśanaṁ pretānāṁ) : Offer food to forefathers
पिण्डसदृशं (piṇḍasadṛśaṁ) : Resembles mass form
पिण्डिका (piṇḍikā) : Calf. The fleshy muscular back part of the leg below the knee.
पिण्डितं (piṇḍitaṁ) : Contraction
पिण्डी (piṇḍī) : A synonym of vaṭi-a ball/ a lump
पिण्याक (piṇyāka) : Oil cakes
पितरक्त गोमूत्राभं मूत्रं (pitarakta gomūtrābhaṁ mūtraṁ) : Yellowish red urine like cow's urine.
पितृभक्ति (pitṛbhakti) : Too much devotion to father or forefathers.
पित्त (pitta) : One of the three bodily Doṣas that is responsible for digestion and metabolism in the body. It is situated in umbilicus, stomach, sweat, lymph, blood, watery fluids of the body, eye and skin. It is predominant of Agni mahābhūta. Its attributes are
पित्त कोपन (pitta kopana) : substances that vitiates Pitta Doṣa
पित्त संशमन (pitta saṁśamana) : substances that pacify vitiated Pitta Doṣa
पित्तंछर्दि (pittaṁchardi) : Vomit in the form of mere pitta
पित्तधरा कला (pittadharā kalā) : Gastrointestinal mucosa. Mucous membrane of stomach, large intestine and small intestine
पित्तपञ्चक (pittapañcaka) : Group of bile of following five animals Men, Peacock, Cow, Horse, Fish.
पित्ताक्तं रक्तं (pittāktaṁ raktaṁ) : Blood mixed with pitta
पित्ताशयः (pittāśayaḥ) : Digestive tube with its appendages
पित्तोत्क्लेश मुखं (pittotkleśa mukhaṁ) : Salivation of pitta
पित्तोपहितं पुरीषं (pittopahitaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Stool mixed with Pitta
पिपासा (pipāsā) : Thirst, a sensation of dryness in the mouth and throat associated with a desire for liquids. A synonym of Tѓsna.
पिपासा असहत्व (pipāsā asahatva) : Intolerance to thirst
पिपिलिकाः (pipilikāḥ) : Type of insect which means ants. Bite causes inflammatory swelling and burning sensation at the seat of bite resembling those produced contact with fire.
पिपीलिका सृप्ति इव (pipīlikā sṛpti iva) : Formication
पिपीलिकानां सञ्चार इव (pipīlikānāṁ sañcāra iva) : Formication
पिपीलिकाभिः धावनं मूत्रं (pipīlikābhiḥ dhāvanaṁ mūtraṁ) : Ants crawling in urine
पिपीलिकाभिः सर्पणं (pipīlikābhiḥ sarpaṇaṁ) : Formication
पिप्पलकौ (pippalakau) : Nipples. The conical protuberance in each breast from which the lactiferous ducts discharge in the female
पिशिताश्रितं पटलं (piśitāśritaṁ paṭalaṁ) : Iris. The colored contractile membrane suspended between the lens and the cornea in the aqueous humor of the eye, separating the anterior and posterior chambers of the eyeball and perforated in the center by the pupil.
पिशितोदकाभं आर्तव (piśitodakābhaṁ ārtava) : Menstrual blood resembles the washings of flesh
पिष्टनिभं मूत्रं (piṣṭanibhaṁ mūtraṁ) : Urine resembles flour paste.
पिष्टरस तुल्यं मूत्रं (piṣṭarasa tulyaṁ mūtraṁ) : Urine resembles flour paste.
पिष्टवत् मूत्रं (piṣṭavat mūtraṁ) : Urine resembles flour paste.
पिष्टि (piṣṭi) : A process in which the material through rubbing etc made them to lose their original shape and attains a dry fine powder
पिहितरज नासिका (pihitaraja nāsikā) : Feels as if nose filled with bristles.
पीडन (pīḍana) : Pain
पीडन असहत्व (pīḍana asahatva) : Tenderness
पीडनं इच्छा (pīḍanaṁ icchā) : Desire to be pressed
पीडयं इव (pīḍayaṁ iva) : Pressing type of pain
पीडयत् इव (pīḍayat iva) : Pressing type of pain
पीडा (pīḍā) : Pain
पीडितेमुद्रा (pīḍitemudrā) : Finger imprints on pressing -a test to observe in semi-solid preparations- confectionaries
पीड्यत इव उत्घट्टनं हृदयं (pīḍyata iva utghaṭṭanaṁ hṛdayaṁ) : Pressing pain in heart
पीत (pīta) : Yellow color
पीत (pīta) : a liquid Dośage form
पीत वर्ग (pīta varga) : Group of following substances used for Raṁjan(coloring) mercury Mamordia charantia, Banana, Terminalia chebula, Terminalia bellirica, Emblica officinals, Raw mango, Arundo donax, Nelumbo nucifera, Indigofera tinctoria, Kasis;
पीतरक्त (pītarakta) : Yellowish red
पीतराजिमत् अप्सु (pītarājimat apsu) : Drops of Breast milk make yellow lines in water
पीतलोहितं (pītalohitaṁ) : Yellowish red
पीतव वस्त्र (pītava vastra) : Yellow color clothes. Best for soft skin, indicated in vasaṁta ѓtu. decreases kaphja vyadhi
पीतवर्ण (pītavarṇa) : Yellow color
पीतसर्पि (pītasarpi) : Paraplegia.
पीतसिराराजि (pītasirārāji) : Yellowish lines of veins
पीताभ दर्शनं (pītābha darśanaṁ) : Sees objects in yellow color
पीन वदन (pīna vadana) : Puffy face
पीनस (pīnasa) : Nasal discharge
पीयूष (pīyūṣa) : Heavy milk of newly delivered cow. Is heavy to digest and nourishing.
पीलुपाकवादः (pīlupākavādaḥ) : concept of molecular changes
पुट (puṭa) : A graded heating system used in preparation of bhasma of metals, minerals, marine products and medicines.
पुटपाक (puṭapāka) : the drug material is to be subjected for heating in closed container
पुण्डरीकदलोपम (puṇḍarīkadalopama) : Color of white lotus
पुण्यः (puṇyaḥ) : Those who possesses the quality of purity.
पुनः पुनः (punaḥ punaḥ) : Frequently
पुरीष (purīṣa) : Semisolid form of Āhāramala. Feces. The function of Purīṣa is to support the body in general, and, Vāyu and Agni in particular.
पुरीष मार्गेण रक्तं (purīṣa mārgeṇa raktaṁ) : Bleeding per rectum
पुरीषगन्ध (purīṣagandha) : Smell of fecal matter
पुरीषगन्धी (purīṣagandhī) : Smelling of fecal matter
पुरीषधरा कला (purīṣadharā kalā) : Mucosa of colon and rectum. Mucous membrane of large intestine and rectum
पुरीषंप्रकाशं आर्तव (purīṣaṁprakāśaṁ ārtava) : Menstrual blood resembles fecal matter
पुरीषविरजनीय (purīṣavirajanīya) : Substances used for imparting normal color to the fecal matter.
पुरीषसंग्रहणीय (purīṣasaṁgrahaṇīya) : Substances used to solidify fecal matter.
पुरुषः (puruṣaḥ) : 1. The soul. 2. The living body; 3. Male
पुरुषाभिदष्ट (puruṣābhidaṣṭa) : Person bitten by a male snake.
पुरुषेन्द्रियम् (puruṣendriyam) : Penis. The male organ of copulation and in mammals urination
पुरुषो घोरदर्शनः (puruṣo ghoradarśanaḥ) : A fearful and unpleasant looking person which emerged even before the yield of amѓta when gods and demons churned the sea.
पुलाकोदकप्रतिमं (pulākodakapratimaṁ) : Blood with the color of washing of flesh. raktaṁ
पुलालिका (pulālikā) : Horripilation.
पुलिनवनान्तरोपसेवी (pulinavanāntaropasevī) : Habit of playing in river banks
पुष्प (puṣpa) : Flower
पुष्प वर्ग (puṣpa varga) : Group of different flowers
पुष्प सहसा नख (puṣpa sahasā nakha) : Sudden appearance of flower like spots on nail
पुष्पम् (puṣpam) : Flowers
पुष्पम् (puṣpam) : (1)Menstrual discharge. (2) Ovum (Periodic discharge). Periodic discharge of blood and mucus from the uterus (2) The female reproductive or germ cell
पुष्पित (puṣpita) : Fatal prognostic symptoms
पूङ्गक्तम् (pūṅgaktam) : Purulent
पूज्य (pūjya) : Venerable
पूति (pūti) : Foul smell
पूतिगन्ध (pūtigandha) : Fetid smell
पूतिता (pūtitā) : Suppuration
पूतिपूयप्रकाशम् आर्तव (pūtipūyaprakāśam ārtava) : Menstrual blood resembles pus
पूतिमुखता (pūtimukhatā) : Fetid smell from the mouth
पूतिस्राव (pūtisrāva) : Purulent discharge
पूप (pūpa) : Prepared with milk and sugarcane juice. Is heavy, saturating and aphrodisiac.
पूपलिक (pūpalika) : Kind of sweet cake fried in ghee or oil. One should kind the flour mix it up with sugar candey and fry it with ghee mildly, after which it becomes solid and round.
पूय पूर्णता (pūya pūrṇatā) : Abdomen filled with pus
पूयं रक्तं (pūyaṁ raktaṁ) : Blood with pus
पूयकल्पं रक्तं (pūyakalpaṁ raktaṁ) : Blood resembles pus
पूयगन्ध (pūyagandha) : Smell of pus
पूयगन्धि (pūyagandhi) : Smell of pus
पूयनिभं (pūyanibhaṁ) : Color of Pus
पूयप्रख्यम् (pūyaprakhyam) : Smell of pus
पूयवत् (pūyavat) : Filled with pus
पूयस्राव (pūyasrāva) : Purulent discharge
पूयोपम (pūyopama) : Resemblance of Pus or Purulent
पूरण (pūraṇa) : Filling up, completing, something used to fill a cavity or container. The primary function of Majjā Dhātu.
पूर्णता (pūrṇatā) : Feeling of fullness
पूर्णत्व कण्ठ (pūrṇatva kaṇṭha) : Feels as throat filled with mucus
पूर्णत्वं शिरः (pūrṇatvaṁ śiraḥ) : Feels as head filled with mucus
पूर्णलिअंग (pūrṇaliaṁga) : Fully manifested
पूर्णास्यता मुखं (pūrṇāsyatā mukhaṁ) : Mouth filled with mucus
पूर्वपक्षः (pūrvapakṣaḥ) : Statement which is in the form of an objection to the previous statement
पूर्वपश्चिम विभागः (pūrvapaścima vibhāgaḥ) : Anterior (ventral) & Posterior (dorsal). Before or in front of & towards the back or situated behind
पृथकत्व (pṛthakatva) : Differentiation; one of the 10 parādi gunas.
पृथकत्व (pṛthakatva) : Separation or exclusion, a character of particularity
पृथुका (pṛthukā) : Flattened rice - Rice when parched and flattened. Paddy that is not husked is made wet, slightly fried and flattened to get this. It is heavy, increase strength, increases kapha and cause Visṭambha (constipation with abdominal discomfort)
पृथुता अस्थि (pṛthutā asthi) : Widening of bone
पृथुदलं (pṛthudalaṁ) : Separate thick lamellae- Cleavage
पृथुला स्नायुः (पृथ्वी वा) (pṛthulā snāyuḥ (pṛthvī vā)) : Fibrous or membranous sheet. Apo neurosis. A Flat fibrous sheet of connective tissue that serves to attach muscle to bone
पृथ्वी (pṛthvī) : 1. One of the five basic elements (Paṅcamahābhūtas) that make up all matter in the universe. 2. Earth. Indicative of solidity, mass, stability, compactness.
पृषतो विसृजत्यंश्रु (pṛṣato visṛjatyaṁśru) : Spotted deer.
पृष्ठतः नयन (pṛṣṭhataḥ nayana) : The backward bending of the head
पृष्ठम् (pṛṣṭham) : (1) Back. Dorsum. (2) Posterior part of the trunk. The posterior region of the trunk from neck to pelvis
पृष्ठवंशः (pṛṣṭhavaṁśaḥ) : Backbone. Spine, Vertebral column. Cavity of the Spinal Column that contains the spinal cord.
पृष्ठेषिका (pṛṣṭheṣikā) : Backbone. Spine, Vertebral column.
पृष्ठेषु गजवाजिनां (pṛṣṭheṣu gajavājināṁ) : Mode of administration of poison to cause harm by applying the poison on the back of elephants & horses which were used as means of transport in ancient time.
पेय (peya) : Thin gruel of rice along with its solid portion (Siktha). To prepare Peya, 14 parts of water and 1 part of broken rice are taken and boiled well till all the rice particles become soft. It increases digestive fire.
पेशी (peśī) : Muscle. A type of tissue composed of contractile cells or fibers.
पेषन (peṣana) : An act of grinding /rubbing/triturating
पैच्छिल्य (paicchilya) : Sliminess
पोगर (pogara) : With streaks a property of iron
पोट्टलकः (poṭṭalakaḥ) : Caecum. A blind pouch or cul-de-sac.
पोट्टली (poṭṭalī) : A kind of Dośage form where the materials (herbominerals) are to be shaped and processed by suspending it in sulphur bath etc,
पोदौ (podau) : Natis. Buttock. Gluteal Prominence. Fleshy prominences on the lower back formed by the gluteal muscles with a covering of fat and skin.
पौत्तिक (pauttika) : Variety of honey collected from the Pauttika type of bee – they are of big in size.
पौराणिक (paurāṇika) : versed in ancient legends and stories
पौरुषं (pauruṣaṁ) : (1) Penis. (2) Prostrate. (3) A measure. Full length of a man with his hands. (4) The male organ of copulation and in mammal’s urination. (5) A gland that surrounds the neck of the bladder and the urethra in the male.
प्रकटकोष्टी (prakaṭakoṣṭī) : Open furnace used in various pharmaceutical processes
प्रकम्पः (prakampaḥ) : Tremor
प्रकम्पमानं वेल्लते अस्थि (prakampamānaṁ vellate asthi) : tremor of bone
प्रकरणसमः (prakaraṇasamaḥ) : Reason appearing identical to the subject but is improper
प्रकाश (prakāśa) : Enlightening; caused due to substance with Agni mahābhūta predominance.
प्रकाश असहत्व (prakāśa asahatva) : Intolerance to light
प्रकाशक (prakāśaka) : Illuminating, making apparent or manifest , disclosing , discovering
प्रकुंच (prakuṁca) : A unit of Measurement; Synonym of one pala=48 g of metric units
प्रकूजनं (prakūjanaṁ) : Voice resembles the sound of pigeon
प्रकृति (prakṛti) : 1. The nature of an individual or a substance. 2. The physical and psychological features specific to an individual that are produced to the dominant Doṣa prevailing at the time of conception. Prakṛti may be classified as Deha Prakṛti (physical) and Manasa Prakṛti (psychological). Deha Prakṛti may be produced due to the dominance of a single, two Dośas or due to a combination of all the three Dośas.
प्रकृतिः (prakṛtiḥ) : The primary and original cause of universe which is having three properties viz. sattva, raja, tama
प्रकृतिं भजेत् (prakṛtiṁ bhajet) : Death.
प्रकृति भूत (prakṛti bhūta) : Normal state-equilibrium state of 3 hands considered as health.
प्रकृतिस्थापन (prakṛtisthāpana) : Synonym of therapeutics which establish the original state of health
प्रकोप (prakopa) : Aggravation of vitiated Dośas in their own seats. The second stage of Kriyakāla.
प्रकोष्ठः (prakoṣṭhaḥ) : (1) Forearm. Antebrachium. (2) Distal third of the forearm. The portion of the arm between the elbow and the wrist.
प्रक्लिन्नः (praklinnaḥ) : Wet
प्रक्लेद (prakleda) : Wet
प्रक्वथनं (prakvathanaṁ) : Putrifiction of the skin
प्रक्षरण ओजः (prakṣaraṇa ojaḥ) : Diminished resistance
प्रक्षालन (prakṣālana) : To remove impurities by washing
प्रक्षिप्त (prakṣipta) : Inserted
प्रक्षीण मांस (prakṣīṇa māṁsa) : Muscular wasting
प्रक्षेप (prakṣepa) : Materials like powders, sweetening agents & liquids like oils etc. which are to be added in the cooked preparations
प्रगाढं रक्तं (pragāḍhaṁ raktaṁ) : Profuse bleeding
प्रग्रह (pragraha) : Restricted movement of the body
प्रचल पक्ष्म (pracala pakṣma) : Wavering of eyelashes
प्रचलायन (pracalāyana) : Shaking
प्रचलित भ्रू (pracalita bhrū) : Trembling of eyebrow
प्रचाल (pracāla) : Shaking, Movement
प्रचुरं (pracuraṁ) : Excessive
प्रचुरप्रवर्तनं अधोवायु (pracurapravartanaṁ adhovāyu) : Excessive passing of flatus
प्रच्छर्दनं (pracchardanaṁ) : Excessive vomiting
प्रच्छाय इच्छा (pracchāya icchā) : Fund of Shade
प्रच्यवनं रोम (pracyavanaṁ roma) : Falling of hair
प्रजननं (prajananaṁ) : Reproduction; Genitals. Reproductive organs
प्रजागर (prajāgara) : To remain awake at night, sleeplessness, Vigilance
प्रजास्थापन (prajāsthāpana) : Substances which helps in fetus fixation and promotes fertility;
प्रज्ञापराधः (prajñāparādhaḥ) : It’s made out of two words Prjna and Aparadha. Prajna refers to knowledge, intellect. Aparadha means offence, transgression, and fault. Volitional transgression; erroneous deeds done on account of the impairment of intellect, wisdom and memory.
प्रज्ञाबोधि (prajñābodhi) : Promotes memory-booster
प्रणाश (praṇāśa) : Loss
प्रततं (pratataṁ) : Continuous
प्रततिलोनं अधोवायु (pratatilonaṁ adhovāyu) : Retention of flatus
प्रतप्त (pratapta) : Heating over fire till red hot
प्रतिअमर्श नस्य (pratiamarśa nasya) : Nasal installation which is done daily and frequently is called as pratiamarśa nasya. It’s a type of Sneha Nasya in which two drops of medicated oil/ghee is installed in nostril. This type of nasal installation is done for all age groups.
प्रतिकर्म (pratikarma) : Measures for Prevention of diseases
प्रतिक्षेप दर्शनं (pratikṣepa darśanaṁ) : Impairement of vision
प्रतिज्ञा (pratijñā) : the statement that has to be proved; the 1st step of inference and re- establishment of truth
प्रतिज्ञाहानिः (pratijñāhāniḥ) : shift from the original stands
प्रतितन्त्रसिद्धान्तः (pratitantrasiddhāntaḥ) : The particular doctrine made by some school of thought or science and not accepted by other science
प्रतिपत्ति (pratipatti) : ability to take quick and proper decision as per time and need
प्रतिपत्ति हानि (pratipatti hāni) : Lack of interest.
प्रतिपुरण (pratipuraṇa) : Prepacking, It is procedure in which sucking of the poisoned blood is done by filling the mouth cavity with linen before sucking.
प्रतिबालाः (pratibālāḥ) : Eye lashes. A stiff hair on the margin of the eyelid.
प्रतिबोधनं कृच्छ्रेण (pratibodhanaṁ kṛcchreṇa) : Difficulty in opening eye
प्रतिलोम (pratiloma) : inverse direction
प्रतिविषं (prativiṣaṁ) : Agonis antidote, When the spread of poison becomes uncontrollable by mantra and tantra procedures and when the fifth phase of poison is over but the seventh phase is not over, prativișa (antitoxic substances) are to be made use of. This is the last resort in the treatment of poison and hence should be used only in extreme cases. Inanimate poison act upwards and animate poisons act downwards these opposing nature of actions of the said poisons are effectively made use of in prativișa therapy.
प्रतिश्याय (pratiśyāya) : Nasal discharge
प्रतिष्ठापना (pratiṣṭhāpanā) : giving a contrary meaning to a given proposition
प्रतिसारण (pratisāraṇa) : rubbing powders on skin, While doing the bloodletting at the site of the snake bite, if the blood is not coming out by itself, then it should be expelled out by application of fine or coarse powders of dry ginger, black round pepper, turmeric, salt etc.
प्रतिस्तब्ध (pratistabdha) : Stiffness
प्रतिस्तब्ध कण्ठ (pratistabdha kaṇṭha) : Obstruction in throat
प्रतिहत वाक् (pratihata vāk) : Restricted speech.
प्रतीघातसाअमर्थ्य (pratīghātasāamarthya) : Resistance ability;
प्रतुद (pratuda) : Birds which peck with beak on prey. Exp – parrot, maina, sparrow, pigeon etc.
प्रतोद (pratoda) : Needling pain
प्रत्यक्षं (pratyakṣaṁ) : the cognition arising at the instant of the conjugation of the soul, mind, senses, and object
प्रत्यनुयोगः (pratyanuyogaḥ) : Scriptural counter enquiry
प्रत्यय (pratyaya) : cause
प्रत्यात्मनियतः (pratyātmaniyataḥ) : behavioral attribute that is distinctive and peculiar to an individual
प्रत्याहारः (pratyāhāraḥ) : The process of withdrawing the senses from outside object, an element in the practice of Yoga
प्रत्युत्सारः (pratyutsāraḥ) : statements which deny a certain opinion and objects the other's views
प्रथित स्वप्न (prathita svapna) : Desired dreams; Fantasies
प्रदाह (pradāha) : Burning sensation
प्रदीप्त इव नासिका (pradīpta iva nāsikā) : feels as if glowing of nose
प्रदुष्टं रक्तं (praduṣṭaṁ raktaṁ) : Defective blood
प्रदूयन (pradūyana) : Parching
प्रदेशः (pradeśaḥ) : Partial or brief description of a topic but not fully elaborated there, for risk of going out of context in view of vast detail and referred to other places in the text of details.
प्रदेशिनी (pradeśinī) : Index finger. The forefinger.
प्रदोषः (pradoṣaḥ) : the first part of the night , up to three hours after sunset
प्रद्वेष (pradveṣa) : Aversion
प्रधान मर्म (pradhāna marma) : Head
प्रधावन (pradhāvana) : Fleeing
प्रध्मानं (pradhmānaṁ) : Distention
प्रध्यानतत्पर (pradhyānatatpara) : Thinking excessively
प्रध्वंसाभाव (pradhvaṁsābhāva) : The ideology which describes every substance does not exists after its destruction
प्रनष्ट चेत (pranaṣṭa ceta) : Confusion or absence of mind
प्रपतन (prapatana) : Falling of
प्रपश्येद्विहतेन्द्रियः (prapaśyedvihatendriyaḥ) : It is a symptom of gara vișa (artificial poisoning) in which the patient sees himself with distorted sensory organs in his dreams.
प्रपाक (prapāka) : Suppuration.
प्रपाण्डुरं मूत्रं (prapāṇḍuraṁ mūtraṁ) : Urine resembles the powder of conch
प्रपीडनं (prapīḍanaṁ) : compressing; substances that pharmacologically squeezes the wound through local contraction
प्रपीडा (prapīḍā) : Pain
प्रभा (prabhā) : Lustier, Shine, Radiance, Glim; caused due to substance with Agni mahābhūta predominance.
प्रभाव (prabhāva) : 1. Characteristic therapeutic effect of a substance; 2. A basis for nomenclature of plants
प्रभाहानि (prabhāhāni) : Diminished complexion
प्रभूत (prabhūta) : Excessive quantity.
प्रभेद (prabheda) : Cracks
प्रमा (pramā) : true knowledge
प्रमाण (pramāṇa) : Measurement of the body(anthropometry)- will be described by the measure of individual fingers, hands etc in terms of height, breadth& length respectively
प्रमाणं (pramāṇaṁ) : modes of examining and acquiring knowledge
प्रमाणजिज्ञासा बाह्वो (pramāṇajijñāsā bāhvo) : Measuring frequently his arms
प्रमाथि (pramāthi) : Substances that removes obstruction from the srotas and cleanse them;
प्रमीलक (pramīlaka) : Dullness
प्रमूढ संज्ञा (pramūḍha saṁjñā) : Loss of consciousness
प्रमूढता (pramūḍhatā) : Impairment of orientation
प्रमेय (prameya) : Objects and subjects of knowledge
प्रमोह (pramoha) : Impairment of orientation
प्रमोहकः (pramohakaḥ) : Syncope or clumsiness of the sense organs.
प्रम्थ्या (pramthyā) : A decoction prepared by using paste of drugs and used for appetizer & digestant
प्रयत्न (prayatna) : Ability to initiate
प्रयाकुल दर्शन (prayākula darśana) : Frightened look.
प्रयोगकार्य (prayogakārya) : Practical purposes
प्रयोजनं (prayojanaṁ) : Statements which specifies the main idea, chief purpose of a particular science or method; Objective for which the actions are initiated or for which various measured are adopted.
प्ररोदन (prarodana) : Crying
प्ररोह (praroha) : off shoots of a plant
प्रलम्ब चर्मकोश (pralamba carmakośa) : Drooping of the prepuce
प्रलय (pralaya) : Fainting.
प्रलाप (pralāpa) : Incoherent speech; Delirious speech
प्रलेपः (pralepaḥ) : Coating by mucus
प्रलेप कण्ठ (pralepa kaṇṭha) : Mucus coating in throat
प्रलेप मुखं (pralepa mukhaṁ) : Coating in mouth
प्रलेप हृदयं (pralepa hṛdayaṁ) : Feeling of coating in cardiac region
प्रवर सत्व (pravara satva) : One who are able to endure severe pain, who is not associated with fear, grief, greed, confusion.
प्रवात् सेवना (pravāt sevanā) : Restoring to soft(slow moving) breeze. It increases dryness and lightness. Contraindicated in Hemant ѓtu (early winter)
प्रवालदलनिचय प्रकाश (pravāladalanicaya prakāśa) : Color of coral red.
प्रवालाभ दृष्टिमण्डल (pravālābha dṛṣṭimaṇḍala) : Pearl colored pupil
प्रवाहणं (pravāhaṇaṁ) : Defecation with bearing and gripping pain.
प्रवाहिकावत् पुरीषप्रवर्तनं (pravāhikāvat purīṣapravartanaṁ) : Defecation with burning and gripping pain
प्रविकीर्णमात्रम् (pravikīrṇamātram) : With small spread.
प्रवितता (pravitatā) : Stretching pain in head.
प्रविभागः (pravibhāgaḥ) : Division
प्रविलम्बितगति (pravilambitagati) : Delayed waking.
प्रवृत्ति (pravṛtti) : Action which initiated by Karma (the result of past action) and is the root cause of all miseries.
प्रवृद्धं रक्तं (pravṛddhaṁ raktaṁ) : Profuse bleeding
प्रवेणी (praveṇī) : Woolen cloth.
प्रवेपन (pravepana) : Tremor
प्रशमन (praśamana) : palliative therapeutics;
प्रशमितरुजा (praśamitarujā) : Pacification of ailments
प्रशस्त आहार काल (praśasta āhāra kāla) : Best time for part taking food.
प्रशस्तवर्ण (praśastavarṇa) : Pleasant color
प्रशातनं (praśātanaṁ) : Decaying
प्रशातमः (praśātamaḥ) : Putrefaction
प्रशोथः (praśothaḥ) : Swelling
प्रशोष (praśoṣa) : Wasting, Dryness
प्रसक्तं (prasaktaṁ) : Continuous
प्रसक्तं सक्त भाषणं (prasaktaṁ sakta bhāṣaṇaṁ) : Indistinct and restricted voice
प्रसङ्गः (prasaṅgaḥ) : Repetition of statements when another occasion demands.
प्रसन्नं (prasannaṁ) : Clear
प्रसन्न मुखं (prasanna mukhaṁ) : Pleasant face.
प्रसन्ना (prasannā) : It is the clear supernatant portion/layer after settling of the fermented liquid
प्रसर (prasara) : Spreading of the aggravated Dośas from their own seats. Third stage of Kriyakāla.
प्रसहा (prasahā) : Animals which extend their neck and front part of body for food or animals and birds who take their food by snatching. Exp- Domestic cow, Donkey/ ass, camel, horse, hyena, jackal, wolf etc.
प्रसह्य कन्यां अपहर्तो (prasahya kanyāṁ apaharto) : Kidnapping of a girl or woman for sexual exploitation.
प्रसाद (prasāda) : Nutrient portion formed during various processes of biotransformation.
प्रसादः (prasādaḥ) : Beneficence
प्रसारण (prasāraṇa) : Extending, expanding, Stretching out
प्रसुप्तं (prasuptaṁ) : Numbness
प्रसून नाभि (prasūna nābhi) : Swelling in umbilicus
प्रसृति (prasṛti) : A unit of Measurement; Two palas combinly will make one prasrtha = 96g of metric units
प्रसेक (praseka) : Silalorrhhea, during the first impulse of poisoning, the patient suffers from excessive salivation due to vitiation of rasa.
प्रसेक (praseka) : Flowing froth, oozing, Emission, running or watering of the mouth or nose , vomiting , nausea
प्रसेक मुखं (praseka mukhaṁ) : Salivation
प्रस्तब्ध (prastabdha) : Stiffness of the body.
प्रस्तम्भ (prastambha) : Stiffness of the body
प्रस्पन्दनं (praspandanaṁ) : Throbbing sensation
प्रस्पन्दितहरत्वं बाहु (praspanditaharatvaṁ bāhu) : Loss of motor function of upper limb.
प्रस्फुरण (prasphuraṇa) : Throbbing sensation
प्रस्रवणं (prasravaṇaṁ) : Discharge
प्रस्राव नासिका (prasrāva nāsikā) : Nasal Discharge
प्रस्राविणी (prasrāviṇī) : Oozing, In bee sting, an eruption appears quickly which oozes blackish liquid.
प्रस्वाप (prasvāpa) : Numbness
प्रहर (prahara) : A measure of time equals 3 hours
प्रहरण (praharaṇa) : Harassment (trouble and annoy continually or repeatedly) towards others
प्रहर्षणं रोम (praharṣaṇaṁ roma) : Horripilation
प्रहसनं अस्थाने (prahasanaṁ asthāne) : Laughing at inappropriate occasion.
प्रहसितं सकृत् मुखं (prahasitaṁ sakṛt mukhaṁ) : Pain resembles pricking with arrows
प्रह्लाद (prahlāda) : Delight;
प्राकाम्यं (prākāmyaṁ) : The power of having an irresistible will, one of the supra normal psychic power derivable from the practice of Yoga
प्रागुत्पत्ति (prāgutpatti) : Mythological origin of poison which indicates first emerging of poisons.
प्राग्भक्त (prāgbhakta) : Just before meal- medicines consumed in this manner becomes quickly digested, does not harm the strength of the body, being enveloped by the food it does not come out of the mouth, hence medicine should be given before food for the aged person.
प्राग्भाव (prāgbhāva) : the ideology which describes that each and every substance is nonexistant before its production
प्राचुर्यं (prācuryaṁ) : Excess
प्राज्याणुदारी अस्थि (prājyāṇudārī asthi) : Multiple fractures with tiny bone pieces.
प्राण (prāṇa) : 1. Vitality. 2. Breath of life, 3. Spirit 4. Life
प्राण वायु (prāṇa vāyu) : One of the five subtypes of Vāta (Vāyu) that is seated in head. It performs the functions like controlling the intellect, heart, sensory and motor organs and mind. It also regulates the activities like respiration, spitting, sneezing, belching and swallowing.
प्राणक्षय (prāṇakṣaya) : Loss of physical strength or weakness.
प्राणघ्नं तद्विकासित्वात् (prāṇaghnaṁ tadvikāsitvāt) : Because of vikāsi attribute of poison, spreads all over the body, causes death.
प्राणापान (prāṇāpāna) : Respiration
प्राणोपताप (prāṇopatāpa) : Loss of mental strength.
प्राणोपरोध (prāṇoparodha) : Loss of mental strength.
प्राथितः (prāthitaḥ) : pictured from inner desires (Dream)
प्राप्तः प्रकृतिविकारह् (prāptaḥ prakṛtivikārah) : Abnormal behavior, the person who administers poison to someone else can be identified as he is having derangement of his normal behavior.
प्राय पुरीषं (prāya purīṣaṁ) : Excessive stool
प्रार्थना (prārthanā) : Desire
प्रास्रवण (prāsravaṇa) : Small falls- Arising from mountains, this water is light, carminative and good for heart.
प्रिय (priya) : Dear
प्रियता (priyatā) : Loveliness; allure
प्रीणन (prīṇana) : Satisfying; Nutrition; soothing, appeasing; Nourishing, the primary function of Rasa Dhātu.
प्रीति (prīti) : Desire; Love; Affection
प्रेत चेष्टा (preta ceṣṭā) : Ghost like activities, Unprecedented activities
प्रेतगन्ध (pretagandha) : Smell of dead body
प्रेतरूप (pretarūpa) : Appearance of dead body (faces hippocratia).
प्रेताकृति (pretākṛti) : Appearance of dead body (faces hippocration).
प्रेत्यः (pretyaḥ) : other births(other life)
प्रेरणं (preraṇaṁ) : impulsion
प्लीहा (plīhā) : Spleen
प्लुष्टं (pluṣṭaṁ) : Stage of a burn which is characterized by discoloring of its site and extreme burning and marked by absence of any vesicle or blister.
फणिन् (faṇin) : Snakes (cobra).
फरफरायणं कर्ण (pharapharāyaṇaṁ karṇa) : Sensation in the like moving in the insects
फल (phala) : 1. Fruit; 2. Therapeutic Result
फल वर्ग (phala varga) : Class of different fruits
फलक (phalaka) : Surfaces/ facets - a property of material
फलम् (falam) : fruits
फलिनी (phalinī) : Group of 19 plants whose fruits are indicated in Paṁchakarma.
फलोद्भिः इव मूत्रं (phalodbhiḥ iva mūtraṁ) : Micturition with splitting pain
फांट (phāṁṭa) : a filtrate obtained by steeping the soft & aromatic substances in boiled water in liquid doses form
फाणित (phāṇita) : Molasses is a semisolid condensed sugarcane preparation, traditionally used to prepare Arișta, Asava and other forms of alcoholic fermentation. Its heavy in nature,Sweet in taste, nutitive and non-aphrodisiac and aggravates Tri-Doṣa.
फेनं (phenaṁ) : Froth
फेनयुक्तं (phenayuktaṁ) : Frothy
फेनवत् (phenavat) : Frothy
फेनवमी (phenavamī) : Vomiting of frothy material.
फेनशान्ति (phenaśānti) : One of the classical test indicating the completion of medicated ghee preparation
फेनागमनं (phenāgamanaṁ) : Foaming at the mouth.
फेनानुगतं (phenānugataṁ) : Frothy
फेनिलं (phenilaṁ) : Frothy
फेनोद्गम (phenodgama) : One of the classical test indicating the completion of medicated oil preparation
बक्कस (bakkasa) : it is the sediment part of the fermentation process and Synonym of surabija-seed and is used for an initiation of the fermentation process
बद्धं (baddhaṁ) : Tying/ligating/fastening
बद्ध अधोवायु (baddha adhovāyu) : Suppressed
बद्धदर्शनं (baddhadarśanaṁ) : Blurred vision
बद्धमुष्टि (baddhamuṣṭi) : Closed fist
बद्धाबद्धं (baddhābaddhaṁ) : Suppressed or loose motion irregularly
बन्ध (bandha) : Suppressed
बन्ध (bandha) : one of the action attributed to jala mahabhuta
बन्धनाश आर्तव (bandhanāśa ārtava) : Loss of menstrual blood.
बन्धुजीवकनिभं (bandhujīvakanibhaṁ) : Bright red eye, like the flower of Pentapetes phoenicae
बन्धुजीवप्रतीकाशं (bandhujīvapratīkāśaṁ) : Bright red eye, like the flower of Pentapetes phoenicae
बल (bala) : Energy required to perform daily activities is Strength. – Individual strength has been classified in 3 types. Sahaja – Hereditary, Yuktija - Strength achieved from exercise, food etc. Kalaja – natural strength received during Visarga kala. As long as the patient has good strength he can resist the all sorts of the diseases easily. If this strength or immunity is decreased minor diseases can create serious symptoms.
बल प्रणाश (bala praṇāśa) : Loss of physical strength or weakness
बलक्षय (balakṣaya) : Loss of physical strength or weakness
बलनाश (balanāśa) : Loss of physical strength or weakness
बलपरिक्षय (balaparikṣaya) : Loss of physical strength or weakness
बलपरिहानि (balaparihāni) : Loss of physical strength or weakness
बलभ्रंश (balabhraṁśa) : Loss of physical strength or weakness
बलवत् पुरुषे देशेजन्मे (balavat puruṣe deśejanme) : Birth in a place which is endowed with energized persons. One among the strengthening factor which is concerned with the place. Individual taken birth in that place where there is a good vitality. That is birth in Jangala desha (arid place), will have good tolerance capacity.
बलवत्पुरुषे काल जन्मे (balavatpuruṣe kāla janme) : One among the strengthening factor which is concerned with the time. Individual taken birth in the time where there is a good vitality. That is birth in Visarga kala, will have good tolerance capacity.
बलविघात (balavighāta) : Loss of physical strength or weakness
बलविनाश (balavināśa) : Loss of physical strength or weakness
बलवृद्धिकर भाव (balavṛddhikara bhāva) : Factors which increase and maintain the strength of an individual it includes birth in a place having strong person, that in a time conducive for strength, favorable time, excellence of seed and soil, excellence of diet, body, suitability and psyche, natural mechanism, youth, physical exercise and cheerfulness.
बलसङ्क्षय (balasaṅkṣaya) : Loss of physical strength or weakness
बलह्रास (balahrāsa) : Loss of physical strength or weakness
बलादान (balādāna) : Loss of physical strength or weakness
बलापकर्षण (balāpakarṣaṇa) : Loss of physical strength or weakness
बलापहरण (balāpaharaṇa) : Loss of physical strength or weakness
बलाभाव (balābhāva) : Loss of physical strength or weakness
बलिः (baliḥ) : Sacrificial offering or propitiatory oblation.
बलिकर्म इच्छा (balikarma icchā) : Likes to do oblation
बलेपघात (balepaghāta) : Loss of physical strength or weakness
बलोप्तप्तिः (baloptaptiḥ) : Loss of physical strength or weakness
बल्य (balya) : strength, stamina & immunity promoter
बस्तगन्ध मूत्रं (bastagandha mūtraṁ) : Urine resembling the smell of goat.
बस्ताभगन्ध (bastābhagandha) : Resembling the smell of goat.
बस्ति (basti) : Bladder
बस्तिनिभ उदरः (bastinibha udaraḥ) : Abdomen resembles like a bladder filled with water
बहलं (bahalaṁ) : Thick
बहिर्जिह्वा (bahirjihvā) : Protrusion of tongue
बहिर्निर्गमनं गुद (bahirnirgamanaṁ guda) : Prolapsed Rectum
बहिःशीतं (bahiḥśītaṁ) : a process where material is cooled by removing heat source-External cooling
बहिश्चेतन (bahiścetana) : living beings having externally manifested consciousness like those of humans
बहु (bahu) : Much, many, frequent, abundant, numerous, great or considerable in quantity. An attribute of Vāta.
बहु निद्रा (bahu nidrā) : Excessive sleep
बहु प्रतान (bahu pratāna) : Multiple network
बहु प्रतान स्नाय (bahu pratāna snāya) : Clear manifestation of tendon network
बहुधा दर्शनं (bahudhā darśanaṁ) : Multiple visions
बहुनिद्रता (bahunidratā) : Excessive sleep.
बहुभुक् (bahubhuk) : intake of more quantity of food
बहुला (bahulā) : Excessive, thick
बहुवाक् (bahuvāk) : verbosity
बहुशः (bahuśaḥ) : Frequently
बह्वाशी (bahvāśī) : Intake of more quantity of food
बाधा (bādhā) : Pain
बाधिर्य (bādhirya) : Loss of hearing
बाल (bāla) : Childhood- it is determined from birth to 16 years, when dhatus are immature, sexual character are not manifested; the body is delicate with incomplete strength& dominance of kapha dhatu.
बाल इच्छा (bāla icchā) : Fond of Children
बाहुः (bāhuḥ) : Upper limb
बाहुकर्मक्षयः (bāhukarmakṣayaḥ) : Loss of motor function of upper limb.
बाहुचेष्टापहारी (bāhuceṣṭāpahārī) : loss of motor function of upper limb
बाहुरज्जुल तापाशैः कण्ठपीडनम् (bāhurajjula tāpāśaiḥ kaṇṭhapīḍanam) : strangulation (manual garroting) etc
बाहुल्यं (bāhulyaṁ) : Excess
बाह्य मल (bāhya mala) : Impurities seen on external part of the body. It’s a sign of poor personnel hygiene, which may end up in many ailments like itching, burning sensation etc.
बाह्यद्रुति (bāhyadruti) : It is a mercurial process where materials are Added after Melting the material outside separately.
बिन्दु (bindu) : A spot
बिन्दुभिः आचय (bindubhiḥ ācaya) : Multiple spots on skin.
बिन्दुशः मुत्रं (binduśaḥ mutraṁ) : Passing urine drop by drop.
बिन्दुशतैः चियतेचाङ्गैः (binduśataiḥ ciyatecāṅgaiḥ) : Petechial patches.
बिंबिसी (biṁbisī) : defecation with burning and gripping pain
बिलेशया (bileśayā) : Includes animals living in burrows. Exp- toad, Iguana, snake, porcupine.
बिल्व (bilva) : indicating measure Synonym of one pala=48 g of metric units
बीजक्षेत्रगुण संपत् (bījakṣetraguṇa saṁpat) : Excellence of seed (sperm and ovum) & soil (Womb) - it is the one of the strengthening factors of the body. Child grown to the parents having Excellency in sperm, ovum and womb will be endowed with good strength, vitality and immunity.
बीजावर्त (bījāvarta) : A stage of satvapatana in which flame attains color of melting material indicating the metal supposed to melt
बुद् बुद् तुल्यमांस (bud bud tulyamāṁsa) : Skin covered with bubble like flesh.
बुद्धि (buddhi) : The power of forming and retaining conceptions and general notions , intelligence , reason , intellect , discernment , judgment
बुद्धि उपघात (buddhi upaghāta) : Lack of intelligence
बुद्धि उपरोध (buddhi uparodha) : Lack of intelligence
बुद्धिक्षय (buddhikṣaya) : Lack of intelligence
बुद्धिनाश (buddhināśa) : Lass of intelligence
बुद्धिभ्रम (buddhibhrama) : Perverted intelligence
बुद्धिमोह (buddhimoha) : Perverted intelligence
बुद्धिविपर्यय (buddhiviparyaya) : Perverted intelligence
बुद्धिविभ्रम (buddhivibhrama) : Perverted intelligence
बुद्धिविभ्रंश (buddhivibhraṁśa) : intellectual aberration
बुभुक्षा (bubhukṣā) : Desire to take food.
बृंहण (bṛṁhaṇa) : All procedures and treatment which increase body weight and strength is called Brimhana. This therapy is indicated for emaciated, weak and debilitated and for those in convalescence from chronic illness like mal-absorption, tuberculosis, and anemia. Is reverse of reduction. This therapy consisting of rich diet, tonic herbs, rest and relaxing lifestyle. Food prepared with ghee, butter, seasame oil, milk, raw sugar and joggery.
बृंहणीय (bṛṁhaṇīya) : anabolic/promoters of tissue growth
बृहत् पञ्चमूल (bṛhat pañcamūla) : a combination of following five roots obtained from trees
बोधक कफ (bodhaka kapha) : One of the five subtypes of Kapha that helps in the perception of taste.
ब्रध्नः (bradhnaḥ) : Rectum
ब्रम्हचर्य (bramhacarya) : Avoidance of sexual act physically, mentally & verbally all ways under any circumstances. Control over genital organ, which leads to pleasant mind & helpful to attain knowledge about Bramha (supreme god)
ब्रम्हा मुहूर्त (bramhā muhūrta) : Brahmā means relating to Bramha or creator or supreme spirit or to sacred knowledge or study or divine or presided over by a Bramha. Muhūrta refers to partic, period of the day. Brahmā muhūrta includes time between 4th Ghatika and 2nd Ghatika before sunrise, or 48 minutes of auspicious period before sunrise. It’s the relevant time for thinking brahmā or to study.
ब्रह्मचर्य (brahmacarya) : A state of continence and chastity abstaining from sexual relations and experience
भक्ति (bhakti) : A natural inclination or fondness for something; Desire
भक्तिविभ्रमः (bhaktivibhramaḥ) : Perverted desire or there will not be desire on things which were desired previously.
भक्थ (Bhaktha) : Food or drinks consumed by the individual.
भक्षण (bhakṣaṇa) : Ingestion - oral administration
भक्ष्य (bhakṣya) : masticable; dietary substances to be masticated; e.g.
भग्नत्वं (bhagnatvaṁ) : Breaking pain
भग्नत्वं इव (bhagnatvaṁ iva) : Micturition with breaking pain
भङ्गः अङ्गः (bhaṅgaḥ aṅgaḥ) : Breaking pain in the body.
भङ्गः स्कन्धस्य (bhaṅgaḥ skandhasya) : Drooping of shoulders.
भङ्गनील (bhaṅganīla) : Bee like blue color
भङ्गुरम् (bhaṅguram) : Quality of material indicating Brittleness/ fragility
भञ्जन (bhañjana) : Breaking pain
भयः (bhayaḥ) : Fear
भर्जन (bharjana) : Frying/Roasting- one of the process applied in purification/refining of the material
भस्त्र (bhastra) : used for blowing purpose
भस्म (bhasma) : ash
भस्म (bhasma) : Ashes of metals/minerals obtained through incineration/calcinations process
भस्मनिभः (bhasmanibhaḥ) : Ash color.
भस्माभः (bhasmābhaḥ) : Ash color.
भस्मोदकप्रतीकाशं मूत्रं (bhasmodakapratīkāśaṁ mūtraṁ) : Urine resembles the washings of ash.
भा (bhā) : reflection of the skin color
भाजन (bhājana) : A unit of Measurement; Synonym of one adhak_ =3.073 g of metric units
भाजन (bhājana) : Vessel used for various purposes
भाजन (bhājana) : Vessels or utensils which are used for preparing food. Bhajana is one among the Samskara (modulation of food properties) - āhara vidhi veshesha ayatana. Properties of the food vary according to the utensils used for preparation as well as eating. E.g.
भानुपक (bhānupaka) : certain pharmaceutical products are to be prepared by exposing them to sun rays
भार (bhāra) : Indicating measure 40 tulas are equal to one bhar i.e. 96 kg (rounded to 1.0 quintals) of metric units.
भाराढय (bhārāḍhaya) : Heavy in weight – indicating the concentration of the material
भारिकं (bhārikaṁ) : Heaviness of the head.
भावः (bhāvaḥ) : state of existence
भावन (bhāvana) : Steeping - it’s a type of modulatory process of qualities of food & drugs. Steeping the food articles with any kind of decoction or juice will enhances the properties of the particular food and drug.
भावना (bhāvanā) : One of the process applied in purification/refining of the material
भाविकस्वप्न (bhāvikasvapna) : Dreams indicative of future happenings
भास्वर (bhāsvara) : Shining indicating the mineral property of reflecting of light by the surface -
भिद्यत इव (bhidyata iva) : Piercing pain, Breaking pain
भिन्दन इव (bhindana iva) : Breaking pain
भिन्न कांस्यपत्रता (bhinna kāṁsyapatratā) : Weak voice resembles the broken bell metal.
भिन्न कांस्यस्वरतुल्यघोषः (bhinna kāṁsyasvaratulyaghoṣaḥ) : Weak voice resembles the broken bell metal.
भिन्न कांस्योपम ध्वनि (bhinna kāṁsyopama dhvani) : Sound resembles the broken bell metal.
भिन्न विट्क (bhinna viṭka) : Loose motion
भिन्न स्वरः (bhinna svaraḥ) : Hoarseness of voice
भिन्नार्चि (bhinnārci) : When poisonous food is put into fire, the food burns in severed & disjointed flames.
भिषक् द्वेष (bhiṣak dveṣa) : Aversion to physician
भुक्तोपघात (bhuktopaghāta) : Loss of appetite
भुग्न (bhugna) : Curved
भुजः (bhujaḥ) : Upper limb
भुरि अन्नं (bhuri annaṁ) : Intake of more quantity of food
भुरिता (bhuritā) : Excessive
भू (bhū) : Earth
भूतः (bhūtaḥ) : Evil spirits or extrinsic micro-organism
भूत धात्रि (bhūta dhātri) : It is made up two words, Bhuta – living things, Dhatri- women giving nutrition to the baby by own breast milk. It is another name of Ratri swabhava prabhava Nidra, is a type of Nidra comes due to the effect of night. It’s a natural sleep. This type of sleep nourishes one’s own body similar breast milk nourishing the new born baby.
भूताग्नि (bhūtāgni) : Five types of Agni, those act after Jatharagni, but before Dhatvagni on the food and its metabolites. They are
भूतात्मा (bhūtātmā) : The self consisting of the elements, The soul of all being.
भूधर् यन्त्र (bhūdhar yantra) : An apparatus used for purification, digestion etc processes by submerging it under ground and applying heat from above
भूषण (bhūṣaṇa) : Ornaments
भृश (bhṛśa) : Excessive
भृशवेगी (bhṛśavegī) : Excess flow
भेकाभ (bhekābha) : Color of frog
भेद (bheda) : Splitting pain Breaking pain
भेद (bheda) : This is the last stage of Kriyakala in which the disease may become chronic or incurable.
भेदन (bhedana) : Breaking pain
भेदन (bhedana) : Breaking- reduction of the hard substances into small pieces.
भेदनीय (bhedanīya) : a group of purgatives
भेषज (bheṣaja) : medicine
भैरव (bhairava) : Bizarre look
भोजनशेषं (bhojanaśeṣaṁ) : Stomach contents
भोजनस्यावरोध् (bhojanasyāvarodh) : Stagnation of food in the gut.
भोज्योपरोध (bhojyoparodha) : Difficulty in deglutition.
भौम सर्प (bhauma sarpa) : Terrestrial snakes.
भ्रम (bhrama) : Giddiness, Dizziness or tremor.
भ्रमण (bhramaṇa) : Wandering
भ्रमण पाद (bhramaṇa pāda) : Unsteady foot
भ्रमन्ति इव दर्शनं (bhramanti iva darśanaṁ) : Objects look as revolving
भ्रंश (bhraṁśa) : Prolapse
भ्राजक पित्त (bhrājaka pitta) : One of the five subtypes of Pitta that causes Illumination or shining of the skin.
भ्राजिष्णु अक्षि (bhrājiṣṇu akṣi) : Dazzling appearance of the eye
भ्राजिष्णु दर्शनं (bhrājiṣṇu darśanaṁ) : Objects look as dazzling
भ्रान्त चेतः (bhrānta cetaḥ) : Perplexed mind
भ्रान्त दर्शनं (bhrānta darśanaṁ) : Perplexed sight
भ्रान्तंक्षि (bhrāntaṁakṣi) : Frantic eye
भ्रान्तप्रेक्षी (bhrāntaprekṣī) : Seeing things in faulty manner
भ्रामर (bhrāmara) : Variety of honey collected from Bhramara type of honey bee. Color of this honey will be of whitish.
भ्रूक्षेप (bhrūkṣepa) : Spasmodic movement of the eyebrow
भ्रूव्युदास (bhrūvyudāsa) : Spasmodic movement of the eyebrow.
मक्षिकाः (makṣikāḥ) : Flies with poisonous stings.
मक्षिका तुल्यं पुरीषं (makṣikā tulyaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Honey like stool
मक्षिका दर्शनं (makṣikā darśanaṁ) : Honey bee like objects appear before eyes
मक्षिकाक्रान्तं पुरीषं (makṣikākrāntaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Stool attracted by bees.
मक्षिकाभं (makṣikābhaṁ) : Color like that of Honey
मज्जनं जले (majjanaṁ jale) : Sinks in water
मज्जनम् (majjanam) : Steeping- keeping the material immersed in a specified liquid
मज्जनि मज्जनं अस्थि (majjani majjanaṁ asthi) : Bone merges in marrow in the fracture
मज्जा (majjā) : Marrow
मज्जा धातु (majjā dhātu) : Sixth of the seven basic Dhātus, whose function is to fill the bony cavities. It is predominant of Jala Mahābhūta.
मज्जा प्रकाशं (majjā prakāśaṁ) : Resembles bone marrow in color and appearance
मज्जा रूपं (majjā rūpaṁ) : Resembles bone marrow in color and appearance
मज्जागन्धं (majjāgandhaṁ) : Smell of bone marrow
मज्जानं (majjānaṁ) : Resembles bone marrow in color and appearance
मज्जाभं (majjābhaṁ) : Resembles bone marrow in color and appearance
मज्जामिश्रं (majjāmiśraṁ) : Mixed with bone marrow
मज्जोपसंसृष्टं (majjopasaṁsṛṣṭaṁ) : Mixed with bone marrow
मञ्जिष्ठ उदकोपमं (mañjiṣṭha udakopamaṁ) : Resembles the juice of Maṁjișṭha i.e. dark red
मञ्जिष्ठ वस्त्र (mañjiṣṭha vastra) : Cloth is painted with MANJISTHA KWATHA. Best indicated in hemanta ritu& śiśira ritu& during cloudy time.
मञ्जिष्ठ सङ्काशं (mañjiṣṭha saṅkāśaṁ) : Resembles the juice of Maṁjișṭha i.e. dark red
मञ्जिष्ठ सलिलसङ्काशं (mañjiṣṭha salilasaṅkāśaṁ) : Resembles the juice of Maṁjișṭha i.e. dark red
मञ्जिष्ठाभं (mañjiṣṭhābhaṁ) : Resembles the juice of Maṁjișṭha i.e. dark red
मणिबन्धः (maṇibandhaḥ) : Wrist
मण्ड (maṇḍa) : It’s a method of rice preparation. To prepare this 1 part rice and 14 part water is added and cooked. Liquid portion of that preparation is maṇḍa (rice gruel).It facilitates evacuation of flatus, relives thirst, weakness, improves digestion, softens the metabolic pathways.
मण्डल (maṇḍala) : Circular patch, Round shaped
मण्डल दर्शनं (maṇḍala darśanaṁ) : Circular objects appear before eyes.
मण्डल दृष्टिमण्डल (maṇḍala dṛṣṭimaṇḍala) : Circular lesion in pupil
मण्डूक (maṇḍūka) : Frog.
मत्कुणगन्ध (matkuṇagandha) : Bug like smell on body
मत्रवत् अस्हन् (matravat ashan) : Quantity of food which does not cause any disturbance in the body is considered mātrāvata āhāra
मत्स्य (matsya) : Fish
मत्स्य इच्छा (matsya icchā) : Fond of Fish
मत्स्यगन्ध (matsyagandha) : Smell of fish
मत्स्यशकलसन्निभं (matsyaśakalasannibhaṁ) : Resembles the scale of fish.
मंथनं (maṁthanaṁ) : Churning pain
मथनं अरण्येव (mathanaṁ araṇyeva) : Pain as being churned with Araṇī (Fire producing stick)
मद (mada) : Intoxication
मदः (madaḥ) : The state of being emotionally aroused and worked up
मदकारी (madakārī) : Substances which intoxicates & vitiates intellect; e.g. wine
मदनयोहतम् (madanayohatam) : One with clothes and limbs thrown about, with excessive vomiting and motions, he should hold as killed by a stupefying mixture.(a combination containing randia spinosa)
मद्य (madya) : The liquid doses form containing alcohols obtained by fermentation process
मद्य इच्छा (madya icchā) : Fond of Alcohol
मधित (madhita) : Is prepared by churning the curd and removing butter, without adding water. Alleviates Kapha and Pitta.
मधु इच्छा (madhu icchā) : Fond of Honey
मधु इव मूत्रं (madhu iva mūtraṁ) : Urine resembles honey in color and appearance
मधु वर्ग (madhu varga) : Class of different sources of Honey
मधुक्रोडा (madhukroḍā) : Prepared with flour mixed up with honey and solidified by frying.
मधुर (madhura) : Sweet; one among six rasa.
मधुर (madhura) : Sweet, something that is sweet to taste
मधुर त्रय (madhura traya) : Class of following 3 substances having Madhura Rasa viz. Sharkara, Madhu & Ghrita.
मधुर त्रिफला (madhura triphalā) : Class of following three fruits having madhura rasa; viz. Gaṁbhārī (Gmelina arborea), khajūr(Phoenix sylvestris), Draksha(Vitis vinifera).
मधुर रसता (madhura rasatā) : Sweet taste
मधुर स्कन्ध (madhura skandha) : Class of substances having actions attributed to Madhura Rasa.
मधुरभक्षण द्वेष (madhurabhakṣaṇa dveṣa) : Aversion to sweet food
मधुरास्यता (madhurāsyatā) : Sweet taste
मधुशुक्त (madhuśukta) : The fermented liquid using the honey on attaining acidity
मधुसमं (madhusamaṁ) : Urine resembles honey in color and appearance
मधूच्छिष्ट वस्त्र (madhūcchiṣṭa vastra) : Clothes anarnked with wax (bee). Decreases vata Doṣa. Gives strength, improves appetite & pitta Doṣa.
मध्य वीर्य (madhya vīrya) : Moderate Potency;
मध्यभङ्ग अस्थि (madhyabhaṅga asthi) : Fracture in the middle of the bone
मध्यम कोष्ठ (madhyama koṣṭha) : A physiological type of Koṣṭha produced because of the dominance of either Kapha, or due to the balanced state of all the three Doṣas. The individual with this type of Koṣṭha, passes normal bowels and has normal digestive ability.
मध्यम पन्चमूल (madhyama pancamūla) : Combination of following five plants; Bala(Sida cordifolia), Punarnava(Boerhāvia diffusa), Eranda(Ricinus communis), Mudagparni(Phaseolus trilobus), Mashparni(Teramnus labialis).
मध्यम सत्व (madhyama satva) : Medium psyche- sustains them at the instance of other or entirely by others. These persons are able to with stand grief, fear, anger, confusion and conceit to some extent.
मध्यमपाक (madhyamapāka) : Completing the process in optimal stage
मध्यमवीर्य लूता (madhyamavīrya lūtā) : Moderately venomous spiders with fatal period between 7 to 15 days.
मध्यम् वय (madhyam vaya) : Middle age- from 16- 60 years .It is characterized by strength virility, quality of all dhātus having reached the normal limits with proper physical & mental strength, without degeneration in qualities of dhātus with predominance of pitta dhātu.
मध्याह्नः (madhyāhnaḥ) : Midday
मध्येभक्त (madhyebhakta) : Medicine consumed in between the meal cure diseases bestows strength and alleviates diseases of head and neck
मन (mana) : Weights and measures /metrology
मनस् (manas) : The mind, the internal organ which link among soul, sensory and motor organs
मनस्कर (manaskara) : Conducive to mind
मनो अवसाद (mano avasāda) : Loss of mental strength.
मनोदैन्य (manodainya) : wretchedness, Pathetic
मनोनाश (manonāśa) : Confusion or absence of mind
मनोनुगतं (manonugataṁ) : Reveals secrets
मनोन्मत्तविक्षोभण (manonmattavikṣobhaṇa) : Perplexed mind
मनोपघात (manopaghāta) : Confusion or absence of mind
मनोपहार (manopahāra) : Disturbed mind
मनोसम्भ्रम (manosambhrama) : Perplexed mind
मन्त्र (mantra) : Mantra is a word or the combination of the words, which if recited in a prescribed manner, the person is able to reach the god or can possess the immortal power to heal, which is considered to be the best and most effective amongst all the types of the treatment of poisoning.
मन्थ (mantha) : The liquid obtained by churning of any food substance after addition of 14 times of water.
मन्थन (manthana) : The Process of churning
मन्द (manda) : a gruel of rice by adding 14 times of water without rice particles
मन्द (manda) : Dull/sluggish; One of the 20 gurvadi gunās. Caused due activated pṛthvī & jala mahābhuta; denotes physiological & pharmacological slowing down of processes; instrumental for palliative therapy; pacifies pitta, increases kapha.
मन्द इन्द्रिय (manda indriya) : Weakness of sensory faculty
मन्दनादम् (mandanādam) : Dull sound
मन्दबल (mandabala) : Diminished strength
मन्दबुद्धि (mandabuddhi) : Lack of intelligence
मन्दरुजा (mandarujā) : Slight pain
मन्दवह्नि (mandavahni) : Mild heat/fire
मन्दवाक् (mandavāk) : less talking
मन्दवीर्यत्वम् (mandavīryatvam) : At the end of rainy season, the effect of poison becomes milder i.e. it becomes less potent and sluggish in action.
मन्दाग्नि (mandāgni) : The state in which the action of Agni is considerably depressed due to dominant influence of Kapha.
मन्दाहारो (mandāhāro) : It is a symptom produced in third impulse of animal poisoning which means poisoned animal stops eating food.
मन्दोत्साह (mandotsāha) : Lack of enthusiasm
मन्या (manyā) : Sides of the neck
मयूरकण्ठप्रतिमो (mayūrakaṇṭhapratimo) : When poisonous food is put into fire, color of the flame changes vividly like peacock’s throat.
मयूरकण्ठसदृश (mayūrakaṇṭhasadṛśa) : Resembles the color of the throat of peacock
मयूरचन्द्रिकाछाय (mayūracandrikāchāya) : Resembling the shade of peacock’s feather
मरकतः (marakataḥ) : Emerald.
मरकतप्रभ (marakataprabha) : Resembles like emerald grass like green in color
मरीचि दर्शनं (marīci darśanaṁ) : Mirage appear once before eyes
मर्कट (markaṭa) : Monkey.
मर्दः (mardaḥ) : Pressing pain
मर्दन (mardana) : Severe pressing of body from feet to waist.
मर्दनः (mardanaḥ) : Frequent rubbing
मल (mala) : The waste products of the body formed during various stages of digestion and metabolism. Mala is one of the fundamental constituent of the human body along with Doṣa and Dhātu. They are of two classes
मलच्छवि (malacchavi) : Dirty appearance
मलज (malaja) : Parasites growing in external excreta
मलिन वस्त्र (malina vastra) : Wearing of these clothes is considered inauspicious & causes itching & other skin disorders.
मलीमस (malīmasa) : Dirty appearance
मलोत्पत्ति कण्ठे (malotpatti kaṇṭhe) : Mucus coating in throat
मशक दर्शनं (maśaka darśanaṁ) : Flies appearing before eyes
मशकाः (maśakāḥ) : Mosquitoes.
मशी (maśī) : the materials are subjected to heat in a closed vessel to obtain black form of ash
मश्रृणम् (maśrṛṇam) : Smooth in touch
मसितुल्यं (masitulyaṁ) : Resembles the color of ink
मसिवर्णं (masivarṇaṁ) : Color of ink
मस्तकः (mastakaḥ) : Head; Forehead
मस्तिष्क (mastiṣka) : Head; Brain
मस्तुलुङ्गतुल्यं (mastuluṅgatulyaṁ) : Resembles in color and appearance of the brain matter
मस्तुलुङ्गाभं (mastuluṅgābhaṁ) : Resembles in color and appearance of the brain matter
मस्तुलुङ्गोपमं (mastuluṅgopamaṁ) : Resembles in color and appearance of the brain matter
महत् (mahat) : Severe, enlargement
महत् (mahat) : Large/gigantic
महाकषाय (mahākaṣāya) : Group of ten substances having similar pharmacological effect; described by Caraka; 50 in number
महाखुड्डाक (mahākhuḍḍāka) : major, big one, in details
महान (mahāna) : the second evaluated factor in the process of evolution which stands for Buddhi, intellect and also for big
महानस (mahānasa) : Kitchen.
महानिद्रा (mahānidrā) : Excessive sleep
महापञ्च विष (mahāpañca viṣa) : Combination of following five poisonous drugs; Musta(Cyperus rotundus), Vatsnābh(Aconitum ferox).
महाभूत (mahābhūta) : Great Elements; the five proto-elements ākāśa, Vāyu, Teja, Jala and Pṛthvi which are the basic constituents of all substances
महामृग (mahāmṛga) : Among the animals which graze around in search of food, the larger ones are categorized as Mahamruga. Exp- pig, Buffalo, Elephant, Jungle cow.
महावेग कास (mahāvega kāsa) : Cough with severe bout
महाशन (mahāśana) : Intake of more quantity of food
महास्नेह (mahāsneha) : Class of four unctuous substance; Ghee, Oil, Fat and Marrow.
महास्रोतः (mahāsrotaḥ) : Rectum
महास्वन कास (mahāsvana kāsa) : Cough with loud sound
माक्षिक (mākṣika) : Variety of honey which is collected from the reddish variety of honey bee. It is considered as the best among other varieties of honey. Color of this honey will be similar to seasam oil.
मात्र विरुद्ध (mātra viruddha) : It’s a type of incompatibility (Viruddha) concerned with quantity, eg.Intake of honey and ghee in equal quantity will comes under this category.
मात्रवत् अश्नियात (mātravat aśniyāta) : Food should be taken always in proper quantity, it get digested without any disturbance.
मात्रा (mātrā) : a specific measurement, quantity or dose
मात्रावत आहार (mātrāvata āhāra) : Quantity of food which does not cause any disturbance in the body is considered mātrāvata āhāra
मात्राहीन (mātrāhīna) : Less quantity of food / drug- for those who have weak digestive fire & who are sick, giving them less quantity of food/ drug is ideal.
मात्सर्य (mātsarya) : Jealousy
मात्सर्यः (mātsaryaḥ) : feeling of grudge or Enviousness
मानः (mānaḥ) : Respect, honor, regard, respectful consideration
मानसिक भाव (mānasika bhāva) : thoughts or factor, attribute related to mānas
मानिका (mānikā) : A unit of Measurement; Two kuḍavas will make one manika=384 g of metric units
मानुषी (mānuṣī) : One of the four categories of medicines described in Atharva veda.
मारण (māraṇa) : A process by which the metals/minerals are Reduced into ashes
मार्ग रोध (mārga rodha) : Obstruction of passage
मार्गात् मार्गं रक्तं चरेत् (mārgāt mārgaṁ raktaṁ caret) : Bleeding changes from one channel to other.
मार्गान् विवृणोति (mārgān vivṛṇoti) : That which removes obstruction from the srotas
मार्गावरोध (mārgāvarodha) : Obstruction of passage.
मार्गै अधोवायु (mārgai adhovāyu) : Passing Flatus through ulcer
मार्गै पुरीषप्रवर्तनं (mārgai purīṣapravartanaṁ) : Passing stool through ulcer
मार्गै मूत्रं (mārgai mūtraṁ) : Passing Urine through ulcer
मार्गै शुक्रं (mārgai śukraṁ) : Passing semen through ulcer
मार्जन (mārjana) : Cleaning/sweeping- it is method of purification (external) which is used to clean the vitiated land; it takes the physical impurities out.
मार्दव (mārdava) : Softening; caused due to Jala mahābhūta predominance.
माला इच्छा (mālā icchā) : Fond of Garlands.
माल्य इच्छा (mālya icchā) : Fond of Garlands
माल्य द्वेष (mālya dveṣa) : Aversion of Garlands
माल्यगन्ध (mālyagandha) : Smell of Garlands
माषा (māṣā) : A unit of Measurement; 5/7/10 abrus seeds are equal to one masha kidney bean= 1 g of metric units
मांस इच्छा (māṁsa icchā) : Fond of Meat
मांस धातु (māṁsa dhātu) : Flesh. Third Dhātu among seven Dhātus, whose function is to provide covering over the skeleton. It is dominant of Pṛthvi Mahābhūta.
मांस वर्ग (māṁsa varga) : Class of flesh sourced different animals.
मांसं विलिखति (māṁsaṁ vilikhati) : scraps muscle tissues
मांसकील (māṁsakīla) : Fleshy growth
मांसक्षय (māṁsakṣaya) : Muscular wasting
मांसगन्धि (māṁsagandhi) : Smell of flesh
मांसचय (māṁsacaya) : Fleshy growth
मांसतोयप्रख्यं (māṁsatoyaprakhyaṁ) : Resembles the color and appearance of the washings of meat.
मांसदरणं (māṁsadaraṇaṁ) : Splitting of flesh.
मांसदुष्टि (māṁsaduṣṭi) : Decaying of flesh
मांसधावन (māṁsadhāvana) : Resembles the color and appearance of the washings of meat.
मांसधावन तुल्यं (māṁsadhāvana tulyaṁ) : Resembles the color and appearance of the washings of meat
मांसधावन प्रकाशं (māṁsadhāvana prakāśaṁ) : Resembles the color and appearance of the washings of meat.
मांसधावनवत् (māṁsadhāvanavat) : Resembles the color and appearance of the washings of meat.
मांसपिण्ड (māṁsapiṇḍa) : Fleshy mass.
मांसपिण्डोपम (māṁsapiṇḍopama) : Resembles fleshy mass
मांसपेशीप्रभं (māṁsapeśīprabhaṁ) : Color of muscles
मांसप्रक्षालनाभं (māṁsaprakṣālanābhaṁ) : Resembles the color and appearance of the washings of meat.
मांसप्ररोह (māṁsapraroha) : Polypus
मांसरस (māṁsarasa) : soup prepared with meat by adding 8 times of water & reducing it to 1/4th and seasoned with 3 pungent, ghee & jiggery
मांसवृद्धि (māṁsavṛddhi) : Fleshy mass.
मांसशात जिह्वा (māṁsaśāta jihvā) : Decaying of tongue
मांसशोणितगन्ध (māṁsaśoṇitagandha) : Smell of flesh and blood
मांससरम्भं (māṁsasarambhaṁ) : Fleshy mass.
मांसाङ्कुर (māṁsāṅkura) : Sprout like growth
मांसानामवशातनं (māṁsānāmavaśātanaṁ) : Sloughing of the flesh produced by the bite of the Maṁḍali (vipers) snake.
मांसाभिवृद्धि (māṁsābhivṛddhi) : Fleshy mass
मासिक प्राणहर योग (māsika prāṇahara yoga) : Harmful preparation made up of slow acting poisonous substances which prove to be fatal in a period of 1 month.
मांसोत्सन्ना (māṁsotsannā) : Fleshy mass.
मांसोदकच्छ्राय (māṁsodakacchrāya) : Fleshy mass
मांसोदकसन्निकाशं (māṁsodakasannikāśaṁ) : Resembles the color and appearance of the washings of meat
मांसोदकाभं (māṁsodakābhaṁ) : Resembles the color and appearance of the washings of meat
मांसोदकोपमं (māṁsodakopamaṁ) : Resembles the color and appearance of the washings of meat
मांसोद्गम (māṁsodgama) : Sprout like growth
मांसोन्नाह (māṁsonnāha) : Fleshy mass
मांसोपचय (māṁsopacaya) : Fleshy mass
मित्रपञ्चक (mitrapañcaka) : A group of five drugs used to test the bhasmas- Fusion mixture
मिथ्यायोग (mithyāyoga) : Unusually or contrarily interaction of sense organs with their respective objects in accordance with time
मिन्मिन्य (minminya) : Nasal voice.
मीनधावनतोयगन्धः (mīnadhāvanatoyagandhaḥ) : Smell of washing of fish
मीलनं अक्षि (mīlanaṁ akṣi) : Closing of the eye or nyctation
मुक्त त्वक् (mukta tvak) : Snake which has recently molted.
मुक्तनालं गुद (muktanālaṁ guda) : Prolapsed rectum
मुक्तमांसता (muktamāṁsatā) : Muscular wasting
मुक्त्¡ सन्धि (mukt¡ sandhi) : Looseness of joints
मुक्त्वा कीटविषं तद्धि शीतेनाभिप्रवर्धते (muktvā kīṭaviṣaṁ taddhi śītenābhipravardhate) : As a rule poisons are treated with remedies which have cold property. kīta vișa is an exceptions as it increases with use of cold . तद्धध शीतेनामबप्रिधशते
मुखं (mukhaṁ) : Mouth, Face, Opening
मुखगे त्वोष्ठचिमिचिमा (mukhage tvoṣṭhacimicimā) : When poisonous food goes into the mouth, there is prickling sensation in the lips.
मुखपिच्छिलत्वं (mukhapicchilatvaṁ) : Mucoid coating in the mouth
मुखवाद्य इच्छा (mukhavādya icchā) : fond of musical instruments played by mouth
मुखसन्दश (mukhasandaśa) : suckers
मुखात् रक्तं (mukhāt raktaṁ) : Bleeding from mouth
मुञ्चति (muñcati) : To propel
मुद्रा (mudrā) : Sealing all sides using specified materials
मुन्चति (muncati) : Releases
मुषित दर्शनं (muṣita darśanaṁ) : Blurred vision
मुष्टिनिपीडनं (muṣṭinipīḍanaṁ) : Closed fist
मुहु मुहु (muhu muhu) : Frequently
मुहुःबद्धंमुहुः द्रवं पुरीषप्रवर्त (muhuḥbaddhaṁmuhuḥ dravaṁ purīṣapravarta) : Alternate Constipation and loose motions frequently
मुहुःबद्धंमुहुःशिथिलं पुरीषप्रवर्त (muhuḥbaddhaṁmuhuḥśithilaṁ purīṣapravarta) : Alternate Constipation and loose motions frequently
मुहुर्मुह (muhurmuha) : Administration of medicine again and again, either with the food or with out food. This method should be adopted in cases of repeated bouts of dyspneo, cough, hiccup and vomiting.
मुहुर्मुहुः शिरोन्यासः (muhurmuhuḥ śironyāsaḥ) : The symptom where repeated jerks of the head (frequent dropping of the head) are seen if the quadruped is bitten by a poisonous animal.
मूअर्तद्रव्याणि (mūartadravyāṇi) : embodied material having physical form
मूकत्वं (mūkatvaṁ) : Dumbness
मूकमूषा (mūkamūṣā) : A kind of crucible
मूढ उच्छास (mūḍha ucchāsa) : Restricted expiration
मूढता अधोवायु (mūḍhatā adhovāyu) : Suppression of flatus
मूढत्व (mūḍhatva) : Loss of knowledge; Foolishness
मूढसंज्ञता (mūḍhasaṁjñatā) : Loss of consciousness
मूत्र (mūtra) : One of the liquid form of Āhāra-mala. Urine. Function of Mūtra is to carry away Kleda (watery waste) from the body.
मूत्र प्रकाशम् (mūtra prakāśam) : Smell of urine
मूत्र वर्ग (mūtra varga) : Class of urine sourced from different animals.
मूत्रगन्धि (mūtragandhi) : Smell of Urine
मूत्रतुल्यगन्ध (mūtratulyagandha) : Smell of Urine
मूत्रदशक (mūtradaśaka) : Class of urine sourced from ten animals; sheep, Buffalo, Elephant, Camel, Goat, Horse, Donkey, Men, Women.
मूत्रपञ्चक (mūtrapañcaka) : Class of urine sourced from following five animals; Cow, Goat, Sheep, Donkey, Buffalo.
मूत्रमार्गेण रक्तं (mūtramārgeṇa raktaṁ) : Bleeding through urinary tract
मूत्रविरजनीय (mūtravirajanīya) : Urinary pigment restorers; substances used to impart normal color to the urine.
मूत्रविरेचनीय (mūtravirecanīya) : Diuretics; substances used to increase volume of urine.
मूत्रसंग्रहणीय (mūtrasaṁgrahaṇīya) : Ischuretics; substances used to reduce volume of urine.
मूत्रस्रोतोरोध (mūtrasrotorodha) : Obstruction of urinary passage
मूत्राष्टक (mūtrāṣṭaka) : Class of urine sourced from following Eight animals; Cow, sheep, Buffalo, Elephant, Camel, Horse, Donkey, Goat.
मूर्च्छा (mūrcchā) : Partial loss of consciousness; Fainting; Unconsciousness
मूर्च्छाय (mūrcchāya) : Fainting
मूर्च्छित (mūrcchita) : 1. One of the processes of mercury in which natural impurities present in the mercury is to be removed. 2. property of mercury in curing diseases
मूर्धा (mūrdhā) : Head
मूल (mūla) : Root
मूल द्रव्य (mūla dravya) : Causative substances that are said to be the cause of manifestation of all other substances; Synonym of Karana Dravya.
मूलजानि स्थिराणि च (mūlajāni sthirāṇi ca) : It is a group of poisons of immobile origin in which poison is especially present in its roots.
मूलम् (mūlam) : root
मूलिनि (mūlini) : A group of 16 plants whose roots are used indicated for Paṁchakarma therapy.
मूषा (mūṣā) : Used in the preparation of Bhasma, extraction etc.
मूषोदर (mūṣodara) : Inside the crucible- charged crucible
मृउत्पात्र (mṛutpātra) : an earthen pot used for processing & storing the material
मृउदु कोष्ठ (mṛudu koṣṭha) : A physiological type of Koṣṭha produced because of the dominance of Pitta. The individual with this type of Koṣṭha passes soft bowels and has good digestive ability.
मृगा (mṛgā) : Animal which grazes around in search of food.
मृजावर्जन (mṛjāvarjana) : Avoiding cleanliness of the body
मृत (mṛta) : Killed/ complete reduction of material / incinerated bhasma of metals & minerals
मृतसञ्जीवम् (mṛtasañjīvam) : Mṛta saṁjīvan is an ancient classical therapy through which the life of even an almost dead person can be regained. This therapy can be used to nullify the toxic effects of almost all the types of toxins.
मृत् इच्छा (mṛt icchā) : Fond of Mud
मृत्स्न (mṛtsna) : Soft, Sticky
मृदितै इव (mṛditai iva) : Pressing type of pain
मृदित्वं इव (mṛditvaṁ iva) : Pressing pain
मृदु (mṛdu) : Softness/mildness; One of the 20 gurvadi gunas. Caused due activated akash & jala; denotes physiological & pharmacological softness & mildness; causes relaxation; relieves burning sensation.
मृदु वीर्य (mṛdu vīrya) : Mild Potency
मृदुपाक (mṛdupāka) : Diminished digestive power
मृदुपाक (mṛdupāka) : Completion of the Process in early than the optimal stage
मृदुस्पर्श (mṛdusparśa) : Soft touch
मृद्यमान् इव (mṛdyamān iva) : Pressing type of pain
मेचकाभ (mecakābha) : Color of oily back or deep black color.
मेचकासन्निभं (mecakāsannibhaṁ) : Deep black color
मेढ्र (meḍhra) : Phallus or male genital organ, Penis, The male organ of copulation and of urination.
मेढ्रात् रक्तं (meḍhrāt raktaṁ) : Bleeding from penis
मेद धातु (meda dhātu) : The fourth Dhātu among seven Dhātus of the body, whose function is to provide Snehana. It is dominant of Jala and Pṛthvī Mahābhūtas. Designative of adipose tissue and other lipids in the body.
मेदःकल्पं रक्तं (medaḥkalpaṁ raktaṁ) : Blood with the color of fat
मेदुर इच्छा (medura icchā) : Desire to take fatty items
मेदोदक सन्निभं (medodaka sannibhaṁ) : Resembles the color of washings of fat
मेदोदकोपमं (medodakopamaṁ) : Resembles the color of washings of fat
मेद्य इच्छा (medya icchā) : Desire to take fatty items
मेधा (medhā) : that component of mental faculty which is responsible for grasping, understanding and retaining power
मेध्य (medhya) : the substance which promote intelligence
मैथुन असहत्व (maithuna asahatva) : Intolerance to intercourse
मैरेयक (maireyaka) : The finished product obtained by allowing for further fermentation/maturation after mixing the āsav and surā in equal proportions
मोक्ष (mokṣa) : Salvation
मोक्ष पुरीषम् (mokṣa purīṣam) : Loose motion
मोक्ष हनू (mokṣa hanū) : Dislocation of Jaw
मोदक (modaka) : A synonym of vaṭi with variation in the size a quantum of solid dose form – little bigger than the vaṭi
मोह (moha) : Disorientation, Because of the sharpness property of poison, it overwhelms the mind (produces disorientations) and tends to disintegrate the marmas (vital points).
मोह (moha) : Unconsciousness, during the first impulse, because of vitiation of rasa the patient suffers from unconsciousness.
मोह (moha) : Loss of consciousness, bewilderment, perplexity, distraction, infatuation, delusion
मोह (moha) : Infatuation leads to flections of psychic status and ends up in psychological disorder.
मोहः (mohaḥ) : confused state of mind that does not lead to correct perception
मोह हृदयं (moha hṛdayaṁ) : Bradycardia or weak heart beat
मोहन (mohana) : Loss of consciousness, Delusion, Distraction
मोहयति (mohayati) : produces stupidity
मौलं च दंष्ट्रजम् (maulaṁ ca daṁṣṭrajam) : Inanimate type of poison neutralizes the animate poison.
म्रियते श्वासेन् (mriyate śvāsen) : In the fourth impulse of animal poisoning the animal dies because of the failure of respiratory system.
म्लानता (mlānatā) : Languor, Lethargic, faded, flabby
म्लानम् (mlānam) : Wretchedness, pathetic
म्लानलिंगम् (mlānaliṁgam) : Loss of erection of penis
म्लायिनीलं दर्शनं (mlāyinīlaṁ darśanaṁ) : Yellowish blue circular patch appearance before eyes.
म्लायी दृष्टि मण्डल (mlāyī dṛṣṭi maṇḍala) : Bluish yellow pupil
यकृत् इव (yakṛt iva) : Resembling the color of liver
यकृत् खण्डतुल्य (yakṛt khaṇḍatulya) : Reddish black similar to Liver
यकृत् खण्डनिभ (yakṛt khaṇḍanibha) : Reddish black similar to Liver
यकृत् खण्डोपम (yakṛt khaṇḍopama) : Reddish black similar to Liver
यकृत्पिण्डसप्रभा (yakṛtpiṇḍasaprabhā) : Resembling the color of liver
यक्षकर्दम (yakṣakardama) : Five plants
यन्त्र (yantra) : Instrument; equipment; Machine
यमदंष्ट्र काल (yamadaṁṣṭra kāla) : A junction period of Kārtika māsa- ) Mārgaśīrașa-) has been designated as Yama daṁștrākāla
यमला छाया (yamalā chāyā) : Dual shadow
यव (yava) : Cereal- barely, 8 mustard seeds are equal to one yava
यवागु (yavāgu) : Gruel; it is type of congenial preparation of cereals, like rice, wheat, barley etc. Is of three types
यशः (yaśaḥ) : Success; Conducting to reputation
यानाशक्ति (yānāśakti) : Inability to walk.
यामम (yāmama) : A measure of time equivalent to 3 hours
युक्ति (yukti) : Wisdom/ skill
युक्ति (yukti) : Includes 1. Property of physician and pharmacist to formulate the medicine 2. tool of examination
युक्ति (yukti) : logical plan / tactics; pertains to the logic and plan of therapeutic action.
युक्तिकृत बल (yuktikṛta bala) : Artificial immunity
युक्तिव्यपाश्रय (yuktivyapāśraya) : substance given with proper logical reasoning and on the basis of certain underline principles
युतायुक्तवाक् (yutāyuktavāk) : Incoherent speech.
यूष (yūṣa) : Soup prepared with pulses. Is a semisolid preparation obtained by boiling any type of pulse, but not with rice. To prepare Yūșa, as a liquid , water/ Kwata/ Swarasa/ Hima/ Takra and Kalka of Ousadha Dravya’s are taken and processed by adding 16 times of water.
योगः (yogaḥ) : A state of meditation
योगः (yogaḥ) : Arrangement or orderly collection; arrangement of sentences by putting the different word and clauses in proper order so as to obtain the correct meaning.
योगः (yogaḥ) : Union with self - here all sensation ceases to exist but in mokśa cessation is complete. Yoga leads to mokśa.
योगवाहि (yogavāhi) : Catalyst; The one that accelerates the properties of others. An attribute of Vata. Drug vehicles; substances that when administered with/after the drug work in harmony with the drug to facilitate the purported action of the drug; e.g. Honey, Warm water, etc.
योनि (yoni) : Vagina
योनि (yoni) : source material
योनि (yoni) : Place of origin; Root cause of everything
रक्त (rakta) : The second Dhātu among seven Dhātus whose function is Jīvana (to give life). It is formed in Yakṛt (liver) and Plīhā (spleen) with the help of Raṅjaka Pitta and Rakta Dhātvagni. This is dominant in Agni mahābhūta. Is named so because of its Rakta i.e Red color.
रक्त वर्ग (rakta varga) : Group of following 7 plants
रक्तपुष्टि (raktapuṣṭi) : Nourishment of Rakta Dhātu.
रक्तमोक्षण (raktamokṣaṇa) : Bloodletting. It means the procedure of blood-letting for the therapeutic purposes for removing morbid Doṣa/ poisons with blood. Blood can be eliminated through scraping, application of horn or leech or venesection. It is practiced in poisoned blood and blood born diseases in pitta (billeous) predominant diseases and also in a few vāta (neurological) disorders.
रक्तवर्ण (raktavarṇa) : Color of blood, Red
रक्तवस्त्र इच्छा (raktavastra icchā) : Fond of red colored garment
रक्तसिराजालं (raktasirājālaṁ) : Network of reddish vessels
रक्ताभ (raktābha) : Reddish
रक्ताभं मूत्रं (raktābhaṁ mūtraṁ) : Urine with the color of blood
रक्षोघ्नं (rakṣoghnaṁ) : substances used to prevent infection
रङ्जक पित्त (raṅjaka pitta) : One of the five subtypes of Pitta that is situated in Yakṛt (liver) and Plīhā. This transforms Rasa into Rakta (blood).
रज (raja) : to be affected or moved
रजः (rajaḥ) : Synonym of curna- fine form of herbal powder- a solid doses forms used for therapeutics
रंजन (raṁjana) : To Color; To stain; Dying; electroplating
रजस् (rajas) : 1. One of the three qualities (sattva, Rajas and Tamas) or constituents of everything in creation. 2. Initiation, Mobility, Activity 3. The menstrual discharge of a woman. ; The quality of passion, one of the three ‘property’ of manas and conceived as the fundamental substratum of the universe.
रजो आवृतं इव (rajo āvṛtaṁ iva) : Sees objects covered by dust darśanaṁ
रतं (rataṁ) : Indulgent; Habituated
रतिः (ratiḥ) : Delight; Desire; Love; Name of the wife of Kamadeva- god of Love
रत्न (ratna) : Precious Stones
रत्न वर्ग (ratna varga) : Group of precious and precious stones
रथ्याचैलपरिधान (rathyācailaparidhāna) : Wearing rags from road sides.
रथ्यैक द्रुम सेवी (rathyaika druma sevī) : Habit of sitting under tree on roadways
रदित (radita) : A type of snake bite in which superficial puncture marks of snake fangs and the affected part being attended with reddish, bluish, whitish or yellowish lines or stripes and characterized by the presence of a very small quantity of venom in the punctured wound.
रमणीय (ramaṇīya) : delightful
रश्मिभि (raśmibhi) : Like rays-ply of colors/ fire
रस (rasa) : Taste; feeling perceived by Rasanendriya(Tongue) when the substance comes in contact with it; 6 in number; Each Rasa indicates the pattern of pharmacological activity of the substance;
रस (rasa) : Element mercury with atomic weight 200.6 symbol Hg
रस (rasa) : Refers to meat soup. Qualities of this are nutritive, provide satiety, aphrodisiac, improve vision and cure wound.
रस अग्राहिता (rasa agrāhitā) : loss of gustatory sensation
रस अज्ञानं (rasa ajñānaṁ) : Loss of gustatory sensation
रस अपरिज्ञानं (rasa aparijñānaṁ) : Loss of gustatory sensation
रस इच्छा (rasa icchā) : Fond of staying in solitude.
रस धातु (rasa dhātu) : The first Dhātu among seven Dhātus and is dominated by Jala. This is pumped out of Hṛdaya and continuously circulates all over the body to nourish other tissues. It is of 9 Anjalis in quantity. Vyāna and Samāna Vāyu help in its circulation. The major function of Rasa Dhātu is Prīṇana (nourishing).
रस नाश (rasa nāśa) : Loss of gustatory sensation
रस निन्दक् (rasa nindak) : Abusers/ persons with no faith in science related with mercury
रसकर्म (rasakarma) : Practical’s related to Iatrochemistry
रसक्रिया (rasakriyā) : a decoction is concentrated without addition of sweetening substances to reduce semi-solid substances over heat
रसज्ञ (rasajña) : Expert in the subject of Iatrochemistry
रसन (rasana) : sense organ of taste
रसना (rasanā) : Tongue. Gustatory apparatus. One of the five sense organs that perceives taste.
रसराज (rasarāja) : Mercury – one of the synonym of mercury
रसलिङ्ग (rasaliṅga) : Amalgamated mercury shaped like śiva linga for worship
रसविद्या (rasavidyā) : The science of transmutation/alchemy/ chemiagiri
रसायन (rasāyana) : The term Rasāyana comprises of two words I.e. Rasa and Ayana, Rasa signifies either Rasa Rakthadi Dhātus(tissues) of the body, Ayana convey the sense of Apyayana, which suggest a measure or methodology to saturate or enrich or conduct a special benefit to the body .Based on these principle, it has been said that one which capacity to enrich the Sapthadhātu of the body or the drugs possessing the qualities to saturate or replenish the Dhātu(tissues). Precisely stated as drug or food which has capacity to prevent ageing, improves longevity, provide immunity against the diseases, promote mental competence, increase vitality and luster of the body.
रसाल (rasāla) : Curd when mixed with sugar and spices such as pepper and churned. Is nutritive, aphrodisiac, unctuous, provides strength and is tasty.
रहस्कामता (rahaskāmatā) : Fond of staying in solitude.
रहस्य भाषाणं (rahasya bhāṣāṇaṁ) : Reveals even secrets.
राग (rāga) : Redness
राग (rāga) : Sweet sour sauce- is prepared by using the juice of Vѓkśāmla, Parușaka and jambu, added with little quantity of Mustard powder, sugar candy, Sauarcala and Saindhava lavana. Or soft drinks prepared with drvyas of Madhura, amla and lavaṇa rasa.
रागः (rāgaḥ) : attachment
राजहस्त (rājahasta) : Hand length of a king -Equals to 22 inches
राजिमत् (rājimat) : Appearance of lines of veins
राजिमत् पुरीषं (rājimat purīṣaṁ) : Stool with colored lines
राजिमान् (rājimān) : Rājimān (kraits variety of snakes) snakes with characteristic pattern of variegated color with spots and streak.
राजी (rājī) : Appearance of lines of veins
राजी अवनद्धं (rājī avanaddhaṁ) : Appearance of lines
राजी सन्ततं (rājī santataṁ) : Appearance of lines
रात्रिचर्या (rātricaryā) : Night regimen, regimens starting from dawn to night. It includes Dinner, Sleep and cohabitation.
राशि (rāśi) : Quantity; consists of Sarvagraha (total account), and Parigraha (individual account) which ascertain the results of the food taken in proper or improper quantity.
राशि (rāśi) : A unit of Measurement; Synonym of one droṇa=12.288kg/l of metric units
राशि पुरुष (rāśi puruṣa) : the concept about that body is made up of 24 constituents viz. 5 Mahā bhutas,the 5 organs of sense, 5 organs of action, 5 tanmatras, ayakta, Buddhi, ahamkara and Manas
रिक्तता सिरा (riktatā sirā) : Emptiness
रिरंसा (riraṁsā) : Excessive desire for sexual intercourse
रुक् अनुगतं पुरीषप्रवर्तनं (ruk anugataṁ purīṣapravartanaṁ) : Painfi; defecation
रुक्ष (rukṣa) : Dryness; one of the 20 gurvādi guṇa; caused due activated Vāyu mahābhūta; denotes physiological & pharmacological dryness; manifested by dryness of body parts, stoppage of flow in body channels; pacifies kapha, increases vāta.
रुक्षणं (rukṣaṇaṁ) : To cause dryness ; emaciation
रुक्षम् (rukṣam) : Dry parching, Poison aggravates the bodily vāyu in virtue of its parching quality.
रुक्षान्न् उपाचरेत (rukṣānn upācareta) : Dry food treatment- those who have more of food accumulation in their body, who are unctuous, those suffering from Madhumeha, who have more of kapha in body should be treated with dry food.
रुग्णत्व (rugṇatva) : Pain
रुचिः (ruciḥ) : Taste, Desire
रुचिकर (rucikara) : Stomachic, Excites desire; That which improves taste perception.
रुजा (rujā) : Pain
रुढी (ruḍhī) : Tradition; a basis for nomenclature of plants.
रुद्यते (rudyate) : Smelting
रुद्रभाग (rudrabhāga) : 11% Commission given by the pharmaceutical traders to physician- rudra are eleven in number
रुद्रांश (rudrāṁśa) : 1/11th portion of price of medicine
रुधिरगन्धं (rudhiragandhaṁ) : Smell of blood
रुधिरष्ठीव (rudhiraṣṭhīva) : Spitting of blood or haemoptysis
रुधिरान्वयं (rudhirānvayaṁ) : Mixed with blood
रूप (rūpa) : Form, figure, appearance of any visible object or thing.
रूपदर्शन असहत्व (rūpadarśana asahatva) : Intolerance to see the objects
रेखापूरण (rekhāpūraṇa) : Filling into papillary ridges of the fingers -One of the classical test for examining the bhasma indicating fineness
रेचनं (recanaṁ) : An act of emptying, lessening, exhausting. 2. Emission of breath, exhalation, Purging, Evacuation; substances that expels excreta by increasing its liquid content;
रेतस् (retas) : Semen
रोग (roga) : Discomfort; pain; Disease
रोगनुत् (roganut) : Substances that are primarily used for treating diseases;
रोचना (rocanā) : Insaspissated bile
रोचनाचूर्णवर्ण मूत्रं (rocanācūrṇavarṇa mūtraṁ) : Urine with the color of bezoar
रोचनाचूर्णसन्निभम् मूत्रम् (rocanācūrṇasannibham mūtram) : Urine with the color of bezoar
रोदन (rodana) : Crying
रोधः (rodhaḥ) : Obstruction, Suppression, Stiffness
रोधनं (rodhanaṁ) : Stiffness of pericardial region
रोधन् (rodhan) : A process of mercury by which the mercury is reactivated from its inert state by submerging in liquid media
रोपणं (ropaṇaṁ) : substances facilitating wound healing
रोम असंभव (roma asaṁbhava) : Absence of hair
रोम सदनम् (roma sadanam) : Falling of Hair
रोम संलुलनं (roma saṁlulanaṁ) : Wavering of the pubic hairs.
रोम संवेजनं (roma saṁvejanaṁ) : Horripilation.
रोमकूपेभ्य रक्तं (romakūpebhya raktaṁ) : Bleeding through hair follicles
रोमच्युति (romacyuti) : Falling of hair
रोमराजी (romarājī) : Appearance of hairy lines
रोमविध्वंसनं (romavidhvaṁsanaṁ) : Falling of hair
रोमशातनं (romaśātanaṁ) : substances causing fall of body hair
रोमहर्षः (romaharṣaḥ) : Horripilation
रोमाञ्च (romāñca) : Horripilation
रोषणं (roṣaṇaṁ) : Anger
रोषणं (roṣaṇaṁ) : Horripilaiton
रौक्ष्य (raukṣya) : Dryness
रौद्र चेष्टा (raudra ceṣṭā) : Terrifying activities.
रौद्रयंत्र (raudrayaṁtra) : Exposing of the material to scorching sun
लक्षणा (lakṣaṇā) : specific expression indicated by a word or phrase or sentence
लंघन (laṁghana) : Therapy which produces lightness of the body is called laṁghana.Reduction therapy consists of two parts Pallative and Purification. Laṁ ghana consist of 10 methods. The first 4 are types of purification process excluding blood letting. Remaining six are palliative therapy viz exposure to wind, exposure to sun, fasting, taking medicine / herbs to increase digestive function etc. This therapy is indicated in preventive and treating Kaphaja and Medo roga.
लंघन इच्छा (laṁghana icchā) : Desire to fasting
लघु (laghu) : Light/ lightness; one among 20 gurvadi gunas. opposite of guru guna; caused due to activated vayu, agni, akasha mahabhutas; denotes physiological & pharmacological lightness; manifested by lightness in the body, easy to digest, stimulates Agni, decreases all body tissues, pacifies kapha, aggravates Vata, heals wounds;
लघु पञ्चमूल (laghu pañcamūla) : Combination of Five roots obtained from small plants; Shalparni (Desmodium gangeticum), Prishnparni (Uraria picta), Brahti (Solanum indicum), Kantkari (Solanum surattense), Gokshura (Tribulus terrestris).
लज्जा (lajjā) : feeling of Shame
लता (latā) : plants with a weak stem; climbers/twinners/prostates/creepers
लम्बन (lambana) : Pendulous or drooping
लयन (layana) : Loss of consciousness, Delusion, Distraction
ललाटः (lalāṭaḥ) : Forehead
लवण (lavaṇa) : Salty; one of the six rasa.
लवण (lavaṇa) : Salt; e.g. common table salt, rock salt
लवणं (lavaṇaṁ) : Salt, Saline
लवण इच्छा (lavaṇa icchā) : Fond of salt
लवण यन्त्र (lavaṇa yantra) : Salt bath apparatus used in various processes for purpose of indirect heating
लवण रस (lavaṇa rasa) : Salty taste
लवण वर्ग (lavaṇa varga) : Class of different salts;
लवण स्कन्ध (lavaṇa skandha) : Class of different salts;
लसिका (lasikā) : 1. A watery component of the body, lymph, serum. 2. Mala of Rasa. 3. A site of Pitta.
लसिकावत् मूत्रं (lasikāvat mūtraṁ) : Urine resembles serous fluid
लाक्षारस (lākṣārasa) : a liquid preparation prepared of lakh by adding 6 times of water and processed in dolayantra
लाक्षारसोपमं आर्तव (lākṣārasopamaṁ ārtava) : Menstrual blood in the color of the juice of Lac
लाघव (lāghava) : Lightness
लाघवम् (lāghavam) : lightness
लाङ्गलकी (lāṅgalakī) : Gloriosa superba, a plant having poison in its root/rhizome.
लाज मण्ड (lāja maṇḍa) : A thin gruel prepared out Laja (parched rice) or roasted rice. Is a good appetizer and pacifies thirst and diarrheas.
लाजगन्धि (lājagandhi) : Smell is like fried paddy (corn)
लाजा (lājā) : Obtained by roasting undried and unhusked paddy. Is light and easily digestible. Cures thirst, vomiting, diarrhea, diabetes, obesity, cough and pitta.
लाञ्छन (lāñchana) : A mark or sign, one of the basis for naming plants.
लालन जिह्वा (lālana jihvā) : Shaking of tongue
लाला (lālā) : Saliva
लाला छर्दि (lālā chardi) : Vomiting of saliva
लाला स्त्रावीः (lālā strāvīḥ) : Excessive salivation, Symptom of a rabid dog.
लालातन्तुयुतंमुत्रं (lālātantuyutaṁmutraṁ) : Saliva like urine
लालास्रावः (lālāsrāvaḥ) : Salivation
लिङ्ग (liṅga) : Penis
लिङ्ग (liṅga) : a distinguishing mark or a feature, attribute, or trait; that’s points towards a co-relation
लिङ्ग शरीर (liṅga śarīra) : the subtle body
लिङ्गनाशः (liṅganāśaḥ) : Blurred vision
लिङ्गशैथिल्य (liṅgaśaithilya) : Loss of erection of penis
लिप्सा (lipsā) : Desire
लीयते (līyate) : Miscible
लील इच्छा (līla icchā) : Fond of playing
लुच्यते इव पार्श्व (lucyate iva pārśva) : Feeling of drooping of the flanks
लुप्तचित (luptacita) : Confusion or absence of mind
लुलित पक्ष्म (lulita pakṣma) : Wavering of eyelashes
लूता (lūtā) : Poisonous spiders which have poison in various sites in their body.
लूताविषं घोरतमं दुर्विज्ञेयतमं च तत् (lūtāviṣaṁ ghoratamaṁ durvijñeyatamaṁ ca tat) : Cases of venomous spider bite are the most difficult to diagnose and treat.
लेखनं गुद (lekhanaṁ guda) : Scrapping like feeling in anus
लेखनीय (lekhanīya) : Scrapping, Scratching, Substances that reduce excess body tissues.
लेपः (lepaḥ) : Coating
लेपः (lepaḥ) : This is a method of treatment in which medicines are used topically in the form of paste or ointment.
लेपः (lepaḥ) : a semi-solid medicament used for external application
लेपः (lepaḥ) : 1. Smearing, anointing, to spread over a surface. 2. The function of Māṃsa Dhātu, i.e., to provide covering/ coating to the skeleton.
लेप मुखस्य (lepa mukhasya) : Coating in the mouth
लेपन (lepana) : Anointing/application- here application of antiseptics, any other germicidal solution to vitiated land to maintain biologically hygiene.
लेहः (lehaḥ) : It means the preparation of the medicines topically in palatable form (in the form of linctus) given for licking.
लेहनं ओष्ठ (lehanaṁ oṣṭha) : Habit of licking lips
लोक (loka) : World or domain or universe
लोचनः (locanaḥ) : Eye
लोठन (loṭhana) : Nodding the head
लोभ (lobha) : Greed
लोम (loma) : Body hairs
लोमहर्षणम् (lomaharṣaṇam) : It is a symptom produced in animate type of poisoning which means raising of hairs.
लोलः (lolaḥ) : Desire or Fond of
लोलं (lolaṁ) : Unsteady activities
लोलता (lolatā) : Greediness
लोलनं (lolanaṁ) : Nodding the head.
लोहगन्ध (lohagandha) : Smell of metal
लोहित दर्शनं (lohita darśanaṁ) : Looks objects in blood color
लोहितगन्धी (lohitagandhī) : Smell of blood
लोहितम् (lohitam) : blood or synonym of blood
लोहितवर्ण (lohitavarṇa) : Smell of metal
लौकिक (laukika) : belonging to or occurring in ordinary world
लौकिक कर्म (laukika karma) : It refers to Worldly action. All activities like sitting, standing, sleeping, running, throwing etc comes under this.
लौल्यं (laulyaṁ) : Greediness
लौह (lauha) : 1.Element iron ferrum with chemical symbol Fe at At.no 26 2.Applied to all metals
लौहपाराया (lauhapārāyā) : used in grinding purpose
वंकनाल (vaṁkanāla) : an apparatus used to intensify the flame by blowing
वक्त्रम् (vaktram) : Mouth
वक्र (vakra) : Curved or Tortuous
वक्र गति (vakra gati) : Unsteady gait.
वक्र दर्शनं (vakra darśanaṁ) : Look objects in curved shape
वक्षः (vakṣaḥ) : Chest
वंग (vaṁga) : Element Tin- Stannum with chemical symbol Sn at At.no 50 - one of the member of low melting metals
वज्रं (vajraṁ) : Diamond.
वज्रसदृश (vajrasadṛśa) : Resembles diamond - a property of described Vaikrānt Tourmaline
वटक (vaṭaka) : Pills - one of the Dosage form with round solid masses/balls
वत्सनाभ (vatsanābha) : A Poisonous Root Aconitum ferox having an appearance similar to that of the navel of a calf.
वदनं (vadanaṁ) : Mouth
वनच्छनै (vanacchanai) : Dried cow dung cakes obtained from forest area
वनस्पति (vanaspati) : One among 4 categories of medicinal plants; big trees having fruits but having rudimentary or modified flowers like Ficus bengalanesis
वनस्पति (vanaspati) : Those plants/ trees having only fruits (without visible flowers) such as vata, udumbara.
वपुः (vapuḥ) : Body
वमथु (vamathu) : Vomiting
वमथु (vamathu) : Vomiting.
वमन (vamana) : Therapeutic emesis.
वमन द्रव्य (vamana dravya) : Emetics;
वमनोपग (vamanopaga) : Substances that facilitate emesis
वमिः (vamiḥ) : Vomiting
वय (vaya) : Age- it is defined as the state of body correspondence to length of time, broadly divided in 3 stages, childhood, adulthood and old age.
वयः स्थापन (vayaḥ sthāpana) : Substances which delay ageing process;
वयस् (vayas) : Age, any time or period of life
वरदायी (varadāyī) : Acting as giving boons
वर्चः (varcaḥ) : Stool
वर्ण (varṇa) : 1. Color 2. Complexion; an action attributed to Agni Mahābhūta
वर्णक्षय (varṇakṣaya) : Diminished color or complexion
वर्णनाश (varṇanāśa) : Diminished color or complexion
वर्णप्रणाश (varṇapraṇāśa) : Diminished color or complexion
वर्णभ्रंश (varṇabhraṁśa) : Diminished color or complexion
वर्णविकृति (varṇavikṛti) : Diminished color or complexion
वर्णविनाश (varṇavināśa) : Diminished color or complexion
वर्णसंकाश (varṇasaṁkāśa) : Diminished color or complexion
वर्णहानि (varṇahāni) : Diminished color or complexion
वर्णापघात (varṇāpaghāta) : Diminished color or complexion
वर्णोपताप (varṇopatāpa) : Diminished color or complexion
वर्ण्य (varṇya) : Complexion promoters
वर्ति (varti) : Wick like project
वर्ति (varti) : Synonym of vaṭi-pill with change in shape- worm like
वर्तिमध्यम् (vartimadhyam) : Holding the wick in the middle should be ignited; a method of preparing Liquefied Sulphur (Gaṅdhaka druti)
वर्तिवतस्नेहकल्क (vartivatasnehakalka) : Formation of wick on rolling between fingers – a classical test indicating the completion of preparation of medicated oil/ghee
वर्तुल (vartula) : A property of material
वर्त्म (vartma) : Eyelid
वर्त्मसङ्कोच (vartmasaṅkoca) : Eyelids remain closed
वलयं (valayaṁ) : Ring like appearance
वलि (vali) : Wrinkles
वलिनाश (valināśa) : Absence of wrinkles
वल्कल वस्त्र (valkala vastra) : Cloth made out of bark of tree. It pacifies vata ,
वल्मीक (valmīka) : Ant hill or termatorium.
वल्मीकशिखराकारं (valmīkaśikharākāraṁ) : appears like Peaks of Hillock - a type etc. of clay used for different processes like shodhana
वल्ल (valla) : Indicating measure equivalent to dose of metric units 190,250,375 mg (1.5,2 & 3 guṅjā)
वल्ली (vallī) : Climbers; weak stemmed plants; A synonym of latā
वंशी (vaṁśī) : The dust particle visible in the rays of sun
वशीः (vaśīḥ) : One of the attributes and also synonym of the ātma (soul)
वसा (Vasā) : The upadhātu of Māṃsa Dhātu. The unctuous portion of pure Māṃsa;
वसागन्ध (vasāgandha) : Smell of fat
वसातुल्यं (vasātulyaṁ) : Resemblance of fat
वसामिश्रं (vasāmiśraṁ) : Mixed with fat
वसोपमं (vasopamaṁ) : Resemblance of fat
वस्त्र (vastra) : Clothes.
वस्त्रगालित (vastragālita) : Screening / filtering / straining through cloth
वस्त्रनिष्पीडन (vastraniṣpīḍana) : Squeezing through cloth/flannel
वस्त्रबद्ध (vastrabaddha) : It is a process generally used to segregate the material in bundles
वह्नि (vahni) : Digestive power
वह्नि सुदुर्बलः (vahni sudurbalaḥ) : Lack of digestive power
वह्निसंतप्तम् (vahnisaṁtaptam) : Making red hot over fire
वाक् ग्रहः (vāk grahaḥ) : Restricted speech
वाक् निग्रहः (vāk nigrahaḥ) : Restricted speech
वाक् भङ्गः (vāk bhaṅgaḥ) : Restricted speech
वाक् सङ्गः (vāk saṅgaḥ) : Restricted speech.
वाक् स्तम्भः (vāk stambhaḥ) : Restricted speech.
वाक्यदोषः (vākyadoṣaḥ) : syntactical defects
वाक्यप्रशंसा (vākyapraśaṁsā) : syntactical excellence
वाक्यशेषः (vākyaśeṣaḥ) : Supply of ellipsis; such statements wherein some word or words are found missing, which has to be supplied or supplemented appropriately to get the exact meaning of a sentence in that context.
वाचं निगृह्णाति (vācaṁ nigṛhṇāti) : impedes speech
वाट्य (vāṭya) : Porridge- prepared with fried barley
वाट्य मण्ड (vāṭya maṇḍa) : Is a gruel prepared out of 1 part of coarse powder of roasted Yava (barley) and 14 parts of water.
वात असहत्व (vāta asahatva) : Irritation towards wind.
वात कोपन (vāta kopana) : substances that vitiates Vata Doṣa
वात द्वेष (vāta dveṣa) : Aversion to wind
वात प्रस्रवण (vāta prasravaṇa) : Excessive passing of flatus
वात संशमन (vāta saṁśamana) : substances that pacify vitiated Vata Doṣa
वातपूर्णता (vātapūrṇatā) : Filled with gas
वातपूर्णदृतिस्पर्श (vātapūrṇadṛtisparśa) : Looks as balloon filled with air
वादः (vādaḥ) : debate ; argument in a hostile spirit of challenge with the aid of authoritative knowledge .
वादित्रसंप्रयोग अस्थाने (vāditrasaṁprayoga asthāne) : Playing musical instrument at inappropriate occasion.
वाधनं (vādhanaṁ) : substances having immediate adverse effects for short duration
वानस्पत्य (vānaspatya) : One among 4 categories of medicinal plants; big trees having both fruits and flowers; e.g.
वापि (vāpi) : step well water- which is well constructed with masonry works, which has stairs to descent inside and fetch the water. also called as Pacca well. Is sweet in taste and light for digestion.
वायव्यं द्रव्य (vāyavyaṁ dravya) : substances having vayu as the predominant mahābhūta;
वायु (vāyu) : A synonym of Vāta, one of the three bodily Doṣas, that is predominant of Vāyu and Ākāśa Mahābhūtas. This is a vital biological force that performs the fuctions like all sensory perceptions, all motor activities, and higher mental activities. This is of five subtypes
वायुकोप (vāyukopa) : Excessive passing of flatus
वायुसञ्चार (vāyusañcāra) : Excessive passing of flatus
वाराह मेद सदृशं (vārāha meda sadṛśaṁ) : Resembles the fat of the pig
वाराह स्नेह सदृशं (vārāha sneha sadṛśaṁ) : resembles the fat of the pig
वारितर (vāritara) : One of the classical test for examining the bhasma-when pinch of bhasma is sprinkled over constant water , it floats indicating lightness compared to water
वारिपूर्ण नेत्र (vāripūrṇa netra) : Lacrimation
वारिबिन्दुकल्प अक्षि (vāribindukalpa akṣi) : Water drop like projection in eye.
वारिविप्रहताः (vāriviprahatāḥ) : Bettered by flowing water.
वारुणि (vāruṇi) : It is the fermented liquid obtained from the palm trees like dates – familiarly known as tāḍi, nīra
वाष्प अक्षि (vāṣpa akṣi) : Lacrimation
वासन (vāsana) : Infusing
वासना (vāsanā) : Perfuming/ fragrance/storing- one of the processes to impart some qualities
वाहि (vāhi) : A unit of Measurement; Synonym of droṇi=49.152 kg/l of metric units
विकम्पन (vikampana) : tremor
विकरण (vikaraṇa) : derangement , because of subtle property of poison it penetrates into and deranges the minutest capillaries.
विकर्ण नासिकं (vikarṇa nāsikaṁ) : One whose ear and nose are cut.
विकर्तन (vikartana) : Cutting pain
विकर्तिका (vikartikā) : Cutting pain
विकर्षिणः (vikarṣiṇaḥ) : Sucking pain
विकल्प (vikalpa) : Proportional variation there are many kinds of preprations.
विकल्पनम् (vikalpanam) : Option; statement which do not fix a rule rigidly but give option for a suitable variant
विकल्पसामर्थ्य (vikalpasāmarthya) : Having potential for various formulations; one of the specific character of dravya
विकारः (vikāraḥ) : it signifies 1. derivatives 2. ailments
विकासरोध मणेः (vikāsarodha maṇeḥ) : Phymosis
विकासी (vikāsī) : Property of a substance by virtue of which it gets distributed all over the body without passing through routine digestive process and causes depletion of ojas & displaces tissues from their physiological places
विकिरण मूत्रं (vikiraṇa mūtraṁ) : Frequent micturation.
विकूजनम् (vikūjanam) : Voice resembles the sound of pigeon or indistinct sound
विकूणनं (vikūṇanaṁ) : Contraction of the eye
विकृत अक्षि (vikṛta akṣi) : Abnormal, Deformed
विकृत इव दर्शनं (vikṛta iva darśanaṁ) : Sees obejcts in deformed size
विकृत उदक (vikṛta udaka) : Vitiated water-water should be known as devoid of merits when it is excessively deranged in respect of smell, color, taste,& touches too slimy, deserted by aquatic bird-animals are reduced & is unpleasing.
विकृत काल (vikṛta kāla) : Unwholesome time-if it is having contrary, excess, deficient to those of the seasons.
विकृत वायु (vikṛta vāyu) : Air that known to cause illness such as not in accordance with the season excessively moist, speedy, harsh, cold, hot excessively clashing with each other, affected with unsuitable smell, vapor, gravel, dust & smoke
विकृतदेश (vikṛtadeśa) : Unwholesome place-it contains excessive moisture , is troubled by reptiles, mosquitoes, flies, rats. Vultures, jackals etc. with dried & damaged crops, smoky winds crying birds & dogs, with natural calamities like flood ,earthquakes etc.
विकृतयन्ति (vikṛtayanti) : Destroys/ damages/ deforms - a property of Vaikrānta
विकोथः (vikothaḥ) : Putrefaction
विक्रान्त मुखं (vikrānta mukhaṁ) : Awkward face
विक्रिया सन्धि (vikriyā sandhi) : Depressed joint
विक्रोचनम् (vikrocanam) : Contraction
विक्रोशनं (vikrośanaṁ) : Crying
विक्लेद (vikleda) : Wet
विक्षेपण (vikṣepaṇa) : Abnormal movement
विक्षेपाः (vikṣepāḥ) : Seizures; Irregular movement or sudden spasm
विगतलक्ष्मीः (vigatalakṣmīḥ) : loss of lustier.
विग्रथितं (vigrathitaṁ) : Nodular
विघातं (vighātaṁ) : Loss of motor function
विचार (vicāra) : morbidity; caused due to substance with Vayu mahābhūta predominance.
विचित्र वस्त्र (vicitra vastra) : Alleviates kapha & vayu Doṣa
विचित्ररुप दर्शनं (vicitrarupa darśanaṁ) : Seeing objects in multi color.
विचेतः (vicetaḥ) : Loss of consciousness.
विचेतनं (vicetanaṁ) : Loss of tactile sensation
विचेष्टन (viceṣṭana) : Presence of abnormal actions of body.
विच्छिन्नं आर्तव (vicchinnaṁ ārtava) : Hesitant Menstrution
विच्छिन्नं कफं (vicchinnaṁ kaphaṁ) : Splitted sputum
विच्छिन्नं छर्दि (vicchinnaṁ chardi) : Intermittent vomiting
विच्छिन्नं श्वास (vicchinnaṁ śvāsa) : Shattered breathing.
विच्छिन्नधारं मूत्रं (vicchinnadhāraṁ mūtraṁ) : Hesitant micturation
विजिहाक्षि (vijihākṣi) : Disorted eye
विजिह्म भ्रू (vijihma bhrū) : Tortuous eyebrow
विजिह्मा (vijihmā) : Twisted or Curved
विजृम्भणं (vijṛmbhaṇaṁ) : Yawning
विजृम्भिका (vijṛmbhikā) : Yawning
विज्जलं पुरीषं (vijjalaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Slimy or lubricious stool.
विज्ञान (vijñāna) : The act of distinguishing or discerning; a systematic and perfect knowledge
विटप (viṭapa) : plant
विटसगन्ध (viṭasagandha) : Smell of stool
विट् छर्दि (viṭ chardi) : Vomitting with stool
विट् जलं पुरीषं (viṭ jalaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Watery stool
विट् मार्गः (viṭ mārgaḥ) : Rectum
विट्गन्ध (viṭgandha) : Smell of stool
विट्गन्धं मूत्रं (viṭgandhaṁ mūtraṁ) : Urine with the smell of Stool
विट्वर्जितं पुरीषं (viṭvarjitaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Watery stool
विट्संसृष्टं मूत्रं (viṭsaṁsṛṣṭaṁ mūtraṁ) : Urine mixed with stool
विड (viḍa) : a mixture of materials like kśāra. Amla. Gandhaka, lavaṇa etc along with group of urine mūtra used to hasten the process of jāraṇa - digestion, also act as appetizer
विड लवण (viḍa lavaṇa) : red granular salt
विडालपदक (viḍālapadaka) : A unit of Measurement; Synonym of one karșa=12g of metric units
विण/विद (viṇa/vida) : excreta of animal
वितण्डा (vitaṇḍā) : Talk in which one cant establish his own view
वित्रस्तं अक्षि (vitrastaṁ akṣi) : Frightened eye
वित्रासन (vitrāsana) : Terrorizing
विदग्ध (vidagdha) : Partially transformed/ partially digested
विदग्धं रक्तं (vidagdhaṁ raktaṁ) : Decomposed Menstrual blood
विदग्धे अन्ने छर्दि (vidagdhe anne chardi) : Vomitting while digesting
विदग्धोपमं आर्तव (vidagdhopamaṁ ārtava) : Decomposed Menstrual blood
विदारण (vidāraṇa) : Cracks
विदाह (vidāha) : Internal burning sensation.
विदाहि (vidāhi) : substances that produces burning sensation
विदीर्ण दृष्टिमण्डल (vidīrṇa dṛṣṭimaṇḍala) : Splitted pupil
विदुत दर्शनं (viduta darśanaṁ) : Sees lightening before eyes.
विद्ध (viddha) : sting/arrow poison
विद्धम् (viddham) : Unwholesome in rules of eating- taking meals in public, ugly places, in burial ground etc.
विद्या (vidyā) : Knowledge, learning, science
विद्याधर यन्त्र (vidyādhara yantra) : An apparatus used to extract mercury from cinnabar etc.
विद्रधि (vidradhi) : Abcess
विद्रुमसन्निभ (vidrumasannibha) : Color of coral red.
विद्वेष (vidveṣa) : Aversion
विधानम् (vidhānam) : Right interpretation; statements for proper arrangement of subject, views etc. in an orderly manner
विधारण अशक्ति अधोवायु (vidhāraṇa aśakti adhovāyu) : Inability to bear urge of defecation
विधारण अशक्ति मूत्रं (vidhāraṇa aśakti mūtraṁ) : Inability to bear urge of micturation
विधावन (vidhāvana) : Fleeing
विधिः (vidhiḥ) : A mandatory injunction prescribed in Text
विधूपन नासिका (vidhūpana nāsikā) : Smoky sensation
विध्वंसनं रोम (vidhvaṁsanaṁ roma) : Falling of hair
विनग्न भाव (vinagna bhāva) : Nudity or exhibitionism
विनद्य पुरीषप्रवर्तनं (vinadya purīṣapravartanaṁ) : Defecation with excessive bending
विनम्य पुरीषप्रवर्तनं (vinamya purīṣapravartanaṁ) : Defecation with excessive bending
विनम्य मूत्रं (vinamya mūtraṁ) : Micturation with excessive bending
विनय (vinaya) : modesty or decency
विनष्ट वाक् (vinaṣṭa vāk) : Dumbness
विनष्टमम्लताजातं (vinaṣṭamamlatājātaṁ) : The liquid attaining acidity by losing its sweetness
विनाम (vināma) : Bending of the body
विनाशः (vināśaḥ) : demolition or dying out
विनिग्रहः (vinigrahaḥ) : Retention
विनिद्रा (vinidrā) : Sleeplessness
विनिष्ट वाक् (viniṣṭa vāk) : Dumbness
विनिष्ठनन् (viniṣṭhanan) : Defecation with burning and gripping pain
विनिष्ठीवन (viniṣṭhīvana) : Spitting
विपरीतं (viparītaṁ) : Antagonistic
विपर्ययः (viparyayaḥ) : when exceptionary example is given in an already existed exception
विपर्ययः (viparyayaḥ) : Reverse action
विपर्ययबुद्धिः (viparyayabuddhiḥ) : Perverted intelligence
विपश्यन् (vipaśyan) : Looking in all direction
विपाक (vipāka) : principle that indicates the pharmacological behavior of a substance post digestion & metabolism; expressed in terms of rasa; 3 in number - Madhura, Amla & Kaṭu; it is ascertained based upon the action of the substance.
विपूयकः (vipūyakaḥ) : Bed smell
विप्रद्वेष (vipradveṣa) : Aversion to Brahmins
विप्रलाप (vipralāpa) : Incoherent speech
विप्लुत अक्षि (vipluta akṣi) : Unstable eye ball.
विप्लुतं इव दर्शनं (viplutaṁ iva darśanaṁ) : Perverted sight
विप्लुतं विस्फोटितं अस्थि (viplutaṁ visphoṭitaṁ asthi) : Multiple cracks on bone
विबद्धं (vibaddhaṁ) : Obstructed
विबद्ध मुक्तं अनियत पुरीषप्रवर्तनं (vibaddha muktaṁ aniyata purīṣapravartanaṁ) : Dry or loose defecation irregularly.
विबद्ध मुक्तं अन्तरान्तरा पुरीषप्रवर्तनं (vibaddha muktaṁ antarāntarā purīṣapravartanaṁ) : Dry or loose defecation irregularly.
विबद्ध मुक्तं पुरीषप्रवर्तनं (vibaddha muktaṁ purīṣapravartanaṁ) : Dry or loose defecation irregularly.
विबद्धसंबद्ध मुखं (vibaddhasaṁbaddha mukhaṁ) : Mouth filled with mucus
विबन्धं (vibandhaṁ) : Obstructed
विबन्ध अधोवायु (vibandha adhovāyu) : Retention of flatus
विबन्धं इन्द्रिय (vibandhaṁ indriya) : Weakness of sense organs
विबन्धं उरसः (vibandhaṁ urasaḥ) : Feeling of stiffness in chest
विबन्ध हृदयं (vibandha hṛdayaṁ) : Feeling of stiffness of pericardial region
विभञ्जनं (vibhañjanaṁ) : Breaking pain
विभत्सत्वं (vibhatsatvaṁ) : Fierce appearance
विभाग (vibhāga) : Division or partial withdraw
विभाग (vibhāga) : dissociation; one among 10 parādi gunas.
विभिन्नेन इव (vibhinnena iva) : Breaking pain
विभु (vibhu) : Being everywhere, all pervading, omnipresent. An attribute of ātma.
विभ्रमं (vibhramaṁ) : Preverted, Perplexed
विभ्रंश (vibhraṁśa) : Derangement
विभ्रान्त चेतः (vibhrānta cetaḥ) : perplexed mind
विभ्रान्त दर्शनं (vibhrānta darśanaṁ) : Perplexed sight
विभ्रान्ताक्षः (vibhrāntākṣaḥ) : Frantic eye
विमल (vimala) : Stainless, spotless, clean, bright, pure, clear, transparent – in the contest of water refers to water which is free from all physical and chemical impurities like Clay, mud, turbidity, carbonate and non carbonate salts etc.
विमार्ग (vimārga) : An abnormal path
विमुक्त (vimukta) : Loose
विमुंचति (vimuṁcati) : Disassociates/ releases
विमोह (vimoha) : Impairment of orientation
विमोह पक्ष्म (vimoha pakṣma) : Falling of eyelashes
विम्लापनं (vimlāpanaṁ) : mutiliation of swelling by massage
वियतः (viyataḥ) : Ether
विरमितशब्द (viramitaśabda) : Subsiding of sound on placing the material over fire- one of the test indicating the completion of medicated oil/ghee preparation
विरसं (virasaṁ) : Distaste
विरसास्यता (virasāsyatā) : Distaste in mouth.
विरुद्ध आअहार (viruddha āahāra) : The food, drinks, & medicine, which does the dislodgement of Dośa from its site I.e. Dośatlkesa, but does not expel it out and which acts contradictory to the body tissues. They do not help in the nourishment of Dhātu and in due course produce many diseases/incompatible food. Food which are antagonist to body and Dhātu are called as Viruddha.
विरुप अक्षि (virupa akṣi) : Deformed or Abnormal eye
विरेक (vireka) : therapeutic purgation.
विरेक वैषम्यं (vireka vaiṣamyaṁ) : Retention of urine or stool
विरेचन द्रव्य (virecana dravya) : substances inducing purgation;
विरेचनोपग (virecanopaga) : adjuvant of purgation; D97substances used to facilitate purgation
विरोचनं (virocanaṁ) : Excessive defecation
विरोदन (virodana) : Crying
विरोध (virodha) : Suppression, Obstruction
विलाप (vilāpa) : Lament; Utters moaning sounds
विलूनपक्ष (vilūnapakṣa) : Bird with wings cut off.
विलेखनं आत्मानं (vilekhanaṁ ātmānaṁ) : Scratches on his own body
विलेखनं परितः (vilekhanaṁ paritaḥ) : Scratches his own body as well as that of the nurse. svādhātryaṅga akasmāt
विलेप (vilepa) : Anointing
विलेपनं इच्छा (vilepanaṁ icchā) : Fond of applying unguent
विलेपी (vilepī) : A rice gruel preparation differing in consistency with Peya. It is more solid than Peya. To prepare Vilepi, 4 parts of water and 1 part of broken rice are taken and boiled till rice is soft.
विलोचनः (vilocanaḥ) : Eye
विलोम अधोवायु (viloma adhovāyu) : Retention of flatus
विवर्णत्वं (vivarṇatvaṁ) : Discoloration
विवर्त ओष्ठ (vivarta oṣṭha) : Twisted lip
विवर्तवाद (vivartavāda) : the ideology of the Vedānt philosophy which believes that Brahma is only truth and others in the world are false
विविक्त इच्छा (vivikta icchā) : Fond of staying in solitude
विवृतः (vivṛtaḥ) : expanded or opened
विवृत अक्षि (vivṛta akṣi) : Widely opened eye.
विवृतं कृच्छ्रेण मुखं (vivṛtaṁ kṛcchreṇa mukhaṁ) : Mouth opens with difficulty
विवृतता मुखं (vivṛtatā mukhaṁ) : Opened mouth
विवृत्ति मुखं (vivṛtti mukhaṁ) : Whirling of mouth
विवेकः (vivekaḥ) : Discrimination
विवेचन (vivecana) : Discriminating , distinguishing, analyzing, and dividing.
विव्रीयते मुहु नासिका (vivrīyate muhu nāsikā) : Frequent widening of nose.
विशद (viśada) : Non adhesiveness.
विशदम् (viśadam) : Clear; Transparent, Lucid; one of the 20 gurvadi gunas; caused due activated akash & pṛthvī; denotes physiological & pharmacological clarity and transparency; clears channels. An attribute of Vata.
विशर्धित (viśardhita) : flatus
विशीर्ण (viśīrṇa) : Decaying
विशीर्णं इव दर्शनं (viśīrṇaṁ iva darśanaṁ) : Sees things as broad
विशीर्णं कूर्चकः (viśīrṇaṁ kūrcakaḥ) : Falling down or teeth enamel
विशीर्ण रोम (viśīrṇa roma) : Falling of hair
विशीर्ण वाक् (viśīrṇa vāk) : Withering speech
विशीर्णबन्धन दन्त (viśīrṇabandhana danta) : Looseness of teeth
विशीर्णमांसं (viśīrṇamāṁsaṁ) : Putrefaction of flesh
विशीर्णाधारं मूत्रं (viśīrṇādhāraṁ mūtraṁ) : Fluent less micturation
विशुद्धं छर्दि (viśuddhaṁ chardi) : Whitish vomit
विशुष्कभाव अक्षि (viśuṣkabhāva akṣi) : Absence of mucus in eye
विशेष (viśeṣa) : Specialty; Dissimilarity; opposite of sāmanya; denotes dissimilarity between two substances, properties or actions; one of the fundamental concepts in āyurvedic pharmacology that states that substances can potentially lead to a decrease or negative impact in the dissimilar substances or attributes in the living system, when engaged in an effective interaction.
विश्लिष्टिं उरः (viśliṣṭiṁ uraḥ) : Depression of chest
विश्लेषं (viśleṣaṁ) : Dislocation, Flabbiness
विश्लेष जानु (viśleṣa jānu) : Splitting pain in knee
विषं (viṣaṁ) : Poison
विष अधिष्ठान (viṣa adhiṣṭhāna) : poisonous part/ source of inanimate poison.
विष आश्रयस्थान (viṣa āśrayasthāna) : part containing poison in animals
विष दूषित तृण (viṣa dūṣita tṛṇa) : Poisoned grass.
विषकन्या (viṣakanyā) : A girl/woman made poisonous by administering small amount of poison to her, right from birth becomes poisonous.
विषघातियोग (viṣaghātiyoga) : Antitoxic medication.
विषघ्न (viṣaghna) : Antitoxic medication.
विषघ्न (viṣaghna) : General & Specific Antidotes;
विषघ्नम् (viṣaghnam) : antidote for poison (antitoxic).
विषघ्नैर्गदैः स्पृष्टम् (viṣaghnairgadaiḥ spṛṣṭam) : (The food) detoxified by antitoxic medication.
विषदाता (viṣadātā) : poisoner.
विषदूषितं क्षितिप्रदेशं (viṣadūṣitaṁ kṣitipradeśaṁ) : Land affected by poison which causes swelling and burning sensation in those parts of body which comes in contact with it and nails and hair tend to fall off due to its effect.
विषपीतं (viṣapītaṁ) : Person who had ingested poison.
विषम दृष्टिमण्डल (viṣama dṛṣṭimaṇḍala) : Irregular pupil
विषमविनता अङ्गुलि (viṣamavinatā aṅguli) : Irregular bending of fingers
विषमाग्नि (viṣamāgni) : The state in which the action of Agni is rendered erratic (either excessive or decreased, variable from time to time) due to the dominant influence of Vata.
विषमाशन (viṣamāśana) : Food takes untimely which is quantitatively either excess / low.
विषमासन (viṣamāsana) : Unequal proportion
विषयेष्वसक्त (viṣayeṣvasakta) : Unattached to sexual pleasure
विषवर्ग (viṣavarga) : Class of poisons
विषवीर्य (viṣavīrya) : Power of poison.
विषवेगः (viṣavegaḥ) : Impulse (attacks) of poison, a poison produces 7 attacks in human, 4 in animals, 3 in bird. Impuse occur when poison cross one compartment/ membrane (kalā) to invade the next.
विषसंकटं (viṣasaṁkaṭaṁ) : catastrophic stage of poisoning, a combination of factors like bodily constitution, season, food, vitiated body elements which on being present simultaneously produce fulminating symptoms in the victim.
विषसद्भाव (viṣasadbhāva) : presence of toxicity.
विषसूदन (viṣasūdana) : Antitoxic
विषहतम् (viṣahatam) : death due to poisoning.
विषाद (viṣāda) : Dejection; Depression
विषाधानं (viṣādhānaṁ) : Vehicle of poison, blood is a vehicle for poison through which it circulates readily throughout the body producing fatal symptoms in the body.
विषान्वय (viṣānvaya) : Potentially poisonous contamination.
विषाप्रद (viṣāprada) : poisoner.
विषोपद्रव (viṣopadrava) : Complications/secondary diseases due to poisoning.
विषोपसर्ग (viṣopasarga) : Poisoning.
विष्किर (viṣkira) : Gallinaceous- those animals and birds which disperse food before taking; Includes birds which scratch the earth in search of food. Exp- the watail, wild fowl, snake bird, lapwing, peacock etc.
विष्किर शकुनि वसा (viṣkira śakuni vasā) : gallinaceous bird fat
विष्टम्भ (viṣṭambha) : Fullness of abdomen due to constipation
विष्टम्भ अधोवायु (viṣṭambha adhovāyu) : Retention of flatus
विष्टम्भ पुरीषप्रवर्तनं (viṣṭambha purīṣapravartanaṁ) : Retention of stool
विष्ठब्धं अक्षि (viṣṭhabdhaṁ akṣi) : Stiffness of eye
विष्पष्टं इव आभाति अक्षि (viṣpaṣṭaṁ iva ābhāti akṣi) : Bright looking eye
विष्यन्द (viṣyanda) : liquefaction; caused due to Jala mahābhūta predominance.
विसंज्ञकल्पः (visaṁjñakalpaḥ) : Loss of consciousness.
विसंज्ञता (visaṁjñatā) : Loss of consciousness
विसंज्ञा (visaṁjñā) : Loss of consciousness.
विसर्ग (visarga) : Period of liberation
विसर्गः (visargaḥ) : suns act of hydration bestows strength to the living organisms
विसंहत हनु (visaṁhata hanu) : Dislocation of Jaw
विस्फोट (visphoṭa) : Blister
विस्मरण (vismaraṇa) : Forgetting
विस्मापन (vismāpana) : Creating surprise
विस्र (visra) : A smell like that of raw meat, smell like blood. An attribute of Pitta.
विस्रं (visraṁ) : Smell of live fish
विस्रगन्ध (visragandha) : Smell of live fish
विहङ्गगन्ध (vihaṅgagandha) : Smell of birds
विहतरसत्वं (vihatarasatvaṁ) : Distaste
विहारपर (vihārapara) : Unsteady activities
विह्वल (vihvala) : Agitated
विह्वल दर्शनं (vihvala darśanaṁ) : Perturbed vision
वीक्षण असहत्व (vīkṣaṇa asahatva) : Intolerance to see the objects
वीतमांसं नख (vītamāṁsaṁ nakha) : Nail with less flesh
वीतशोणितं नख (vītaśoṇitaṁ nakha) : Nail with less blood
वीती भाव (vītī bhāva) : Emaciation, Wasting
वीभत्स चेष्टा (vībhatsa ceṣṭā) : Bizzare activities
वीरुध (vīrudha) : plants having weak stem; creepers, climbers, prostate, etc; one of the 4 categories of medicine plants.
वीर्य (vīrya) : 1. The principle responsible for the therapeutic action of the substance; may be compared with the fraction of a substance containing the active principles; it is ascertained either by contact or duration of its stay in the body. 2. One of the basis of nomenclature of plants.
वीर्य (vīrya) : 1. Strength, power, energy, efficacy 2. Semen.
वीर्य विरुद्ध (vīrya viruddha) : Potency Unwholesome- taking diet and drugs having cold potency in combination with those of hot potency.
वीर्यविरुद्ध अश्नियात (vīryaviruddha aśniyāta) : Non- antagonistic food. food doesn’t have two component of different VIRYA.
वृइथि (vṛithi) : It means round, circular, continued, routine works , daily regimen, regimen which is practised and adopted daily which may or may not responsible for good health.
वृक्षः (vṛkṣaḥ) : tree
वृत्तायत्तम (vṛttāyattama) : property of gems
वृत्तिः (vṛttiḥ) : path to be adopted. One should adopt only such of the means of livelihood as do not clash with virtuous path.
वृद्धि (vṛddhi) : Growth, Increase; gain; a state of gain of anybody constituent resulting in a positive balance.
वृद्धि (vṛddhi) : A state of abnormal growth
वृन्ताक मूषा (vṛntāka mūṣā) : Crucible with stem - a kind of crucible resembling brinjal -generally used in extraction of zinc from its ore.
वृषणः (vṛṣaṇaḥ) : Scrotum
वृषता (vṛṣatā) : Virility, generative power, ability to reproduce.
वॄत्त (vṝtta) : Rounded
वॄत्तिकर (vṝttikara) : life sustaining
वॄश्चनं (vṝścanaṁ) : Cutting pain
वॄश्चिका (vṝścikā) : scorpions.
वॄष्यं (vṝṣyaṁ) : Eugenics; aphrodisiacs; substances that enhance the sexual power like that of bull
वेग (vega) : Derived from Vij- to agitate, to make quickly. The Vega word means in the medical context, natural urges (for elimination), reflex, and excitement. Usually, however it is taken in the sense of natural urges of the body, which call for urgent satisfaction. in Ayurvedic parlance denotes natural reflexes or urges. They are of two types Dharaniya (Suppressible urges) such as Greed, Anger etc and Adhāraṇīya (non suppressible urges) such as Sneezing, Sleep etc.
वेग अप्रादुर्भाव (vega aprādurbhāva) : Deprived of reflex
वेगवत् (vegavat) : Sudden
वेगस्रावी (vegasrāvī) : Sudden bleeding.
वेगान्तर (vegāntara) : Interval between two attacks (impulses) of poison.
वेदनं श्वास (vedanaṁ śvāsa) : Breathing with pain
वेदना स्थापन (vedanā sthāpana) : Analgesics
वेपथु (vepathu) : Tremors
वेपन (vepana) : Tremors
वेशवार (veśavāra) : Meat which is devoid of any bone is cooked, ground along with spices such as pepper, garlic etc and ghee. This mixture is made into flattened balls and cooked in steam. Resembles present day cutlet in many respect.
वेशवाराभं (veśavārābhaṁ) : Stool resembles the veśavāra condiment
वेश्मनः विभूषा (veśmanaḥ vibhūṣā) : Decoration of palace.
वेश्वार (veśvāra) : soup prepared with boneless meat by adding sufficient water and seasoning with 3 pungent, ghee & jiggery
वेष्टन (veṣṭana) : Cramps in body
वेष्टन (veṣṭana) : Envelop
वेष्टनै इव पार्श्व (veṣṭanai iva pārśva) : Cramps like pain in flanks
वैकरञ्जः (vaikarañjaḥ) : Hybrid variety of the three types of snakes described in Ayurvedic literature i.e. darvikar, mandali and rajimān (folkore).
वैकल्य (vaikalya) : Loss of motor function or deformity
वैकृत्य इन्द्रिय (vaikṛtya indriya) : Preverted sensory organs
वैगन्ध्य (vaigandhya) : Bad smell
वैगुण्यं अधोवायु (vaiguṇyaṁ adhovāyu) : Retention of flatus.
वैचित्यं (vaicityaṁ) : Confusion or absence of mind
वैडूर्यवर्ण दृष्टिमण्डलं (vaiḍūryavarṇa dṛṣṭimaṇḍalaṁ) : Pupil with the color of cat's eye gem
वैदल वर्ग (vaidala varga) : A class of different pulses
वैद्यभाग (vaidyabhāga) : A synonym of Rudra Bhāga; Commission or Fees of a Vaidya.
वैद्यवशग (vaidyavaśaga) : subordinate to vaidya.
वैभत्स्यं (vaibhatsyaṁ) : Fierce appearance
वैरस्यं (vairasyaṁ) : distaste
वैवर्ण्य (vaivarṇya) : Discoloration.
वैशेषिकः (vaiśeṣikaḥ) : one of the orthodox indian philosophy postulated by Ācharya kanada and famous for molecular theory
वैशेषिक गुण (vaiśeṣika guṇa) : specific property; property specifically attributed to a particular mahābhūta & can be percieved only by one sensory organ; e.g. smell attributed to Pṛthvī mahābhūta & can be percieved by olfactory sense.
वैश्रुत्यं (vaiśrutyaṁ) : Defective hearing
वैस्वर्यं (vaisvaryaṁ) : Hoarseness of voice.
व्यकुलत्व कर्णं (vyakulatva karṇaṁ) : Irritation in the ear
व्यक्त (vyakta) : Fifth stage of Kriyakāla characterized by the manifestation of specific symptoms of a disease.
व्यक्तानुकूल अकस्मात् दर्शनं (vyaktānukūla akasmāt darśanaṁ) : Looks as turbid and clear, frequently and alternatively
व्यतिरेकव्याप्तिः (vyatirekavyāptiḥ) : Negative invariable concomitance
व्यथन (vyathana) : Pain
व्यथा (vyathā) : Pain
व्यथित इन्द्रिय (vyathita indriya) : Weakness of sense organs
व्यथितचेत (vyathitaceta) : Disturbed mind
व्यध (vyadha) : Needling type of pain
व्यपदेशस्तु भूयसा (vyapadeśastu bhūyasā) : concept of nomenclature of substances on the basis of the predominant mahābhūta within in it.
व्यवसायः (vyavasāyaḥ) : the process by which ascertainment is made
व्यवस्थितत्व (vyavasthitatva) : Stability; substance is relatively stable than its properties and actions;
व्यवाय (vyavāya) : It indicates sexual intercourse/sexual regimen.
व्यवायी (vyavāyī) : Quality due to which a substance permeates all over the body before getting digested; caused due to activated Vayu & akash; e.g. Cannabis sativa
व्याख्यानम् (vyākhyānam) : Explanation; statements which elaborate a subject matter in detailed
व्याघ्र (vyāghra) : tiger.
व्याधिक्षमत्व (vyādhikṣamatva) : Immunity; Made of two words Vyādhi – disease and Kshamatva – Resistance i.e the power of the body which prevents the development of diseases or resists a developed disease is called as vyadhikshamatva. Compared to Immunity.when etiological factors come in contact with the body they try to produce disease. At the same time the body tries to resist, that power of resistance is Vyādhikśamatva.
व्यान Vआयु (vyāna Vāyu) : A subtype of Vāta that is seated in Hṛdaya. It is responsible for pumping Rasa from Hṛdaya to all parts of the body. It controls all types of movements in the body.
व्यापादनं (vyāpādanaṁ) : Decaying, Defective or Putrefaction
व्याप्ति (vyāpti) : inherent and inseparable adherence between the two things
व्यायाम (vyāyāma) : Exercise; The act or movement of the body that causes fatigue. Etymologically the meaning vyāyāma (व्ममभ) is intensive development of self control of the mind over body or intensive bending of the body in various directions.
व्यायाम असहत्वं (vyāyāma asahatvaṁ) : Intolerance to exercise.
व्यायाम शक्ति (vyāyāma śakti) : Power of exercise- it is examined by capacity for work.
व्यालीढ (vyālīḍha) : It is a type of snake bite in which marks of one- two fangs are seen but there is no bleeding.
व्यालुप्तम् (vyāluptam) : It is a type of snake bite in which marks of two fangs are seen along with bleeding.
व्याविद्धं इव दर्शनं (vyāviddhaṁ iva darśanaṁ) : Sees obejcts in distorted form
व्यावृइतिः अक्षि (vyāvṛitiḥ akṣi) : Protrusion of the eye.
व्यास (vyāsa) : Throwing of extremities outward.
व्युदासः (vyudāsaḥ) : Spasmodic movement or tics
व्युषित (vyuṣita) : Allowing to stay overnight –soaking
व्रण (vraṇa) : Ulcer
व्रण मुखात् पुरीषप्रवर्तनं (vraṇa mukhāt purīṣapravartanaṁ) : Passing stool through ulcer
व्रण विद्ध (vraṇa viddha) : Punctured or stab wound.
व्रणद्वारावसादी रक्तं (vraṇadvārāvasādī raktaṁ) : Blood clotting in ulcer
व्रणै अधोवायु (vraṇai adhovāyu) : Passing Flatus through ulcer
व्रणैः मूत्रं (vraṇaiḥ mūtraṁ) : Passing urine through ulcer
व्रतः (vrataḥ) : Continence
व्रत्यार्थ (vratyārtha) : Maintain the health & life- foods consumed by healthy person, it is meant to maintain health & life.
शकुनिगन्ध (śakunigandha) : Smell of birds
शकृत (śakṛta) : Feces. Synonym of Purīṣa.
शकृत् छर्दि (śakṛt chardi) : Vomiting of stool
शकृत् सृजत् मूत्रं (śakṛt sṛjat mūtraṁ) : Defecation while passing urine.
शक्र धनुष्प्रभम् (śakra dhanuṣprabham) : Multicolor like rainbow
शक्रचापगुण दर्शनं (śakracāpaguṇa darśanaṁ) : Sees rainbow in objects
शक्रधनुष्प्रभं रक्तं (śakradhanuṣprabhaṁ raktaṁ) : Blood with multicolor like rainbow
शंखः (śaṁkhaḥ) : 1. Temples 2. conch
शंख चुर्णवर्णं मूत्रं (śaṁkha curṇavarṇaṁ mūtraṁ) : Urine resembles the powder of conch
शंखपाण्डुर दृष्टिमण्डल (śaṁkhapāṇḍura dṛṣṭimaṇḍala) : Pupil resembles the color of conch
शंखावभासं (śaṁkhāvabhāsaṁ) : Color of conch
शंखैः आचितं इव (śaṁkhaiḥ ācitaṁ iva) : Sees objects converted by the colors of conch
शङ्का विषं (śaṅkā viṣaṁ) : suspension of poison, this is a psychological manifestation resulting from extreme nervousness and doubt due to dubious feeling of being bitten by a poisonous creature causes manifestation of symptoms of pseudo poison in the form of fever, vomiting, fainting, burning sensation, prostration, unconsciousness, diarrhoea. This condition is called fear poison.
शङ्कितं दर्शनं (śaṅkitaṁ darśanaṁ) : Looking suspiciously
शतन (śatana) : Falling
शतनं दन्तकपाल (śatanaṁ dantakapāla) : Falling down of teeth enamel.
शतनं पक्ष्म (śatanaṁ pakṣma) : Falling of eyelashes
शनैः (śanaiḥ) : Slowly, gradually
शनैः शनैः मूत्रं (śanaiḥ śanaiḥ mūtraṁ) : Hesitant micturation
शब्द (śabda) : the finest and subtle source of proto-element of Akash mahābhūta,
शब्दः (śabdaḥ) : Word
शब्द असहत्व (śabda asahatva) : Intolerance to sound.
शब्द प्रबलं छर्दि (śabda prabalaṁ chardi) : Vomiting with more sound.
शब्दवत् दन्त (śabdavat danta) : Gnashing of the teeth
शब्दवत् पुरीषम् (śabdavat purīṣam) : Defecation with sound
शब्दानुकरणं असाम्ना (śabdānukaraṇaṁ asāmnā) : Loudly and frequently imitating the musical sounds
शब्दायन (śabdāyana) : Gudaguda like sound in abdomen.
शमन (śamana) : Pacification of vitiated Doṣas; Palliative therapy.
शमी धान्य (śamī dhānya) : Pulses, Dicotyledons;
शयन इच्छा (śayana icchā) : Fond of lie down
शय्या (śayyā) : Bed, mode of administration of poison along with bedding.
शय्या इच्छा (śayyā icchā) : Fond of lie down
शय्यां पादेन (śayyāṁ pādena) : Striking on bed by limbs hananaṁ
शरीरः (śarīraḥ) : Body
शरीर वृद्धिकर भव (śarīra vṛddhikara bhava) : Factors lead to the growth of the body- there are four factors for growth of body
शरीर संपत् (śarīra saṁpat) : Excellence of body .
शरीर सात्म्य (śarīra sātmya) : Homologous with the body
शरीरस्थं उपभोगं (śarīrasthaṁ upabhogaṁ) : Clothes.
शरीरोपकारक (śarīropakāraka) : Factors which are beneficial to growth of body.
शर्करा सह मूत्रं (śarkarā saha mūtraṁ) : Crystalluria
शव (śava) : Dead body.
शवगन्ध (śavagandha) : Smell of dead body
शाक (śāka) : A class of plants used as vegetables viz. root, fruit, leaf, flower, etc. 2. A synonym of Tectona grandis
शाक वर्ग (śāka varga) : Group of green leafy vegetables, roots and tubers.
शाकछदनप्रकाशा (śākachadanaprakāśā) : Roughness like the leaf of teak tree (Tectonia grandia)
शाकपत्रखर (śākapatrakhara) : Roughness of the leaf of teak tree (Tectonia grandia)
शाखाद मेद (śākhāda meda) : Fat obtained from herbivorous animals
शाखादष्ट (śākhādaṣṭa) : Bitten on limb.
शाण (śāṇa) : A unit of Measurement; Four mashas are equal to one sana=3 g of metric units
शाण्डाकी (śāṇḍākī) : Pickles – varieties of pickles prepared by fermentation process, which turns sour when kept for a long time, are tasty. Increases digestion and palatability, increases Pitta Doṣa and it is Amla pitta kara(gastrities).
शातः (śātaḥ) : Putrefaction
शातनं (śātanaṁ) : Falling of
शाद्वलप्रभं पुरीषं (śādvalaprabhaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Stool with the color of green grass
शान्तः (śāntaḥ) : Calm disposition; Peaceful
शान्ताग्नि (śāntāgni) : Loss of digestive power.
शान्ताङ्गारप्रकाश (śāntāṅgāraprakāśa) : Black color resembles extinguished fire.
शान्तात्मा (śāntātmā) : Calm disposition
शारीर गुण (śārīra guṇa) : Synonym of Guravdi gunas; Properties of substances that relate with the body and used for therapeutics.
शारीरव्रण (śārīravraṇa) : Wounds caused by vitiation of Doṣas.
शालिशुष्काभराजी अक्षि (śāliśuṣkābharājī akṣi) : Bristle like line in the eye. अक्षऺ
शाश्वतम् (śāśvatam) : Eternal
शास्त्र (śāstra) : A branch of Knowledge; see Tantra
शास्त्रप्रामाण्य (śāstraprāmāṇya) : Textual evidence;
शिखि (śikhi) : Wood charcoal
शिखिननृत्यत इव (śikhinanṛtyata iva) : Dancing of peacock appears before eyes darśanaṁ दशशनॊ
शिखिपत्राभ दर्शनं (śikhipatrābha darśanaṁ) : Sees objects in color of the feather tail of peacock
शिण्डाकी (śiṇḍākī) : Acidic Fermentation of the liquids after seasoning with mustard, radish etc
शिथिलं इन्द्रिय (śithilaṁ indriya) : Loss of sensory function
शिथिलता (śithilatā) : Looseness, Diluted
शिथिलम् (śithilam) : Loose, Unformed, Flabby; Flaccid
शिम्बि धान्य (śimbi dhānya) : Pulses- those which are covered with pod, are those derived from beans. They include black gram, green gram, horse gram, green pea, Dhal gram, pigeon pea, chick pea etc.
शिर (śira) : Head. The site where all Prāṇas and Indriyas are situated. Also is the uppermost and chief part of the body.
शिरोधरः (śirodharaḥ) : Neck
शिरोविरेचन द्रव्य (śirovirecana dravya) : An act of emptying, lessening, exhausting vitiated Doṣas from Shira (Head) through nasal openings.
शिरोविरेचनोपग (śirovirecanopaga) : Substances that help the Shirovirechan procedure.
शिरोऽभितापी (śiro'bhitāpī) : Rage of slightest provocation, It is a symptom of rabid dog .
शिलापट्ट् (śilāpaṭṭ) : Stone slab used for grinding
शिशिर (śiśira) : Cold, Winter Season
शिशिर इच्छा (śiśira icchā) : Fond of cold
शिशिर द्वेष (śiśira dveṣa) : Aversion to cold
शिशिरैर्न लोमहर्षो (śiśirairna lomaharṣo) : It is a sign of (imminent) death of a poisoned person in which the person does not experience raising of hairs even if touched by cold water or air.
शीघ्र (śīghra) : Quick, rapid.
शीघ्र द्रावम् (śīghra drāvam) : Quick melting
शीघ्रगं रक्तं (śīghragaṁ raktaṁ) : Sudden bleeding.
शीघ्रगामिनः (śīghragāminaḥ) : Swift, a feature which is characteristic of darvikar (cobra snake variety) snakes.
शीत (śīta) : Cool; Cold; An attribute of Vāyu and Kapha. Coolness; one of the 20 gurvadi guna; caused due to activated Jala mahābhūta; denotes physiological & pharmacological coolness; manifested by reduction in burning sensation & thirst, facilitates stoppage of flow in channels like styptic, reduces sweating, increases urine, pacifies pitta, aggravates vata.2. Synonym of Gudatwak (Cinnamonum zeylanicum).
शीत अग्नि (śīta agni) : Loss of digestive power
शीत असहत्व (śīta asahatva) : Intolerance to cold
शीत इच्छा (śīta icchā) : Fond of Cold
शीत उच्छ्वास (śīta ucchvāsa) : Cold breathing
शीत द्वेष (śīta dveṣa) : Aversion to cold
शीतकषाय (śītakaṣāya) : synonym of hima-Cold infusion the squeezed and filtered liquid after steeping overnight the powdered material in 6 times of cold water
शीतता (śītatā) : Cold
शीतप्रशमन (śītapraśamana) : substances pacifies feelings of cold & chill ;
शीतलं (śītalaṁ) : Cold
शीतवर्षानिलैर्दग्ध (śītavarṣānilairdagdha) : Frost bite.
शीतस्पर्श (śītasparśa) : Cold
शीताभिः अध्भिः वृद्धि (śītābhiḥ adhbhiḥ vṛddhi) : Aggravation by cold water
शीतासह (śītāsaha) : Intolerance to cold
शीतीभूतं (śītībhūtaṁ) : Brought to room temp/allowed to cool/cooled
शीर्ण (śīrṇa) : Decayed, Putrification
शीर्ण रोम (śīrṇa roma) : Falling of hair
शीर्णता (śīrṇatā) : Putrification
शीर्यन्त इव अस्थि (śīryanta iva asthi) : Putrification
शीर्यमाणः तनूरुहः (śīryamāṇaḥ tanūruhaḥ) : Falling of hair
शीर्षः (śīrṣaḥ) : Head
शीलः (śīlaḥ) : Character
शीलविभ्रम (śīlavibhrama) : Perverted manners.
शीलवैकृतं अल्पं (śīlavaikṛtaṁ alpaṁ) : Slight change in routine
शुक (śuka) : Parrot
शुकपूर्णाभ कण्ठ (śukapūrṇābha kaṇṭha) : Feeling as throat with bristles.
शुक्त (śukta) : This is the fermented liquid which becomes acidic by losing original sweetness
शुक्त (śukta) : Vinegar, is prepared from many source drugs by the process of acetic fermentation. The properties differ according to the drugs used.
शुक्त पाक (śukta pāka) : Digestion with fermentation
शुक्ति (śukti) : 1. A unit of Measurement; Two karshas will make one ardhapala i.e. 24 g (rounded to 25 g) of metric units
शुक्ति धौतं इव आभाति अस्थि (śukti dhautaṁ iva ābhāti asthi) : Bone in the color of cleansed water of shell
शुक्र धातु (śukra dhātu) : The seventh Dhātu, whose function is reproduction. Generally equated with Semen; Present in two forms
शुक्रजनन (śukrajanana) : substances which enhances Shukra (semen / sperm)
शुक्रप्रवर्तनं मूत्रयुतः पाक् पश्चात् वा (śukrapravartanaṁ mūtrayutaḥ pāk paścāt vā) : Ejaculation before with or after micturation
शुक्रमार्ग रक्तं (śukramārga raktaṁ) : Bleeding through penis
शुक्रमिश्रं मूत्र (śukramiśraṁ mūtra) : Urine with semen
शुक्रविषा (śukraviṣA) : Animals with poisonous semen.
शुक्रशोधन (śukraśodhana) : substances which rectifies vitiated Shukra (semen / sperm)
शुक्राभं मूत्र (śukrābhaṁ mūtra) : Urine in the form of semen
शुक्लं (śuklaṁ) : White in color
शुक्ल वर्ग (śukla varga) : Class of following five substances having white color and contain natural calcium viz.
शुक्ल वर्ण (śukla varṇa) : White
शुक्ल वस्त्र (śukla vastra) : White cloth; alleviates vata Doṣa.
शुक्लदर्शनं (śukladarśanaṁ) : Sees objects in white
शुक्लमाल्य इच्छा (śuklamālya icchā) : Fond of white garlands
शुक्लसिराराजी (śuklasirārājī) : White lines of vein
शुक्लाम्बर इच्छा (śuklāmbara icchā) : Fond of white garments
शुचि द्वेष (śuci dveṣa) : Aversion to Cleanliness
शुचिरोत्थितान् (śucirotthitān) : Chronic origin/ originated a long back
शुचौ अपि अशुचि दर्शनं (śucau api aśuci darśanaṁ) : Clean things seen as dirty
शुद्धावर्त (śuddhāvarta) : Indicates the time of extraction of metal from their respective ores
शुभ (śubha) : Beneficial for health.
शुभः (śubhaḥ) : Pleasant, Beautiful
शुभगन्ध (śubhagandha) : Pleasant smell
शुभ्रवर्ण (śubhravarṇa) : White in color
शुलोपेतं पुरीषप्रवर्तनं (śulopetaṁ purīṣapravartanaṁ) : Pain while defecation
शुल्बनिभं (śulbanibhaṁ) : Resembling copper
शुल्व (śulva) : Element Copper-Cuprum with chemical symbol Cu at at. no 29
शुष्क (śuṣka) : Dry; dryness; one of the gunas described by Bhava Prakasha; caused due to activated Pṛthvī, Vayu & Tejas;
शुष्कच्छर्दि (śuṣkacchardi) : Vomiting without any effort
शुष्कच्छवि (śuṣkacchavi) : Diminished complexion.
शुष्कभिन्नं अनियत पुरीष प्रवर्तनं (śuṣkabhinnaṁ aniyata purīṣa pravartanaṁ) : Dry and Loose defecation
शुष्कभिन्नम् अन्तरान्तरा पुरीषप्रवर्तनं (śuṣkabhinnam antarāntarā purīṣapravartanaṁ) : Dry and Loose defecation
शुष्कान्न उपाचरेत (śuṣkānna upācareta) : Treated with dry food- those who have more moisture in their body, who are wounded & suffering from madhumeha should be treated with dry food.
शूक (śūka) : Sting (small, thorn like).
शूक धान्य (śūka dhānya) : grains with awn; monocotyledons;
शूक धान्य (śūka dhānya) : Corns with bristles (Cereals) – have awn and spikes derived from grasses. They form the principle staple food the world over- rice, wheat, barley, rye, corn/ maize , oats etc.
शूकपुर्णाभं इव अक्षि (śūkapurṇābhaṁ iva akṣi) : Feels as if eyes filled with bristles.
शूकपूर्णता मुखं (śūkapūrṇatā mukhaṁ) : Feeling that mouth is filled with bristles
शूकपूर्णाभ नासिका (śūkapūrṇābha nāsikā) : Feels as if nose filled with bristles.
शूकप्रवर्धनं (śūkapravardhanaṁ) : Adherent bristles like appearance on skin.
शूकैः आकीर्णं इव (śūkaiḥ ākīrṇaṁ iva) : Bristle like projections
शूकै आचितं इव (śūkai ācitaṁ iva) : Feels as if filled with bristles.
शून (śūna) : Swelling
शूनता (śūnatā) : Swelling
शून्यः (śūnyaḥ) : Expressionless blank, it is a symptom produced in the third impulse of animal poisoning.
शून्य इच्छा (śūnya icchā) : Fond of staying in solitude
शून्यत शिरसः (śūnyata śirasaḥ) : Feeling of emptiness of head.
शून्यता (śūnyatā) : Feeling of emptiness
शून्यता द्रवण (śūnyatā dravaṇa) : Loss of knowledge.
शून्यभाव (śūnyabhāva) : Loss of knowledge
शून्यायतनसेवी (śūnyāyatanasevī) : Habit of being in solitute
शूर्प (śūrpa) : A unit of Measurement; Synonym of kumbha= 24.576 kg/l of metric units
शूल (śūla) : Pain
शूलप्रशमन (śūlapraśamana) : Analgesic Drugs; substances relieving pain;
शूलाढ्यं पुरीषप्रवर्तनं (śūlāḍhyaṁ purīṣapravartanaṁ) : Pain while defecation
शृईंगार इच्छा (śṛīṁgāra icchā) : Fond of Romance
शृंग (śṛṁga) : 1. Leaf Bud 2.Horn
शृत (śṛta) : synonym of kashaya-boiled & filtered liquid of herbs for specific time used for the therapeutics & pharmaceutical manufacturing
शैत्यं (śaityaṁ) : Coldness
शैथिल्यं (śaithilyaṁ) : Looseness of body parts and tissues
शैथिल्य पुरीष (śaithilya purīṣa) : Loose motion
शैथिल्य लिङ्ग (śaithilya liṅga) : Loss of erection of penis; Erectile Dysfunction
शैल इच्छा (śaila icchā) : Fond of mountaineering
शोक (śoka) : Sorrow, Grief
शोकः (śokaḥ) : Misery
शोक क्लिष्ट मनः (śoka kliṣṭa manaḥ) : A mind which is grief stricken; Wretched, Pathetic
शोणम (śoṇama) : Red in color
शोणित (śoṇita) : 1. Synonym of Rakta. 2. Synonym of Ārtava.
शोणित पूर्णता (śoṇita pūrṇatā) : Intra abdominal bleeding
शोणितगन्ध (śoṇitagandha) : Smell of blood
शोणितदुष्टि (śoṇitaduṣṭi) : Blood disorders.
शोणितप्रभा ओष्ठ (śoṇitaprabhā oṣṭha) : Color of blood
शोणितष्ठीव मुखं (śoṇitaṣṭhīva mukhaṁ) : Spitting of blood
शोणितसंघातं भिनत्ति (śoṇitasaṁghātaṁ bhinatti) : splits/fragments coagulated blood
शोणितस्थापन (śoṇitasthāpana) : Substances that restore the normal properties of Blood
शोणितागमनमुर्ध्वमधश्च (śoṇitāgamanamurdhvamadhaśca) : It is a specific symptom of mandali (group of viper type snakes) which means that there is haemorrhage through both mouth and anus of the person being bitten.
शोथ (śotha) : Swelling; Inflammation
शोथहर (śothahara) : substances reducing inflammation and swelling;
शोधन (śodhana) : A pharmaceutical process of Purification/Detoxification/Refining / imparting useful properties in the materials
शोधनं (śodhanaṁ) : cleansing of the wound
शोफ (śopha) : Swelling; Edema
शोष (śoṣa) : Dryness, Wasting
शौक्ल्यं (śauklyaṁ) : Whiteness, clearness, the quality or state of being white
शौच (śauca) : Cleanliness; Cleaning in the context of food, cleaning dravya’s before preparation alters the basic qualities of raw food and even takes out the contaminants from the food.
शौर्य (śaurya) : Heroism, velour, Strength
श्मशान (śmaśāna) : Area for disposal of dead crematorium.
श्मशान इच्छा (śmaśāna icchā) : Fond of cemetery
श्यामवर्ण (śyāmavarṇa) : Dark color.
श्याव (śyāva) : Bluish color ; Cyan Color
श्यावाननः (śyāvānanaḥ) : Cyanosed face.
श्यावारुणं (śyāvāruṇaṁ) : Cyanic Red Color
श्रद्धा (śraddhā) : Desire
श्रम (śrama) : Fatigue; Toil, labor, exertion, effort
श्रमश्वास (śramaśvāsa) : Exertional breathing, Gasping
श्रमहर (śramahara) : substances relieving fatigue
श्रवक् (śravak) : Extract resembling button shaped balls
श्रवण अवरोध (śravaṇa avarodha) : Loss of hearing
श्रवण उपघात (śravaṇa upaghāta) : Loss of hearing
श्रवण उपरोध (śravaṇa uparodha) : Loss of hearing
श्रवण विभ्रम (śravaṇa vibhrama) : Perturbed hearing
श्रीमत् (śrīmat) : Dazzling appearance
श्रुतस्वप्न (śrutasvapna) : Dreams of auditory experiences
श्रुतिजाड्यं (śrutijāḍyaṁ) : Loss of hearing
श्रुतिविनाश (śrutivināśa) : Loss of hearing
श्रुतिहीन (śrutihīna) : Loss of hearing
श्रॄङ्गीविषं (śrṝṅgīviṣaṁ) : Aconitum chasmanthum -STAPF HOLMES EX , a plant mentioned in poisonous plant category having poison in its root.
श्रोणि (śroṇi) : Pelvis; Hips and Loins
श्रोत्र (śrotra) : the seat of auditory sense organ
श्रोत्र क्षय (śrotra kṣaya) : Loss of hearing
श्रोत्र दौर्बल्यं (śrotra daurbalyaṁ) : Loss of hearing.
श्लक्ष्ण (ślakṣṇa) : Smoothness; one of the 20 gurvadi gunas. Caused due activated agni; denotes physiological & pharmacological smoothness; helps in healing. An attribute of Kapha.
श्लथं (ślathaṁ) : Flabbiness, Soft
श्लथ सन्धिता (ślatha sandhitā) : Dislocation of Joint
श्लथलता (ślathalatā) : Flabbiness
श्लथाङ्गता (ślathāṅgatā) : Soft body
श्लथेन्द्रिय (ślathendriya) : Weakness of sense organs
श्लिष्ट्टं (śliṣṭṭaṁ) : Compact
श्लेषक कफ (śleṣaka kapha) : One of the five subtypes of Kapha that is situated in joints and junctions of the body and provides lubrication.
श्लेष्म छर्दि (śleṣma chardi) : Vomiting sputum
श्लेष्मतन्तुगवाक्षितं छर्दि (śleṣmatantugavākṣitaṁ chardi) : The vomit contains the network of thin phlegm
श्लेष्मप्रतिपूरण शिरः (śleṣmapratipūraṇa śiraḥ) : Feels as head filled with mucus
श्लेष्मयुक्तं पुरीषं (śleṣmayuktaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Mucoid stool
श्लेष्मसंसृष्टं पुरीषं (śleṣmasaṁsṛṣṭaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Mucoid stool
श्लेष्मा (śleṣmā) : Synonym of Kapha
श्लेष्मानुबद्धं बह्वाखुपोतकं छर्दि (śleṣmānubaddhaṁ bahvākhupotakaṁ chardi) : Vomiting of mucus with flesh resembling the baby rats
श्लेष्मावृतत्व मुखं (śleṣmāvṛtatva mukhaṁ) : Coating in the mouth
श्व (śva) : Dog.
श्वयथु (śvayathu) : Swelling; Edema
श्वास (śvāsa) : Breathing; Often used in sense of Abnormal Breathing; Dyspnoea
श्वास पूतिता (śvāsa pūtitā) : Bad smell on breathing
श्वासहर (śvāsahara) : substances which corrects suppression of chest and restores normal breathing;
श्वेत (śveta) : White color
श्वेत वर्ण (śveta varṇa) : White color
श्वेताभप्रतिभ दर्शनं (śvetābhapratibha darśanaṁ) : Sees objects white in color.
श्वैत्यं (śvaityaṁ) : White color
षडङ्गपानीय (ṣaḍaṅgapānīya) : A kind of decoction prepared with prescribed six drugs
षडूषण (ṣaḍūṣaṇa) : A group of following six plants having Ushna Virya
षडेन्द्रिय प्रसादन (ṣaḍendriya prasādana) : That which soothes the five sensory organs
षड् विरेचनशतानि (ṣaḍ virecanaśatāni) : Six hundred virecana preparations.
षड् विरेचनाश्रयाः (ṣaḍ virecanāśrayāḥ) : Six plant parts viz. latex, root, bark, leaf, flower, fruit used as sources for Virecana action.
षड्शोधन वृक्ष (ṣaḍśodhana vṛkṣa) : Class of following six plants used for shodhan
षण्ड (ṣaṇḍa) : Impotent/sterile.
षण्ड (ṣaṇḍa) : Inert/Inactive/non reactive
षण्डता (ṣaṇḍatā) : Inability to perform sexual act
षत्वपतन कोष्ठी (Satvapatana koṣṭhī) : Furnace used for the extraction of Satva metal contents from minerals
षाडव (ṣāḍava) : Jam and jelly / squashes -
षाण्ड्यकर/पुंसत्वोपघाति (ṣāṇḍyakara/puṁsatvopaghāti) : Substances that hamper male sexual and reproductive ability.
ष्ठीवन (ṣṭhīvana) : Spitting
सकफ कास (sakapha kāsa) : Cough with sputum
सकफं पुरीषं (sakaphaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Mucoid stool
सकफं मूत्रं (sakaphaṁ mūtraṁ) : Mucoid Urine
सकफप्राज्यं पुरीषं (sakaphaprājyaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Mucoid stool
संकोच (saṁkoca) : Contraction of body parts.
सक्तं वाक् (saktaṁ vāk) : Restricted speech
सक्तु (saktu) : Is a dietetic preparation. Prepared by frying and powdering husked grains like barley, wheat, rice, parched rice etc.
सक्थि (sakthi) : Lower limb
सक्थ्युत्क्षेपं निगृह्णाति (sakthyutkṣepaṁ nigṛhṇāti) : Restricted forward movement of lower limb
संक्रामिक रोग (saṁkrāmika roga) : The word Sankraman means concurrence, transaction. Sankraman denotes passing from one point to another, Sankramika roga means the diseases which are passing from one person to another i.e. infectious or communicable diseases.
सक्रोध दर्शनं (sakrodha darśanaṁ) : Wrathful sight
संक्लेदं गुडवद्गतं (saṁkledaṁ guḍavadgataṁ) : Jiggery like stickiness, as poison originates from water & become sticky like jiggery when it comes in contact with water & spreads throughout body during rainy season.
संक्लेद हृदय (saṁkleda hṛdaya) : Nausea
संक्षय ओज (saṁkṣaya oja) : Diminished resistance power
सक्षि (sakṣi) : A synonym of Ātmā. Witness to all actions.
संक्षेप (saṁkṣepa) : contraction of body parts
संक्षोभमनः (saṁkṣobhamanaḥ) : Perplexed mind
संक्ष्य (saṁkṣya) : Emaciation, Diminished resistance
संख्या (saṁkhyā) : Number; one among 10 parādi guna.
संगीत इच्छा (saṁgīta icchā) : Fond of Music
संग्रह (saṁgraha) : Restricted movement, Retention, Stiffness
सग्रास (sagrāsa) : Administration of medicine with each morsel of food.
संघात (saṁghāta) : Compactness; one of the action attributed to Pṛthvī mahābhūta.
सघोषं छर्दि (saghoṣaṁ chardi) : Vomitting with sound
सङ्कुलानि इव दर्शनं (saṅkulāni iva darśanaṁ) : Sees objects in mixed form or confused form.
सङ्गः (saṅgaḥ) : Contraction of body parts, Retention.
सचन्द्रकं रक्तं (sacandrakaṁ raktaṁ) : Blood with multi color
संचय (saṁcaya) : Accumulation of vitiated Doṣas in their own seats. First stage of Kriyākāla
संचारविचारवत् कर्ण (saṁcāravicāravat karṇa) : sensation like opening and closing of the ear frequently
सजन कण्ठ (sajana kaṇṭha) : Adhesion of throat.
संजृम्भिका (saṁjṛmbhikā) : Yawning
संज्ञा (saṁjñā) : Consciousness, Orientation
संज्ञा मोहः (saṁjñā mohaḥ) : Loss of consciousness
संज्ञादौर्बल्य (saṁjñādaurbalya) : Loss of consciousness
संज्ञानाश (saṁjñānāśa) : Loss of consciousness
संज्ञाप्रणाश (saṁjñāpraṇāśa) : Loss of consciousness
संज्ञामोषण (saṁjñāmoṣaṇa) : Loss of consciousness
संज्ञासंस्तम्भ (saṁjñāsaṁstambha) : Loss of consciousness
संज्ञासंस्थापन (saṁjñāsaṁsthāpana) : revival of consciousness.
संज्ञास्थापन (saṁjñāsthāpana) : one category of medicinal substances that restore consciousness
संज्ञाहारी (saṁjñāhārī) : Loss of consciousness
संडासि (saṁḍāsi) : An apparatus used for holding the utensils etc
सततं कास (satataṁ kāsa) : Continuous cough
सत्कार्यवाद (satkāryavāda) : the ideology which believes that the effect is always resides in cause even before its manifestation
सत्त्व (sattva) : 1. One of the three qualities (sattva, Rajas and Tamas) or constituents of everything in creation. 2.Mind, harmony, Natural character, inborn disposition, Conscious mind, Being in existence
सत्यबुद्धि (satyabuddhi) : Truth knowledge- is the state of self realization of ultimate reality. It eliminates all miseries and leads to liberation. The moment that truth knowledge’s (Satyabuddhi)emerges the soul transcends the ego and all worldly miseries come to an end. Universe is macrocosm while man is the microcosm. The realization that the entire universe and individual are one and same is Satya buddi.
सत्यवाक् (satyavāk) : Truthful speaking
सत्व (satva) : Means Mental tolerance or Stamina. This is a quality of the mind, sattva has been classified in three types. Prava, avara and madyama stva. Person having the Pravara Satva (Strong will power) are basically health oriented and they follow rules and regulation of Swasthavritta and hence remains health. Their pain bearing capacity is excellent usually they do not become ill, whenever they are sick it is easy to cure them .
सत्व संपत (satva saṁpata) : Excellence of intellect.
सत्वपरिप्लव (satvapariplava) : Perplexed mind
सत्वपातन (satvapātana) : Process of Extraction of metals from ores
सदनं (sadanaṁ) : Weakness, Fatigue, Falling of
सदनं मनसः (sadanaṁ manasaḥ) : Loss of mental strength.
संदर्शनं (saṁdarśanaṁ) : Clear manifestation of tendon network
संदंश (saṁdaṁśa) : An apparatus for holding
संदंशन (saṁdaṁśana) : Biting
संदंष्ट (saṁdaṁṣṭa) : Bitten
सदाचार (sadācāra) : Well behavior.
सदाहं पुरीषप्रवर्तनं (sadāhaṁ purīṣapravartanaṁ) : Defecation with burning sensation
सदोषं पुरीषं (sadoṣaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Undigested stool.
सद्यः (sadyaḥ) : Instant, immediate.
सद्यप्राणहर धूम (sadyaprāṇahara dhūma) : Harmful smoke/fumes from a preparation which turn out to be fatal almost instantaneously.
सद्योव्रण (sadyovraṇa) : fresh wound.
सद्वृत्त (sadvṛtta) : The good conduct/behaviour of man. It can be expressed as right conducts or good conducts or moral conducts which are followed to lead healthy life. Conducts which are good at physical, good at mental and good at verbal are called as Sadvritta.
संधाअन (saṁdhāana) : Allowing the materials along with drugs and sweetening agents in association of liquids for a long time
संधानीय (saṁdhānīya) : Substances that helps in tissue aggregation;
सन्तत (santata) : Prominence, Continuous
सन्तर्जन (santarjana) : Threatening to others.
सन्तर्पण (santarpaṇa) : Word tarpaṇa means sense of well being. It is a function of Rasa Dhātu. Food substance and herbs that increase Rasa Dhātu and subsequently Kapha are all grouped under Santarpaṇa. Caraka as defined the word Tarpaṇa as that which satisfy the hunger. Contrary to this is Apatarpaṇa.
सन्ताप (santāpa) : Hotness
सन्दिग्धा वाक् (sandigdhā vāk) : Sceptical speech
सन्धिमुक्तता (sandhimuktatā) : Looseness of joints
सन्निकर्ष (sannikarṣa) : a process sequential involvement of object, sense organ, manas, and soul to obtain the direct perception
सन्निरोध अधोवायु (sannirodha adhovāyu) : Retention of flatus
सन्निहितागदम् (sannihitāgadam) : Physician should be fully provided with all kinds of antitoxic medicines.
सन्यस्तसंज्ञा (sanyastasaṁjñā) : Loss of consciousness
संपरिवृत नाभि (saṁparivṛta nābhi) : Tortuous umbilicus
सपाकं (sapākaṁ) : Suppuration, it is a symptom produced in animate type of poisoning which means inflammation which after certain period converts into suppurative stage.
सपिच्छं मूत्रं (sapicchaṁ mūtraṁ) : Slimy urine
सपिच्छाप्रतिमं रक्तं (sapicchāpratimaṁ raktaṁ) : Blood in slimy touch.
सपिण्डिक (sapiṇḍika) : Preparation is similar to Madhukroda , additionally honey is mixed and prepared in the form of bolus.
सपूयं छर्दि (sapūyaṁ chardi) : Vomit with pus
सपैच्छिल्यं पुरीषं (sapaicchilyaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Slimy stool
सप्तधातु (saptadhātu) : Seven structural elements of the body
सप्तधातु (saptadhātu) : Group of following seven metals Gold, Silver, Copper, Stannum, Plumbum, Iron, and Zinc.
सप्तमुष्टि (saptamuṣṭi) : Indicates the quantum of material; Quantity which is equal to Seven fistfuls
सप्रवाहिकं पुरीषं (sapravāhikaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Defecation with bearing and gripping pain
संप्रसेकः (saṁprasekaḥ) : Salivation
सप्रसेक मुखं (sapraseka mukhaṁ) : Salivation
संप्रस्राव अक्षि (saṁprasrāva akṣi) : Lacrimation
संप्रस्राव मुखं (saṁprasrāva mukhaṁ) : Salivation
संप्रहार इच्छा (saṁprahāra icchā) : Fond of war.
सफेनं (saphenaṁ) : Frothy
सभक्त (sabhakta) : Administration of medicine mixed with food.
सभक्तं पुरीषं (sabhaktaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Stool mixed with food articles
संभक्ष्यमाणा इव (saṁbhakṣyamāṇā iva) : Feels as being eaten internally
संभग्नं इव ऊरु (saṁbhagnaṁ iva ūru) : Feels as if thighs are broken
संभग्नौ इव पाद (saṁbhagnau iva pāda) : Breaking pain in foot
संभिन्नं पुरीषं (saṁbhinnaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Loose motion.
संभेद (saṁbheda) : Breaking pain
समत्रितय (samatritaya) : Group of following three substances when taken in equal quantity Terminalia chebula, Zinziber officinale and Guḍa (Jiggery); Synonyms are Trisama, Samatraya.
समन्त्रपूताम्बु प्रोक्षणम् (samantrapūtāmbu prokṣaṇam) : In the condition of fear of poison, water sanctified by the mantras should be sprinkled over the patient’s body.
सममगात्रं (samamagātraṁ) : Uniform body surface one of the properties of the gems
समयोग (samayoga) : Combination, a result or product of combining
समयोगः (samayogaḥ) : appropriate interaction of sensory and motor organs with their objects
समवायः (samavāyaḥ) : Coexistence/ concomitant relation; the eternal and inseparable relationship which subsist between earth and other proto-element and their qualities.
समवायि कारण (samavāyi kāraṇa) : inherent cause;
समशन (samaśana) : Taking an admixture of desirable and undesirable food items.
समष्टि मार्गै रक्तं (samaṣṭi mārgai raktaṁ) : Bleeding through all openings
समस्तवर्णं मूत्रं (samastavarṇaṁ mūtraṁ) : Multicolored urine
समाग्नि (samāgni) : The state in which the action of Agni is normal due to a balanced state of all the three Doṣas.
समाधिः (samādhiḥ) : The state of self –realization in the practice of yoga; Ultimate state of physical & metal control with gain of eternal happiness
समान वायु (samāna vāyu) : One of the five subtypes of Vāta (Vāyu) that is seated in proximity to Agni (in between stomach and large intestine). It performs the functions like receiving the food, digestion of the food, division of the food into useful and waste portions, and propulsion of the food.
समीक्षकारी (samīkṣakārī) : Astute; One who is judicious; Person who is judicious regarding do's and don'ts in Dietary habits and conduct will remain healthy for longer time.
समीपस्थं दूरे दर्शनं (samīpasthaṁ dūre darśanaṁ) : Remote appearance of a near object
समुक्षिप्त वाक् (samukṣipta vāk) : Speedy talk, Fast Talk
समुच्चयः (samuccayaḥ) : words, sentence or paragraphs where in a multitude of things possessing some common property are grouped together and enumerated
समुत्पीडवत् मूत्रं (samutpīḍavat mūtraṁ) : Micturition with pressing pain
समुद्रमंथन (samudramaṁthana) : Churning of oceans for getting ambrosia/ nectar (mythology).
सम्पत् विरुद्द (sampat virudda) : Unwholesome in richness of quality- intake of substance that are not matured, over matured or putrefied.
सम्बद्धवाक् (sambaddhavāk) : Stuttering
सम्बद्धाबद्धवाक् (sambaddhābaddhavāk) : Incoherent speech.
सम्भवः (sambhavaḥ) : Possibility ; feasibility
सम्भवः (sambhavaḥ) : Source
सम्भृष्टपरुषच्छवि (sambhṛṣṭaparuṣacchavi) : Fading color.
सम्मीलनं (sammīlanaṁ) : closing of the eye or Nictation
सम्मूढा (sammūḍhā) : loss of tactile sensation
सम्मूर्च्छा (sammūrcchā) : Fainting.
सम्मोहः (sammohaḥ) : Impairment of orientation
सम्मोहः (sammohaḥ) : Stupefaction
सम्यक्द्रुतम् (samyakdrutam) : Properly melted
सम्यक्योग (samyakyoga) : Proper contact or proper utilization
सम्यग्दग्ध (samyagdagdha) : Proper cauterization, Stage of burn in which the injury is superficial and assumes the color of ripe Tāl fruit (Borassus flabellifer) and is not raised above the surrounding skin and develops preceding symptoms.
संयम पार्श्व (saṁyama pārśva) : Contraction of the flanks
संयोग (saṁyoga) : Combination; one of the 10 parādi gunas; Combination of two or more substances together is saṁyoga. This kind of process exhibits peculiarities which are not seen in case of individual substances. Such as combination of honey &fish, fish & milk.
संयोग विरुद्द (saṁyoga virudda) : Combination unwholesome- Intake of sour substance with milk.
सर (sara) : Unstableness/mobilizes; one among 20 gurvadi guna; caused due activated jala; denotes physiological & pharmacological instability & mobility; causes mobilization; helps in reduction of body tissues.
सरक्त छर्दि (sarakta chardi) : Vomiting with blood
सरक्त मूत्रं (sarakta mūtraṁ) : Micturition with blood
संरब्ध (saṁrabdha) : Swelling
संरब्ध अक्षि (saṁrabdha akṣi) : Wrathful eye
संरम्भ (saṁrambha) : Swelling
सरित् इच्छा (sarit icchā) : Fond of ponds (water bodies)
सरुजं पुरीषप्रवर्तनं (sarujaṁ purīṣapravartanaṁ) : Defecation with pain
सरुधिर मूत्रं (sarudhira mūtraṁ) : Maturation with blood
संरोधः (saṁrodhaḥ) : Retention
सर्पकीटहतं (sarpakīṭahataṁ) : Death due to snake bite/ insect sting.
सर्पमणि (sarpamaṇi) : Wearing of sarp-mani (a type of pearl or gem collected from the head of the snake) is useful as anti poison (antidote) and gives immunity against poisons (folklore).
सर्पाः (sarpāḥ) : Snakes.
सर्पाङ्गभिहतं (sarpāṅgabhihataṁ) : It is a pseudo snake bite in which snake does not bite the body part but comes in contact but in a naturally timid person this may cause the aggravation of his bodily vayu (neurological signs) and causing swelling of part. Such a man is said affected by the touch of a snake.
सर्पि (sarpi) : Ghee; Synonym of Ghŗta;
सर्पि तुल्यं पुरीषं (sarpi tulyaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Stool resembles with ghee
सर्पित् (sarpit) : A type of snake bite in which marks (punctures) of fangs of considerable depth are found on the affected part attended with a slight bleeding as well as those which are extremely slender and own their origin to the turning aside and lowering of snakes’ mouth (head) immediately after the bite are attended with swelling and the characteristic changes (systemic).
सर्पिरूपं आर्तव (sarpirūpaṁ ārtava) : Menstrual blood resembles with ghee
सर्पिरूपं पुरीषं (sarpirūpaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Stool resembles with ghee
सर्पिवर्णं रक्तं (sarpivarṇaṁ raktaṁ) : Blood in the color of ghee
सर्प्रिप्रकाशं मूत्रं (sarpriprakāśaṁ mūtraṁ) : Urine resembles with ghee
सर्वकर्मोपरमः (sarvakarmoparamaḥ) : Loss of motor function of joint
सर्वग्रह (sarvagraha) : Accounting of the quantity of the entire food in totality. Considering all the food articles together in meal plate, which may includes cooked cereals, pulses, condiments, drinkables etc. it refers to the whole caloric value of all food articles of meal plate. It is contrast to Parigraha.
सर्वभूतहितैषिणः (sarvabhūtahitaiṣiṇaḥ) : Well wisher of all creatures.
सर्ववर्णं मूत्रं (sarvavarṇaṁ mūtraṁ) : Multiple colored urine
सर्वाङ्गग्रह (sarvāṅgagraha) : Restricted movement of the body
सर्वेन्द्रियतापनः (sarvendriyatāpanaḥ) : Sweating of sense organs.
सर्वौषधिगण (sarvauṣadhigaṇa) : Group of following plants Cyperus rotundus, Santalum album, Tamarindus indica, Acorus calamus, Sassurea lappa, Nordostachys jatamansi, Parmelia perlata, Curcuma zedoria
संलयन (saṁlayana) : Drowsiness
सलवणं मूत्रं (salavaṇaṁ mūtraṁ) : Urine with salt taste
सलसीकं मूत्रं (salasīkaṁ mūtraṁ) : Urine resembles serous fluid
संलाप इच्छा (saṁlāpa icchā) : Fond of conversation
सलिल इच्छा (salila icchā) : Fond of using more water
सलिलप्रकाशं नासामल (salilaprakāśaṁ nāsāmala) : Watery nasal excreta
सलिलप्लावितानि इव परिज्ञानि दर्शनं (salilaplāvitāni iva parijñāni darśanaṁ) : Sees objects dipped in water
सलिलप्लावी (salilaplāvī) : Floats in water
संलोच (saṁloca) : Plucking pain
सलोहितं पुरीषं (salohitaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Stool with the color of blood.
सवातम् पुरीषप्रवर्तनं (savātam purīṣapravartanaṁ) : Defecation with flatus
संवाहन (saṁvāhana) : Pleasing touch or thumping with hands slowly.
सविकल्पकम् (savikalpakam) : Differentiated
संवित इव नासिका (saṁvita iva nāsikā) : Feels as nose is more widened
सविदाह (savidāha) : With burning sensation
सविपर्यय स्थानयोजना (saviparyaya sthānayojanā) : Impropriety in sitting
संवृतः (saṁvṛtaḥ) : contracted , covered
संवृतरोमकूप सिरा (saṁvṛtaromakūpa sirā) : Vein covered by hair
संवृतलोमकूप सिरा (saṁvṛtalomakūpa sirā) : Vein covered by hair
संवृतास्यत्वं (saṁvṛtāsyatvaṁ) : Closed mouth
संवेजनं रोम (saṁvejanaṁ roma) : Horripilation
संवेजयेत् (saṁvejayet) : Horripilation;
सव्यभिचारम् (savyabhicāram) : the statement which conveys the multiple implications
सशब्दं (saśabdaṁ) : With sound
संशमनं (saṁśamanaṁ) : Pacification of vitiated Doṣas; Palliative therapy.
संशयः (saṁśayaḥ) : indefinite statements which leave doubt as to the final and correct opinion
संशून (saṁśūna) : Swelling
सशूलं (saśūlaṁ) : With pain
संशोधन (saṁśodhana) : Substances used for expelling out vitiated Doṣa and mala through various body openings viz. Mouth, Nose, Anus, etc.
संशोष (saṁśoṣa) : Dryness, Wasting
सष्कुलि (saṣkuli) : Prepared by paste of rice together with the sesamum seeds fried with oil.
संसक्तं (saṁsaktaṁ) : Desire
संसदन (saṁsadana) : Exhaustion
संसर्गज (saṁsargaja) : Means a contagious disease which spreads from person to person by direct or indirect by immediate contact with infected/sick person.
ससिक्तं (sasiktaṁ) : Urine with sand like substance.
संस्कार (saṁskāra) : Transformation or processing or value addition, one of the 10 parādi guna.
संस्कार (saṁskāra) : It is the pharmaceutical process by which impurities, toxicities are removed
संस्कार विरुद्द (saṁskāra virudda) : Drugs and diets which prepared in a particular way produce poisonous effect. Exp- meat of peacock roasted on a castor spit.
संस्कारवाहीः (saṁskāravāhīḥ) : Anaphrodisia
संस्कृत वादी (saṁskṛta vādī) : Speaking in abnormal sound
संस्तम्भ (saṁstambha) : Retention, Stiffness
सस्पन्दन (saspandana) : Twitching in the head
संस्राव मुखम् (saṁsrāva mukham) : Salivation
सहक्षतज मूत्रं (sahakṣataja mūtraṁ) : Urine with blood
सहज बल (sahaja bala) : Consititutional strength, innate immunity
संहतं (saṁhataṁ) : Thick
संहतमांस (saṁhatamāṁsa) : Decaying of flesh
सहत्वासहत्व (sahatvāsahatva) : Desire and aversion frequently.
सहनन (sahanana) : Compactness-synonyms are SANHATI & SANYOJAN- a well compact body is known by evenly well demarcated bones, well bound joints, well formed muscle & blood. Those having well compact body are strong otherwise weak & those having moderate compactness have medium strength.
संहनन हनु (saṁhanana hanu) : Stiff Jaw
संहननम् (saṁhananam) : compactness of body tissues
सहपान (sahapāna) : the liquids/ solids given along with the drug administration of drug to absorb ,assimilate & distribute in the body
संहर्षणं (saṁharṣaṇaṁ) : sense of friction, Horripilation
संहर्षित इव (saṁharṣita iva) : Excitement.
सहसा रक्तं (sahasā raktaṁ) : Sudden bleeding
सहिष्णुता (sahiṣṇutā) : Tolerance
साक्षी (sākṣī) : Witness, a person who gives generalized or specialized, account against or in favor of a subjudice matter, under oath when summoned by the presiding court, i.e. witness.
सात्मः (sātmaḥ) : Concordance
सात्म्य (sātmya) : Agreeable to natural constitution, wholesome, suitableness, habituation
सात्म्य (sātmya) : Daily activities and food which have become habitual to body. Homologation/habituation.
सात्म्य विरुद्ध (sātmya viruddha) : Habit unwholesome of diet and drugs is considered as sātmya viruddha- intake of sweet and cold substance by persons accustomed to pungent and hot substance.
सात्म्य सम्पत् (sātmya sampat) : Excellence of suitability
साद (sāda) : Fatigue, exhaustion
साद (sāda) : Depression, It is a symptom produced in first impulse of animal poisoning.
सादयति (sādayati) : Depressing
साधक पित्त (sādhaka pitta) : One of the five subtypes of Pitta that is seated in heart. This helps one achieve the desired goal. This Pitta is also responsible for intellect, talent and self respect.
साधनं (sādhanaṁ) : synonym of therapeutics; Tool; Instrument
साधरण हेतु (sādharaṇa hetu) : Common factors even though the person different entities like constitution. but there are other common factors due to derangement of which the disease took place, like air,water,time etc.
सानुनासिकं (sānunāsikaṁ) : Nasal voice
सानुबाधनं (sānubādhanaṁ) : substances having long term side effects
सान्त्वन (sāntvana) : Consoling.
सान्द्र (sāndra) : thickness/dense; one of the 20 gurvādi guṇa; caused due activated pṛthvī; denotes physiological & pharmacological density; nourishes; the property of the substance which causes viscosity and viscidity
सान्द्रत्वं (sāndratvaṁ) : Indicates thick consistency viscosity/ semi solidness
सान्नं पुरीषं (sānnaṁ purīṣaṁ) : Stool mixed with food articles
सामान्य (sāmānya) : Similar
सामान्य गुण (sāmānya guṇa) : Common property; properties that are common to more than one mahābhūta like guru (heaviness) attributed to Pṛthvī & Jala mahābhūta.
सामुद्ग (sāmudga) : Consuming the medicine both at beginning and also end of the meals.
सामुद्र जल (sāmudra jala) : Type of surface water. Sea water that which is very much prone for contamination with dust, soot, toxic gases, micro organisms etc environmental impurities by human activities.
सामुद्र लवण (sāmudra lavaṇa) : sea or common table salt
साम्य (sāmya) : state of equilibrium or balance
सार (sāra) : 1. heartwood/pith of a plant
सार (sāra) : 1. Eight states of excellence an individual may have (seven of Dhātus and one of Sattva). 2. Essential, very good of its kind, Essence, essential part, Highest best, Most excellent.
सारविधमन (sāravidhamana) : Ill nourishment.
सारस (sārasa) : Lake water is source of ground water. It improves digestive power and does not aggravate Vāta. Best time for consumption of this kind of water is Hemanta rtu (early winter)
सारिका (sārikā) : a bird turdus salica
साशृक् प्रतिमं (sāśṛk pratimaṁ) : Menstrual blood in the color of blood of rabbit
सासृक् (sāsṛk) : With blood
सास्मगर्भवत् (sāsmagarbhavat) : Feeling of heaviness like bearing of stone in pericardial region hṛdayaṁ
साहस इच्छा (sāhasa icchā) : Desire for Adventure
साहस दण्डः (sāhasa daṇḍaḥ) : Penalties imposed for offence which may harm life or cause loss of any nature; physical, mental, financial, social, to any person and his belongings or to the state.
सिकतानुरूपं मूत्रं (sikatānurūpaṁ mūtraṁ) : Urine with sand like substance
सिकतानुविद्धान् मलान् (sikatānuviddhān malān) : Urine with sand like substance
सिक्तआकार (siktaākāra) : Resembling the granular appearance like that of sand crystals/ silicate
सितं (sitaṁ) : White color
सितता (sitatā) : White
सितमश्नियात् (sitamaśniyāt) : Cold food treatments- person suffering from thirst, heat , intoxication , burning sensation, bleeding diseases, emaciation from copulation should treated with cold food.
सिता दर्शनं (sitā darśanaṁ) : Sees objects white in color
सिता वर्ण (sitā varṇa) : White color
सिद्धान्तः (siddhāntaḥ) : a demonstrated truth established after several examinations and reasoning by scientists
सिन्दुराभ (sindurābha) : Vermilion like in color
सिराजालं (sirājālaṁ) : Network of veins
सिराजालगवाक्षितं (sirājālagavākṣitaṁ) : Network of veins
सिराजालस्फुरण (sirājālasphuraṇa) : Excessive pulsation of the head
सिराततः (sirātataḥ) : Prominent network of vein
सिरातनुत्वं (sirātanutvaṁ) : Thin vein
सिरादर्शन (sirādarśana) : Appearance of veins
सिराभि असंवृत मुखं (sirābhi asaṁvṛta mukhaṁ) : Appearance of veins on face.
सिरावनद्धराजीकं (sirāvanaddharājīkaṁ) : Network of veins
सिरावृत (sirāvṛta) : Appearance of veins
सिराहर्षः (sirāharṣaḥ) : Engorgement of veins
सिंह (siṁha) : Lion.
सीधु (sīdhu) : Fermentation of the sweetening liquids with/without subjecting to heat
सीवनी (sīvanī) : Frenulum
सुक्ष्म (sukṣma) : minuteness/penetrating; one of the gurvadi gunas; caused due activated akash, agni & vayu; denotes physiological & pharmacological minuteness & penetration;
सुक्ष्मः (sukṣmaḥ) : the property of the substance which causes minuteness and decrease body mass
सुक्ष्म शरीर (sukṣma śarīra) : Subtle Body; see Ativāhika purușa
सुक्ष्मखचितं (sukṣmakhacitaṁ) : Multiple openings
सुक्ष्मद्वार गुद (sukṣmadvāra guda) : Narrowed anal canal
सुक्ष्मै शल्यै आचितं इव अक्षि (sukṣmai śalyai ācitaṁ iva akṣi) : Feels as eyes being speared with tiny arrows
सुख (sukha) : 1. A feature indicative of Ātmā. 2. A favorable perception. 3. Happy, delighted, joyful, pleased, Agreeable, pleasant
सुख (sukha) : Refers to Happiness, joy, pleasure, satisfaction, at peace, in a state of comfort – those who are not affected with mental and physical ailments, who are endowed with youth, enthusiasm, strength, virility, reputation, manliness, boldness, knowledge of art and science, sense, object of sense, ability of the sense organs, richness and various luxurious articles for enjoyment, who achieve whatever they want and moves as they like lead a very happy life. Contrary to this is Dukha.
सुखनिर्मोच्य पत्रम् (sukhanirmocya patram) : Literal meaning is easily separable lamellae indicates cleavage
सुखस्च कालयोग (sukhasca kālayoga) : Favorable time
सुखायु (sukhāyu) : Happy life , ailment free individual life; A life pleasant for self as well as society
सुगन्ध (sugandha) : quality that is minute and give a sense pleasure & satisfaction; these improves appetite.
सुगन्धपिष्टसूतेन (sugandhapiṣṭasūtena) : Mercury rubbed with gandhak
सुगन्धामलक (sugandhāmalaka) : when dried seedless Emblica offcinalis is added to Sarvoushadhi gana;
सुगन्धि (sugandhi) : Stool with fragrant smell
सुगन्धी त्रिफला (sugandhī triphalā) : A Class of following 3 fragrant plants Areca catechu, Syzygium aromaticum, Myristica fragrans;
सुचरित (sucarita) : Good behavior.
सुचिरत (sucirata) : Delayed
सुतेज (suteja) : Dazzling appearance.
सुदारुणं अक्षि (sudāruṇaṁ akṣi) : Difficulty in opening eye
सुदीन (sudīna) : Wretched, pathetic
सुदुर्बलः अग्नि (sudurbalaḥ agni) : Loss of digestive power
सुपक्वं (supakvaṁ) : Properly cooked/ processed indicative of Avaleha, gudapaka etc.
सुपपतिधनुष्प्रभं (supapatidhanuṣprabhaṁ) : Blood with multicolor like rainbow raktaṁ
सुप्तं (suptaṁ) : Sleepiness.
सुप्तच्छवि (suptacchavi) : Diminished complexion
सुप्तःजिह्वा (suptaḥjihvā) : Numbness of tongue
सुप्तता (suptatā) : Numbness
सुप्तिः (suptiḥ) : Numbness
सुबहुशः मूत्रं (subahuśaḥ mūtraṁ) : Frequent micturation
सुबाधकम् (subādhakam) : Difficult to treat
सुमनगन्ध (sumanagandha) : Smell of Jasmine
सुरभिगन्ध (surabhigandha) : Pleasant smell
सुरा (surā) : Indigenous beer- beverage prepared from fermented cereals. The cereals that are either cooked or ground are mixed with Jiggery and other spices and are subjected to natural fermentation. Beneficial for emaciated, suffering from obstruction in urine, piles, alleviates Vata and useful in anemia.
सुरा इच्छा (surā icchā) : Fond of Alcohol
सुरातुल्यं मूत्रं (surātulyaṁ mūtraṁ) : Urine resembles Alcohol
सुराबीज (surābīja) : It is the residual portion lying below the medak in the fermentation process consists of seed of fermentation
सुराविकार इच्छा (surāvikāra icchā) : Fond of Alcohol derivatives
सुराविकृति द्वेष (surāvikṛti dveṣa) : Aversion to Alcohol derivatives
सुरासुर (surāsura) : Group of gods and demons who gathered for churning the sea to get ambrosia, in the quest of immortality.
सुरुचिरः (suruciraḥ) : Delightful
सुरेन्द्रगोपप्रतिमं (surendragopapratimaṁ) : Blood with the color of earthworm raktaṁ
सुलुलित अक्षि (sululita akṣi) : Slight trembling of the eye
सुवर्ण (suvarṇa) : 1. A unit of Measurement; Synonym of one karsha=12 g of metric units 2.synonym of gold
सुशुष्कं छर्दि (suśuṣkaṁ chardi) : Dry vomit/Vomit of dry material
सुषिर दन्त (suṣira danta) : Carries in teeth
सुषुप्तिः (suṣuptiḥ) : Numbness
सुषूयन (suṣūyana) : Desire
सूक्ष्मं (sūkṣmaṁ) : Minute, Poison penetrates into and deranges the minutest capillaries owing to its extreme subtle essence.
सूक्ष्मदंष्ट्रापदो (sūkṣmadaṁṣṭrāpado) : Minute fang marks.
सूचिभि इव तोद (sūcibhi iva toda) : Needling pain
सूचिभि तुद्यमानेन इव (sūcibhi tudyamānena iva) : Needling pain
सूचीपाषं न पश्यतिउ (sūcīpāṣaṁ na paśyatiu) : Unable to see tiny things like needle hole even with a lot of efforts.
सूच्या इव (sūcyā iva) : Needling type of pain
सूत (sūta) : Element Mercury-Hydroargyrum with symbol Hg at At. no 80 a synonym of rasa & parada
सूतिकया दष्ट (sūtikayā daṣṭa) : Bite by a recently delivered snake.
सूत्रं (sūtraṁ) : précised form of text; Aphorism
सूत्रेण (sūtreṇa) : With cotton thread
सूप्य धन्य (sūpya dhanya) : Properly roasted and dehusked grains. They are light in property.
सूयन (sūyana) : Swelling
सृष्ट पुरीषं (sṛṣṭa purīṣaṁ) : Loose motion
सृष्ट मूक्षता (sṛṣṭa mūkṣatā) : Excessive passing of urine
सृष्टविट्कः अपि भूय वेगशङ्की (sṛṣṭaviṭkaḥ api bhūya vegaśaṅkī) : Feeling of urge even after defecation
सैन्धव लवण (saindhava lavaṇa) : Rock salt
सोग्रगन्ध्यसृक् (sogragandhyasṛk) : Blood with intense odor.
सौगन्धिक् (saugandhik) : A person who is not aroused sexually without smelling the genitals of the other person.
सौमनस्यजननं (saumanasyajananaṁ) : Substances that cause gladness or cheerfulness of mind; consisting of flowers.
सौम्य (saumya) : Cool, Gentle, Mild; 2. A synonym of Ficus glomerulata
सौम्य दर्शनं (saumya darśanaṁ) : Pleasant sight.
सौर्वचल लवण (saurvacala lavaṇa) : Belonging to or coming from Su-Varchala; prepared by boiling down soda with Emblica officinalis
सौवीर (sauvīra) : The acidic fermented liquid obtained from wheat
सौषिर्य (sauṣirya) : Porousness; an action attributed to Akash Mahābhūta
सौषिर्यम् अस्थि (sauṣiryam asthi) : Pores in the bone
सौहित्य (sauhitya) : Surfeit
सौहित्यं असहत्व (sauhityaṁ asahatva) : Intolerance to take proper staiation.
स्कन्धः (skandhaḥ) : Shoulder
स्कन्धि रक्तं (skandhi raktaṁ) : Early coagulation of blood
स्कन्न (skanna) : Clotted.
स्खलत् गति (skhalat gati) : Unsteady gait.
स्खलत् वाक् (skhalat vāk) : Wavering speech
स्खलित ईष्टा (skhalita īṣṭā) : Unsteady activity
स्तगण दर्शनं अर्केस्तमस्तकन्यस्तग् अभस्तो आगताः-स्तम्भं (stagaṇa darśanaṁ arkestamastakanyastag abhasto āgatāḥ-stambhaṁ) : Loss of vision after sunset.
स्तनः (stanaḥ) : Breast
स्तननं (stananaṁ) : Snoring sound
स्तनसंदंश (stanasaṁdaṁśa) : Biting of mother's breast
स्तन्य (stanya) : Breast milk. It is an Upadhātu of Rasa Dhātu. This nourishes the baby. It is dominant of Jala Mahābhūta.
स्तन्यजनन (stanyajanana) : Galactagogue
स्तन्यद्वेष (stanyadveṣa) : Aversion to breast milk
स्तन्यपानं किङ्चित् (stanyapānaṁ kiṅcit) : Less intake of breast milk
स्तन्यशोधन (stanyaśodhana) : substances which rectifies vitiated Stanya(breast milk)
स्तब्ध (stabdha) : Stiffness
स्तब्ध दर्शनं (stabdha darśanaṁ) : Fixed gaze
स्तब्ध रोमता (stabdha romatā) : Horripilation
स्तम्भ (stambha) : Fixedness , stiffness , rigidity , torpor , paralysis , stupefaction
स्तम्भ पुरीष (stambha purīṣa) : Retention of stool pravartanam
स्तम्भनं (stambhanaṁ) : substances used to check any flow through or out of the body
स्तिमित (stimita) : Rigid, Inflexible, Fixed
स्तैमित्य (staimitya) : Rigidness
स्तोकं (stokaṁ) : Scanty
स्तोकं स्तोकं (stokaṁ stokaṁ) : Frequent and scanty
स्त्यानं (styānaṁ) : Feeling of heaviness, Thick, solid, Massive
स्त्यानता (styānatā) : Feeling of heaviness
स्त्रक् (strak) : Garland.
स्त्रीपुष्पहरण (strīpuṣpaharaṇa) : Helps in arresting the menstrual bleeding as observed in yellow orpiment
स्थानसंश्रय (sthānasaṁśraya) : The interaction between the Doṣas & Dushyas. Fourth stage of Kriyakala. This represents the prodromal phase of a disease.
स्थापना (sthāpanā) : Justifying a proposition on the basis of reasons, instance, and conclusion.
स्थाली यन्त्र (sthālī yantra) : A shallow iron pan used for frying/roasting of materials
स्थावरं (sthāvaraṁ) : The poison obtained from inanimate things such as aconite, opium, cannabis, oleander, arsenic, orpiment etc.
स्थितं (sthitaṁ) : Keeping/ placing
स्थिर (sthira) : Stability; Immobility; One of the 20 gurvadi gunas; caused due activated pṛthvī; denotes physiological & pharmacological stability & immobility; causes obstruction; An attribute of Kapha
स्थिरः नयनः (sthiraḥ nayanaḥ) : Fixed eye
स्थिरः हनू (sthiraḥ hanū) : Stiff jaw
स्थिरता (sthiratā) : Stiffness
स्थूल (sthūla) : grossness/bulkiness; one of the 20 gurvadi gunas; caused due activated pṛthvī; denotes physiological & pharmacological grossness & bulkiness; causes covering or protection.
स्थूलाक्षः (sthūlākṣaḥ) : Clumsy eye
स्थैर्य (sthairya) : Stability
स्थौल्य (sthaulya) : Obesity
स्नपन (snapana) : Heating up to red hot and dipping in specified liquids
स्नान (snāna) : Taking bath, is an auspicious , enhances virility, longevity, strength, compactness & immune system(oja), and at the same time cures tiredness, sweat and impurities of the body.
स्नानं इच्छा (snānaṁ icchā) : Fond of bathing
स्नायु (snāyu) : Tendon
स्नायु जालावत् (snāyu jālāvat) : Covered by sinew
स्निग्ध (snigdha) : Slimy/unctuous/oily; one of the 20 gurvadi gunas; caused due activated Jala mahābhūta; denotes physiological & pharmacological sliminess; manifested by moistening of body parts, increased strength and lustier; pacifies vata, increases kapha.
स्निग्ध दर्शनं (snigdha darśanaṁ) : Sees objects in unctuous
स्निग्ध वर्ण (snigdha varṇa) : Oily colored
स्निग्ध- अश्नियात् (snigdha- aśniyāt) : Eating unctuous food gets digested quickly, taste well, stimulates the unstimulated digestive fire, and alleviates Vata and Pitta.
स्निग्धाअन उपाचरेत् (snigdhāana upācaret) : Unctuous food treatment- person who are vata prakriti, dryness in the body, exhausted by copulation, who indulge in excess physical activities should be treated with unctuous food.
स्नेह (sneha) : Oiliness, unctuousness, lubricity, Moisture, Oil
स्नेह दग्ध (sneha dagdha) : Scald.
स्नेहगन्ध मुखम् (snehagandha mukham) : Unctuous smell from the mouth
स्नेहाभ्यक्त इव रोम (snehābhyakta iva roma) : Hair looks s if applied with oil
स्नेहोपग (snehopaga) : substances used to facilitate snehan (oleation
स्पन्दन (spandana) : throbbing or Twitching
स्पर्श (sparśa) : Touch
स्पर्श अज्ञानं (sparśa ajñānaṁ) : Loss of tactile sensation
स्पर्श असहत्व (sparśa asahatva) : Intolerance to be touched
स्पर्श द्वेष (sparśa dveṣa) : Intolerance to be touched
स्पर्श नाश (sparśa nāśa) : Loss of tactile sensation.
स्पर्श वैगुण्यं (sparśa vaiguṇyaṁ) : Loss of tactile sensation.
स्पर्श हानि (sparśa hāni) : Loss of tactile sensation
स्पर्शन (sparśana) : Perception through skin
स्पर्शन (sparśana) : the organ of tactile sensation
स्पर्शनाक्षमं (sparśanākṣamaṁ) : Intolerance to be touched or tenderness
स्पर्शनासह (sparśanāsaha) : Intolerance to be touched or tenderness
स्पर्शम् न सुषूयते (sparśam na suṣūyate) : Intolerance to be touched or tenderness
स्पर्शरुक् (sparśaruk) : Intolerance to be touched or tenderness
स्पर्शोद्विग्न (sparśodvigna) : Intolerance to be touched or tenderness
स्पष्ट सिरा (spaṣṭa sirā) : Prominence of veins
स्पष्ट स्नायुगण (spaṣṭa snāyugaṇa) : Clear manifestation of tendon network
स्फटिक सन्निभं (sphaṭika sannibhaṁ) : Crystalline
स्फटिकच्छाय (sphaṭikacchāya) : Crystalline
स्फटिकाभं (sphaṭikābhaṁ) : Crystalline
स्फिक् (sphik) : Buttocks; Hips
स्फुटति इव (sphuṭati iva) : Cracking pain
स्फुटन रोम (sphuṭana roma) : Falling of hair
स्फुटनं सन्धि (sphuṭanaṁ sandhi) : Cracking sound of joint
स्फुटनान्वित दन्त (sphuṭanānvita danta) : Cracking of teeth
स्फुटम् (sphuṭam) : Conspicuous
स्फुटित (sphuṭita) : Crack
स्फुर (sphura) : Throbbing sensation
स्फुरण (sphuraṇa) : Throbbing sensation
स्फुरणं चिरात् (sphuraṇaṁ cirāt) : Delayed pulsation
स्फुरति इव (sphurati iva) : Throbbing sensation
स्फोटन (sphoṭana) : Cracking pain
स्फोटरहितं (sphoṭarahitaṁ) : Free from elevations & projections
स्फोटै चिता जिह्वा (sphoṭai citā jihvā) : Spreading of blisters
स्मृति (smṛti) : It means memory/ reminiscence/ recollection. Is that which results from a particular conjunction between the soul and mind and also from impression. Acc to Caraka memory is nothing but the remembrance of the things directly perceived, heard (scriptures) or explained earlier.
स्मृति अपध्वंसनं (smṛti apadhvaṁsanaṁ) : Loss of memory
स्मृति अपाय (smṛti apāya) : Loss of memory.
स्मृति उपघात (smṛti upaghāta) : Loss of memory
स्मृति क्षय (smṛti kṣaya) : Lack of memory
स्मृति प्रमोह (smṛti pramoha) : Loss of memory
स्मृति भ्रंश (smṛti bhraṁśa) : Loss of memory
स्मृति मोह (smṛti moha) : Loss of memory
स्मृति विभ्रम (smṛti vibhrama) : Perverted memory
स्मृति संप्लव (smṛti saṁplava) : Perverted memory
स्मृति हानि (smṛti hāni) : Loss of memory
स्मृतिविभ्रंश (smṛtivibhraṁśa) : Derangement of memory- when on covering of the self by rajas & tamas the recollection of the knowledge of reality is unpaired, it is known as derangement of memory. It the cause of all sort of psychological disorders later may end up with psycho-somatic disorders.
स्यन्दन (syandana) : Exudation
स्यन्दन अक्षि (syandana akṣi) : Lacrimation
स्यन्दन मुखं (syandana mukhaṁ) : Salivation
स्रक् इच्छा (srak icchā) : Fond of garlands
स्रंसः (sraṁsaḥ) : Dislocation
स्रंसनं (sraṁsanaṁ) : Flabbiness, drooping
स्रंसनं (sraṁsanaṁ) : Expel out; Substances that expels apakwa mala(semi digested fecal matter) from the Kostha(GIT) through Anus;
स्रंसन गुद (sraṁsana guda) : Prolapsed rectum
स्रंसन रोम (sraṁsana roma) : Falling of Hair
स्रस्तं अक्षि (srastaṁ akṣi) : Flabbiness or drooping of the eye
स्रस्ताङ्गः (srastāṅgaḥ) : Looseness of the body
स्रस्ताङ्गश्च (srastāṅgaśca) : Loosened limbs, it is a symptom produced in the third impulse of bird poisoning which means the bird develops slothness of the limbs.
स्रस्तौष्ठकर्णता (srastauṣṭhakarṇatā) : Pendulous lips and ears, the symptom of drooping (hanging down) of the lips and ears is seen if the quadruped is bitten by poisonous creature.
स्राव (srāva) : Exudation, Discharge
स्राव अक्षि (srāva akṣi) : Lacrimation
स्रुतक्षारप्रतिमं मूत्रं (srutakṣārapratimaṁ mūtraṁ) : Urine resembling alkaline water
स्रोतसामवबध्नाति (srotasāmavabadhnāti) : constricts the srotas.
स्रोतस् (srotas) : 1. Structural or Functional Channels meant for the transportation of Dhātus undergoing transformation. 2. Appearance of a Srotas is similar to the Dhātu that it transports. 2. They are of two types
स्रोतोजकर्दमनिभ (srotojakardamanibha) : Color of collirium
स्वगन्ध असहत्व (svagandha asahatva) : Intolerance to self-body smell.
स्वजात्यवस्थान (svajātyavasthāna) : A property attributed to the substance, a substance remains in the same Jati (category) even after processing;
स्वतन्त्र (svatantra) : Independent, autonomous. An attribute of Ātmā.
स्वतःसुशीतम (svataḥsuśītama) : Annealing/ self cooling
स्वथवृत्तौ हितम् (svathavṛttau hitam) : substances that primarily maintains and promotes health;
स्वन कर्ण (svana karṇa) : Flute like sound in the ear
स्वनं योनिमुखात् (svanaṁ yonimukhāt) : Sound from vagina.
स्वप्न (svapna) : Dreams that occur during sleep due to the activity of Raja.
स्वप्ननाशः (svapnanāśaḥ) : Sleeplessness
स्वप्ननित्यता (svapnanityatā) : Excessive sleep
स्वप्नसुख इच्छा (svapnasukha icchā) : Excessive desire to sleep
स्वप्वजननं (svapvajananaṁ) : substances that facilitates normal sleep
स्वभाव संसिद्धि (svabhāva saṁsiddhi) : Natural mechanism
स्वरगद (svaragada) : Hoarseness of voice
स्वरपीडा (svarapīḍā) : Hoarseness of voice
स्वरभेद (svarabheda) : Hoarseness of voice
स्वररुक् (svararuk) : Hoarseness of voice
स्वरस (svarasa) : Expressed juice of a plant part
स्वरामय (svarāmaya) : Hoarseness of voice
स्वरोपघातः (svaropaghātaḥ) : Low voice
स्वल्पत्रिफला (svalpatriphalā) : A group of following 3 fruits
स्वल्पवाक (svalpavāka) : Less talking
स्वसंज्ञा (svasaṁjñā) : Technical Terminology; Jargon; Technical nomenclature; the meaning of certain words which are peculiar to any science wherein they are used in a different sense other than their usual popular meaning.
स्वस्थ (svastha) : Healthy; Composed of two words, Swa and Stha. Swa means own, self and Stha means stable, steady, thus Swastha denotes self abiding, being in ones natural/prākritika state. 2. One who is in his own norms, individual who enjoys normal health.
स्वस्थवृत्तं (svasthavṛttaṁ) : One who exists free from diseases is called Swastha, the actions or procedures or conduct which should be adopted to maintain health continuously without break is known as Swasthavŗtta. It includes a regular adherance to Dinacharya, Ratricharya,Rtu charya and such other doctrines of Ayurveda
स्वस्थहित (svasthahita) : substances that maintains and promotes health
स्वस्थातुरपरायणं (svasthāturaparāyaṇaṁ) : The science which is beneficial for the diseased as well as healthy persons.
स्वांगशीत (svāṁgaśīta) : Allowing to cool on its own , self cooling- Annealing
स्वादु आस्यता (svādu āsyatā) : Sweet taste in mouth
स्वादुभक्षण द्वेष (svādubhakṣaṇa dveṣa) : Aversion to sweet food
स्वाप (svāpa) : Numbness
स्वापन कटि (svāpana kaṭi) : Numbness in hip
स्वाभावोपरमवाद (svābhāvoparamavāda) : the ideology of the Buddhist philosophy which believes that natural destruction is inevitable to everything
स्वास्थ्य (svāsthya) : Health; sound state of body/soul health, ease, comfort, contentment, satisfaction. State of well being.
स्विन्न (svinna) : Process of Fomentation/Steaming
स्विन्नं मांस (svinnaṁ māṁsa) : Putrefaction of flesh
स्वेद (sveda) : Sweat, perspiration. Mala of Meda Dhātu. The function of Sveda is to withhold Kleda (watery portion) in the skin.
स्वेदज (svedaja) : Substances which are believed to be originated from sweat glands.
स्वेदन (svedana) : one of the process applied in purification/refining of the material
स्वेदनं (svedanaṁ) : substances used for swedan (sudation)
स्वेदनी यन्त्र (svedanī yantra) : An apparatus used for steaming / fomenting
स्वेदवत् (svedavat) : Sweating
स्वेदापनयनं (svedāpanayanaṁ) : substances that reduces excessive sweating
स्वेदोपग (svedopaga) : substances which facilitates swedan (sudation)
स्हत् पदार्थः (shat padārthaḥ) : The Six Matters
स्हुचि (shuci) : Shining, glowing, brilliantly white, holy, clear, clean, virtuous – in the context of water it refers to water which is free from all sort of biological impurities like all micro-organisms/ disease causing pathogens.
हठाग्नि (haṭhāgni) : Strong heat
हतं (hataṁ) : Loss of motor function
हतचूर्णक (hatacūrṇaka) : Powdered arsenic
हतदर्शनं (hatadarśanaṁ) : Blurred vision
हतनाम (hatanāma) : Piles in rectum
हतप्रभं (hataprabhaṁ) : Diminished complexion or weakness of sense organs
हतबल (hatabala) : Debility or loss of physical strength or weakness
हतस्वरं (hatasvaraṁ) : Aphonia
हतेन्द्रियः (hatendriyaḥ) : Weakness of sense organs
हतोत्साह (hatotsāha) : Loss of enthusiasm.
हनन (hanana) : Harass, trouble and annoy others continually or repeatedly
हननं सन्धि (hananaṁ sandhi) : Difficult function of joint
हनू (hanū) : Jaw
हन्ति योगवशेनाशु चिराच्चिरतरात् (hanti yogavaśenāśu cirācciratarāt) : Gara visha (artificial poison) kills the person either quickly or after long time because of the nature of combination of drugs.
हरिकेशता (harikeśatā) : Tawny color of hair
हरिकेशो (harikeśo) : Tawny hair person.
हरिणजं (hariṇajaṁ) : related to deers/ stag
हरित (harita) : Green color
हरित रूप दर्शनं (harita rūpa darśanaṁ) : Sees green colored objects
हरित वर्ग (harita varga) : Group of green leaves, vegetables, fruits, spices, etc. which can be used only in wet form; these can be used before and after food, but cannot give (Tripti) satiety. This category of food is consumed without any Samskara (Modulation of basic properties) along with main meal. Raw food articles which are used as Salad like Onion, Lemon, etc come under these categories.
हरितत्वं (haritatvaṁ) : Greenish
हरितवर्णं (haritavarṇaṁ) : Green color
हरितालवर्णं रक्तं (haritālavarṇaṁ raktaṁ) : Blood with the color of orpiment
हरिरोम (hariroma) : Tawny color of hair
हरिलोम (hariloma) : Tawny colored hair
हर्ष (harṣa) : Exhilaration
हर्ष दन्त (harṣa danta) : Gnashing of teeth
हर्ष धमनी (harṣa dhamanī) : Engorgement of artery
हर्ष पाद (harṣa pāda) : Tingling sensation of foot
हर्ष रोम (harṣa roma) : Horripilation
हर्षण (harṣaṇa) : Sense of friction
हर्षणं रोम (harṣaṇaṁ roma) : Horripilation
हर्षणम् (harṣaṇam) : Causing pleasure
हंसः (haṁsaḥ) : Swan.
हसनं अस्थाने (hasanaṁ asthāne) : Laughing at inappropriate occasion
हंसपद (haṁsapada) : A unit of Measurement; Synonym of one karsha equivalents to 12g of metric units
हंसोदकं (haṁsodakaṁ) : Hamsodaka has two connotations. Hamsa stands for the sun and the moon
हस्तः (hastaḥ) : Hand
हस्तनर्तन (hastanartana) : Dancing movement of hand.
हानि (hāni) : Loss
हारिद्रं (hāridraṁ) : Yellow like Turmeric
हारिद्रत्वं (hāridratvaṁ) : Yellow like Turmeric
हारिद्ररूप दर्शनं (hāridrarūpa darśanaṁ) : Sees objects in turmeric yellow color
हारिद्रवर्ण (hāridravarṇa) : Yellow like Turmeric
हास इच्छा (hāsa icchā) : Fond of laughing
हास्य इच्छा (hāsya icchā) : Fond of laughing
हिक्का (hikkā) : Hiccough
हिक्कानिग्रहण (hikkānigrahaṇa) : substances used to restrain hiccough
हिंगुल (hiṁgula) : An ore of mercury
हित (hita) : Food which normalizes the vitiated Dosa’s/beneficial. Contrast to Ahita.
हितायु (hitāyu) : a kind of life which is beneficial to the self and the society
हितोपदेशषु अक्षान्ति (hitopadeśaṣu akṣānti) : Intolerance to the advices though it is good
हिध्मा (hidhmā) : Hiccough
हिम (hima) : Cold touch
हिम (hima) : Cold infusion the squeezed and filtered liquid after steeping overnight the powdered material in 6 times of cold water
हिंसा इच्छा (hiṁsā icchā) : Fond of torturing others
हीन (hīna) : Diminished
हीनबल (hīnabala) : Loss of strength
हीनमात्रा आहार (hīnamātrā āhāra) : Deficient quantity is said to be causing loss of strength, complexion & development, harm to lifespan, virility& immunity.
हीनयोगः (hīnayogaḥ) : Suboptimal interaction of sense organ with their respective objects and time
हीनरूप (hīnarūpa) : Diminished complexion
हीनवाक् (hīnavāk) : Less talking
हीनस्वरः (hīnasvaraḥ) : Aphonia
हीनाङ्ग दर्शन (hīnāṅga darśana) : Sees objects as defective organs
हीनोत्तरोष्ठ (hīnottaroṣṭha) : Smaller upper lip or drooping of upper lip
हुण्डन (huṇḍana) : Tics of the head, Nose, Eye, Jatru or Neck. Otherwise falling of hair or breaking pain in head especially forehead and temples; Anosmia; intrusion of the eye; Congestion in chest; or Wryneck
हृत् (hṛt) : Heart, Cardiac
हृत् कम्प (hṛt kampa) : Tachycardia or palpitation.
हृत् घट्टनं (hṛt ghaṭṭanaṁ) : Pressing pain in heart
हृत् विरुद्ध (hṛt viruddha) : Any substance which is not pleasant in taste.
हृत्क्रोडशूनता (hṛtkroḍaśūnatā) : Feeling of emptiness in cardiac region.
हृदय (hṛdaya) : Heart
हृदयावरण (hṛdayāvaraṇa) : Poisons, by their penetrating property, weaken the heart and in order to protect it the patient should be administered pure ghee, ghee mixed with honey, juices of sugarcane etc.
हृदयाशुद्धि (hṛdayāśuddhi) : Feeling of fullness in the epigastric region.
हृदयोत्क्लेदः (hṛdayotkledaḥ) : Nausea
हृदयोत्क्लेश (hṛdayotkleśa) : Nausea
हृदयोपलेप (hṛdayopalepa) : Coating like feeling in heart
हृदिस्थितानि गुह्यानि वाक् (hṛdisthitāni guhyāni vāk) : Reveals even secrets
हृद्य (hṛdya) : beneficial/pleasing for cardiac health
हृद्रव (hṛdrava) : Tachycardia or palpitation.
हृद्विशोधनम् (hṛdviśodhanam) : It is one line of treatment in artificial poisoning in which there is cleansing of the heart by giving copper along with honey.
हृन्मोह (hṛnmoha) : Bradycardia or weak heart beat
हृल्लास (hṛllāsa) : Nausea
हृल्लासक (hṛllāsaka) : Nausea
हृल्लासिका (hṛllāsikā) : Nausea
हृल्लेप (hṛllepa) : Coating like feeling in heart
हृष्ट रोमा (hṛṣṭa romā) : Horripilation
हृष्येन्मयूर उद्विग्नः (hṛṣyenmayūra udvignaḥ) : Peacock moves about and becomes delighted on seeing poisoned food.
हृस्व दर्शनं (hṛsva darśanaṁ) : Objects look small in size
हृस्वं महत् दर्शनं (hṛsvaṁ mahat darśanaṁ) : Sees object in magnificient form
हृस्व वृद्ध दर्शनं (hṛsva vṛddha darśanaṁ) : Sees object in magnificient form
हेतु (hetu) : Etiology
हेत्वन्तरम् (hetvantaram) : fallacy of reason
हेत्वर्थः (hetvarthaḥ) : Extension of arguments; application of knowledge of one phenomenon happening elsewhere or the extension of a principle enunciated at one
हेत्वाभास (hetvābhāsa) : false reason or fallacy
हेभ्यः कृष्णं शोणितं याति तीव्रं (hebhyaḥ kṛṣṇaṁ śoṇitaṁ yāti tīvraṁ) : A bite by a scorpion of keen (strong) poisoned species is accompanied by excessive discharge of black colored blood from the external openings (mouth & nostrils etc.)
हैम (haima) : One among the classification of Antariksha jala. It is a kind of water source, in which ice or snow is liquefied.
ह्रास (hrāsa) : Reduction
ह्रास दृष्टि मण्डल (hrāsa dṛṣṭi maṇḍala) : Small size of pupil.
ह्रीक्षय (hrīkṣaya) : Lack of Shyness
