CHAPTER-11 ON COMETS AND THE LIKE 
गार्गीयं शिखिचारं पाराशरमसितदेवलकृतं च। अन्यांश्च बहून्दृष्ट्वा क्रियतेऽयमनाकुलश्चारः॥1॥ 
Having examined the treatises of Garga, Parāśara, Asita, Devala and many others on Ketus,' I now proceed to give a clear account of the same. 

दर्शनमस्तमयो वा न गणितविधिनास्य शक्यते ज्ञातुम्। दिव्यान्तरिक्षभौमास्त्रिविधाः स्यु केतवो यस्मात्॥2॥ 
The reappearance or disappearance of the Ketus is not subject to astronomical calculations. The Ketus are of three kinds- celestial, etherial and terrestrial. 

अहुताशेऽनलरूपं यस्मिस्तत्केतुरूपमेवोक्तम्। खद्योतपिशाचालयमणिरत्नादीन् परित्यज्य॥3॥ 
Ketus are luminous appearances resembling fire but without the power to consume objects – the glow worm, certain phosphorescent appearances, gems, precious stones and the like excepted.

ध्वजशस्त्रभवनतरुतुरगकुञ्जरायेष्वथान्तरिक्षास्ते। दिव्या नक्षत्रस्था भौमाः स्युरतोऽन्यथा शिखिनः॥4॥ 
The etherial Ketus appear in flag staffs, instruments of war, houses, trees, horses, elephants and the like. The celestial Ketus appear in stellar regions and the terrestrial ones appear in pits and low grounds in the surface of the Earth.

शतमेकाधिकमेके सहस्रमपरे वदन्ति केतूनाम्। बहुरूपमेकमेव प्राह मुनिर्नारदः केतुम्॥5॥ 

1. Ketus : This term is defined by the author in stanza 3, and is made to 
include comets, meteors, falling stars, solar and lunar spots and the like luminous bodies.

Some writers' say that the Ketus are 101 in number; others? say that they are 1,000 in number; Nārada says that there is but one Ketu which appears in various shapes at various times..

यद्येको यदि बहवः किमनेन फलं तु सर्वथा वाच्यम्। उदयास्तमयैः स्थानैः स्पर्शेराधूमनैर्वर्णैः॥6॥ 
Whether there is one Ketu or many, the effects to be described are various and these effects depend on their reappearance or disappearance (at particular times and places), their positions, the heavenly bodies with which they might appear to be in contact and on their colours.

यावन्त्यहानि दृश्यो मासास्तावन्त एव फलपाकः। मासैरब्दांश्च वदेत्प्रथमात्पक्षत्रयात्परतः॥7॥ 
The effects will last for as many months as the number of days during which the Ketus continue to be visible; if visible for months, the effects will last for years. The effects will commence after three weeks from such appearances.

ह्रस्वस्तनुः प्रसन्नः स्निग्धस्त्वृजुरचिरसंस्थितः शुक्लः। उदितोऽथवाभिवृष्टः सुभिक्षसौख्यावहः केतुः॥8॥ 
Generally, if the luminous body or comet be small, clear, glossy, straight, transient, white and visible either immediately after their appearance or some time afterwards, there will be health and happiness in the land.

उक्तविपरीतरूपो न शुभकरो धूमकेतुरुत्पन्नः। इन्द्रायुधानुकारी विशेषतो द्वित्रिचूलो वा॥9॥ 
If it be the opposite of these, or of the shape of the rainbow or with two or three tails, mankind will not be happy.

1. Parasara for instance. 2. Garga for instance.
The commentator says : From 1 to 24 days of visibility the effects will last from 1 to 24 months. Froin 25 to 30 days of visibility, for two years; if visible for 5/2 monthis for instancs, the effects will last for 5/2 + 3/2 or 4 years.
 
हारमणिहेमरूपाः किरणाख्याः पञ्चविंशतिः सशिखाः। प्रागपरदिशोदृश्या नृपतिविरोधावहा रविजाः॥10॥
The Ketus or comets that resemble garlands, gems and gold are named Kirana Ketus and are 25 in number; they have tails and appear in the east and in the west; they are the sons of the Sun, and when they appear, princes will begin to be at strife.

शुकदहनबन्धुजीवकलाक्षाक्षतजोपमा हुताशसुताः। आग्नेय्यां दृश्यन्ते तावन्तस्तेऽपि शिखिभयदाः॥11॥
The Ketus that are of the colour of the parrot, of fire, of Bhandhu-Jīvikal flower, of lac or of blood are the sons of Agni (fire) and appear in the south-east; they are 25 in number; when they appear mankind will be afflicted with fears.

वक्रशिखा मृत्युसुता रूक्षाः कृष्णाश्च तेऽपि तावन्तः। दृश्यन्ते याम्यायां जनमरकावेदिनस्ते च॥12॥
The Ketus or comets whose tails are bent and which are of sharp rays and black are the sons of Yama; they are 25 in number; they appear in the south; when they appear there will be deaths in the land.

दर्पणवृत्ताकारा विशिखाः किरणान्विता धरातनयाः। क्षुद्भयदा द्वाविंशतिरैशान्यामम्बुतैलनिभाः॥13॥
The Ketus or comets that appear like a mirror, are round in shape without tails but with rays and looking like oil or water are the sons of the Earth; they are 23 in number, and appear in the north-cast; when they appear mankind will be afflicted with fear and hunger. 

शशिकिरणरजतहिमकुमुदकुन्दकुसुमोपमाः सुताः शशिनः। उत्तरतो दृश्यन्ते त्रयः सुभिक्षावहाः शिखिनः॥14॥
The Ketus or comets that appear bright like the moon, silver, snow, white jasmine and the white water lily are the sons
+ 
. 
1. Bhandhujivika: Pentapetes Phoenicea- a plant with a red flower which 
opens at inid-day and withers away the next morning at sunrise. 
of the moon; they appear in the north and are in number; when they appear mankind will be happy.

ब्रह्मसुत एक एव त्रिशिखो वर्णस्त्रिभिर्युगान्तकरः। अनियतदिक्सम्प्रभवो विज्ञेयो ब्रह्मदण्डाख्यः॥15॥ 
A single comet possessing three tails and three colours is called Brahmadanda (born of the creator); it appears anywhere; when it appears the world will come to an end.

शतमभिहितमेकसमेतमेतदेकेन विरहितान्यस्मात्। कथयिष्ये केतूनां शतानि नव लक्षणैः स्पष्टैः॥16। 
Thus have been stated briefly 101 Ketus and we will now proceed to state clearly the 1,000 Ketus already referred to.

सौम्यैशान्योरुदयं शुक्रसुता यान्ति चतुरशीत्याख्याः। विपुलसिततारकास्ते स्निग्धाश्च भवन्ति तीव्रफलाः॥17॥ 
The comets that appear in the north and north-east are 84 in number; they are the sons of Venus; they have large, white and shining discs and when they appear mankind will not be happy.

स्निग्धाः प्रभासमेता द्विशिखाः षष्टिः शनैश्चराङ्गरुहाः। अतिकष्टफला दृश्याः सर्वत्रैते कनकसंज्ञाः॥18॥ 
The comets that appear glossy, with rays and double-tailed are sixty in number; they are the sons of Saturn; they appear anywhere and are named Kanaka Ketus; when they appear mankind will feel very miserable.

विकचा नाम गुरुसुता: सितैकताराः शिखापरित्यक्ताः। षष्टिः पञ्चभिरधिका स्निग्धा याम्याश्रिताः पापाः॥19॥ 
The comets which are white, of single disc, without tails and glossy are named Vikacă Ketus and are the sons of Jupiter. They are 65 in number; they appear in the south and when they appear mankind will not be happy.
 
नातिव्यक्ताः सूक्ष्मा दीर्घाः शुक्ला यथेष्टदिक्प्रभवाः। बुधजास्तस्करसञ्ज्ञाः पापफलास्त्वेकपञ्चाशत्॥20॥ The comets that are neither very bright nor clearly visible to the naked eye, and that are long and white are named Taskara Ketus; they are the sons of Mercury, they appear anywhere and are 51 in number: when they appear mankind will feel miserable. 

क्षतजानलानुरूपास्त्रिचूलताराः कुजात्मजाः षष्टिः। नाम्ना च कौकुमास्ते सौम्याशासंस्थिताः पापाः॥21॥
The comets which are of the colour of blood or fire and with three tails are named Kaurkuma Ketus : they are the sons of Mars and are 60 in number; they appear in the north and when they appear mankind will feel miserable. 

त्रिंशत्यधिका राहोस्ते तामसकीलका इति ख्याताः। रविशशिगा दृश्यन्ते तेषां फलमर्कचारोक्तम्॥22॥
The Ketus that appear as spots in the solar and lunar discs are 33 in number. They are named as Tamasa and Kilaka Kellus. They are the sons of Rāhu. Their effects have been stated in the chapter on the Sun (vide stanza 7, Ch. 3.)

विंशत्याधिकमन्यच्छतमग्नेर्विश्वरूपसंज्ञानाम्। तीव्रानलभयदानां ज्वालामालाकुलतनूनाम्॥23॥
The comets that resemble the flaming fire or a garland are 120 in number. They are the sons of Agni and are named Visvarūpu Ketus. When they appear there will be fear from fire. 

श्यामारुणा विताराश्चामररूपा विकीर्णदीधितयः। अरुणाख्या वायोः सप्तसप्ततिःपापदाः परुषाः॥24॥
The comets that are dark-red in colour, without disc, presenting the appearance of Camarı' and with scattered rays are named Aruņa Ketus. They are the sons of Vāyu (the wind) and are 77 in number; when they appear mankind will feel miserable. 

तारापुञ्जनिकाशा गणका नाम प्रजापतेरष्टौ। द्वे च शते चतुरधिके चतुरस्रा ब्रह्मसन्तानाः॥25॥ 
Ganaka ketu.  Suns of brahma, square shaped. 204. 

The comets that resemble clusters of stars are named Ganakā Ketus; they are 8 in number and are the sons of Prajāpati. Those that are oblongular' in shape, are 204 in number and are the sons of Brahmā. 
कङ्कानाम वरुणजा द्वात्रिंशद्वंशगुल्मसंस्थानाः। शशिवत्प्रभासमेतास्तीव्रफलाः केतवः प्रोक्ताः॥26॥ 
The comets that resemble clusters of bamboo canes and that are as bright as the moon are named Kankā Ketus; they are the sons of Varuna and are 32 in number. When they appear mankind will suffer miseries. 
षण्णवतिः कालसुताः कबन्धसञ्ज्ञाः कबन्धसंस्थानाः। पुण्ड्राभयप्रदाः स्युर्विरूपताराश्च ते शिखिनः॥27॥ 
The comets that resemble a headless trunk are named Kabandha Ketus; they are the sons of Yama, are 96 in number and are without discs; when they appear there will be much fear all over the Earth.
शुक्लविपुलैकतारा नव विदिशां केतवः समुत्पन्नाः। एवं केतुसहनं विशेषमेषामतो वक्ष्ये॥28। 
The comets that are white possessing a single disc are 9 in number; they appear in the four corners. Thus we have given an account of 1,000 Ketus. We shall now give a few particulars connected with them. 
उदगायतो महान् स्निग्धमूर्तिरपरोदयी वसाकेतुः। सद्यः करोति मरकं सुभिक्षमप्युत्तमं कुरुते॥29॥ 
Vasa Ketu is a comet which lies with its head towards the north; it is of large size, glossy and appears in the west. When it appears there will be immediate deaths in the land but prosperity in the end. 
तल्लक्षणोऽस्थिकेतुः स तु रूक्षः क्षुद्भयावहः प्रोक्तः। स्निग्धस्तादृक् प्राच्या शस्त्राख्यो डमरमरकाय॥30॥ 
Asthi Ketu resembles the Vasa Ketu; but if it appears of sharp rays, there will be fear in the land, Sastra Ketu also resembles the Vasa Ketu but is glossy and appears in the west; and when it appears, there will be wars and deaths in the land. 
दृश्योऽमावास्यायां कपालकेतुः सधूम्ररश्मिशिखः। प्रानभसोऽर्द्धविचारी क्षुन्मरकावृष्टिरोगकरः॥31॥ 
Kapāla Ketu is visible on new-moon days; its tail is of the colour of smoke; its course lies through the eastern half of the visible hemisphere; when it appears mankind will suffer from hunger, death, drought and disease. 
प्राग्वैश्वानरमार्गे शूलाग्रः श्यावरूक्षताम्रार्चिः। नभसस्त्रिभागगामी रौद्र इति कपालतुल्यफलः॥32॥ 
Raudra Ketu is a comet resembling the dagger's end and is of a dull red colour; it appears' in the south-east and travels through a third of the sky and produces the same effects as the Kapala Ketu 
अपरस्यां चलकेतुः शिखया याम्याग्रयागुलोच्छ्रितया। गच्छेद्यथा यथोदक तथा तथा दैर्घ्यमायाति॥33॥ 
Cala Ketu is a comet which appears in the west with a tail an inch in length pointing to the south; as it proceeds more and more towards the north, it increases in length. 
सप्तमुनीन्संस्पृश्य ध्रुवमभिजितमेव च प्रतिनिवृत्तः। नभसोऽर्द्धमात्रमित्वा याम्येनास्तं समुपयाति॥34॥ 
After touching the Pole star or the constellation of Abhijit, it turns back and after travelling one half of the sky disappears in the south. 
हन्यात्प्रयागकूलाद्यावदवन्तीं च पुष्करारण्यम्। उदगपि च देविकामपि भूयिष्ठं मध्यदेशाख्यम्॥35॥ 
When this Ketu appears, the country between Prayāga (Allahabad) and Avanti, the forests near Puskara, the north, the country of Devikā and Madhyadeśa will perish. 
11111 
1. About the constellation of Āsādha according to commentator. 
Chapter-11 
103 
अन्यानपि च स देशान् क्वचित्क्वचिद्धन्ति रोगदुर्भिक्षैः। दश मासान्फलपाकोऽस्य कैश्चिदष्टादश प्रोक्तः॥36॥ 
The other countries will also suffer in several places from disease and from famine; the effects described will last for 10 months according to some and for 18 months according to others." 
प्रागर्द्धरात्रदृश्यो याम्याग्राः श्वेतकेतुरन्यश्च। क इति युगाकृतिरपरे युगापत्तौ सप्तदिनदृश्यौ॥37॥ 
Sveta Ketu is a comet which appears in the east about midnight with its tail pointing to the south. Ka Ketu is a comet of the shape of a carriage pole and appears in the west. Both the above Ketus are seen simultaneously for 7 days. 
स्निग्धौ सुभिक्षशिवदावथाधिकं दृश्यते क नामा यः। दश वर्षाण्युपतापं जनयति शस्त्रप्रकोपकृतम्॥38॥ 
If both should appear glossy, there will be prosperity and happiness in the land; if the Ka Ketu should be visible for over 7 days, there will be much suffering from wars for ten years. 
श्वेत इति जटाकारो रूक्षः श्यावो वियत्रिभागगतः। विनिवर्ततेऽपसव्यं त्रिभागशेषाः प्रजाः कुरुते॥39॥ 
The Sveta Ketu is of the shape of the twisted hair and of a dull and disagreeable aspect; it travels through a third of the sky and then retraces its steps. When it disappears it leaves only a third of mankind as survivors. 
आधूम्रया तु शिखया दर्शनमायाति कृत्तिकासंस्थः। ज्ञेयः स रश्मिकेतुः श्वेतसमानं फलं धत्ते॥40॥ 
Rasmi Ketu is a comet possessing a tail slightly coloured like smoke; it appears in the constellation of Krttika. The effects are the same as those assigned to Sveta Ketu. 
ध्रुवकेतुरनियतगतिप्रमाणवर्णाकृतिर्भवति विष्वक्। दिव्यान्तरिक्षभौमो भवत्ययं स्निग्ध इष्टफल:॥41॥ 
। 
Dhruva Ketu is a comet possessing no fixed course, colour or shape and appears anywhere in the heavens, in the sky and on Earth. When it appears glossy, mankind will be happy.

सेनाङ्गेषु नृपाणां गृहतरुशैलेषु चापि देशानाम्। गृहिणामुपस्करेषु च विनाशिनां दर्शनं याति॥42॥ 
To those whose death might be near this Ketu appears in the several divisions of the King's army, in houses, in trees, in hills and in household utensils." 
कुमुद इति कुमुदकान्तिर्वारुण्यां प्राक्शिखो निशामेकाम्। दृष्टः सुभिक्षमतुलं दश किल वर्षाणि स करोति॥43॥ 
Kumuda Ketu is a comet of the colour of the white water lily. It appears in the west with its tail pointing to the east and is visible only for a night. When it appears there will be unprecedented happiness in the land for a period of ten years. 
सकृदेकयामदृश्यः सुसूक्ष्मतारोऽपरेण मणिकेतुः। ऋज्वी शिखास्य शुक्ला स्तनोद्गता क्षीरधारेव॥44॥ 
Mani Ketu is a comet which appears for only 3 hours occasionally; it possesses an invisible disc and appears in the west; its tail is straight and white and it resembles a line of milk drawn from a human breast." 
उदयन्नेव सुभिक्षं चतुरो मासान् करोत्यसौ सार्द्धान्। प्रादुर्भावं प्रायः करोति च क्षुद्रजन्तूनाम्॥45॥ 
There will be happiness in the land from the very time of its appearance for four and a half months; reptiles and venomous 
. 
1. According to Parāśara, it is seen in trees, mountains, bamboos, roads, 
iimplements of war, jewels, chariots, elephants, camels, beds seats, vessels and the like. The number of these Ketus are 10, 21, 60, or 100 in the 
opinion of several writers. 2. Viddha Garga says that this happiness cannot be an unmixed one; 
according to him, cometary appearances never fail to produce evils. 3. This and several other comets can be very well identified by a look into the 
map of comets published by Europeans. 
creatures will come into existence.' 
जलकेतुरपि च पश्चात्स्निग्धः शिखयापरेण चोन्नतया। नव मासान् स सुभिक्षं करोति शान्ति च लोकस्य॥46॥ 
Jala Ketu is a comet which appears in the west with a raised tail; it is glossy, when it appears there will be prosperity in the land for 9 months, and the world will be freed from all 
miseries. 
भवकेतुरेकरात्रं दृश्यः प्राक् सूक्ष्मतारकः स्निग्धः। हरिलागूलोपमया प्रदक्षिणावर्त्तया शिखया॥47॥ 
Bhava Ketu is a comet visible only for a single night and in the east, possessing a small disc; it is glossy; the tail is bent like that of a lion. 
यावत एव मुहूर्तान् दर्शनमायाति निर्दिशेन्मासान्। तावदतुलं सुभिक्षं रूक्षे प्राणान्तिकान् रोगान्॥48॥ 
There will be unprecedented happiness in the land for as many months as the number of hours for which it continues to be visible; if it should be fearful to look at, fatal diseases will afflict mankind. 
अपरेण पद्मकेतुर्मणालगौरो भवेन्निशामेकाम्। सप्त करोति सुभिक्षं वर्षाण्यतिहर्षयुक्तानि॥49॥ 
Padma Ketu is a comet white like the stem of the lotus. If it appears only for a night, there will be joy and happiness in the land for 7 years.

आवर्त इति निशाढ़े सव्यशिखोऽरुणनिभोऽपरे स्निग्धः। यावत्क्षणान् स दृश्यस्तावन्मासान् सुभिक्षकरः॥50॥ 
Āvarta Ketu is a comet of red colour; it appears in the west at mid-night with its tail pointing to the south and it is glossy. There will be happiness in the land for as many months as the number of ksanas (four minutes) for which it continues to be visible. 
1. According to Parāśara, if the comet continues to be visible for over 3 
hours, serpents, mongooses and the like will come into existence.

पश्चात्सन्ध्याकाले संवर्तो नाम धूम्रताम्रशिखः। आक्रम्य वियत्त्र्यंशं शूलाग्रावस्थितो रौद्रः॥51॥ 
Samvarta Ketu is a comet which appears in the west in the evening with a tail of the colour of smoke and copper, extending to a third of the sky and resembling the sharp end of a dagger; it is fearful to look at.

यावत एव मुहूर्तान् दृश्यो वर्षाणि हन्ति तावन्ति। भूपाशस्त्रनिपातैरुदयक्षं चापि पीडयति॥52॥ 
Princes will suffer in wars for as many years as the number of hours for which it continues to be visible. Those persons will also suffer in the star of whose nativity the comet appears.

ये शस्तास्तान् हित्वा केतुभिराधूपितेऽथवा स्पृष्टे। नक्षत्रे भवति वधो येषां राज्ञां प्रवक्ष्ये तान्॥53॥ 
Omitting the benefic comets, we shall proceed to state the several kings who will perish according as the malefic comets either dim with their tails the stars of the various asterisms or appear to be in contact with the same.

अश्विन्यामश्मकपं भरणीषु किरातपार्थिवं हन्यात्। बहुलासु कलिङ्गेशं रोहिण्यां शूरसेनपतिम्॥54॥ 
If the stars of Asvinī should be dimmed by the tails of or appear to be in contact with malefic comets, the ruler of Asmaka' will perish; if the stars of Bharaại should be so dimmed or in contact with malefic comets, the ruler of Kiratas will perish; if those of Krttikā, the ruler of Kalinga will perish; if those of Rohiņi, the ruler of Śūrasena will perish.

औशीनरमपि सौम्ये जलजाजीवाधिपं तथाासु। आदित्येऽश्मकनाथान् पुष्ये मगधाधिपं हन्ति॥55॥ 
If the stars of Mrgasīrşa should be dimmed by the tails of or appear to be in contact with malefic comets, the ruler of Ausīnara will perish; if those of Ārdrā, the ruler of the people subsisting by the products of water will perish; if those of Punarvasu the ruler of Aśmaka will perish; and if those of Puşya the ruler of Magadha will perish.

असिकेशं भौजड़े पित्र्येऽहं पाण्ड्यनाथमपि भाग्ये। औज्जयिनिकमार्यम्णे सावित्रे दण्डकाधिपतिम्॥56॥ 
If the stars of Asleșă should be dimmed by the tails of or appear to be in contact with malefic comets, the ruler of Asika will perish; if those of Maghā, the ruler of Anga will perish; if those of Purvaphālguni, the ruler of Pāņdya will perish; if those of Uttaraphālguni, the ruler of Ujjain will perish; and if those of Hasta, the ruler of Dandaka' will perish.

चित्रासु कुरुक्षेत्राधिपस्य मरणं समादिशेत्तज्ज्ञः। काश्मीरककाम्बोजौ नृपती प्राभञ्जने न स्तः॥57॥ 
If the star of Citrā should be dimmed by the tails of or appear to be in contact with malefic comets, the ruler of the Kurus will perish; if those of Svāti, the rulers of Kāśmira and Kāmboja will perish.

इक्ष्वाकुरलकनाथश्च हन्यते यदि भवेद्विशाखासु। मैत्रे पुण्ड्राधिपतिर्येष्ठासु च सार्वभौमवधः॥58॥ 
If the stars of Viśākhā should be dimmed by the tails of or appear to be in contact with malefic comets, the ruler of Iksvāku and of Alaka will perish; if those of Anurādhā, the ruler of Pundra will perish; if those of Jyesthā the chief emperor will suffer.

मूलेऽन्ध्रमद्रकपती जलदेवे काशिपो मरणमेति। यौधेयकार्जुनायनशिबिचैद्यान् वैश्वदेवे च॥59॥
If the stars of Müla should be dimmed by the tails of or appear to be in contact with malefic comets, the rulers of Andhra and of Madra will perish; if those of Pūrvāșādha, the ruler of Benares will perish; if those of Uttarāsādha, the rulers of Yaudheya, of Arjunayana, of Sibi and of Caidya will perish.

हन्यात्कैकयनाथं पाञ्चनदं सिंहलाधिपं वाङ्गम्। नैमिषनृपं किरातं श्रवणादिषु स्विमान् क्रमशः॥60॥
If the stars of Śravaņa should be dimmed by the tails of or appear to be in contact with the malefic comets, the ruler of Kekaya will perish; if those of Dhanisthā, the ruler of Punjab will perish; if those of Şațbhișaj the ruler of Ceylon will perish; if those of Pūrvabhädra, the ruler of Bengal will perish; if those of Uttarabhădra, the ruler of Naimișa will perish; and if those of Revatī, the ruler of Kirāta 
will perish.

उल्काभिताडितशिखः शिखी शिवः शिवतरोऽतिवृष्टो यः। अशुभः स एव चोलावगाणसितहूणचीनानाम्॥61॥ 
If the tails of the comets should be crossed by the fall of meteors there will be happiness in the land; if there should be a fall of rain at the time of the appearance of a comet mankind will be exceedingly happy; but the people of Cola and Avagāņa as well as the white-men, the infidels and the Chinese will suffer.

नम्रा यतः शिखिशिखाभिसृता यतो वा ऋक्षं च यत्स्पृशति तत्कथितांश्च देशान्। दिव्यप्रभावनिहतान् स यथा गरुत्मान् भुङ्क्ते गतो नरपतिः परभोगिभोगान्॥62॥
The rulers of the countries to which the bent tails of the comets point, of the countries in the direction of which the tails of the comets extend and of the countries corresponding to the several constellations (as described above) with whose stars the comets might appear to be in contact, will triumph over their enemies and be happy. 

[Note :- Compare with the above, what modern science has to say on the subject of comets : 
“What then is a comet according to the latest scientific researches? The spectroscope has pretty well solved the query. It consists, first, of a more or less solid nucleus on fire, blazing and glowing; second, of vast masses of incandescent gas, constituting the luminous head; third, solid materials, constituting the tail, which are ponderable, which reflect the Sun's light and are carried along by the influence of the nucleus; fourth, an immense prolongation of the tail in the nature of attenuated volumes of gas. The solid materials of comet, it is believed, consist of stones and sand, particles ground by ceaseless attrition. The proof of this is the concession of most astronomers that meteoric showers are shreds and patches of cometic matter, dropped from the tail, and these meteors are stones. The genesis of comets is found to be in the explosion of planetary bodies, a theory not without good scientific authority." 
“Arago estimates that there are 17,000,000 of these fiery wanderers within the orbit of Neptune, and Lambert regards 500, 000,000 as a moderate estimate for those in the Solar System. All the astronomers agree that they are scattered through space as profusely as the fish in the seas. The orbit of the Earth is over-whelmed in a fine network of cometary orbits, and our globe is like a lost child in a forest full of wild beasts."]

११.५१  पश्चात्सन्ध्याकाले संवर्तो नाम धूम्रताम्रशिखः। आक्रम्य वियत्त्र्यंशं शूलाग्रावस्थितो रौद्रः॥
११.५२  यावत एव मुहूर्तान् दृश्यो वर्षाणि हन्ति तावन्ति। भूपान् शस्त्रनिपातैरुदयर्क्षं चापि पीडयति॥
११.५३  ये शस्तास्तान् हित्वा केतुभिर्*आधूपिते[K.आधूमिते]ऽथ वा स्पृष्ट्। नक्षत्रे भवति वधो येषां राज्ञां प्रवक्ष्ये तान्॥
११.५४  अश्विन्यामश्मकपं भरणीषु किरातपार्थिवं हन्यात् । बहुलासु कलिङ्गेशं रोहिण्यां शूरसेनपतिम्॥
११.५५  औशीनरमपि सौम्ये जलजाजीवाधिपं तथार्द्रासु। आदित्येऽश्मक*नाथान्[K.नाथं] पुष्ये मघधाधिपं हन्ति॥
११.५६  असिकेशं भौजङ्गे पित्र्येऽङ्गं पाण्ड्यनाथमपि भाग्य् । *औज्जयिनिकम्[K.औज्जयनिकम्] आर्यम्णे सावित्रे दण्डकाधिपतिम्॥
११.५७  चित्रासु कुरुक्षेत्राधिपस्य मरणं समादिशेत्तज्ज्ञः। काश्मीरककाम्बोजौ नृपती प्राभञ्जने न स्तः॥
११.५८  इक्ष्वाकुरलक*नाथश्[K.नाथौ, Kऽस्त्र्. नाथो] च हन्यते यदि भवेद्विशाखासु। मैत्रे पुण्ड्राधिपतिर्*ज्येष्ठासु च[K.ज्येष्ठास्वथ] सार्वभौमवधः॥
११.५९  मूलेऽन्ध्रमद्रकपती जलदेवे काशिपो मरणमेति। यौधेयकार्जुनायनशिविचैद्यान् वैश्वदेवे च् ।
११.६०  हन्यात्कैकयनाथं पाञ्चनदं सिंहलाधिपं वाङ्गम्। नैमिषनृपं किरातं श्रवणादिषु षट्स्विमान् क्रमशः॥
११.६१  उल्काभिताडितशिखः शिखी शिवः शिवतरो *+अतिदृष्टो[K.अभिवृष्टो] यः। अशुभः स एव चोलावगाणसितहूणचीनानाम्॥
११.६२  नम्रा यतः शिखिशिखाभिसृता यतो वा ऋक्षं च यत्स्पृशति तत्कथितांश्च देशान्। दिव्यप्रभावनिहतान् स यथा गरुत्मान् भुङ्क्ते गतो नरपतिः परभोगिभोगान्॥